ParlaMint-AT_2013-01-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00187_d8e11161	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen! I'll open the 187. Meeting of the National Council. The official protocols of 184. Meeting of 5. ==References====External links== Meeting of 6. In December 2012, the Parliament's Directorate remained unanswered and undisputed. Deputies Preiner, Peter Mayer, Mag, are reported as prevented. Jarmer and Hörl. [[09:06:45]] Absence of mandate and fishing
ParlaMint-AT_2013-01-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00187_d8e11198	The Federal Electoral Authority has issued a communication that Mr Magistrate. Michael Schickhofer has renounced his mandate and, in his place, Mrs Mag. Elisabeth Grossmann was appointed to the National Council. Since the election permit is already in place and the said person is present in the house, I will immediately make their fishing observation. After reading the vow formula by writing, the new mandater will have to do her fishing with the words “I promise”. I am now looking for the writer, Mrs Mag. Lohfeyer, to read the vow formula.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-01-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00187_d8e11240	“They will be vowed unbreakable fidelity of the Republic of Austria, constant and full observation of the constitutional laws and all other laws and conscientious fulfilment of your obligations.”
ParlaMint-AT_2013-01-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00187_d8e11261	I promise.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-01-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00187_d8e11277	I very much welcome the new Members in our midst. [[General condolences.]] I announce that the current hour and the current European hour will be transferred to ORF 2 a.m. to 11.40 a.m. and this meeting will be transferred live to ORF III. [[09:08:01]] Current hour
ParlaMint-AT_2013-01-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00187_d8e11311	We arrive at the current hour with the theme: ‘Genuinely shocked: Strict ban on speculation with tax money now!" First of all, Mr Magistrate. Kogler. I give him the floor and draw attention to the fact that his speaking time is 10 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-01-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00187_d8e11338	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! – Yes, by the ÖVP, exactly, you will be very interested in what is now coming! [[Abg. Dr. stupidly expressed his attention by a gesture.]] Current, Mrs. Federal Minister, could not be a current hour than on the issue of ban on speculation. [[Abg. Wheeler: Speculation must be especially!]] Last time we met in the National Council, Mr. colleague from Lower Austria, the issue of speculation in Salzburg was very much on the agenda. [[New call for tender of the Federal Republic of Germany Wheeler]] Long weeks they didn't know how much was lost at all. Or is it perhaps a profit at all? To this day you still don't know exactly because that's the essence of speculation. However, in 2012, there were still other issues which were much more extensive, which included allegations of much more lossy matters and which were much more severe, namely, Mr Klubobmann's head, who was led by the Court of Auditors with representatives or, in fact, with the responsible finance councils of the Lower Austria Government on the losses there, which according to the Court of Auditors' report 2010 and subsequent 2012 amounted to at least € 1 billion and are not actually recoverable. So if Salzburg was a GAU of Austrian financial policy, a failure of the local government there, an increase of overexploited national offices, because federalism in this country is also repeatedly misinterpreted, then Lower Austria was for all that of the Super-GAU. [[Congratulation with the Greens as well as with representatives of the FPÖ.]] And it is still because, in contrast to Salzburg, the head of government there cannot get through at least once to understand the Court of Auditors' report. No, as in the Ministry of Truth, it is repeated stereotype: 1 billion € Loss is actually 1 billion € win! – [[Abg. You bastard!]] It is only yesterday that we return to the broadcasts of the state government, also on behalf of the head of state. [[Abg. Dr. Stummful: Only the country day?]] This is Orwell’s speech distortion. If we have lost €2 billion – and it is not excluded that we move there – then the – perhaps no longer at all – state captain Pröll will explain that this is now €2 billion in profit. – These are the conditions, not only in Austria, but especially in Lower Austria! [[Congratulation with the Greens as well as with representatives of the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Wheeler: Weak!]] It is important to fight this now, simply because of the fact that many things work in the state of Austria, but a lot is not only lazy, but actually stinks to heaven. You want to praise this here as a special fragrance brand of the black system Lower Austria. It is interesting that the representatives of the ÖVP Lower Austria always make themselves heard with a loud voice. You can prove your skills here at the speaker's desk afterwards. [[Abg. Dr. stupid: Let's do it!]] But I like to dedicate myself to you as far as this is concerned. We are going to have the following evidence here and now. [[Abg. Dr. Stumbling: This is Pröll's thing!]] I invite the Federal Minister to explain clearly whether what happened in Lower Austria with the current alleged ban on speculation – a package of supposedly there or there actually ambitious laws – which will reach the house today – that is why it is so up-to-date, could have been prevented at all, or whether what happened in Salzburg could have been prevented from doing with what was here and what was thus praised. But we will return to the 2012/2013 turn of the year. Mrs. Federal Minister, I recognise that a lot has been done to ensure that a lot of wind has also been done in the media – in fact, this is part of the political business. I do not hide that your ministry and individual actors there were always trying to inform the opposition about the current state of affairs. It's not supposed to be concealed here at all. This has given us the opportunity to evaluate the facts and content of what is available here as well as some insights. I'll tell you: The goals that have been announced to the public – including yours – in what is probably the interest and the goal of all the Members here in the house, are really outrageous. [[Abg. Strache stands at the government bank and talks with Federal Minister Hundstorfer.]] This is what Mr Klubobmann Strache sees. I don't know why he's directing Mr. Hundstorfer, but be it.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-01-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00187_d8e11466	Mr Klubobmann Strache, it is common for us not to talk to the members of the Federal Government behind the speaker. The same applies to you, of course. – Mr Kogler, you are speaking.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-01-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00187_d8e11482	I think that the FPÖ is more limited elsewhere, and that is what we are going to do. [[Rejoicing with the greens.]] The events in Salzburg and Lower Austria would be repeated, and this is actually the Krux of history. This means not only dealing with yourself here and today in the next ten minutes, but also in the hopefully extensive negotiations in which we Greens and probably many other Members will be pushing for improvements and in which we need to explain how the whole thing is to work and get hold of. We probably agree, according to the processes described, that we need first something like a uniform definition of speculation; otherwise, most others are not worth anything. We also need a direct ban on the worst stupidities that have happened. That will be feasible, there are also approaches. I'm not gonna hide that. For example, it would be a matter of not taking up any permanent loans to reinvest the money, which for the public hand is a completely insanity, because the money could have been used for a long time to pay off the debt. That's perfectly logical. Of course, there should also be a betting ban, so that you don't go to the casino almost like a private speculator puts on any price developments. That's all logical. We'll bring that together. The single definition will, as has been said, already have to be questioned. Now we come to a very different problem, namely, the problem of how to deal with the problems in Austria and in relation to the federal states: Even the strictest rules, we should get them – it is to be feared that this will not be so at all – will not help anything, because it is nothing without clear transparency rules, without control regulations that will become possible, and especially without sanctions – but transparency is all ahead. With what is now available here, Mrs Federal Minister, it would not even have been possible to prevent Salzburg, for the simple reason that the Federation, here as a constitutional legislator, cannot get through – at least so far, it can be different in three weeks; for this we are fighting – that there are uniform and clear rules of identification. If that is not the case, then what we define in laws and in the Constitution cannot be understood at all, for that must be recognized by anyone. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] On the other hand, there is the most bitter resistance of the Heads of State, under the completely false cry for financial autonomy, which has nothing to do with it, and that is not to be seen. This is only about the possibility that legal provisions can really be implemented. It is similar with the question of sanctions. We have now set a rule – “rule” is good! – which only in the event of unanimity leads to sanctions. I'll tell you: We can just throw this away, because many years of history in Austria shows that on the basis of such negotiations and agreements never – never before! – a sentence has been pronounced. So it will really be a matter of preventing the system of Lower Austria with these new rules. What happened? – Explain this to us! The current law does not prevent claims of the country of Lower Austria or of another federal country from being liquefied, so if you want to do so, you will be sold and then charged again – by the way, as the Court of Auditors report says, with a loss of € 1 billion. I read to you the first sentence of the report: “The performance of the estimated funds was below the long-term result target by the end of 2008” – “the country is about one billion. EUR.” – This is a clear loss. [[Abg. Dr. Stummful: The goal!]] [[Abg. Dr. Stummful: We only won 3 : 0 and not 5 : 0!]] You wouldn't stop that with these laws now! – And what does the head of state of Lower Austria and the Lower Austrian Finance Council do? They insult the Court of Auditors, for example, as an pea-counter – unpackable! – or to the fact that the gentlemen are not very qualified. It's not supposed to please this house. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I think we should make a judgment on where the few qualified – aproposo! – Lords are. These are certainly not to be found in the Court of Auditors, but the lack of qualifications in St. Pölten is obviously paired with superiority. This is the problem in this country that, instead of taking the historical window to make rules that really apply equally, long and indispensablely to all, you have been crawling before the heads of state under the carpet and have not taken the chance. [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign]] It's never too late to reverse! We will help you with this.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-01-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00187_d8e11566	Mrs Fekter spoke on a preliminary opinion. The speaking time should not exceed 10 minutes. - Please, Mrs. Federal Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-01-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00187_d8e11587	Madam President. Mr. Minister! Mr. State Secretary! Values Watchers on the visitor gallery and in front of the TV screens! Right ahead: From now on, there must be no speculation with tax money. With the package adopted yesterday by the Federal Government, which has been sent to the House, consisting of a state objective in the Constitution, an agreement with the countries and municipalities and cities, a so-called Article 15a State Treaty, and the Federal Finance Act, in which we legislate the rules of the Federal Finance Agency, also with a collective law, so that all social insurance companies who manage funds faithfully for their customers can in future be excluded from all avoidable risks in financing public funds, and all of them must comply with this speculation ban. And if I say everyone, I also mean all those who can be attributed to the sector of state, including the outsourced units, the companies that own the public sector, and those organizations that we attribute to the sector of state. As has already been said, all avoidable risks in public funding will be excluded in the future. There must be no risk in buying – such a little negligent, just so that you earn a basket money. That's forbidden in the future! What has been a standard for the federal government for years and what has been laid down in the directives, this will also apply in future to the countries, the municipalities and the cities. Derivatives, i.e. financial products that serve security purposes, may only be used more and more and only for the purpose of securing the basic business and no longer for sole purposes only. We will also commit and secure this in the Constitution – hopefully with a constitutional majority here in the House. No one will then be able to stand out in the future, the rules are generally valid. As a result of the preliminary discussions, I am very confident that we will find a constitutional majority here in the House. The centrepiece of this overall package is the agreement between the Federal Government, the countries, the municipalities and the cities on a risky financial event. In an Article 15a Treaty, we have defined the specific content and prohibitions, we have set out the principles and also more transparency, because it is to be constantly reported to those bodies that make the decisions as to how the transactions carried out. However, the principles include not only the ban on speculation alone, but also – as already mentioned – that there will be more transparency and, above all, better planning, a forward-looking financing plan so that we can make it clear how the money for debt will be taken up. The principles also include the exclusion of incompatibilities. The introduction of a four- or multi-eye principle is essential. It is not a question of a person taking the decision on a debt, then the same person will take up the loans in concrete terms, and the same person will also carry out the bookings. This is classically incompatible and should no longer be possible in the future, but a four-eye principle must be respected by all. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] We have also banned the admission of foreign currency credits for the future. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen, the Hoge Haus has already banned foreign currency loans for private, for example house builders, years ago. So what is considered to be the right thing for the private house builder must also apply to the public authorities! Socks with foreign currency on tax costs will be prohibited in the future. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the SPÖ.]] We have, of course, also committed sanctions for speculation sinners. 15 percent of the money unlawfully used must be paid to the other contracting parties if there is an infringement. As an arbitration body, we have chosen the Coordination Committee, which has already proved successful in the Stability Pact. That is where the cooperation between the federal government and countries works very well. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Rossmann.]] The ban on speculation and reporting requirements apply to the whole sector of state, not only for the purely national budget or the purely municipal budget, but also for the units allocated to the State sector. At the federal level, we will put the guidelines of the Federal Finance Agency into a federal financing law, since it is already a qualitative difference in infringements, whether I am only undirected or a concrete violation of the law – then there is abuse of office, organ liability and the entire range of criminal law taking effect in such cases. Therefore, there is only more money from the federal government in the future when strict compliance with the requirements. By the way: Seven countries are currently obtaining money from the Federal Finance Agency, which can only take up the money in the future if they have ratified this Article 15a Treaty, that is, if they feel bound to these rules by country law. The minimum standards for the financial performance of public budgets are thus subject to greater transparency and tighter control. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen, there should no longer be high-risk transactions that require taxpayer à la longue. It can and must not be that the taxpayer will be charged with an unlimited liability for default – neither with respect to liability nor with respect to speculation losses! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. May. Kogler: Then do it!]] [[Abg. Dr. Moser: Single budget law!]] [[Abg. May. Kogler: Mrs Bundesminister, don't read!]] We have documented this agreement with the countries of Mondsee and, at the request of the opposition party, we have also presented a Constitutional Provision or several Constitutional Provisions in order to have on board the municipalities and cities on board and to ensure these rules in general. I would like to thank you for the constructive discussions we have been able to hold with some opposition parties. I hope that there will be a constitutional majority. In particular, I received very positive signals from the FPÖ and the BZÖ for approval of our proposed draft. Although the Greens were not present at the last meeting, I am confident that, when they read through the draft, they will join it. [[Abg. Dr. Moser: Single budget law!]] With regard to the harmonization of the accounting rules and the budgetary arrangements, we are in a good way: After talks with the countries, several countries have already agreed to introduce similar arrangements as the federal government already knows, i.e. double accounting and the principles to make budgets more comparable. [[Abg. Dr. Moser: That's important!]] That too is a goal we are looking at! [[Abg. Bucher: This is the main goal!]] It's not going from today to tomorrow. But that it's coming in foreseeable time, I'll use it for that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-01-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00187_d8e11778	I draw attention to the fact that the speaking time of all other participants at the current hour according to § 97a Abs. 6 of the Rules of Procedure shall not exceed 5 minutes. Mr Krainer. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-01-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00187_d8e11803	Madam President. The speculation scandal in Salzburg ranks into a long series of speculations of the public hand. We don't have to remember far: At the federal level, at the Austrian level, the Austrian Federal Finance Agency lost approximately €300 million, also through speculation. We only need to look at Lower Austria; Mr Kogler has pointed out that at least € 1 billion is already lost forever and is still completely unclear how the bill will look at the end of the day. [[Abg. Rädler: That's not true!]] We know the figures of Tyrol, where some hundred million euros have been placed in the sand over the country-hypo and then over the TIWAG, I say, have been outsourced from the national budget. However, there are three remarkable differences between – yes, I come from Carinthia today, I could now also address Carinthia, colleague Strache, but I am now concentrating on Salzburg. [[Abg. Street: Vienna do not forget!]] [[Abg. Strache: Nothing has been speculated in Carinthia, there is the future fund! – Don’t forget Vienna!]] There are three remarkable differences between Salzburg and the other cases mentioned. The first difference is that it was very open and very quickly clarified and informed. The Salzburg state government, or at least part of the Salzburg state government, has put on the table very quickly, as the situation is, in a few weeks. [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] Let us remember how this was at the federal level: It took more than six months to determine at all what the situation is – more than six months at the federal level, in Salzburg a few weeks! [[Intervocations with the Greens and the Abg. Ing. Westenthaler.]] The second is: In Salzburg, the politicians there showed responsibility and took responsibility – it did not exist in Lower Austria, it did not exist in Tyrol and it did not exist at the federal level! [[Abg. Strache: Not at all in Vienna!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Linder.]] And the third big difference is: While in Lower Austria, at the federal level and in Tyrol, several hundred million euros – up to 1 billion euros in Lower Austria – have really been lost, nothing has yet been lost under the rule in Salzburg. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intervocations with the ÖVP and the Abg. May. Honey.]] These are three remarkable differences, which can also be mentioned here. [[Abg. Eßl: (keeping a document in height) Do you know that?]] The essential thing that is of course important now is, I believe that we are now presenting a real package here at federal level, where we present speculation not only at federal level, as we have done with the guidelines of the ÖBFA, but also for all local authorities, for the countries, for the municipalities, for the cities, a bar to ensure greater transparency in those speculations that have already been received that we prevent such things, as they are, from being as good as they are, also legally and also with the corresponding constitutional provisions. I think that's very, very right. I am also looking forward to the discussions we are still holding, there are a few things that are open, which we still want to discuss together here in the House – for example, on the question of whether there should be common accounting rules for the federal, state and local authorities, say budgetary law, and how strong these should be. I am of the opinion that the talks between the parliamentary parties have so far gone very well and that we are also coming to a reasonable, good end. But, of course, it is also the question of how to deal with it at the end of the day, also of voters, not only in Salzburg, Tyrol or in Lower Austria, but in general: whether those who clarify, those who assume responsibility, and those who place the interests of the country before those of their party, who are successful, whether this attitude is being judged by the voters, or whether the behaviour of those who steal from it, those who cover up the interests of their party before the country and who take no responsibility, is honoured by the voters. I believe that not only the Salzburgers will give the right answer and those who show responsibility, who clarify and put the interests of the country before those of the party, and they will also be rewarded by the voters and not vice versa. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-01-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00187_d8e11943	Mr Dr. Stummvoll spoke as the next speaker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-01-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00187_d8e11965	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! High house! First of all, I would like to address one of my previous speakers, namely, on power. Kogler, who has worked on the subject of Lower Austria. It was a power today. Kogler, as I don't actually know him. I know Mag. Kogler from the Financial Committee as an incredibly constructive dialogue and negotiation partner. Today he's slipped into a role, into the role: Electoral aid for the Green Group in the Lower Austria Landtag, because of 3rd anniversary. ==References====External links== [[Calls for Greens]] I understand, the greens are very weak in Lower Austria. [[Call the Greens:Do you have something to contribute to?]] Mrs Petrovic may need your support, Mr Kogler, but you are using the current hour as an election aid for the Greens in Lower Austria and neglect it and wipe out all the facts and facts. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. May. Kogler: Court of Auditors! Read the Court of Auditors report!]] – Listen a little bit, I listened to you too! In 2001 and 2007, due to a land day decision of ÖVP, SPÖ and FPÖ, Lower Austria sold and charged housing funds – not out of greed to achieve higher returns, Mr Mag. Kogler, that's your view of things, but to have the money available, because if I get home building funds back only in 15, 20, 30 years, I can only start with the money. [[Call the SPÖ:Falsch!]] [[Green call for tender]] But if I sell the housing loans, I have the opportunity to access a savings book, and that has made Lower Austria. [[Abg. Dr. Walser: A billion!]] [[Abg. May. Rossmann: Founded four funds!]] In these years, 1.9 billion €, please, were removed from this account, and the majority was invested in the social model of Lower Austria, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Brosz.]] There were built nursing homes, hospitals, kindergartens, the regress was abolished during care, ladies and gentlemen. You only have the greed of the returns in your eye. These were social returns, that was social responsibility, Mr. Cot. You have said that you have correctly quoted, right is one man has estimated before the financial crisis that there will be an investment income of 5 percent, in fact, there were only 3 percent. [[Abg. Brosz: How much have 4.7 billion been sold?]] So one. Footballmen would say: We have not won 5 : 0, we have only won 3: 0, Mr President. But, Mr Kogler, 0 with social responsibility is enough for me. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Call to the Greens: This is unbearable! How many have those 4.7 billion been sold?]] If you look at the facts and facts, Mr Kogler, you can expect: [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Kogler]] A total of €4.4 billion was charged, from which were taken, like from a savings book, €1.9 billion. That is, after Adam giant, €2.5 billion left. [[Abg. Brosz: How much have 4.7 billion been sold?]] Today, however, €3.3 billion is available, which means more than €800 million in profit and the possibility of investing these housing funds, which would otherwise have flown back only in 20 or 30 years, today in this social model of Lower Austria. [[Abg. Brosz: This is a nonsense that they will only flow back in 20 or 30 years!]] I have to say, exemplary. Exemplary! Other federal states have reintroduced the Regress during care, Lower Austria has abolished him, ladies and gentlemen! That's how it looks! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Of course, if you only see it – just like the Greens – purely materialistic, only with the greed of the financial dividend, then it looks different, I already admit. Then I would also rather have a dividend of 5 percent instead of 3 percent, but if I know that social responsibility was perceived, invested in the social model, in nursing homes, hospitals that were abolished from Regress, I say: This is the perception of social responsibility and not greed for higher returns, Mr Kogler. [[Abg. May. Kogler: Where's the billion?]] I am surprised that the Green Group sees the whole thing so materialistic. They did not seem to have crossed over what was the real reason, namely access to the funds, not to be able to invest in 30 years, but to invest in the future today. [[Abg. Dr. Moser: We are just against wasting wealth!]] This is politics as a design of the future. [[Abg. May. Stefan: Debt for the future!]] I invest today in the future, in research, in development, in this case in the social model of Lower Austria. One thing you have to say, too. [[Abg. May. Kogler: One from the Ministry of Truth again!]] It was yesterday in Lower Austria's government meeting; I was just looking at it, Mr Rädler pointed out to me. [[Abg. May. Kogler: Where's the billion?]] Surprisingly, yesterday, Minister Leitner of the SPÖ voted against the ban on speculation, on the grounds that this would be too little for him. So if I can't get 100 percent, I'd rather take 50 percent before I've got nothing. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, we are still going to have to ask ourselves how we behave. [[Call the SPÖ: Please!]] But with the fact that you're holding country elections here, making recent hours, Mr Kogler, you have disappointed me today. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Honey.]] Nevertheless, I would like to admit that my appreciation is sincere to play in the financial committee You do not have this role, there you are a constructive interlocutory, and therefore I am convinced that, as far as the federal constitution is concerned, we will undoubtedly have further discussions, too. I regret that you were not there at the last conversation, you explained to me why you did not come – nevertheless, I think it is never good to get up and not to be there during negotiations. But I am quite optimistic that we will bring together a solution, including your voice.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-01-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00187_d8e12234	Mr Klubobmann Strache is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-01-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00187_d8e12256	Madam President. Mrs Finanzminister! Mr. State Secretary! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! I think it is also encouraging to say that Mr Kogler and the Greens have brought the present hour on the issue of speculation and have already taken the whole of the negotiations and are refusing to make reasonable further proposals there. This would, of course, be reasonable if it were to be a matter of genuine concern here to establish a law that does not provide back doors to speculate with public funds or also with public goods, such as water. You should ensure that in this package as well. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Especially the protection of Austrian water is also a high asset and a fundamental right, a home law and a human right that we want to protect and that here – especially here – must not be forgotten. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! On the other hand, it is also interesting for the Greens to go in total opposition here, but at the same time bear government responsibility in Vienna – which has been completely left out today – in red-green Vienna, where the Upper Zockers of the Republic are at home, where the AVZ Foundation has already spent €1.5 billion on taxpayers' money, where they have lost money with Franken speculations, namely hundreds of millions of euros, where the property of the Viennan women and the Viennans has been hardened by cross-border leasing. I have not heard anything from the green side since the Greens have been sitting in the city government, but have not left it to this day. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] It is also remarkable that you, Mr Kogler, stand out here today. But if I look at this, I understand it very slowly, because in the casino and at the roulette table the color sharing is also like this: You can see only black, red and green on the roulette table. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] And these colors are apparently very present when it comes to devils coming out to speculate the taxpayers of the citizens. Of course, this is your area of responsibility in Vienna, which I don't hear anymore, until today nothing has been stopped and [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Steinhauser]] They object to the liberal opposition all requests made in Vienna. Fortunately, the entire casino scandal has flown up in Salzburg. But he is a moral image for all Austria; from Vienna, as just described, to Lower Austria, where, of course, a billion people were speculated in the area of housing cooperatives, Mr. Stummvoll. [[Abg. May. Honey: The FPÖ has agreed to speculation for years!]] One billion is missing! And if you have to talk about the Debtenberg as the highest mountain in Lower Austria – yes, it's a high debt mountain that exists in Lower Austria, that's the highest mountain in Lower Austria – then you also have to light it honestly and don't wipe it aside as you try. The swap business in Linz has completely forgotten Mr. Krainer – under a red mayor, in many areas. But, Mr Krainer, in Carinthia, under a liberal government, it has not been done! There the future fund has been set up, very conservativeally saved and the assets from the tax money increased by more than €20 million to €520 million, so that investment capital is also available for jobs, the economy and construction. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! In Salzburg, €460 million were gone. [[Abg. May. Honey: In Carinthia was also speculated!]] Then one has insisted that there is not only the SPÖ – I give you the right, there is not the sole responsibility of the SPÖ, as the ÖVP has tried to represent it. – Who is there with the SPÖ in the state government? Of course, the ÖVP. And then both of them sit down and try to clean up at an official. It is particularly shabby to try to convey the impression that an official could have danced on the nose for many years there. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] That is where I wonder where responsibility is lived, Mr Krainer, which you are talking about. Yeah, burning's good. Burning does good – there is a beautiful song. State councillor Brenner has at least assumed responsibility. But the main responsibility is Mrs Burgstaller, and the assistant responsible is Mr Haslauer, who today pretends to be her name Hase and they have no responsibility. Until now, I do not see the taking over of responsibility unless one tries to keep himself in the chair with all the means. The liberal opposition has never agreed to the budget in Salzburg in recent years and documented with many requests that one has been confronted with the untruth from the front to the back. [[Abg. May. Honey: That's wrong!]] The fact that a state government has permanently answered questions is on the table. And if you try to get rid of the official, Mrs. Rathgeber alone – that's also a name that has some irony in it – then that's just not all right. We need changes here, not a question, and the right to our Austrian water and the protection of our Austrian water are essential to connect with it. We call for this constitutionally. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign.]] That is to say the prohibition of speculation with public taxpayers – the final rate – but also the prohibition of speculation for EU and companies on our Austrian water. And you have to make sure that the Austrians also demand you!
ParlaMint-AT_2013-01-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00187_d8e12373	The next speaker is Mr Rossmann. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-01-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00187_d8e12396	Madam President. Mrs Finanzminister! Mr State Secretary! Yes, Mr Klubobmann Strache, we are walking to the truth of what is happening in Vienna and in Lower Austria. [[Abg. Dr. Belakovich-Jenewein: You're everywhere!]] [[Abg. You're sitting there!]] How was it in Vienna? – In Vienna, it was always the greens who voted against all these speculations that you are now subservient to the Greens. [[Abg. That's bullshit! If you no longer know, you start with the untruth!]] That was the case with the Cross-Border leasing, which was true in the case of foreign currency credits – and you, ladies and gentlemen of the FPÖ, agreed at the time! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. That's bullshit! As much untruth as you do best!]] – Of course you agreed at the time. It was also in Lower Austria. When housing loans were sold and carousel initiated in 2001, FPÖ agreed with SPÖ and ÖVP, Mr Strache. And the Greens were against it! – That’s the truth, don’t always say something that isn’t true. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Now to Mr Stummvoll: If you, my colleague, are boldly saying that what Mr Kogler has said is not true, I can only recommend: Read the Court of Auditors' reports! The 2010/5 Court of Auditors report on Lower Austria states that it is clear that: "The performance of the estimated funds reduced the country's long-term earnings by almost one billion by the end of 2008. EUR.” – So, 1 billion € has been lost! [[Abg. Head: Do you know what outcome is?]] And in the new 2012 Court of Auditors report, it is clear that these losses could not be recovered until today, quite the contrary, it has become more. If one had chosen a normal charge of these housing promotion funds and had not gone the way of speculation, then under the rule would have come out much more than that. So if you're talking about the social model of Lower Austria, that's really a joke, because this 1 billion € of course was missing in the cash registers of the country of Lower Austria. [[Abg. Dr. Stummful: It has been invested in the social model!]] Mrs Finanzminister, what we agree with is that there should be no speculation anymore. I'll be right there with you. But the rules you are now presenting are not enough for usitem to achieve that. These regulations are difficult, cumbersome, inconsistencies, and are not feasible, but they are also expensive. And above all, they do not prevent one: that the speculation model Lower Austria can be continued. Why not? – Because it is not excluded that proceeds from disposals of assets may not be charged in the medium and long term. This is still allowed. And if it is not ensured that there is an accounting system, from which the stone and clear in a asset account emerges, which claims lead to the results of the charges, then the speculation is still open door and door. Mrs Finanzminister, this gap in the system must be closed. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] And how can this gap be closed? – Very simple; three things have to happen. Firstly, the anchoring of the principles of financial conduct in the Constitution – of all principles, not only the prohibition of speculation and two other prohibitions, but also the reporting, control, transparency, separation of treasury and risk management – sounds so complicated. All these are things that belong to the Constitution. Secondly, we need a modern accounting system, complete, honest – the emphasis is on complete and honest – uniformly for federal, state and local authorities. If there is no such thing, there will be no ban on speculation that can be implemented. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] And thirdly, we need to deal with all the financing and allegations by a single body, for the federal government, countries and municipalities – the municipalities want to finance themselves through OeBFA, but they must not do so at all; as banks are protected, that is certainly clear – and, of course, under certain conditions. This one job, the Austrian Federal Finance Agency, which has also been shocked and lost with money, but has learned from it, needs to become even more professional, and it has to be more transparent. [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign.]] If there are rules of this kind, then we will be happy to return to the negotiating table and work out a solution that is effective and not a major coalition. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-01-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00187_d8e12530	Next speaker: Mr. Klubobmann Bucher. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-01-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00187_d8e12551	Madam President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! What really shakes citizens and what they can't understand – no, that's not our video! – What really affects citizens is the fact that all these speculation scandals have been known for years. [[Abg. May. Schönegger: Your video!]] [[Abg. May. Schönegger: Oh yes!]] I remember the speculations in shoots, in Linz or in Hartberg. I also recall the speculation losses of the Federal Finance Agency. A few years have passed, Mrs Federal Minister, in which we should have been responding for a long time. And this inactivity is what the citizens do not understand. Now, after the scandals in Salzburg, which have had every citizen to tear up the Huchnur, you suddenly come up with the fact that something has to be done. That is, always when the scandal has reached a greater dimension in Austria and the citizens express their concern, politics reacts. And many people in our country do not understand that. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] If politics is said that everyone else is guilty, that any officials in the departments who are said to have become active on their own, then people don't understand that very well. What are government politicians for then – and why do they not bear the responsibility for it? Why don't they say: In the future, we will ensure that this will be stopped once and for all!Unknown term type: "%s".? On this solution you are now seeking, Mrs Finanzminister – I am defending you in the innermost wish you have – you want to have a uniform legal regime: Yes, we also want to, but be brave enough to say that it is your declared will to make a constitutional law that imposes on countries, communities and cities what they are allowed to do with the tax money in the future and what is not. Be honest enough to say that here – and we support you. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] The Humbug with this article-15a agreement is indeed a kneefall in front of the princes. The princes of the country are those who so to speak put this to your attention. [[Abg. Großruck: You also want to be the Landesfürst!]] Mrs Bundesminister, be tough and honest enough to say that clearly! They have the support of the House to finally offer the Prince of the State to Paroli and to say what is the matter, namely that they will have to fail to speculate on taxpayers and to impotently! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Mrs Finanzminister, you are speaking here very stately of your confidence in preventing speculations for the future with this state objective, but I do not believe this because: The aim must be to make a constitutional provision that is waterproof and that once and for all prevents countries, municipalities and cities from speculating with tax money! Let us also say who the great profiters in the past have been in this respect – since 2008 this has been apparent since individual communities reported speculation losses –: Banks in Salzburg alone have entered 130 million €! 130 million €! That is, the state is losing – and the bank is cashing. According to this motto, ladies and gentlemen, no tax money can be charged in the future. This must be the basic principle to which all must commit themselves. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] We from the BZÖ have indicated to you in the two rounds of negotiations, which have so far taken place, that we want to strengthen your back because we are convinced that it is right to take clear and, above all, uniform measures. And one of our basic conditions is, Mrs Finanzminister – criticism that the Court of Auditors shares with us –: In Austria, everyone has to: Countries, municipalities and cities have a uniform accounting system. I think it is irresponsible, indeed, to give the Court of Auditors this competence of audit, but it is not clear from the documents submitted and, so to speak, it cannot be traced to the money if different accounts are made and different accounts are opened up to hide money somewhere. We need a federal uniform budget law! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] This is our answer to the crisis situation: clear definition of debt and liability. It must be possible for the Court of Auditors to examine everything carefully immediately. It's an insanity that we can make and keep so many different books in Austria. That's done away with! Ladies and gentlemen! If we do not establish clear rules and determine sanctions and clear penalties, then the countries will not comply with them in the future. [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign.]] It is therefore necessary to establish a clear system here, which determines the audit competence of the Court of Auditors and aims to ensure that the penalties are actually pronounced.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-01-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00187_d8e12655	Mr Klubobmann Ing. Lugar. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-01-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00187_d8e12678	Madam President. High house! We have now had a great opportunity, but you, Mrs Financier, have unfortunately failed to do so. There are huge problems in the federal states. In Lower Austria alone, € 1 billion was speculated in popular wealth. [[Abg. Bullshit!]] In addition, all the problems come to other federal states, from Carinthia to Salzburg and so on; I don't want to know which bodies are still sleeping in the basement. Now there is a unique opportunity to finally make proper laws that will prevent the taxpayer from getting back into the wallet. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] But what are you doing, Mrs. Finanzminister? – You propose a Constitutional Act here, you turn to the applause of the countries – and you get it too, but I tell you quite clearly: A Constitutional Act in which the countries are congratulating is not worth the paper on which it stands! What we want is to take the countries to the reins. We want to take the countries a piece of their autonomy to prevent all that has unfortunately happened in the past. That's the background. So it is not a question of making the countries a great joy. It is not a question of adopting a law here in order to spread sand to citizens, but of finally allowing the countries to continue as has been the case so far. That's not the point, but that's exactly what you're doing. To illustrate this, I'd like to pick up a little: If one knows that the countries have already received funds from the Austrian Federal Finance Agency, but only to a lesser extent – some countries more, some less – and if one also knows that all that you want to write in the law so far was already manifest at OeBFA, at the Austrian Federal Finance Agency, then it is also known that countries that have taken up money there had very strict rules of transparency and, secondly, an absolute ban on speculation. That is, Mrs Finanzminister, all that you now write in the law is already in place with the Austrian Federal Finance Agency, but the problem is that the countries there can, as it were, voluntarily take in money – or not; that is the problem. In other words, we do not need all this legislation if the countries commit themselves to receiving money exclusively from the Austrian Federal Finance Agency, because these two rules, which you would like to put into the Constitution, namely first transparency, second speculation ban, apply. And we have something to remember here again and again: There is then the possibility from the Federation to check whether such loans are at all necessary. But that is exactly what you and the countries, too, obviously do not want. The countries don't want to look in the cards. Countries do not want us, you or anyone who controls, to check whether such loans are necessary at all. If you look at it very carefully, it is true that countries would not have to make debts at all, because the countries are financing themselves through the financial compensation – and this money would normally have to be rich. And if it is not enough, then you could do so through the financial compensation, but not in a silent and secret way on the part of the individual federal states – even more expensive than with the Austrian Federal Finance Agency, where you have to pay an average of 0.5 percent less on interest. There is even an own report from the Chamber of Workers, which you should read from the SPÖ, which says that the Austrian Federal Finance Agency could spend the money cheaper and cheaper than you would create it yourself in the countries. And what are the countries doing? In order to avoid these rules of transparency in order to avoid these speculation, they get the money from their own bank, mostly or more expensive, and then go to the financial casino to recover this loss and possibly also gain an extra profit. If you go to the casino and speculate with debt, that is, not with your own money, which is already bad enough, but also receive credit for it, which then pays another if you do that, you would probably be locked in the casino, as you come on a black list. I believe that we must write some countries on a black list and finally forbid them to speculate on the money they do not belong to. The money they take as debt here does not belong to them, it belongs to someone else, namely the taxpayer, and that is why we have to deal with it very carefully. And if we are already making new rules, we could also take the communities to the kandare, but this opportunity is unfortunately missed here. You are missing a unique opportunity here today, and I ask you, Mrs Minister, to do something more ambitious, because it is ultimately about tax money, and that is why we have to deal with it very carefully! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-01-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00187_d8e12731	It now has Mr. State Secretary Mag. On behalf of the PPE Group, I should like to thank the Commissioner for his His speaking time should not exceed 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-01-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00187_d8e12752	Madam President. Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! The issue of the lack of speculation with tax money is one that not only burns under the fingernails because of the recent events and which is often addressed by citizens, but that has actually been part of the discussion for a few years. That is why I am glad that, with the pain of experiences in some federal states, we have now come to a political level so that we can put in place appropriate laws and have been able to decide on them in the Council of Ministers yesterday. We are taking three approaches. – First, with a ban on speculation in the Constitution, which allows us to take with us cities and communities as well as the countries and the entire sector of state, whether direct budget or distributed budget, whether distributed or sovereign administration, the entire sector of state, that is, federal, state and local authorities, is covered by this speculation ban, thus ensuring that there cannot be speculation. Secondly, because there are, of course, many details to be determined, a federal/national/urban/regional treaty, an Article 15a Treaty, which lays down many details such as transparency rules and sanctions mechanisms. Finally, the third level: individual laws, such as the Federal Finance Act, with which important rules are also laid down in this context. The Federal Finance Act is essentially that regulation that we adopted a few years ago when we in the OeBFA were concerned with the question of how to minimize exposure risks. The regulations contained in them now come almost into the higher quality of a law. Speculation is not easy to define, but the important principle is that risk minimisation is at least a priority over profit maximisation. Very often it was argued in the past, but there is a higher return, and if I only finish something good with this higher return, it is already justified. And we have to get to a point where the public budget, whether it is in the federal government, in the countries or in the municipal offices, is clear, risk is something that is not only “hand-held”, clearly stated, but above all it is also avoided and not received. This includes all the issues such as derivatives without basic business, which are no longer to exist, and no speculation on loans. This is particularly annoyed and makes one angry when one hears that loans have been received to carry them back to the financial market casino immediately. These include more transparency, regular, half-yearly reporting, and once a tabula rasa, where everything has to be put on the table and clearly assessed where there are some risks in Austria. [[Abg. May. Rossmann: How does it go without accounting, without a fortune account?]] This is also agreed in Article 15a of the Treaty. There are also consistent four- and multi-eye principles, because we also insisted that in the individual levels of administration these basic principles, which are actually known, were not sufficiently lived and were not anchored. There is also a need to improve and improve the professional training of those persons, the officials and officials who work with the financial sector. If every bank supervisor has to do a “Fit and Clean” test, it is a minimum measure that we can also expect from financial directors. We have been negotiating intensively with the countries, with communities and with cities since Christmas, and here we have presented this 15a agreement, which, in my opinion, goes very far, very far and sets very reasonable rules, especially for where the discussion has begun. We have also had discussions with the opposition parties for some time, and I am glad that the discussions have succeeded in getting close to these very complex topics at all levels. I would like to stress the good climate and the constructive work done there. In this respect, I would like to mention Mr Hofer, Mr Kogler, Mr Scheibner and, of course, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. It has been shown that we are all working together to address this difficult problem as well as possible, and I also have a good feeling that it will succeed here in continuing a proper piece for Austria. It's about avoiding risks, it's not about profit or loss. That's this big misunderstanding: As long as there was a profit, one has found in the past, there is no risk – it has always been with the loss to risk. It must be recognized that this is a risk, even if profit is behind it, although, of course, a profit for the taxpayer is still better than a loss, just as we now have to see it in many places unfortunately. Much of what has happened in Austria in the federal states and also in some municipalities and cities, we can discuss intensively, we also hear the work done, we do not need to defend at all. But the more important thing is to create rules now that this can no longer happen in the future. Unfortunately, it needs these strict rules, which could have been expected, that every responsible person also recognizes for himself that these risks are too many, that he is here in a water that is not good. Unfortunately, these strict rules are needed. It would have been better for me that every local authority at its level would have realized early on that this path is the wrong one. That was not so, so we are now working to establish in the Constitution, in a federal/national/urban/communal treaty and in individual laws of this speculation ban, and I believe we will succeed.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-01-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00187_d8e12791	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Kuzdas. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-01-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00187_d8e12812	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! High house! Dear spectators here on the visitor gallery and in front of the TV screens! Let me say quite clearly: Fucking tax money isn't a cavalier's crime and it's off! Especially when dealing with trusted funds, special caution is needed, and some officials, managers and politicians have not shown themselves in sufficient form. There have been numerous speculation phenomena in recent times. I would like to pay tribute to an example which the Court of Auditors has prepared very well, namely the example of Lower Austria, and I will stick to the Court of Auditors' report here. [[Abg. May. Kogler: Bravo!]] Residential development loans with a total value of 8.2 billion were sold to banks, but only 4.4 billion were recovered. One had the hope of getting more in the end, only that went thoroughly wrong. At the time, the legality of these charges, these speculations, was doubted. I quote from a report by Professor Öhlinger: The decision to sell the country's housing loans is already problematic. The country should have prevented the use of housing promotion loans in risk papers. - Quote. The Court of Auditors has also noted that Fibeg's claims were carried out in a transparent manner and at the expense of the country. At this point, the question is already acceptable: What are the taxpayers of Lower Austrians in Cyprus, Cayman Islands, or Jersey? They didn't lose anything! And this is not, as some have claimed, provided for in the motion for a decision on the charge of housing funds, but that is what it says: The funds allocated to the investment company shall be invested in high-quality investment instruments of outstanding to good financial strength. In a Council decision, it says: 60 percent bonds and 40 percent shares. And those responsible, already with absolute ÖVP majority in the Lower Austrian Landtag, have gone beyond these mandatory requirements. [[Abg. Wheeler: And SPÖ!]] – Mr Rädler, you should listen to me! – By the end of 2006, the share of alternative investments in the Lower Austrian portfolio was 38 percent. And now something about the so-called performance of the individual funds from Lower Austria. [[As a result, the speaker shows various graphs.]] Four funds have been laid up. Fund I had 0.9 percent return, Fund II 1.51, Fund III minus 1.28 and Fund IV minus 5.35. So the money on a savings book would probably have failed. [[Abg. May. Kogler: Sure!]] - Sure, yeah. The Court of Auditors also notes: "With the strategy ( ) amended from mid-2003 onwards, the entire risk structure of the investments changed systematically. Thus, the FIBEG removed itself far from the original presumption strategy, but without informing the decision-making bodies of the country.’ And that's the big problem. These assets could no longer be sold in times of crisis, namely at the end of 2008. These non-selling illiquid assets amounted to 22 percent in 2008. A sentence on disbursements to the country, because it is often claimed that the funds had generated such good yields. Ladies and gentlemen! 862 million were disbursed to the country during the period under review, 44 percent of them or 375 million of them from the substance. That is to say, the working capital has been reduced, and the necessary return to reach the 8.2 billion in the end has increased even further. With this one knows that this cannot go out and will not go out. The Court of Auditors clearly notes: A billion damage has already been added to the country of Lower Austria. – And far away from a hoped-for return of at least 4.6 percent. In fact, it is 1.8 percent or even below. And why we are still discussing Lower Austria, colleague stupid: because the head of state does not realize that this was a misinvestment, a misinvestment. The Court of Auditors too can be mistaken was his statement. And this inconsistency is reflected in the fact that today 700 million still exist in hedge fund structures, in raw material listings, in high-Yield bonds. High-Yield Bonds – junk papers, the credit rating agencies would say papers with low credit quality. And because you spoke to Mr Leitner: He didn't agree to a Pseudoverbot. He wants something decent. And we also need something decent. On the one hand, it must come so far that the countries adopt the federal budget rules, and on the other hand, we need a proper ban on speculation, which does not leave any back doors open. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-01-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00187_d8e12881	Next speaker: Mr Obernosterer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-01-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00187_d8e12902	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen on the gallery and at home on TV screens! [[Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, ……]] [[Abg. May. Honey: “On TV screens ”?]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: He's crazy!]] Speculation with public funds is the subject today. We have heard many, many arguments. We have also heard what “colors ” would be the cause of these speculations. Klubobmann Strache has said that is a problem of red and black and of green in Vienna. It's also been blue when the color is right, in Carinthia, we know that. And we also know that in Carinthia swap business was done. Just last week it came out that today there are foreign currency credits that are rated with a loss of €39 million, recorded in 1998 and in 2004, 100 million, from Mr. Piper, who, I believe, was a BZÖler, then a FPKler, I believe, no longer. [[Abg. - By the zernatto! From the time of the Zernatto! Head of State Zernatto did it!]] [[Call the FPÖ:Zernatto!]] [[Abg. Bucher: What?]] But now there is also a liberal financial reference in Carinthia, who said, although every year at the annual financial statements, we know, these losses are reported in the accounting report, that he did not know that there are those. In the meantime, we know that these loans, in order not to have to face the full losses, will be extended until 2017. We hope that the losses will decrease a little until then. But it is also the question because of this draft which the Minister of the Interior has presented to the bans on speculation, as is the case with the following treaties, where one has the possibility of also getting out of there whether one can carry on these old loads. I don't think it will bring us any further if we are to blame each other. You should learn from the mistakes. By the year 2008, we all know, has been openly talked about and have actually stood in the corner of those who have not speculated because the others have pointed out how many profits they make from it. But it has once again shown us that a safe preoccupation and no speculation are still the best for the communities, for the country and also for the state. The mayor's own responsibility, including the head of state and the financial officer, has really failed, and there is nothing left but that the federal government, the Minister of Finance, the Secretary of State, has put forward a bill to finally establish this ban on speculation in the form of an Article-15a agreement with the Federal Government, countries and communities, so that such a thing will never happen in the future. But what you have to look at very carefully in this agreement is the following: The fact that these many societies, which are outsourced from the communities and also from the cities, are also caught and that these outsourced companies, which are also in public hands, may not be able to continue to do such transactions that have led to these losses. Since we are also discussing the issue of anchoring Austrian water rights in the Constitution today, I would like to say that I am in favour of this, water is one of the highest goods, therefore: Water rights cannot be sold, water rights must not be given! And that's why I'm still horrified today about what unfortunately happened to us last year in autumn when the shares of KELAG were sold, which has most Carinthian water rights. That is, with this share sale from KELAG, which focuses on alternative energy, future energy, where we know that half of Europe is out of nuclear power, water rights and thus this potential for the future of energy generation have been sold out. And this has been done by a single financial referent – but not because we have already been to the colors, from black, not red, not green, but blue. Nothing like that must never happen again! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-01-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00187_d8e13000	Next speaker: Mr Ing. Hofer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-01-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00187_d8e13022	Madam President. Yes, I hope many Carinthians have heard this stem now, because then the ÖVP in Carinthia will cut even weaker. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Hi, hello, hello!]] [[Abg. Head: You should be ashamed to say this! Shame!]] – I am not ashamed of myself, Mr. Kopf! Calm down a little! [[Further calls to the ÖVP.]] Mr Obernosterer, I can inform you that the foreign currency credits have been received by a head of state Zernatto. You should know that, too, Mr. Cot. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Stitch: (to OVP) Stay with the truth!]] Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Rossmann has previously led the city of Vienna, claiming that the votes of the FPÖ Foreign Currency Sockery, Cross-Border Leasing and so on would have been concluded. Mr Rossmann, that is simply not true! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] You're completely misinformed. We never agreed to this soccer. However, I can remind you that, as a coalition partner at SPÖ in Vienna, you bear the responsibility for the fact that €1.7 billion has been covered in Vienna, that you are at the same time responsible for the fact that the water price in Vienna has increased by 33 percent, parking tickets have become more expensive by 8 percent, canal and garbage charges have increased by plus 6 percent, and the cost of towing a car has increased by 26 percent. These are the achievements of the Greens in Vienna! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. That's how it is! That's how it looks!]] I also think it is interesting, ladies and gentlemen, that the Greens simply stay away from negotiations on the ban on speculation. Some of the speeches I have heard today show that you are not really aware of what has been discussed there. They say, for example, that we already have to see that there is a uniform accounting system. – If you hadn’t been sitting at home looking at the “Teletubbies” or “Reich and Schön” but had been with them during the negotiations, you would know that this is exactly what should be implemented. [[Abg. May. Rossmann: But in the templates it's not inside! I can read too!]] And now you're remorsefully returning to the negotiating table and say, Well, we'd like to get back together. Please, I'm glad. Come back with me! Then we can continue to work here. That would make more sense. But staying away from negotiations makes no sense at all. [[Consistency with the FPÖ and the Abg. Scheibner.]] There was the tension between what the government wanted to implement, namely, 15a agreements, and what we wanted, namely to record in the Constitution as much as possible. And that was successful. We have not only established that only risk-holders may be invested, we have also stated that no credit may be granted for charges – whether risk-affected or not. This is now also in the Constitution. It will also be in the financial constitution that no derivatives can be concluded without a substantial basis. [[Abg. May. Rossmann: But the countries!]] - That too. The next point that will stand in it is that the foundations of the accounting system for the federal, state and local authorities must be levelled. We have not been able to conclude this in the last round of negotiations, which is a very important and comprehensive point, but it is now happening here in Parliament. And that's why I'm telling you: Come back to the negotiating table and work with you! It's the only way to move. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] The topic of water was also addressed by us, because we believe that water is a good that is scarce in many parts of the earth, therefore it has also become the focus of speculation and it will also be in the future. Austria is sitting on a rich water treasure and has therefore become the goal of desires. That's why we said: We agree with this speculation ban, if we agree on content, but at the same time we want to ensure that our water cannot be sold out. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I now hear that it is quite obvious that all the parties here in Parliament are of this opinion – including SPÖ – and only the ÖVP in this area is of a different opinion. I would now like to read what former Foreign Minister Plassnik said on this subject: “At the water it remains with unanimity. ==References====External links==* Official website It is clear from the Lisbon Treaty on December that the national states, including the regions and municipalities, will continue to be responsible for services in the public interest (). These include the supply of water and the management of water resources “It also says: “In this context, Foreign Minister Ursula Plassnik makes it clear that there will in no way be a ‘hidden liberalisation’ or privatisation in the sensitive area of the management of water resources. Nor in detour through EU environmental or consumer protection rules." That is exactly what we need, ladies and gentlemen, to ensure – also in the Constitution. I believe that there must also be a unanimous decision here with the EIA in Parliament.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-01-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00187_d8e13194	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Honey. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-01-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00187_d8e13215	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! I don't want this to happen a little arrogant now, but I have to stress again: We Greens are the only ones who have always said: Get away from the soccer with public money! [[Abg. Strache: You are sitting in the boat near the Reds in Vienna!]] We're the only ones! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Ladies and gentlemen! In 2001, an ÖVP Finance Council in Salzburg introduced a so-called new debt management, allowing an employee to carry out massive financial speculation. Then the resort has changed to SPÖ and it has been struck further, finally from 2006 also with housing promotion funds. And I have to tell you, ladies and gentlemen of the FPÖ: They have continually agreed to the budgets with the relevant accompanying laws, where precisely these speculation transactions were legitimised year after year. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] We Greens voted against it consistently. Ladies and gentlemen – and this all happened, although it has already become quite clear in 2006 that this method is not only a way to achieve profits, but also enormous losses. We knew this at the latest since 2006. And today, the ÖVP stands up and says: We didn't know anything. They point their finger at the SPÖ; and that, although Your head of department has introduced this system in 2001 and you have been in the coalition all the time. Today you say you didn't know anything. And the SPÖ – I really enjoyed the speech by Mr Krainer – now presents itself as an educational party on this matter. You haven't noticed the soccer in all these years, but everything's just the fault of a single supercriminal. Land councils in series, department heads – all have not “checked” at all. Ladies and gentlemen, this is extremely unlikely. But even if it was, it simply testifies to a massive inability and an extreme lack of political responsibility which has become apparent here. It makes no sense when you observe exactly what has happened in Salzburg in recent years, including what has happened in recent weeks. It took six weeks for the former Finance Council to have a vague overview of the situation. Madame Krainer has apparently not been familiar with the situation, because it is anything but clear what we really have to do with today in Salzburg. This affair in Salzburg may be a lie, but it certainly defies arrogance, self-esteem and political irresponsibility – and this, please, by both government parties. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Now, suddenly, everyone screams after a speculation ban. Okay, 2013 you're finally that far. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kickl.]] And I also have to say: The proposals for the constitutional changes and the constitutional provisions are sure which will bring us forward. But – and there goes my indisposition, which cumulates in series, –: If it becomes concrete when it comes to the financial situation of the countries, then you want to conclude that with the countries within the framework of a 15a agreement. What's in there? – In connection with the ban on speculation, it will be left to the countries themselves to define what speculation is essentially. They are supposed to define the risk themselves. But we know, Mrs Minister, the fact that the countries are not able to do so has led us into the current situation. You're not really able to appreciate the risks. They make the bock a gardener or, if you take Lower Austria, the goats as a gardener. Then we'll get on with it. Would the current regulation have prevented the mess in Salzburg? – No, because there is no transparency in the budgets. Without a corresponding new budgetary law, it cannot be prevented from continuing to hide sockering. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] And the third point – and this is the third tortoise stroke – is: If, in view of the circumstances, it is unlikely that prohibited speculation has taken place, sanctions will only be imposed if all other federal states, which are now firmly opposed to transparency, punish the offender only if they do so together. It is not likely that it will come that far. [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign.]] I'll finish. Unfortunately, what you present here in particular through the 15a agreement will not prevent anything. It won't protect the tax money from soccer, but maybe you'll think about another better. [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign again]] [[Abg. Grosz: plug out!]] And – final word – when it comes to a truly efficient speculation ban
ParlaMint-AT_2013-01-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00187_d8e13307	Ladies and gentlemen, I have given you almost a minute. Your speaking time has expired. I'm sorry. [[I would like to congratulate the Greens for the Abg, who left the speaker's desk. May. Honey.]] I was relatively generous with all the time, but at some point there is also a point to make. Mr Scheibner is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-01-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00187_d8e13343	Madam President. May I speak one minute longer?
ParlaMint-AT_2013-01-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00187_d8e13359	No, you can't! They also stick to the 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-01-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00187_d8e13374	This is once again an unequal treatment in the Austrian National Council, but we will continue to do so. [[Congratulations with BZÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Madam honourable Member, it may be that you have always been opposed to speculation and to a speculation ban, but in Vienna you haven't heard of it since 2010. [[Oh, call at BZÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Honey.]] I do not want to put anything to Mr Kogler, because he is really a dynamic, self-confident Member, but I cannot take away the suspicion that there may have been a call from Mrs Vassilakou, who meant that Mr Mayor would have talked to her about whether these negotiations could not be boycotted, because the Greens should not be there when it comes to a ban on speculation. [[New call of the abg. May. Honey.]] If I may, I cannot explain it to myself, Madam President. You say you want a ban on speculation, we're negotiating this ban on speculation into the Constitution, and you're not there. [[Abg. May. Kogler: Whitewashi-15a contract!]] Well, if you come back to committee now, that's all right, but then please stop listening to calls from Vienna from Mrs Vassilakou. It should be independent of whether one is in a state government or not that one clearly enforces the principle that public funds must not be speculated. If we agree on this, we have already achieved something. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Mrs Finanzminister! I really have to make this clear here: Negotiations on the Constitution have been constructive, you have also included the principles we have called for, at least now in the government proposal. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Hofer has also been very intensive. [[Abg. May. Kogler: But Lower Austria and Salzburg are not!]] – You didn’t get involved because you weren’t there. [[Abg. May. Kogler: Of course!]] What we are missing, of course, is the uniform accounting system. There was no longer the courage of the government to make a proper regulation. [[Abg. May. Kogler: You see that the holes are bigger than the cheese!]] They said, "No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, A uniform accounting system is easier to enforce with regard to countries when this is done by parliamentarians. Ladies and gentlemen, please do not listen to calls from your national party leaders – mostly also national leaders – who surely want to prevent or at least block this again! We need a principle here that there is a uniform, modern accounting system in Austria – not only for the federal government, but also for the countries and communities. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] It is said again and again: Well, the camera-listics, the countries still have some camera-listics. – Now you usually don't know what that is. This is a kind of accounting that was suitable for reconstruction after a great war. If you think that's the second world war, then you're wrong. If you think that was the First World War, then you're wrong. That was after the Thirty Years War! In 1648, this theory of camera-listics arose that the economy was rekindled by state support. Ladies and gentlemen! ==References====External links== ==References====External links== Today, if any of the princess of the country still comes and says that he opposes the 17th. ==References====External links== In the 19th century, something else is needed for modern and transparent accounting, then I really have to say: Dear Prince, go into history! Go to your Landesmuseum! But for a modern country, you have nothing more to say. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] This, Mrs Finanzminister, is precisely the problem. At the constitutional level, I believe that we are very much on the verge of a clear constitutional provision. This is also important: a constitutional ban on these speculations. But the implementation of this constitutional principle is a problem again. That's what it always says: Federalism is so important to us. Ladies and gentlemen! This federalism is becoming more and more a luxury that we can no longer afford. It has nothing to do with federalism that the people who get the money from the federal government – that is, federal funds – do not have to take them in, because if they are so federal, they should also remove the taxes themselves and assume the responsibility for them – so get the money centrally, then want to be awarded regionally and not controlled. I'm sure you can't! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] From our point of view, it would have been quite simple: a clear constitutional regulation, an implementing law, a federal implementing law, that this is clearly and uniformly regulated throughout Austria and that there is a clear control by an institution, namely by the Court of Auditors. [[Abg. May. Kogler: Right! Yeah, hey!]] This is complicated in this Article-15a agreement. There is a control group, which reports to the Austrian Coordination Committee. The Coordination Committee reports to the Bundesanstalt Statistics Austria and the Austrian State Debt Committee. And then there is a complicated penalty procedure. Nothing will come of it, Mrs Finanzminister! Let us see what is possible in the negotiations! Maybe there's another solution. Constitutional anchoring is all right, but the execution of the 15a agreement is completely wrong, is a misunderstood federalism. This would have to be settled centrally from the federal government.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-01-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00187_d8e13536	Mr Markowitz is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-01-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00187_d8e13557	Madam President. Mrs. Minister! Dear Federal Government! High house! Col. Obernosterer – he's not here now, unfortunately. I really wonder what the ÖVP is doing in recent years. Every time the colleague Obernoster comes out of here, he finds something negative about Carinthia. So I'm absolutely understandable and clear, these 39 million you've been addressing who broke the Zernatto, who was also the most lazy Member, typical ÖVP – then you have nothing better to do than constantly adapt the Carinthian land. And we certainly don't like that. [[Abg. Dr. Bartenstein: It's not hard!]] Something we are discussing today is the ban on speculation. That is absolutely welcome. But, Mrs. Minister, you will already understand one thing: If we look at this scandal in Salzburg now and if we discuss whether a country's chief is involved, whether it's 1.8 billion loss or yet 70 million profit, or who's responsible for it, the SPÖ makes something quite simple: Take out a woman, a civil servant, place her in the newspapers, condemn her as a criminal, without there being a court hearing her, and then a flat-rate judgment is made. And that is what you call “social ”? I certainly don't take this woman in protection, but one must be clear to all of us: In a state government, a hundred percent will not be a single woman responsible for it. Mrs Schatz has already done it before. And you can be sure: We'll see exactly what happened to the money. For one and a half years, you've beaten Carinthia here, and you've said, Hypo, for one and a half years. Today we hear quite little about Salzburg, don't we? What have we heard of the greatest scandal in recent months? – I find it really bad how you deal with people. Mrs Muttonen! They are one who always works for people and women. Then I would ask you to do that this time too and not just go over it on a flat-rate basis. To save a head of state, someone is suggested. [[Demonstrativ accompaniment of the Abg. Wheeler.]] - Thank you. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] The ban on speculation is very important, Mrs. Minister. Mr Schieder has praised all the parties involved in this discussion. He forgot us. Mr Lugar was also there, of course, and he was negotiating. But one thing won't exist with us: Fold hands and gosh, we certainly don't do that when something is there where we say there must be improvements, colleague head. Now let us look at the Article-15a agreement, Article 3(2): Exceptions: Risk management function of small municipalities. – That is not true, Mrs. Minister. But there's no budget in there that we're talking about. And: How Large Are the “Small ” Congregations? When we start to make exceptions again, I really wonder what this should change in the long run. If you're really working seriously on saying that we're saying, okay, a ban on speculation, what it has to be, then we have to go one step further. That means we want a debt stop. Don't we want a debt stop here, ladies and gentlemen? [[Federal Minister Dr. Fekter: Have we already!]] And then why doesn't it work, Mrs. Minister? [[The speaker beats the speaker's desk.]] They tell me from behind – Good morning! [[Unrest in the hall.]] The pult, it doesn't matter, it's going to last. You tell me from behind, we have a debt stop, Mrs. Minister, and you know we have more debt in this country every day. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] [[Abg. Grosz: What can the pult do for it?]] [[Federal Minister Dr. Fekter: You were never present when we decided! You refused!]] We have not refused, Mrs. Minister. We have discussed this seriously, professionally and objectively. You know that very well. In us, you'll surely find a partner as far as the debt stop is concerned. We really have to put on the lever, because: What can the small mayors, as in Bad Erlach, do for them to really speculate so that they can get this wonderful “Linsberg Asia” longer? And that is why we need to consider how we can achieve the best for Austria in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-01-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00187_d8e13677	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. [[10:40:01]] Current European hour
ParlaMint-AT_2013-01-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00187_d8e13699	We're now coming to the current one. European hours on the subject: “For a Europe with more growth, employment, justice and sustainability” First of all, Mr. Klubobmann Dr. Cap. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: The Great European!]] The speaking time is 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-01-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00187_d8e13730	Madam President. The current European hour allows us to discuss the latest developments in the European Union and the role of Austria. I do not want to stress here again how important and right it was that our Federal Chancellor has been so massively committed to the financial transaction tax, at a time when his voice was still a lonely voice, but in the end he has found a majority capacity. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The fight for youth employment is also a very central issue, for our federal government, as well as for our Federal Chancellor, in order to counteract development in individual countries. Of course, the EU would have to take more and more steps here and increasingly engage with money. There are individual countries, in particular Spain, where there is a huge youth unemployment. But activities must also be set up in other countries in Europe in this respect. What I would like to focus on, however, is the initiative that the British Prime Minister has launched in his speech, and behind which a neoliberal approach can be seen. Of course you can say: We want to consider whether we remain in the European Union. We can best imagine this if the European Union is the model we are introducing or otherwise formulated: a British model, a British-inspired European Union in which the market is of the highest value and in which there should, so to speak, be no minimum standards or minimum levels of social and environmental legislation. – There’s another concept behind it, and that can’t be our concept. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Jury.]] We want Europe not only to grow economically in terms of the challenges of globalisation, but also to see Europe grow socially and ecologically. If you look at the pictures of the Smog in Beijing today, you will see that this model is not a model for Europe and that China will also be forced to take these criteria into account. That is why, as I believe, one of the points in which there should be a deeper Europe and in which, of course, one cannot and should not take account of this British wish. Strengthening the internal market is one side, but this liberalisation at all prices is another. Look, let's take the topic of water privatisation: The “Süddeutsche Zeitung” – and that was then quoted and even, I think, found in the urgent request of the BZÖ – said that up to, I think, 60 percent of the water supply, the networks in Great Britain are private. The result can be read from the example of London and other cities: bad water, rotted pipes, a single disaster. This shows that public care, far beyond water supply, must be a public task. [[Abg. Bucher: Then why did you agree?]] These are really all political decision-makers – we in Austria anyway – to be aware of them. This is one of the points that motivate us to take a clear position against these privatisation plans in the area of water. [[Abg. Bucher: Yes, then why did you agree?]] The neoliberal position behind this is that of Cameron, but not only he, but also the Commission and many others in the European Union who seem to be present in the drafting of a directive. If Cameron says in his speech that we have to overcome the growing difference between the population of the European Union and the European Union, then this analysis has something, and we have to think about it. But this difference will not be grasped by virtually negated these safeguards which the citizen, in the form of social security, calls for in the form of the solution of ecological issues, on the question of employment and growth, and believes that he can satisfy the need for more proximity to the citizen by facing himself and saying: Well, the market is the solution, the market is taking the steps here to solve the problems. That's a contradiction. It is true that Cameron is right on one point, but he is not right if, under the motto of the British extra-way, he outlines a model for the European Union, which we cannot support and do not want to support. If Cameron says he never wants to join the euro zone, then this is an economic decision. He can do and leave as he pleases. If he wants to vote on what he is now in almost one, how should I say that blackmail is trying to negotiate, then he must make up for it with the British population. But if someone does not understand that in our time the financial markets, speculations – we have already discussed this today and can discuss it again – need clear rules, in the interests of the real economy, in the interest of the diligent entrepreneurs who invest with their money and create jobs and produce products that are then also available on the markets, and then if he says practically that the London City should make the rules itself – that is the message he sends out – then it is the same as when the bock becomes a gardener. If there's a call for proposals: Who shall be gardeners? and the bock shall report, and they shall say, Then the bock will do it, then just the garden won't be much left. This is something I believe it is necessary to recognize it and to take the decisive steps against it. In fact, I see behind all these discussions that David Cameron has initiated, also a discussion on what the future model for Europe should look like. Should it be a quite competitive and competitive model in the global sense, but with clear social, ecological, democratic standards, with clear rules for the independent financial markets? Is this a Europe in which the primacy of politics prevails again and in which the financial markets do not give the tone in the way of politics and explain the direction in which it has to go? That is, I think, a very fundamental debate and discussion. I also like the fact that he initiated this talk. I think the debate was already in the air anyway and one should continue in this direction. I believe that this gives all the parties here in the house the opportunity to go along. The debate on the water now plays a crucial role. I believe – and we are – that there is a need for a constitutional regime. We will still have to negotiate, discuss and discuss this today, because the water is the elixir of life, the water is a very crucial supply assignment for every person. It's a human right! The water pipes have to work! There must be clean and good water from the pipes. This is a task of the public sector, and I believe that we really have to stand on the front line and fight for it and ensure that, using the derogation that is possible in the European Union, only the public authorities can operate the drinking water networks. That doesn't mean that if someone of you has a private well, he's not allowed to create himself, that doesn't mean any man anyway, or that you're not supposed to be able to drink a güssinger in the future, doesn't say man. But the supply of drinking water networks is the decisive one, and this right we have Austrians to clarify. [[Abg. Scheibner: You must say that in Brussels too!]] I hope that there is clarity in this House that there is a clear language when it comes to the defence of our water, our drinking water networks, and that we really make ourselves here and make very clear statements, because that is a task for the public. [[Abg. Bucher: (in the direction of Abg. Head) You have to convince him!]] That's what I'm saying: It is also good that there is this principle debate, because in the future we will probably have to discuss the question of general care in other areas too. In this respect there are always attempts, the British are there as always the ideological masters in the background who formulate this. But at the same time it is important, I think, that we are aware that this is of course also other areas, and there you have to draw clear dividing lines, since you have to say clearly: Until here and no further! I think we'll do that too. There will certainly be a contribution from the liberals who listen so interested, because it cannot be in their interest that there is a evasion of public care in this area here. [[Abg. Kickl: I've clap anyway, it wasn't that bad at all!]] Therefore, I believe it will be important to conduct this discussion process both at European level and to ensure that what we can do about solutions and regulations within the national framework is done in this sense. It is now an opportunity for both the debate at the current hour to discuss it, as well as the debates today in the afternoon.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-01-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00187_d8e13879	Mr Faymann spoke on a preliminary opinion. - Please. I would draw attention to the fact that the speaking time should not exceed 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-01-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00187_d8e13903	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen! The next European Council will discuss the multiannual financial framework. The Austrian position is clear. First of all, we want this multiannual financial framework to come about because it is an important contribution to reliability in Europe and because it should contribute to the economic growth that we so urgently need in Europe. We cannot be satisfied that 90 percent of the world's growth is forecast outside Europe, but we must rightly ask ourselves: How can we generate meaningful and sustainable growth – that is, not any speculative growth that will cost us more than before? For this, the multiannual financial framework is a building block. It is not the only one in Weitem, but 1 trillion in 27 countries, with Croatia even in 28 countries – including that in the financial framework – for research, for development, for rural areas, for infrastructure, for education, for education, for all these important factors, for cohesion, of course, enables very concrete, tangible projects that are part of a growth strategy. The question of how Europe is doing, how stable Europe is, how it is that more than five million young people – nearly six million – are unemployed, from my point of view, know only one answer, and that is – just as we do in Austria – in growth, investment in meaningful investments and giving employment a central priority. We also represent the position that we must pay particular attention to rural financial frameworks. These €700 million, with which the President of the European Council has met us in his last and therefore currently valid proposal – new ones are not yet available – are so important, because the future of Europe is not only a future of cities but also a future of rural areas, and to which we confess; it is part of our home country, it is part of our culture, and it is also part of Europe. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] Therefore, the second part is that we say: If all the countries that receive discounts today would refrain from the discounts and invest the money specifically for youth employment, then of course we would also have an advantage. If Europe goes uphill, purchasing power increases, it also has an impact on the Austrian companies, which are active in many countries, and on our exports and then it would be a right way, for example for youth employment, for the training guarantee. But if other countries like UK are not yet so far in the discussion – on the contrary – even in the other countries that are in the wrong direction and are not ready for such a joint action, then of course we say, like the other countries that defend a discount, that it cannot be that only we no longer get a discount. However, greater solutions are needed for Europe. This financial framework is a first measure, but, of course, in the case of Weitem, it is not enough to resolve the open questions, for example, why interest rates for government bonds develop so diametrically contrary that the weaker ones are increasingly difficult to make investments at all. We know that reduction policy alone is too little. Saving is necessary, but shorts alone is too little, one needs the second leg, next to saving the investment. And here we will do well to help other countries to invest again, to save properly and to release funds for investment, because our jobs also depend very much on it. As Klubobmann Josef Cap referred to the liberalisation of water, I would also like to comment on this. I am like you – and I hope that we will have a common constitutional provision here – in the opinion that we should clearly declare ourselves in our Constitution. We do not want to privatise public water supply. This is a fundamental right, that is to say, citizens have a right, the water supply must be in public hands. Countries that have taken radical steps towards privatisation are now struggling to re-establish the damage and buy back this right of the population and the state. We will not do anything in Austria to sell our valuable water and to endanger its rights. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the FPÖ.]] This is, of course, also true in Brussels. Previously, an intermediate call came: So do they in Brussels. [[Abg. Strache: We will see that, this will be the nail sample!]] This is true everywhere in Europe. We are not in favour of governments in other countries, when they see the opportunity of the hour, selling something quickly and then the next governments often have no chance of buying it back quickly privatized. [[Abg. Scheibner: Persist, Federal Chancellor.]] [[Abg. Kickl: But this is the European recovery concept!]] You're right. This is also a European issue. The directive itself is not my enemy image. I will, of course, check them very carefully for all their effects. But that if someone sells something – which I do not even want – he does not give it to the cousin or someone who is close to him, but that the sale takes place in accordance with fair European rules, that is, as I think, a legitimate interest which is discussed in the European Parliament and also in the various Council meetings. It is of course better not to sell these fundamental rights at all. But selling someone under the hand isn't the goal. Therefore, regulations that ensure that it is appropriate when someone privatizes something are not the wrong direction. The wrong direction is to start playing with a performance that is as crucial and as important as providing the population with drinking water, to which everyone has a right. This game is an unnecessary game, and we will reject it together. I have no doubt that we are making a clear determination in Austria. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The financial transaction tax has come to such an extent that we are not the only ones in the world and that we are also promoting it with a number of other countries worldwide. I was now at the EU-Latin America Summit, and here too, the votes that say we have to make stronger regulations, not regulations that concern small entrepreneurs who already find a mountain of regulations when they are active, but regulations from those companies that are far away from the real economy in order to bring them back a little closer to the real economy. These regulations include not only the financial transaction tax, but also certain speculation bans, banking supervision and much more that we need to move forward. We are not spectators in Brussels, we play an active role as Austrians, and that is a good thing.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-01-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00187_d8e14022	I would draw attention to the fact that the speaking time of all other participants in the current European hour is 5 minutes again. Mrs Mag. Muttons. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-01-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00187_d8e14046	Madam President. Federal Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen! Yes, we need and we want sustainable and meaningful growth for the EU, and thus ultimately for us. But one thing I would like to clarify at the beginning: We from SPÖ do not want a Europe of David Cameron, i.e. not a Europe that reduces to the internal market, without a common labour, social and environmental policy. That's important to us. Nor do we want a Europe in which workers' rights are cut, nor do we want a Europe in which our communities' own tasks are privatized and the interests of the market are subordinated. I am thinking – and this has already been tailor-made today – of the high-quality and comprehensive basic supply of all citizens at affordable prices. That's the point. We want another Europe, we want a Europe that makes its decisions democratic and transparent, we want a Europe that offers its young people a future, and a Europe where everyone makes an appropriate contribution to the general good, including the financial industry. [[President Neugebauer shall take over the chairmanship.]] We are working on this Europe, on a socially just Europe, and the Federal Government, and here in particular the Federal Chancellor, has already set some impetus for a social Europe at the European level last year. The fact that the financial transaction tax – which was addressed – is finally coming, that many would not have thought it a year ago. And that it has now been introduced is the result of the "Bohring Hard Board", which the Federal Chancellor made at EU level in Brussels. But it is also a This Parliament, which has repeatedly supported the financial transaction tax and has given the government a strong hold in the negotiations. All the more so, I am glad that the financial transaction tax will become reality now, and I think it is high time that this happens that those who have caused the crisis will ultimately be asked to cash at EU level. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Another important project, ladies and gentlemen, is the European Youth Guarantee. At the SPÖ initiative, we have already introduced it in Austria, and now this model is to become a model for Europe as a whole. The Youth Guarantee Programme, which the Commission presented and which was also approved by the EU Parliament two weeks ago, is de facto a take-over of the Austrian model. In Europe, we are finally creating what is up to 56 percent in the face of youth unemployment – up to 56 percent! – should have been implemented for a long time: a guarantee according to Austrian example for every European youth to obtain a job or at least a further training after training – for what we should not do is to ensure that almost 6 million young people in Europe lose their future perspective. Just as we have committed ourselves to the financial transaction tax and to the Youth Guarantee, we – and this is already true today – will be committed by the SPÖ to ensuring that the It remains where it belongs, namely the responsibility of the public hand, the cities, the communities. And this also applies particularly to drinking water supply. There will be no privatisation of the local water with the SPÖ. Privatizations such as Paris, Potsdam and London have shown us that this leads to price explosions and to much worse infrastructures. At the national level, applications have already been submitted, namely in Upper Austria – soon to be followed by one in Carinthia – and at the federal level, we want to submit a request aimed at maintaining public control of water. Then: It does not matter to private corporations what the water quality is, and it does not matter to them whether everyone can afford the water. The position of the SPÖ is clear: Water is not a commodity, it is a human right. That is why I hope for broad support. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-01-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00187_d8e14106	Next speaker: Mr Bartenstein. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-01-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00187_d8e14127	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! High house! Of course, we all need to be interested in achieving sustainable growth in Europe. We don't do it right now. There is Austria together with Germany and with some others something like an exception, a role model. We have a growth rate of about one percent, which is a step far ahead of the EU average, by the way, the 12th or even 13th. Year in a row. We know that we ultimately owe this sustainable growth to our competitiveness, our export strength. That is, if we want to continue growth – and this continues to lead to increasing employment – then we do well to continue to promote and support the competitiveness of our economy and thus enable exports. & Froms export: Although much is a little better in the area of eurozone crisis and one can probably speak of a light at the end of the tunnel, ladies and gentlemen, it seems that we should not deviate from the path of debt reduction, especially in those countries that are most affected. Let's look at Italy: They still have a piece to go. Yes, there is relaxation, Italy can in turn refinance around 4 percent on the markets – which is much lower than it used to be in Lire times – but Austria's exports to this second most important export market have fallen significantly last year. So if Italy and its economy are weakening, that will happen to us immediately. Therefore: Continue on the path of responsible debt reduction, of course, in the context of growth policy – a gratification, I know, but you have to go this way. Speaking of water, my venerations Ladies and gentlemen: So there are many things that look a lot like fear. That the opposition is involved, Mr Strache – well, not unexpected. The fact that some voice can be heard at the government's partner's office today in the plenary session, which goes in this direction, gives me the opportunity to think. What happened? . A Commission proposal for a directive on the award of concessions, not for the privatisation of water, but for the award of concessions, has been presented, where there is nothing other than: If public services are to be distributed and privatised, it must be done according to rules, according to rules of fairness and transparency – almost like Mr Stronach, by the way, because I am aware of that. [[Abg. Strache: It should not be privatized! That's why it's all right!]] So not a privatisation order, but only: If – then. [[Abg. Strache: It should not be privatized! It's supposed to stay public!]] And there you should leave the church in the village and not put up a dopanz and not be afraid at all, Mr. Strache! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. You want to privatize! You have now confirmed that you want to privatize! – This is public good!]] On the subject of those who say, privatisation ban and constitutional law: My venerations Ladies and gentlemen, let us also leave the church in the village. 92 municipalities in Austria have already decided, for whatever reason, to supply their water, for example, to sub-privatized corporations – as the government partners would say – like the EVN to withdraw. [[Abg. Bucher: Yes, and how do they stand now?]] Well, did something happen? - No, certainly not. Do you, Mr Cap, want us to state these water supply networks of these 92 communities now, as you have seen in your words? [[Abg. Strache: (in the direction of ÖVP) He has confirmed this: you want to privatize!]] [[Abg. Head: What does “will” mean?]] [[Counter-call of the Abg. Bitch.]] [[Abg. Head: Just keep going!]] So: Yes, from our point of view, to a state target, which makes it clear how important it is to us to take care of our existence, how important it is for us to be water, but no to a fear that seems to me to be a little justified by the fact that some want to distract from certain results from popular surveys and now want to switch to another subject. [[Interference of Federal Chancellor Faymann.]] By the way, Mr Bundeskanzler – because you too now call in –: If the European Commission wanted to privatise water supply networks, it would break EU treaties and act against the ECJ's permanent case law. If she wanted it, she couldn't. And even if there were proposals from their side, that would always be subject to the principle of unanimity, so we Austrians could resist it. And to the United Kingdom, to England and to David Cameron: I believe that we are all looking for the way the European Union should go over the next ten or twenty years, which is beyond question. The relaxation of the problems in the euro area is only a short-term relief. We want to work together on the answer to the question: Where is Europe going? And I'm telling you quite clearly, there's not that bad the discussion that took place on Cameron: Where does this Europe go? There will be a David Cameron, where the head of government will also be able to introduce Austrian ideas and Germany's ideas. It will not go through everything, at the end there will be a compromise. But what I don't want and what I can't imagine – I think, not a David Cameron – is a European Union without the United Kingdom, without England. And vice versa, I do not think that the English want to go back to Splendid isolation somewhere in the Atlantic between the Americans and the European Union. That can't be her interest either.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-01-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00187_d8e14268	Next speaker: Mr. Klubobmann Strache. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-01-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00187_d8e14290	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen! You've got to go into a little bit of something that was said before. If Mr Bartenstein speaks of fear-making here, then one can resist the fact that all the warnings that we liberals have made here from the beginning – and you have spoken of panic at the time – are confirmed today. They want to continue privatization from the ÖVP! That's what you said from this speaker's mouth! – And I say: Hands away from our water! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] That is exactly what the European Union is up to and what you as an EU citizen – I am saying this in this openness – are constantly moving forward in this direction, so that corporations and banks are doing business on the back of our people in the interests of their interests. And that's not what I'm talking about. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] And you are the representative of these Group interests, Mr Bartenstein. If we today highlight the topic of this current hour as a headline of this discussion: “more growth, employment, justice and sustainability”, then I am quite of the socks, Mr. Bundeskanzler: You seem to want a total reform of the European Union, and I am grateful to you for that because this is also necessary if these values and directives are to be enforced. [[Admissibility at the FPÖ]] [[Cheerfulness of the Abg. May. Stefan]] We are at the very heart of this European Union, which unfortunately does not develop federally, but centralistically, which unfortunately puts the interests of banks and groups ahead of all other interests of European citizens and peoples. And there is exactly the core problem where the necessary reform of this European Union must begin if one does not want it to break sometime. That's what it's all about. And if Cameron has to keep going back and forth in the comrades' statements today, which is a bad boy, I say: I would like this self-confidence once by our Austrian Chancellor when it comes to living his own Austrian interests in negotiations in Brussels and in the European Union. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Because that is exactly what Cameron, namely, has the courage to say: So, now there are negotiations, and I want to enforce the interests of my fellow countrymen too! [[Abg. Oillinger: The London Stock Exchange! The interests of the London Stock Exchange!]] – I do not experience this from the side of the Federal Chancellor Faymann. He flies to Brussels or Strasbourg, then speaks there and says: Go, can we pay a little more? Please let's pay a little more! We already pay enough if we look at the contributions of the Austrians this year, in 2013: [[Admissibility at the FPÖ]] 3 billion € per year of contributions to the European Union! [[Abg. May. Rossmann: These are numbers, Mr. Strache! They say that again and again!]] It must be expected that a German Chancellor will say with self-confidence that we want to halve our contributions, because we need every cent in Austria, because we ourselves have many problems here in the country and need investment. But that's not what's going on, but you're offering, you play the buckling in many areas. That's where it takes a change. And of course the water is also a subject. What the European Union wants – and that is exactly the core – is: This European Union has already made it quite clear that water is now being tapped. The cities, including Greece, have already been proposed: Privatize it! That'd be good! That's not what it's supposed to be. And if you're talking about Constitutional Law today, I'm glad, but I already see that there seems to be every possible blockade living on the ÖVP side. Unfortunately, in Vienna we already see one of God's things: If there is talk of human rights and fundamental rights and home affairs of people, I wonder why human rights in Vienna are so trampled on Red-Green and water charges have increased by 33 percent and they have been increased. This is not necessarily the implementation of human rights that I am imagining. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] And of course it is important and necessary to protect the water as an Austrian common good to the public by all means also constitutionally. We should take the Norwegians as an example, which – in another area in particular – have also protected their oil there, with all revenue obtained through the oil to the benefit of the citizens. That's something reasonable. [[Abg. Mayerhofer: These are also responsible politicians!]] There are also profit distributions for their own citizens, as the public hand also manages the oil and sells it in part and then finally the owners, namely the population, also benefit from it again. This makes sense – but not that corporations or privatizations are being driven forward and the Austrians are once again those who lose all their rights. That can't be it, and it won't play with us either. As a liberties, we are not allowed to move over the table either by red and black or by the European Union. This has to be the Constitutional Law – otherwise we will not be able to agree to the ban on speculation in the constitutional rank in this form. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, there is a lot to be done, and I would just like the German Chancellor to have just here the interests of the people who are in the foreground of Austrians and put their backbones in order to finally enforce these Austrian interests. Of course, water is a home right and a fundamental right, but we have nothing of it if you try it verbally again today, but we see in all your real actions in the European Union that you then act and act completely differently. And with all your promises you have made, you have to be very careful, because you have also promised a referendum for a constitutional change at the time and have not yet complied with it.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-01-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00187_d8e14416	Mrs. Klubobfrau Dr. Glawischnig-Piesczek. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-01-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00187_d8e14437	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. This House now has the impression that all are against the liberalisation and privatisation of water supply. I would like to go back to the starting point: In recent years, since the outbreak of the financial market crisis, the European population has had to bear several 100 billion euros of burdens due to this crisis. And I believe that it has been widely discussed throughout Europe, both conservative and social democracy, that one of the causes of this financial market crisis was, of course, a completely exuberant deregulation, liberalisation and privatisation, in particular of the capital and financial markets. Throughout Europe, both conservative and social-democratic politicians still play a role today – and at the same time, this concession directive simply continues to pursue this ideology, simply to deregulate it with no respect, especially in very sensitive areas. This debate is not new, we have been running it for 10, 15 years now: that it is true, where it is about general provisions, about social services, about care, about education and about groundwater supply, to make a difference, because there are simply areas that should not be subjected to profit and profit maximation and should not. This is precisely what the debate on this directive is all about. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] If the Socialists are now talking about the fact that the fight on the front line is to take place, I would already like him to be led where he is being led, namely in the European Parliament, which is also against colleagues from European Social Democracy, who voted in favour of this liberalisation, in favour of this concession directive. It was originally all five Greens in the committee concerned and also a SPÖ member who spoke out publicly against the directive in the media. This was not even present at the time of the vote! So I don't think that's possible. And this is something that the population no longer understands: There will be delegation and promise – and it will happen anyway. I would also like you to be more serious and that you really fight wherever you have to fight, namely in the European Parliament. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the Abg. Scheibner.]] And with regard to the conservatives, the ÖVP concerns: Of course, we are the first to look closely at where it is about clean procurement procedures, clean privatisation, you know. Police radio, TETRON, BUWOG – that was all the work of the Greens, as they looked very closely at it. I would have a very simple proposal, how to improve this in the communities: Just give the councillors more control rights, more insight! Answer the questions raised by parliamentarians and Members of Parliament! Let's do the control work, then you don't have to worry that in the case of privatisations and liberalisations, things happen as they happened in Austria, as unfortunately was found in the Committee of Inquiry. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] We do not need multinational corporations to control this, we can do it ourselves. However, you have remained guilty to us, Mr Bartenstein: Cleanliness yes, transparent procedures yes, rules yes, but why in all the world – please – should a community or a water association or a city be forced to sign up for a Europe-wide tender procedure if they want to grant a single percentage or 5 percent of their water supply? Why is that? [[Abg. Head: Have you read the policy?]] What's that supposed to mean? And as far as other content of the Directive may be concerned: The directive is currently under negotiation, there are over 1,000 amendments. If you know what's in there at the end, and say there's no reason to worry or fear, then you're a hell of a! [[Abg. Head: At least one border! You're against it!]] But that's probably why you're at the ÖVP. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I think the population has earned more than it is said to be a populist debate. [[Abg. Rädler: That's a fright!]] – By the way, I find it pretty bad. Why don't you worry about it here? [[It was in favour of the Greens as well as of representatives of FPÖ and BZÖ.]] If you look at the situation in Europe, then one of the horrors goes into all its members, I tell you. And how many mayors and how many municipalities are trying to recommunicate now, bring back the city's works? Look You can do this all over Europe! These are really mayors who are still sitting in all the members of your “angstmache” today. To conclude: I think it's necessary and important to really make nails with heads here. We expressly express our desire to look for ways, and that will not be easy for legal reasons at all. If this directive is actually to be adopted – I would call on you once again to guide your colleagues in the European Parliament in a reasonable direction, but should it actually be decided, then we must look for a way at the constitutional level. It will be very, very complicated to actually exclude multinational corporations from privatising and disseminating Austrian water supply. This is really not necessary.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-01-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00187_d8e14531	Next speaker: Mr. Klubobmann Bucher. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-01-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00187_d8e14553	Mr Bundeskanzler, you have said today in an inexorable self-esteem: We are not spectators in Brussels, but we play an active role. [[Abg. Riepl: That's right! He's right, Federal Chancellor!]] [[Abg. Strache: He is really active in the ministry of love, you have to say that!]] In this sentence, general laughter has broken out, because, Mr. Federal Chancellor, your last appearances in Strasbourg or Brussels have made it seem as if you were on the road in your role as an active money-promoter, without actually taking into account the wishes and desires of your fellow countrymen! [[OBJECTIVES]] I should have understood your active role in this way, and I should have heard that you are committed to protecting the local water and against an active money promise by saying that Austria will give up its resistance in terms of net pay, because it is about youth unemployment in Portugal or in Spain. They then always place justice. Your justice, Federal Chancellor, at European level looks like They transfer billions to Greece and we get refugees from Greece to Austria. – This is your justice! Their justice looks like you supported Spanish banks with billions of credits and billions of bonds, while the Spanish banks put their countrymen on the street because they can no longer pay the rent. – This is your understanding of justice and solidarity. Where did your humanity remain, ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ? Neither the people in Greece nor the people in Spain have anything of all these promises of money and money destructions that are incurred by Austrian taxpayers. [[BZÖ and Abg. Bitch.]] You don't have any of that at all. This has nothing to do with solidarity and justice at all, that is your wrong understanding of European solidarity. For example, it is always said that one cannot do this to the countries, but one knows that in the background the actual profiters are always the banks. But there is always a need to differentiate – and I say this consciously now – because the small regional banks, including in Austria, can't do that. These are very efficient banks, which ensure that the regional economy is still provided with loans. But the large banks, corporations that have been forged in Austria, have benefited equally greatly. And this, Federal Chancellor, you have in mind, whose chief representative are you! They are the top lobbyist of the banks in Austria and at the level of the European Union! This too should be said quite clearly here. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] These professional Europeans have only one goal – this is recognized by all the developments of recent times – to misuse the crisis and forge a European-socialist central state. [[Abg. That's it! That's right!]] That is the objective behind these fears of crisis. [[BZÖ and FPÖ are welcome.]] And no one understands that the conservatives are going on glue to the socialists. No one understands that. I say that the next attacks will also be prepared for us: a European social security scheme, a European unemployment insurance scheme. [[Abg. Street: And a European finance minister with tax revenue!]] These are the next brains that we will discuss here in the House, just like these brains on the rescue shields and the Fiscal Pact, which have already become reality. This has all begun in its origins this way: One has spoken about it in by-catches – and then the banking union comes to us in great steps, where we are liable for the old debt of the Greeks and Portugueses, then the Eurobonds come to us. These are all brain-spinnings and insanity states that have sometime begun at European level and have been decided here in secret. [[Abg. That's right!]] The next insanity is the privatisation of water, ladies and gentlemen, which comes upon us in great steps! [[Abg. Dr. Cap: It's a fairy tale hour!]] If we do not draw a clear conclusion at European level, then the privatisation of water will continue. [[Abg. Dr. Bartenstein: That's nonsense, Mr. Bucher!]] Here in the House we can decide constitutional laws, as many as we want, it is always EU law that takes precedence over national constitutional law, and you know that about red and black! [[OBJECTIVES]] That is why it can only be our mission to object to this privatisation in Brussels and Strasbourg, which will affect communities with a thousand inhabitants in the future by robbing our water. It must be an initiative. We will make this issue a urgent request this afternoon.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-01-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00187_d8e14708	Next speaker: Mr Hagen. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-01-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00187_d8e14729	Mr President. Gentlemen on the government bank! High house! The title of the European hour today reads as follows: “For a Europe with more growth, employment, justice and sustainability”. I'm just wondering: What do you mean, ladies and gentlemen? – For example, the redistribution of popular assets to banks? Is this growth you're addressing? The growth of the bank balance sheets is: Your growth, ladies and gentlemen? For some time now, ladies and gentlemen, there has been a transfer of wealth, power and sovereignty in front of our eyes, and this has hardly been noticed by anyone. The masterpiece for this was then the decision of the ESM by the SPÖ, the ÖVP and the Greens as a climber. In this way, you have ruined the last sovereignty of Austria to Brussels by SPÖ, ÖVP and Greens, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] [[Abg. May. Kogler: That's nice!]] The budgetary authority therefore has the ESM and no longer this Parliament. Be aware of that once! The distribution, which the SPÖ always preaches, has long begun, in another sector, not in Austria, but now throughout Europe. That's how it looks, ladies and gentlemen! Not from empire to arm, as you always preach from the SPÖ, but from the people to the banks this redistribution is done, which you have decided with this ESM. And that is the point, ladies and gentlemen. - Is that your justice? [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] With the introduction of the euro, you have inflation, which is the only form of taxation that the citizen does not recognize as such, in order to say it with the words of Milton Friedman, and thus speeds up the expropriation of the population. You have to say that clearly. I will now give you an example of what the whole thing looks like, and I would like to give you a real example of a fellow citizen who has made records of his expenditure since the introduction of the euro in 2002 and has therefore been able to compare prices. At the time of the introduction of the euro, in the middle or the end of the century, the mid-drifter is married, has two children, a single-family house and has suffered a loss of purchasing power of 45 percent since 2002. – This is the truth, ladies and gentlemen! Although the net salary of this man has increased by 20 percent due to his career and age, an average balance remains, saying pure purchasing power loss, of 25 percent. That, ladies and gentlemen, should give us some thought. And like this man, there are a lot of people in our country! Another example that might be a little clearer: As a traffic speaker, I always have the fuel prices on my liver. [[Call BZÖ: On the liver, is that so?]] In the last ten years, the price per litre of diesel rose from 88 cents in 2003 to 1.40 € today. That's 59 percent increase, ladies and gentlemen, and you know what that means for the many commuters who depend on the car! That, ladies and gentlemen, is the truth, so it looks like in Europe! I think there is a lot of change, so you should show more courage from the government and get up in Brussels once. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] [[Abg. Dr. Bartenstein: What do you want in terms of fuel prices? What are we gonna do?]] You have referred to sustainability, I would like to say: It is sustainable that the euro is devalued, massively. Explain to me, please, what these examples have to do with growth, employment, justice and sustainability! Let me end with a sentence that is there – it's not from me, I found it out of the Internet, but I found it very good; there are also on the Internet occasionally things that are very good – and the nail hits the head: [[Ironic hustle and bustle at the FPÖ]] Politics is the margin for the banks to let the rulers. – We don’t want that, ladies and gentlemen, we from the Stronach team don’t play with it!
ParlaMint-AT_2013-01-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00187_d8e14814	Next speaker: Mr Wenninger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-01-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00187_d8e14835	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Mr State Secretary! High house! The current hour is currently on the subject of water, is currently on the topics addressed by the Federal Chancellor in his introductory opinion, but it is less up-to-date if one gets the positionings, above all the FPÖ, the BZÖ and the Stronach team, presented in the old leader, that one is actually against Europe. Sage It is you who should leave Austria if we are to abandon the euro if we are to abandon the common advantages of the common market! Just stand down and accuse the Federal Chancellor and the Federal Government of not persuading anything in Brussels that they do not engage, I must say that you should not have followed the introductory opinion and also all the rapporteurs who are very grateful to the Federal Chancellor's European work in recent months and years. [[Abg. Ing. Hoebart: Well, that's it!]] [[Abg. Dr. Rosenkranz: You should read newspapers to expand your horizon!]] I just mention a few examples: Fight against youth unemployment, Europe 2020 strategy. If Austria is seen as a model throughout Europe in the field of education, training, apprenticeship training, then we do not need to put our light under the Scheme, it can be proud. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The Federal Chancellor has enforced the financial transaction tax. A warm thanks also to the coalition partner, who carried this, although there were still quite different positions a few years ago. We can be proud of this as Austrians, as well as of the rules on the control of the financial markets with bank charges and bank supervision. But, Mr Bartenstein and Mr Strache, the reason why we are so clairvoyant about the water question is the experience we have gained in Austria under black and blue, at a time when Europe has dominated this spirit of time, everything has to be deregulated, everything has to be liberalized, it has to be privatized. During this time, from 2000 to 2007, everything in Austria has been ruined, which was not non- and nailproof. [[Abg. Ing. Höbart: STRABAG, for example!]] This also went to the areas of general care. That is why we are so cheerful, not out of criticism of the European Union. The Federal Chancellor referred to: We will fight very massively to remove water from the directive in the Councils, in Parliament, in the committees. But we are already in a mood to open back doors when communities are to be forced – be it from political motivations, whether it be from financial necessity – to put their water, their existence, perhaps also the waste disposal, the road cleaning, all that makes Austria and our communities and cities so lovable and worth living in the future just to put the profit ahead of the door. The SPÖ doesn't stand for that! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! This gold tomb mood, which prevailed before the economic and financial crisis in Europe, has contributed a lot to the fact that this crisis has ever occurred. After the crisis, citizens not only expect economic strength, social cohesion, jobs, especially the fight against youth unemployment, but also expect us to draw lessons from the crisis. This novelle to general care causes the alarm bells to ring. In Austria, therefore, we will also ensure that, at any time, clean drinking water with security of supply and at an acceptable price, the municipalities, cities and associations that are ready to give the Austrians, in the sense of general public care, the signal that we are committed on the one hand to general public care and, on the other hand, the neoliberal basic mood that could well arise slowly after the crisis, will be suppressed from the outset. That is why, ladies and gentlemen: Our water will not be sold out, and we will be careful and bright everywhere, where new liberalisation and privatisation trends could become politically popular again to the detriment of European and Austrian citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-01-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00187_d8e14917	Next speaker: Member of the Council of Ministers of the European Communities. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-01-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00187_d8e14938	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Current hour – perhaps also with a view to redefining the European financial framework for the next seven years. Austria also has to make its contribution in the European Union. However, we must not only contribute to this, but also ensure that those countries that are well-informed, who are well-consolidated, can also claim their rights. That is why Austria is also insisting on maintaining the discount. On the other hand, it is so if you create a budget that you not only create a page of revenue, but also a page of expenditure. And here we find very often, if we follow the discussion, the fact that we believe Europe is taking place in Brussels. But it's quite different. We do not live in a distant Europe, but Europe is home to us. We live in a Europe of the regions. It has succeeded, especially on the initiative of the head of state of Lower Austria Dr. Erwin Pröll,208 regions – you can laugh quietly, but I think it is quite acceptable, even if something happens for us once. [[Ironic hustle and bustle with greens and BZÖ]] That's exactly what you constantly advocate. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] 208 regions and 144 cities together have the "St. Pöltner’s declaration was signed to ensure the implementation of EU projects in the regions, ensuring that the funds arrive on the spot. With this new European perspective in Lower Austria alone, exports have tripled since 1995, economic performance increased by 67 percent and the number of business start-ups increased by 75 percent. I think we also have a special position as a seam between new and old Europe. We have a bridge to build and to make our contribution to that that also happens quickly. But, of course, rural development is the most important instrument in this whole funding scene for the regions. This is also the second priority on the part of the government: that full exhaustion is taking place, that we can pick up everything. Every European wants to feed himself healthy and safe, a well-preserved, intact environment and sustainable use of resources in particular. We can implement this by means of rural development in our country. That is why it is also the heart of our agricultural policy and a national concern. I believe that the Austrian agricultural model with the functional agriculture for vital rural areas is a model for the whole of Europe and is always well assessed. Agricultural holdings and the agricultural sector are to be seen as the future sector and growth in Europe. Worldwide, we recognise growing growth rates in the agricultural sector, but demand is also constantly increasing. There is no way that Europe can turn out, and we also need to put a lot of emphasis on agriculture. If we look at sustainable growth, we know that we would have to close 70 000 businesses in Austria, we would not have the support of the European Union. The safeguarding of employment – in Austria alone, we have 450 000 employees in sub- and downstream areas – is an economic and labour market factor. Protection and thus protection of the resource and the environment can be achieved through our programmes from mining to organic farming integrated production in conventional farming as well as the balanced development of the regions of Europe, because only through the development of agriculture could we create 23 000 non-agricultural jobs. This is a growth increase of around 1.4 billion. I think that's important. The adequate funding of the agricultural budget is a security factor in our nation. We need food, and especially the Austrian quality of food is important for the supply of our population. It is necessary to ensure the supply of food. Farmers are more needed in Austria today than ever, they make a really important contribution to civil security in our country. I think we have done good work here, the better arguments are on our hands, so I also ask the government's chief negotiators in Brussels to stand up for the Austrian positions so that we can get the best back to our country.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-01-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00187_d8e15009	Next speaker: Mr. Dr. Hübner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-01-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00187_d8e15030	Ladies and gentlemen! Dear colleague! Yes, the SPÖ has apparently agreed that in the coming months there will be elections in four federal states, which is heard in its opinions; Ladies and gentlemen, you do not seem to be, because you have not even responded to it in any way and stick to the course of unconditional EU celebration, without any critical undertones. There you could learn from the Federal Chancellor or from the colleague Cap. Colleague Cap is not always so in line with the Chancellor, but he has said today that he is fighting for our water and that he is also willing to say to the EU: Until here and no further! The Federal Chancellor has said on the subject of rural areas that he is fighting for our rural area, for example, which is part of our home country and our culture. So the Federal Chancellor has already come to realize that he has to fight against the European institutions for rural areas, because this rural area is really threatened, most seriously threatened. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] We all know that the 800 million for rural areas depend on less than a silk thread. These funds are to some extent gone, and it will now be our decision, our knowledge and our desire, whether we receive rural areas nationally, from our resources; it will not be preserved from EU funds. They say how great it is to see what growth we had, what has been created in employment. . I should like to remind you that the Member States of the European Union have been the worst economically developing region for years, and within this European region, the countries that have introduced the euro are even weaker by almost 1 percent. So we are living in the worst developing economic zone, in the slowest growing, in those who in recent years have had the biggest problems of social, employment technology and youth unemployment. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr Moser]] [[Abg. Strache: You already know that the non-euro countries have a higher economic growth! It's quite remarkable!]] [[New call of the abg. Dr Moser]] In this region, we live and not in a fairy tale world, as you described it here. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] On the critical words of the SPÖ colleagues: Colleagues, too, has said that we need a new Europe, a democratic and transparent Europe. – It seems that we do not have that, but also Mr Muttonen believes that we are not in a democratic and transparent Europe. I just wanted to say that to you, of course, you have said other things. All that comes from the SPÖ must not be taken as literally as it was said, because there are four country elections on it, and of course we are fighting – our homeland, our rural area! – but if you listen to these few phrases, then, of course, my colleague, Mr Muttonen, you have, for example, meant – and I have said so – that the EU Youth Guarantee Programme is now very important, that is, a very important matter. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Muttons.]] We must guarantee young people that they do not become unemployed. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Muttons.]] This is a realistic thing, so in Spain, through a Youth Guarantee Programme and in Greece, we guarantee young people that they do not become unemployed. [[New call of the abg. May. Muttons.]] We are likely to make training programmes – that is, 56 percent unemployment and no problem in the budgetary situation! These are the things. So it's not said: Much has gone wrong, let us make a zero line and see where something is to be adjusted!, but it is asked how we can now create new EU programmes, as the Federal Chancellor has said, how we can find a justification for agreeing to a further increased EU financial framework. – By saying that we need this for social issues – Muttons – or for employment – Cap. We therefore need the EU to do new things, to draw on and do key competences. That means that there is no trace of rethinking, it continues along the way, which is quite simple and convenient, I see in Brussels and internationally. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Street@item incidence access is by owner only]] It is very convenient to say that the solution is more and more Europe. There must never be a return from the acquired, there must never be a deviation from more Europe, there must only be a continuation on this path. – We have seen that this has not been successful. The EU has had a few successes, no question: Free movement of persons, free trade, and so on – all that was done bilaterally while maintaining national sovereignty was successful. To shift competence into a bureaucratic monster, my colleague, the agricultural policy, which, of course, includes Euro-policy, is one of the key factors in the fisheries policy, and especially the convergence policy, which is one of the main drivers of the disasters that we have seen in Greece, Portugal, Spain and Co. If you don't understand that, if you don't do Tabula rasa here and tell the public what we're doing, then five minutes before the country elections, you're not going to be able to use any sage on the preservation of our rural area as part of our identity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-01-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00187_d8e15119	Next speaker: Mr. Dr. Pirklhuber. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-01-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00187_d8e15142	Ladies and gentlemen! Federal Chancellor! Mr Hübner has done the usual FPÖ exercise here, a little bit of Europe-based, a little bit of social democracy-bashing. [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Podgorschek and Dr. Rosenkranz]] But, Mr Hübner, politics means making the change, and that is the challenge we are facing today, and that is also the challenge we Greens are facing – not only here in the Austrian Parliament, but at all levels of European policy. There is no question that Europe needs to be changed. We also want to change Europe: It must become social, it must become more ecological, it must, of course, become more citizens-friendly, and it must become more democratic. The citizens see that there are huge challenges that cannot be solved nationally. More and more people are observing this, and I have to say: It's incredible when Mr. Strache David Cameron describes it as a typical example, a prototype of a good politician. – This is absurd, ladies and gentlemen, completely absurd! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Why? What does David Cameron do? – It does nothing but defend the financial centre of England’s financial capital, against the interests – for example – of a European financial transaction tax. That is it – yes, Mr Strache, but it is populist, because it in reality defends only the UK financial centre and its own privileges – and that is not solidarity, that is not a European policy! [[Abg. Street: He lets his people vote! He lets his people decide!]] [[Ah-Rufe at the FPÖ]] So we will not solve the problems we face, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Mr Bundeskanzler, if You or the SPÖ are dealing with the issues of employment, sustainability and justice today, then I am with you. But where are your claims towards renewal towards Green Jobs at European level? [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Rosenkranz.]] These are the green challenges: to develop new workplace-related investments in the field of climate-related and climate-friendly investments, namely, to invest in an energy transition in Europe from thermal renovation to renewable energy. – This brings jobs, including in rural areas and rural regions. The public sector, ladies and gentlemen, is one of the central drivers of economic development also in the regions outside, and this requires a financial margin. The communities do not have this today, and I believe that this is one of the major challenges. It is therefore only fully entitled to place public tasks and public care at the centre of the discussion. Mr Bundeskanzler, if you stand up and say, yes, we will secure this in Austria, but then you have to say: You're not consistent in your policy. Convince the other social democracies in Europe that these elements of general care – starting from education, through social services, up to water and wastewater disposal – are removed from the concession directive! They should be taken out so that it does not come to an obligation of privatisation, for who are the people, who are the institutions that are on the other side? Let's take a look at the water area. The French water group Veolia – listed in Paris, annual turnover of more than €12 billion – is already involved in water supply and wastewater disposal in some municipalities in Germany, has taken over this in municipalities. [[Abg. Dr Bartenstein: What happened there?]] – What happened there?, asks Mr Bartenstein. He has no idea what the privatisation of the water in the UK, for example, has caused. The absolute destruction of a functioning system, which was the result of a privatisation of water supply in Great Britain, had to be reversed. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek.]] Mr Bartenstein has no idea what a disaster it was, what a danger it is, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Interference of Federal Chancellor Faymann.]] – Yes, it is, Federal Chancellor. However, I would not like to put one point to the table, namely the question of rural development. This is really about important funds that we have to get from European funds, Mr Bundeskanzler, and I also think it is important and right that you go on track and fight for these areas. The crucial thing, however, is that rural development funds are also reduced at European level. We Greens are convinced that it is possible to give more money to rural areas through a shift in the agricultural budget, more justice and more ecologisation: from farm production and job security to elements of public health in the municipalities. And we need not 80 or 90 billion, but 100 billion, Federal Chancellor. You should fight for this at European level! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-01-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00187_d8e15260	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Widmann. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-01-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00187_d8e15281	Mr President. High house! The title of the current European hour is: “For a Europe with more growth, employment, justice and sustainability”. Let us take a look at the figures from Statistics Austria or also from the Social Report of the Federal Government, the Minister of Social Affairs! Here we see: 500 000 people are affected by deepest poverty; one million are at risk of acute poverty; 600 000 people with late payment; 320 000 people can no longer heat their homes in winter. Yesterday, Parliament's budget service reported that the prospects for 2016, 2017 – economically, but also for the unemployment figures – are gloomy that the neck remains, it does not go upward, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! And what are you offering us here? – A showdown of ÖVP and SPÖ, what you want to do – with beautiful fairy tale hours, with explanations that you can hear somewhere at the university, how it should be or could be, Federal Chancellor. But what are you doing? Where's your announcement? What are the concrete packages, initiatives of this Federal Government to eliminate this abuse here in Austria? - I don't think so! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Federal Chancellor! I miss an intelligent economic recovery package in all your statements. I am missing a discharge from taxpayers, as the Obmann Bucher suggested, with a simple, flat tax. I am missing the administrative reforms to finance this. I lack the focus on education, science, research to make Austria future fit. And what do I see here? – Behind me, two red government representatives spoke, and the ÖVP is missing at all. – So much for the seriousness of this current European hour. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] As in good tradition by Dr. Jörg Haider, who took up the topic of water years ago, Klubobmann Bucher has now re-occupied the subject with Klubobmann Bucher. I say thank you for this because it is an important issue. We've heard a lot today. Apparently, everyone here agrees that we have to do something about it. However, I am also excited to see what will remain at the end of the day if we make an appropriate request. Undisputed is that what happened here is really cockbled. If, at European level, nearly 500 000 citizens have already signed an initiative against the sale of water, and if NGOs and even industrial associations in Germany are mobilising, and if the Federal Council – its representatives from ÖVP and SPÖ – is in a massive position against it, in decisions, in committees and when the Vienna Government, the Chamber of Labour, the Trade Unions, the Municipal Association, the Municipal Association and, above all, the citizens in that country say: Stop selling out the water, the white gold!, and you don't get minter and just say: Yes, they are right!, but do nothing and fall into Brussels, that is too little, ladies and gentlemen. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] A particularly sad role is played by the ÖVP, the Austrian chancellor party, because what you have delivered in Brussels is really – so I miss the words! [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] I should just like to remind you that Mr Hahn, your Commissioner, was on 20 June. The directive, which is intended to make liberalisation more transparent, has agreed without comment. This is done under the pretext of transparency, objectivity, with the thought of selling out the water. ==References== In October 2012, almost a year later, the Federal Chancellor's Office rightly said that this directive is strictly rejected, Federal Chancellor. Then she goes on again, then the ÖVP is back on the train. Then there's 10th. A certain Minister Mitterlehner in a so-called Competition Committee at EU level on December 2012 and does not say a word there to the Council, in the Committee. And what happens now? . Now the whole thing will be lifted into Parliament, because you may still vote against it, or not, but in the end the Council will decide on it and you will be back with it. With this we sell our water or open the door for our water, our white gold to large corporations – a French has already been addressed; in the background the banks stand, in the background the speculators are sold out. And then, when everything is broken – and the examples were also mentioned; Portugal: plus 400 percent increase; Greece and England: broken lines – then we have to buy back the water for expensive money. We don't want that! We want to keep the water in our municipalities. Citizens should decide where the water comes from and how it is used. A sale of the water is in no way possible with the BZÖ! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] It may be that certain EU standards make sense, but in these areas this is, in our opinion, an overregulation that we do not need. Our representative in Brussels, our popular lawyer in Brussels, Ewald Stadler will also present this in a massive manner. I therefore invite you, ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP, not to deal with the issue as populistly as the federal question of voting today in the afternoon on a six-party request with a constitutional provision and the mandate to this Government to speak plain text in Brussels and vote against the sale of water.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-01-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00187_d8e15378	The next item is Mr Klubobmann Ing. Lugar. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-01-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00187_d8e15399	Mr President. High house! Today we are talking about growth and employment, and if we are talking about growth and employment in Europe, we also need to talk about the crisis, some of which say that we have stood out. Especially in the last few weeks, the commentators have heard internationally that there are also a few tendencies among politicians to believe that this crisis is now over. I would also like to believe that; I would even like to see this crisis resolved. In the end, however, it is about finding out two things. First: Is that really the case? Has this crisis been over? And second: Can we actually continue – what is supposed to be here – where we left off in 2008? That this does not work is seen in a simple example: If someone has a heart attack and the doctor tells the patient after treatment that he can live on as before, I can promise you one: He'll have a heart attack again. In other words, we must now finally learn from this crisis that began in 2008. If we ask ourselves whether this crisis is over, we must also ask ourselves what triggered this crisis. There were three things – among others – that triggered this crisis: First of all, this was the departure from the real economy towards a financial economy. That's where the question arises: Is that better now than 2008? – The answer is clearly no, it is even worse. If you don't believe this, go to someone who wants to have a credit for a business. It shows the long nose because the banks prefer to speculate much more than to make the money available to the real economy. So on this point it is clearly worse than 2008. The second point: We had a system of debt management in 2008. This means that the economy worldwide has only grown by debt growth, and every euro has generated more debt, as well as corresponding economic growth. But that can't work, and we've seen that in 2008. What happened? – It is even worse now than 2008. One point is also very important, these are the derivatives. It is these toxic papers and derivatives that were in circulation in 2008 to the extent of 500 trillion dollars. And is that less now? – No, quite the opposite: While the economy has grown only minimally, these derivatives have grown by almost 30 percent – and nobody cares about it! This is more than tenfold of the real economy; the tenfold of the real economy sleeps in these toxic papers, in these derivatives, and nobody cares about it. Einstein once said that whoever wants to do the same thing and achieve other results is crazy. [[Abg. Dr. Belakovich-Jenewein: Who said that?]] – We can only hope that Einstein was wrong, because we are doing exactly the same thing that led to the 2008 crisis We are not doing our homework! [[Abg. Scheibner: The same or the same?]] We do not do it here in Austria or at European level. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] [[Abg. Grosz: There are also relative stupids!]] There is practically no tendency at all to finally get away from this debt economy. On the contrary: With the mechanisms with which we are now trying to save the euro and others, we are trying to fight debt with even more debt. You have to imagine this: We actually believe that a debt crisis can be fought with even more debt! Those who do not believe this should look at the ECB: The ECB buys unlimited government bonds Marod States, only for the one purpose that the States can make as much debt as possible. That's the background! [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Kogler.]] Please let reason come back here! It is not possible to clean up a debt economy with new debts. Our lesson from this must therefore be: If we do homework here in Austria, we return to the real economy, we support those companies that actually produce something! - That's the first one. [[Abg. Dr. Belakovich-Jenewein: They're here?]] Secondly, Let us see that we fix our budget, we fight the debt here in the country, and then we do the homework, whether it concerns the pension system, the health system or the administration! We can do this here in Austria! And as far as the European level is concerned, we must finally come to grips with all those things that have led to the crisis five years ago, which unfortunately has not yet stood out, because politics has once again learned nothing. Politics has learned nothing from the mistakes. Everyone is just trying to move on where we have stopped, and to cover everything as much as possible. We must learn from the mistakes of the past. We must finally put pressure on the European level. And above all, we must do one thing: do homework in our own country! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-01-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00187_d8e15494	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. [[12:02:00]] Entry and allocations
ParlaMint-AT_2013-01-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00187_d8e15518	As regards the negotiated items and their allocations, I refer to them according to § 23 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure to the communication distributed at the meeting room. The written communication shall contain the following text: [[Quoted print version removed]] Announcement of a urgent request
ParlaMint-AT_2013-01-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00187_d8e15886	In accordance with § 74a para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure, before the entry into the agenda, requested urgent consideration of the self-employed amendment 2179/A(E) tabled at the same time by Mr Bucher, fellow Members on the protection of local water. Under the Rules of Procedure, the request for urgent procedure will be discussed at 3 p.m. Request for a short debate on the response to the question 12795/AB
ParlaMint-AT_2013-01-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00187_d8e15908	I would also like to say that, in accordance with Article 92 of the Rules of Procedure, there is a short debate on the reply to Question No 13081/J by Mr Bayr, by Dr Pirklhuber, Mr Pirklhuber, with regard to developmental and environmental concerns about the use of agrofuels by the Federal Minister for Agriculture, Forestry, Environment and Water Management. Since this meeting called for a urgent request to be dealt with, the brief debate will take place following this one. Agenda
ParlaMint-AT_2013-01-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00187_d8e15929	The debate on points 3 to 6, 7 and 8 and 10 and 11 of the agenda is proposed. – No objections are raised. We can do that. Let's go into the agenda. Text-to-Speech Limitation
ParlaMint-AT_2013-01-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00187_d8e15950	A consensus was reached between the members of the presidential conference on the duration of the debates. Accordingly, a day block time of 7.5 “Vienna hours” has been agreed. In line with the preliminary redistribution of the speaking time within a ‘Vienna hour’, 7.5 ‘Vienna hours’ are given the following speaking times: SPÖ and ÖVP per 105 minutes, FPÖ 94 minutes, green 83 minutes, BZÖ 71 minutes and STRONACH 60 minutes. Furthermore, according to § 57 para. 7 of the Rules of Procedure to limit the speaking time of the honourable Member to 10 minutes per debate. We shall now proceed to the vote on the speaking time just presented. I would ask those Members who agree to this proposal to give a sign on this point. – This is unanimously accepted. [[12:04:28]] 1. Point Report of the Constitutional Committee on the Government Template (2009 e.g._Other Organiser The Federal Act establishing a federal law on the procedure of administrative courts (administrative court law) and a federal law on the transition to two-stage administrative jurisdiction (administrative law) and the Administrative Court Law 1985, the Constitutional Court Law 1953, the Introductory Law on Administrative Procedures 2008, the General Administrative Procedure Act 1991, the Administrative Criminal Law 1991, the Administrative Enforcement Act 1991, the EU Administrative Enforcement Law, the Enforcement Act, the Enforcement Law, the Financial Penal Code, the Rules of Procedure, the Federal Ministry Act 1986, the Amthaftungsgesetz, the Organ Liability Act and the Federal Law of Law on Administrative Jurisdiction (Verwaltungsbildungsführungsgesetzungsgesetz 2012) (2112 d.B.) (2112 d.)
ParlaMint-AT_2013-01-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00187_d8e16002	We're coming to the 1st. Agenda item. First Mr. Dr. Fichtenbauer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-01-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00187_d8e16026	Mr President. Mr. State Secretary! High house! The matter before the debate is a complement to the reorganisation of the system from the monocratic administrative activity to the administrative jurisdiction. We deal with a number of relevant legal provisions, in particular the Administrative Procedure Act and related materials. It is true that we have worked very hard on the part of the liberals in this matter and have brought in our supplements and amendments from the knowledge of the command of the reasonable procedure. It is interesting to note that it is up to the present time on the tip and the button, depending on whether Mr. Peter Wittmann, who will speak in my opinion, will bring in the amendment, which has been shown to us before and which has been addressed, whether we will agree. Under this premise, I can say that my statements would have been a little more serious. I am not at all sorry that this fate will be spared from me, because the person concerned, on whom my wrath was directed, might have had no joy either. It's never too late, we say, to change the atrocities of things to reason. It has come to fruition. It is about the fact that the deadline for raising the complaint is finally being changed from two weeks to four weeks after Mr Wittmann will have introduced it. [[Call the FPÖ:Bravo!]] This is not due to the fact that my group wanted something else, but it is close to the citizen and important to the process. First: A system of administrative jurisdiction will be introduced. In the ordinary jurisdiction there has also been the four-week period for appeals since 1983. Next point to which you will have to dedicate yourself: The affected citizen receives a notice, is not at home, and the matter is deposited. He finds the deposit notice. And the deposit with the court and the pick-up period, which is noted on the deposit notice, exceeds the 14-day period of appeal. The citizen, who is not a lawyer – and even this happens – goes in full conviction to act legally, to the post office, picks up the document, opens it and, if he is able to understand the official German at all – even that is not natural – recognizes that the appeal period has already expired when he realizes that the start of the time limit has begun to run. – This is a defect in the delivery right, which is still to be repaired. To sum up, I urge you, after the amendment has been tabled, to use energy to implement all the concerns that are open in accordance with the five-party resolution proposals. This is, besides other things, above all, the law complaint. With regard to the legal complaint, it should be heard that something at the level of civil servants between the Ministry of Justice, the Federal Chancellor's Office and other employed bodies is in progress, with the aim of motivating the project as far as possible, I say now. I say: We won't let that happen either! We will strive for a clean, practical form of the new model, and we will not lack enforcement opportunities to implement it. We're not going to let this project go! Today's day also shows that the balled power of official lobbyism may find its limit just before this speaker's mouth! - Thank you many times.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-01-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00187_d8e16063	Next speaker: Mr Wittmann. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-01-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00187_d8e16084	Mr President. Mr. State Secretary! High house! The decision to introduce a national administrative jurisdiction and a federal administration court at the constitutional level has resulted in several levels to be regulated below. We have decided on the organisational part about two months ago and are now in the process of reorganising the procedural law for all administrative courts at national and federal level. I would like to thank you for the excellent material discussion that we had on these points despite all the discussions. I would also like to thank all those who have contributed because I believe that something very good has come true. We must ensure the transfer of administrative procedural law into an administrative procedural law before courts. And there is already a huge difference, because we are completely changing the administrative procedure in itself, namely that legal protection is going through courts – and not through authorities anymore. I mean, you can already see from this extensive change, which results from it, that there are, of course, different traps in detail. We have ensured a uniform administrative procedure law before the administrative courts at the national and federal level, which in turn means the task to the countries that there must be a closed judicial training so that the level in the federal states is not different. But by this form of transmission, I believe that this is guaranteed. We have tried not to make the procedure more expensive. [[Abg. Scheibner: 30 percent higher!]] We have also tried to speed up the process, as in some areas there is a level to be found. There is a low level of access to law, and there is for the first time a participation of the countries in jurisdiction. That too, as I mean, is all right in the sense of federalism. I have tabled an amendment to that effect. One of the most important innovations is contained in this amendment – which Mr Fichtenbauer has already pointed out. It's really great that you've reached an agreement there. We will unite the appeal period in the Administrative Courts Act for four weeks, so that there is also a four-week period as with the courts; it is also a court. It would have been a shame if we had not succeeded in unifying the deadline. Furthermore, this amendment, which I would like to explain in his fundamentals, also legislative adjustments, is also made in the form of linguistic errors. It is intended to ensure that the revision can only be made by the Administrative Court. This amendment provides for the introduction of electronic commerce at the Administrative Court. We create the possibility that proceedings initiated at the Senate can continue with an individual judge. And we have made an adaptation of the electoral jurisdiction in the Constitutional Court Act to the new Article 141. These are the main features of this amendment. On the previous comments by Mr Fichtenbauer: We have undertaken to regulate first the constitutional level of the state administration jurisdiction or the Federal Administrative Court, then the form of organisation – and now the procedural law. The further steps must, of course, be that in the matter laws the adaptation to the new judicial remedy body is taking place and, of course, other agreements, because there were a variety of resolutions and applications, precisely with the introduction of the national administration jurisdiction. Now it's about continuously working this out. Our effort is to get a proper legal complaint, including in the courts. I believe that we are on a very good political path, since the broad guidelines, as the whole should take place, are politically fairly manifest. It is about implementation and design, and there are, of course, various resistances. We all know that justice has no pleasure in going to the Constitutional Court in any instance of justice. But it was clear from the very beginning that there will be resistance there, and it is of course that we have solutions to find there. I am firmly convinced that one by one we will work out in accordance with our programme. So far, we've been on the plan. The implementation of the national administrative jurisdiction may take place by the date set. Our work there is consistent and planned. I would like to thank everyone, especially my counterpart from the ÖVP, for the very objective negotiation.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-01-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00187_d8e16132	The request, which will be distributed shortly, is set out in its basic guidelines and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2013-01-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00187_d8e16601	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Musiol. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-01-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00187_d8e16622	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! My previous speaker has already said that this is now the third decision in the context of this reform; a reform that has really earned that name. Unlike many other projects, which this Federal Government calls “reform” but which have not deserved this name, the administrative judicial reform is really a reform that has been debated for decades and is now finally being implemented. And that is the third part that we decide on today, namely procedural law. Our criteria for this reform were simple: It is about independence from decisions, it is about improving legal protection for the citizens, for the complainants, including the possibility of also very low-rankingly resisting administrative decisions. And it's also about club- It is a question of transparency and clarity to whom we can turn if we want to go to the next judicial remedy. This approach was not always clear because of the proposals submitted to us by the Government, nor was it in procedural law. Until a few minutes ago, we were still of the opinion that we would not agree today because it did not look as if these objectives were being achieved. Nearly in the last minute, one can say that ÖVP and SPÖ have shown attendance. Now I am pleased that we can also decide on this third part, as did the first two parts, and give our agreement, even though of course it is clear that we have not put ourselves through with everything we wanted. But this is always a consideration when five parties try to find an agreement, which is important and what is not important and whether the glass is full or empty. In this case, we consider it full. The discussions were constructive and factual, yes, that is true, although it must be mentioned here, that it is extremely worrying that, if there are five-party resolutions – these were taken in the context of the decision of this Federal Constitutional Act – which also refer to procedural law, we must be from the Greens, but also the other opposition parties must be those who always remember that these decisions, which we have taken together here, must then also be found in procedural law. This is laborious in the negotiation process. We do this, of course, as far as our role is concerned, but in fact it should be a self-conception that, if the National Council adopts unanimous decisions, this will also be included in the relevant proposals and one does not have to negotiate them again. But what was definitely achieved in the negotiations, especially in the context of improving legal protection? – On the one hand, that the procedural assistance before the Administrative Court does not, as originally planned, create a high obstacle, so to speak, it is necessary to state very detailedly why an extraordinary revision is possible, but that only as far as a reason is necessary as it is reasonable for the individual. That is to say, it will depend on what previous knowledge, especially what legal knowledge those persons have who apply for procedural assistance – and then it will assess how strictly that is to be done. In a committee statement already in December 2012, when this procedural law was adopted without our vote, we were able to negotiate that the requirements for the complaint would also be reduced. These were very narrow, and that would have de facto mean that anyone who wants to file a complaint would have needed a lawyer because one could not have done this himself as an average legal person. This is therefore absolutely an improvement in legal protection – and not as envisaged in the original proposal here, namely a narrowing. Furthermore, a symmetry in the protracting effects and today also the breakthrough that Mr Fichtenbauer has already mentioned, namely the four-week period, that is to say, the harmonisation of all complaints. It is particularly important to us that a motion for a resolution, which instructs the relevant members of the government to consider whether environmental damage, § 68 of the AVG, should be another reason for extending the grounds for withdrawal of documents in relation to environmental law. This is important if there are no subjective rights of people who are make a complaint. Think, for example, of Natura 2000 areas where a golf course is built. There are no subjective rights here, so to speak, but the objective right to protect this Natura 2000 area. This is to be followed in the future by this motion for a resolution. We did not get through with everything, we wanted to do procedural assistance before the Administrative Court. Unfortunately, we could not convince the others. There were also transitional arrangements that improved legal protection. Then the countries have made comments. And as is often the case when the countries say something, the government follows, and in this case these improvements have been reversed. It would be exciting to see if there are very concrete projects that you think about, or if that was the usual reflection of the countries that you are opposed to. All in all, however, one can still say that this procedural right is a procedural right with which one can start working once. In this context, of course, we will continue to observe this project, even if the first decisions at the constitutional level, in procedural law and in organisational law are decided. The matter laws are still following, and all committees are going to be involved. But, of course, we will pay particular attention to whether the Federal Administrative Court is experiencing, for example, the occupation that we all wished in our negotiations, whether we really apply for the best qualified persons and then come. As far as the legislative complaint is concerned, I fully agree with you, Mr Fichtenbauer: This is a matter where all five parties have said that they are here that it is important, and this must not be lost in the mills of civil service. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-01-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00187_d8e16705	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Gerstl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-01-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00187_d8e16726	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! First of all, I would like to pay particular attention to the previous speaker's words, who is a representative of the opposition party, who has expressed her gratitude for the fact that this is a very special administrative reform, namely, the largest since 1925. That is why, like my colleagues from the SPÖ, I have been so very important that we are doing a great joint work here with great agreement. I would also like to express my full gratitude for the intensive cooperation with the Constitutional spokesmen of the opposition parties and for the fact that we have come so far that, I believe, we have taken into account all the problems that have arisen, all the concerns and needs, on the one hand, the legal subjects, on the other hand, the legal users and courts themselves, and we have achieved a good common consensus, which, as I believe, is really very appealing and contributes to the fact that the freedom of law and civility in Austria have made a further major step towards the review of administrative decisions by independent courts. Ladies and gentlemen! We have not only dissolved over 100 special authorities, 33 of them from the federal government and the rest from the federal states, but we have created 9 national administration courts and 2 federal administrative courts. That's what I'm a great achievement that has been achieved here in the negotiations in recent years. [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. Pendl.]] After this basic decision, which we adopted in May, we decided on organisational law just before the end of last year, as well as a Federal Administrative Court and a Federal Finance Court. In the meantime, it has also been possible to take the employees from the Federal Award Office into the new Federal Administrative Court. An example is the integration of an independent body with another, namely the Federal Award Office with the Federal Asyl Office. It is also particularly impressive, I believe, that the two former leaders, as President and Vice-President of the Federal Administrative Court, are now setting up and organizing this new Federal Administrative Court together in a working group. The call for tenders for the judges at the Federal Administrative Court has recently been made in the “Wiener Zeitung”. I would therefore like to invite all interested lawyers to apply for it so that we can also receive the best judges for the Federal Administrative Court. Ladies and gentlemen! In the meantime, a location was also selected. What's missing now? – Due to the Federal Administrative Court, we still need to adapt a little more than 100 material laws accordingly. We will try to complete this in the first half of the year. We will not only try it, but we will also do so because it is absolutely necessary to ensure that the Federal Administrative Court with 1. January 2014 can also really enter into force. We have managed that this procedure will now also be very cost-effective. There will be no charge. There'll be no lawyer's duty. There will be no hidden law enforcement, but quite the contrary, the guidance from the courts will also result in citizens being able to come to their right very easily. Ladies and gentlemen! I think that is really an example for the future. The schedule is very ambitious and demanding. The necessary budgetary conditions have been created, and we will do so with 1. In January 2014, the Commission adopted a proposal for a I believe that the uniform time limit to say that is particularly important in terms of legal protection. We are always contrasting this with process concentration and process acceleration. We have here opted for a uniform deadline in the sense of civil kindness and also the freedom of law, including with regard to delivery periods, in order to make access to independent decisions for citizens a little easier. I would also like to briefly comment on the last point made by my previous speakers, namely on the issue of legal complaints. I can join all the previous speakers here. I am very interested in the fact that we are still making a legislative complaint in this half-year, so that there is also a balance between administrative matters and the matters of ordinary jurisdiction in criminal and civil law. And I am very interested that this does not lead to an irrigation, as one of my previous speakers has said, but that there is a clear rule which also takes into account the needs of life, which does not lead to unnecessary procedural delays, but also makes it clear that a standard should: they are unconstitutional, can also be challenged accordingly. There should also not be an upper or lower order of individual courts, but only an equalisation of the standard review and therefore no appeal. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-01-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00187_d8e16805	Next speaker: Mr Scheibner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-01-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00187_d8e16827	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! As far as the latter is concerned, we have called for this to be implemented in an agreed resolution. I just hope that we can take out the emotions that have been aroused by this debate not here in the House but outside the House. This should not be against any Court of Justice, but this should in all cases be a complement to our legal system. And there should be an attempt to have a positive dialogue with all parties involved and then to reach a common agreement as soon as possible. As far as the matter at hand is concerned, I also think that this institution or reorganisation of the administrative jurisdiction is very positive. It is true that this has been the biggest administrative reform for many years, and I am sorry, Mr State Secretary, for we also have a lot different to reform in the administrative field, starting with legislation on the division of competence between the Federal Government and countries, a definition of what is now, in the 21st century. In the 19th century, a modern administration was still to be regulated and what could also be transferred to other areas, an efficiency question of administration, to the municipal administration. These would have been all things that are very important and which should have been regulated during this legislative period. There was a so-called Austria-conversation, where we had very good discussions at the highest level – including you, Mr. State Secretary Ostermayer – but there have been no such discussions for two years. There has been a separate subcommittee here in Parliament. [[Interlocutory note by Secretary of State Dr. Ostermayer.]] Excuse me, yes, he is still there, but he hasn't done it for two years, because these points were not solvable there. But now I also say that this is not even the fault of this federal government, but perhaps it is its apparent lack of wealth to assert itself against the “toners” in Austria, and these are unfortunately those institutions that believe that federalism is self-interest. They have not been able to assert themselves against these institutions by the Federal Government. If today the Landesführers – we have already discussed this in the previous debate, namely on the issue of the ban on speculation – believe that they would be obsolant if they were to introduce a modern administration, where they did not, as according to criteria of 17 and 18. It is decided by the century, and therefore so-called state princes block and prevent everything, that is already very unfortunate. On the other hand, I think that this matter, this institution of administrative jurisdiction, is positive; just as the way – unless here again – as it happened, for there was really no such thing: Government on the one hand and opposition on the other, but there was already the feeling, that negotiations are being conducted at the same level and that the concerns of the opposition are also taken into account, not only heard and taken note of, but also actually implemented. This is what I am saying quite openly: We would also like to see this in other areas. Mr Ostermayer, you have seen: If you are negotiating at such a level, then something will happen – with the exception of the problem that the uniformity of these structures has been called into question, because the countries now, everyone in their area, want to build up their own slums. And I have already doubts as to whether our objectives, which we have also set in motions for resolutions, will also ensure the right of organisation in the countries and, above all, a uniform legal framework, and not build up each country's own structures. You know these criticisms. We will have to vote differently at second reading, but unfortunately at third reading this package will have to reject it, but not because in the field of administrative courts the procedure will not be the way we imagine it – I believe I have presented it sufficiently – but because you are changing the level of administrative penalties from SPÖ and ÖVP in this package – to me totally incomprehensible, why. This is already remarkable, and I am surprised that the other opposition parties, including the FPÖ, agree so uncritically, including with regard to the increase of organ mandates. You say that's just the cost framework. – Well, Mr State Secretary, we have had that before. The criminal frameworks have already been increased in this regard by saying that, if it is internationally comparable, one could also track administrative infringements, speed evasions et cetera caused by foreign car owners. – And then how was reality? – Agreements with the other countries have not been followed, but the Austrians have to pay the increased penalties. And the same, Mr State Secretary, will come now. [[Interlocutory note by Secretary of State Dr. Ostermayer.]] They say again: No, no! Mr State Secretary, we are all Austrians, therefore: If an organ mandate no longer costs 36 €, but 90 €, then 90 € will be required. And if an anonymity does not make up €200, but € 365, then this will also be required in the future and then the penalties will be increased to €600! Mr State Secretary, we from the BZÖ say: enough paid! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Any framework that will be given will be exhausted, and there will also be an increase in the penalties and a burden especially on drivers in this area. That is why we reject this overall package from the BZÖ. If you had made a law of your own, you couldn't have hidden it that way and then at least we could have agreed to the other things. But that is how we shall be voting differently in second reading. We see the reforms on administrative jurisdiction as positive, but we reject this increase, especially for drivers and citizens.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-01-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00187_d8e16937	Next speaker: Mr Hagen. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-01-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00187_d8e16960	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! High house! We will vote in favour of this government proposal. We have already agreed to the Novelle Administrative Jurisdiction 2012 in December last year, and it is therefore logical that we should also agree to these implementing rules, which are now to be decided, even if I share the criticism of my predecessor as regards increases in administrative penalties. This is always a dangerous thing in Austria, because if administrative penalties are increased, the reasoning “Foreign!” is always taken, but in reality it is the citizens of their own. That's something we don't want from the Stronach team. However, I would like to mention that we are demanding a uniform billing catalogue because it cannot be that perhaps punishments before the Arlberg amount to 300 € and after the Arlberg are to be paid 200 € for the same act. It can't be. So that would be something you might even be able to do. The court proceedings in general take too long in Austria, and therefore it is good to address administrative simplifications. Therefore: An improvement in structures and accelerations in this area is to be welcomed and assessed as positive. We from the Stronach team are in favour of independent and efficient case law. This is a real step in the right direction. We want a slim and efficient administration system – and that in court. However, slim must not mean what we now have in Vorarlberg at the criminal court in Feldkirch, where huge numbers of staff are missing and things are therefore drawn back into the length; these are also costs. I think it is necessary to save at the right places, and in part this is not necessarily about personnel costs, but about administrative burdens in general. Even if we believe that in this bill there would have been a lot of improvement and therefore a lot to repair, this is, as has been said, a step in the right direction. We will therefore vote in favour of this bill. And I also say that these two requests, namely an amendment tabled by the FPÖ and a motion for a resolution by the government parties, both going in the right direction, will also find our approval, as they are sensible and reasonable. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-01-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00187_d8e17013	Mr Ostermayer came to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-01-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00187_d8e17034	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Mr President, Perl at the gallery! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr. Dr. Fichtenbauer has surprised me several times here. On the one hand: I have already expected that Dr. Fichtenbauer would thank all the people who worked very constructively in this process and eventually achieved a compromise that is a much wider one, because that was, so to speak, the usual behaviour in previous decisions of this large project. I also expected Mr. Dr. Fichtenbauer to praise the constructiveness of government, the other clubs, the countries, but he did not – surprisingly – do so. I am therefore all the more pleased that most of my other speakers have done so. I would really like to express my sincere thanks to all the representatives of the clubs, to the Members of Parliament, to the representatives of the Cabinets, to the representatives of the Federal Chancellors and Vice-Presidents, to the representatives of the countries, but also, of course, to the President of Perl and his staff, who have contributed and contributed to the implementation of this century project, as expressed by a President of the Court of Justice. As Mr Gerstl has already said, we are actually moving on schedule. At the last time, when the right of organisation was decided, I said the request to decide on procedural law in January. This has been successful. Thank you very much for all those who have contributed. We have appointed the Presidents, we have now transferred the premises, we have already – and Mr Gerstl has already said this – transferred the staff of the Federal Representative to the Court of Justice by the Council of Ministers, yesterday or yesterday we have put out the courts in order to take all the occupations in good time, and we have set in a timetable that by the end of February in the Council of Ministers we want to decide the large number of legislation on matter so that the decision can be taken in good time here in the House and then actually in good time, namely by 1. January 2014, this large court can take up its activity in favour of citizens in that country. – I am pleased that we are moving within the schedule. I thank all those who have contributed. Two comments on discussion: - No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The Federal Chancellery has proposed the two variants to the resolution by the Constitutional Service. It is a parliamentary project, and neither the Federal Chancellery nor the BMJ – I assume – have an interest in blocking the issue at the level of civil servants. It is a political project of Parliament, and I promise you: The Federal Chancellery will continue to cooperate actively to ensure that a meaningful regime is reached. But I'm just saying: If there is no sensible regulation, for example, because the resistance is too great in the area of justice, then I tend to do nothing at all. This is also the position of those in the Constitutional Court who have discussed this issue. Secondly, a comment on Mr Scheibner's comments: Our intention is not to increase the penalties on the issue of demarcation of organ mandates, penalties, adage. It is not a question of extending the criminal frameworks in the legislation on materials, but rather of moving the border between organ mandates and ad in those cases in which an advertisement is currently required, which can be done in the future with more simple organ mandates for citizens and administration. [[Abg. Scheibner: This has nothing to do with the borders!]] – I guess that has something to do with the boundaries! That's the intention. The intention is not to increase the criminal framework in the KFG or in the road traffic regulations or wherever possible to impose higher penalties. I'm sorry you don't go with me on this point. I am still grateful for the very constructive behaviour in the discussion process before, and I am pleased that you also support the basic regulations, the main intensification of this law. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-01-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00187_d8e17084	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Stefan. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-01-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00187_d8e17105	Mr President. Mr. State Secretary! High house! Mr. State Secretary Ostermayer wondered that our first speaker, Dr. Fichtenbauer, did not thank for the constructive cooperation. I can only interpret it now, I don't know, but there are two ways: Either he was still so upset about the fact that one did not want to extend this appeal period to four weeks, because that was still unclear – I am coming to speak shortly after that – or he wanted to leave it to me as a constitutional speaker to thank me. It's actually like this: Cooperation has worked very well, and that has been rightly addressed. It is gratifying to be involved in real discussions and to actually respond to what comes from us as opposition parties. The result can be seen: First of all, the introduction of a two-stage administrative jurisdiction is at all a big step, and there are rarely really big steps, while many small large-scale announced or called such. This time, in fact, this was a fundamental change that we have made since the beginning, even called for a long time, and now it is about the implementation in matter itself. However, on the intention – that is to say to say once again – to start from a two-week appeal period, has now really been persisted for weeks. We have pointed out from the outset that everyone who has had to do with it either as a party representative or as a affected person knows how short two weeks are. Not for nothing in the jurisdiction usually there is the Four Weeks-Frist, and we introduce here a jurisdiction, an administrative jurisdiction. It is therefore only natural that the time limit should also be adjusted. In view of all the problems that would have arisen in the case of a two-week-frist, for example, with the delivery, because the delivery might have taken place only after the time of delivery and so on, and so on, was totally inconceivable to us that the government parties did not want to respond to it – and that from any point of law – and have rejected the alignment to this day. It is all the more gratifying that it is to be diverted. The result is ultimately the most important, and that is positive, but it remains the memory of this persistence without any material background. What remains open are a few motions for resolutions that we have decided to introduce administrative jurisdiction. This was on the one hand for the appointment of Presidents and Vice-Presidents, but also for the judge. Although there is a unanimous decision by all parties, it is true that the Bundesfinanzgericht does not decide what was required, namely a Commission, to date has not been implemented and is even rejected. In fact, we cannot understand why the parties decide unanimously and then fail to implement it; after all, every minister of a party who has voted in favour of it also belongs. A second point related to this is the implementation in the countries. That has rightly been referred to. Non-conformity in the countries is a real problem. It is in this way that what we have brought into the debate from the very beginning. The main thing in the introduction of the national administrative courts and also of the Federal Administrative Court was to reduce the direct influence of the countries, which ultimately comes from politics, to the administration and to use a court. We now have the fear that the countries will be very likely to set up the organisations in such a way that they can only have a good influence again. This, of course, is about the appointment of Presidents, Vice-Presidents, about the appointment of judges and about the distribution of business. For example, we already have a negative example with Vienna, as it should not be. So that's an open point. An open point is also the commanding procedure. We were promised that there would be a draft of the Ministry of Defence already in January. ==References====External links== Yes, so depressing to the ministry that you didn't make it. We assume that this will come soon. The vocation of the legal professions is open. The reorganisation of the branch in the university area is open. So these are the open spaces. We have heard very positive announcements on the introduction of the legislative complaint today. In fact, this is a legal gap that must be filled, and therefore we are very much in favour of this being introduced. We have debated this, and we will be there too. Hopefully, constructive cooperation continues, so that we can continue to implement it. So, in total, this is a positive development. Mr Scheibner said one more word: I fully share the opinion, and we are always going to conform to the fact that increases in fees have to be rejected. However, this is not a charge increase, but it is a matter of imposing a penalty if one does not act in accordance with the law. These are two different things, and you have to keep them apart. - Good.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-01-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00187_d8e17142	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Steßl-Mühlbacher. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-01-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00187_d8e17163	Mr President. Estimated Secretary of State! High house! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Whoever pursues this debate as a non-jurisdiction – probably also most of the citizens who pursue this debate – is certainly wondering what we decide today or what we are talking about today. It is a very complex, technical law that we have here. That is why I would like to take a brief look at what the meaning and purpose of this is. We have recently decided on a large administrative jurisdiction novelle. What does that mean? – Citizens who, for example, are in the first instance in the administrative procedure before an administrative authority now have courts in the second and third instances. Unfortunately, we in Austria have been followers in the area of legal protection in relation to the administrative procedure. With this major structural change, we are now taking a big step forward. Despite the various open points raised by my previous speaker, I would like to focus on what we are deciding today with the amendment and with this law. Our intention is to decide now on the transitional provisions or on procedural arrangements so that we have a uniform procedural law for the new national administrative courts and also for the Federal Administrative Court. There is, as it were, a transformation into a judicial administrative procedure. This change is intended to be cost-neutral. It is also particularly important to speed up administrative procedures and then to speed up procedures before the administrative courts and to improve legal protection. Important and very central is – and I am pleased that there has also been an agreement there – that we set the time limit for appeal uniformly for four weeks. This is very important and better for every applicant, for the legal user and also for the party representatives, than for the various areas to be kept in mind again and again. We also introduce electronic traffic for the VwGH. It comes to legistic cleansings. It is also essential that the costs for the parties remain the same as in the current AVG procedure, because cost neutrality is very, very important in our time, especially for the applicant. I would like to join with my previous speakers in particular in saying that I would like to thank you very much for the constructive cooperation in the Constitutional Committee.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-01-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00187_d8e17202	Next speaker: Mr Grosz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-01-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00187_d8e17224	Mr State Secretary, I can already correct you: The height of punishment in an organ mandate, in the course of a criminal procedure, is based on the severity of the offence. This means, for example, driving 50 km/h above the maximum speed allowed, the driving licence is gone and the display is there. You can't do this either because you can increase the maximum limits on penalties, as Herbert Scheibner has said, to 600 €, to 365 € for anonymity, and even from 36 € to 90 € for organ mandates. This is not a margin, but of course you give the authorization to another deck in the sense of a roadside storage. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Of course, the executive authorities will take advantage of these criminal frameworks, order higher penalties in the future, and continue to remove the cents and the euros from the hands of people. Now we already have the highest fuel prices on the Austrian motorways, record prices at Easter and holiday times. The Federal Government is completely inactive in this area, although it would have antitrust possibilities, although it would have a 1999 draft regulation which the Federal Minister for Economic Affairs of course could introduce a maximum price cap. But you do not, but you continue to let your comrades at the OMV, at the fuel companies the people in this country who can no longer afford daily life, the mothers who lead their children to school. I am not talking about those who use the car for fun, because that is the minority in this country anyway. Most people need the car because you are not even able to improve public transport properly. And then go here again and increase the penalties in Austria, so that people can continue to pull the money out of their pockets. I already give my astonishment to the fact that the Freedom Party agrees to this increase in punishment. With the greens, we are used to it, but that the FPÖ, which is now only now only available in residual stocks in the hall – I am at least looking at the few contacts that I can count on one hand – is agreeing to a doubling of the penalties, I am surprised. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: We are still more than you are!]] In accordance with Mr Fichtenbauer's words, you agree. The Secretary of State has already thanked you for this with “Peerl and Veilchenstrausschen”. He is so glad that four parties of this House agree. - That's a mistake! Mr. State Secretary, the reform is quite correct in terms of content, and Herbert Scheibner has carried it out, but she will also cause costs to rise by 30 percent – and you do not have to argue with me about it, but you will have the dispute with the Court of Auditors that claims it. So I don't imagine a reform! If I want to put together the 21 social security institutions in Austria, for which you are not able to do so to this day, I do not want it to cost 50 percent more, but that the contributors in the country will finally be relieved. By the way, you don't do that! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] If you put together hundreds of institutions here and introduce a new administrative jurisdiction in Austria, I expect costs and staff costs to decrease and the Court of Auditors will not have 30 percent extra costs. If in the future your reforms in Austria look like this, I can only say: Good night.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-01-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00187_d8e17278	Next speaker: Mr. Singer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-01-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00187_d8e17300	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Grosz, the sanctions are not increased, but the criminal frameworks are being changed. [[The Scheibner and Grosz MEPs will also be used up.]] Ladies and gentlemen, this Act of Administrative Jurisdiction will take a further step towards the greatest administrative and rule of law reform for decades. We decided unanimously in May of this year the Administrative Jurisdiction Novelle 2012. Now follow the implementing laws. To remember: What's this about? - A few points. It's about more legal protection. Any citizen, citizen or businessman may immediately refer to a court against the decision of an authority with which he does not agree. Not a long wait, not a long period of time, but a direct legal protection by independent judges. Secondly, The procedures are getting faster. Slighter structures and shorter instances are likely to allow most procedures to be completed more quickly, and faster effective legal certainty is good for people and is good for Austria's economic location. Nothing is worse than years of uncertainty, whether it concerns asylum seekers or whether entrepreneurs can expand. Thirdly, This is an administrative structural reform. Over 100 authorities are replaced by eleven administrative courts, one in the federal states, the Federal Administrative Court and the Federal Finance Court. Now go back to the procedural laws. I am very pleased that this procedural law has been negotiated in good agreement with the federal states in a federal/national working group. In particular, the desire of both the National Council and the Länder, namely: Access to the administrative court is easy and easy to make. There is no longer any legal force or other overcomplicated provisions, as the aim of this reform is to improve legal protection and not to make it more difficult. At the same time, it is also ensured that the costs of this administrative jurisdiction do not explode by enabling practical and efficient administrative processes. I am also personally proud of the fact that we decide on another building block, which will continue the reform that has been undertaken and which will also hand over to the federal states a share of the state function of jurisdiction. In particular, the draft laws of my Federal Republic of Austria have been mentioned positively in terms of ensuring the independence of the administrative courts and as exemplary. This is good, because this is an independent jurisdiction, and it also shows that the federal states take their obligations and their responsibilities seriously. Ladies and gentlemen, this law, like the Constitutional novels, is a good example of how major administrative reforms can be implemented, namely in a constructive dialogue between the federal government and the countries, but also with the opposition, as this debate shows today. If all put the common before the end of the separation, reforms can also be made. Parliament has proved in this matter that it is not a wink machine, as it has always been mentioned in these days, but an important part of a functioning democracy. I say this very consciously also to those who constantly question the working capacity of this federal government, this Parliament and the state. [[President Dr. Graf takes over the chairmanship.]] Finally, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank all those who have already been directly addressed, because only under the participation of all these great reforms are possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-01-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00187_d8e17336	The next speaker was Mr Pendl. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-01-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00187_d8e17358	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! High house! Ladies and gentlemen on the visitor gallery and in front of the TV screens! This novelle of administrative jurisdiction, which we decided last year, is a centenary law – that is, I believe, not to add anything. It has long been a wish at national level and a demand at European level for a long time. I wonder about one speech or another, because I think Austria, Austrian politics can be proud that we have passed this modern law, and the preparations for entry into force on 1. January 2014 must be done – everyone knows that. I remember, Mr Fichtenbauer – I have always expressed the same opinion – but also Herbert Scheibner, we have constantly discussed the fact that the adjustment of judicial status must not take too long. However, it will take some time for purely organizational reasons. [[Abg. Scheibner: Ten years?- Oh, my God!]] If we want this and if we take it seriously – and I know it – then you don't have to think about it, then you know that it costs something. Everyone knew that. There was never another discussion. [[Abg. Scheibner: No, that's not true!]] –Please don't tell me that now! I believe that in the legislative process, in the negotiation process, we have responded to every single request and every individual wish that was justified. It may have been possible to create this regulation earlier than today, but I believe that we here in the House can stand up to it – I really see it as a law of the century, including this procedural law. I believe that we have made a broad involvement of all, and I do not want to thank everyone. There is no need to take out a small point that has, by the way, been misinterpreted; it has already been misinterpreted. I do not think that someone has a joy when advertising is made continuously, because this is also administrative reformatory not exactly the right approach. I also believe that this fits into the overall concept. We all know that. I believe that this is a day for Austrian politics, a day for Austrians, because it means quality assurance and legal protection according to the most modern standard. I invite you all to give your consent to this so important matter.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-01-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00187_d8e17413	Next speaker: Mr Pack. 4 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-01-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00187_d8e17435	Mr President. Estimated Secretary of State! Ladies and gentlemen! Yes, my previous speaker described it as a century law, a few other speakers have said it is the biggest change in the positive sense in the Second Republic. It's definitely a big throw, and we can be very proud of it in the house here. That's what I'm going to give to my previous speaker. An example of how to work together in good negotiating manner for the benefit of Austrians in order to prevent any further officials from having to decide in the future what the previous officials have decided to do, so that we can inform this jungle of special authorities and thereby provide the citizen with the necessary guidance to reach his legal certainty, and that from 2014 onwards, independent judges will decide on a revision without having to go through various levels of administration. Ladies and gentlemen! We have already explained an ambitious schedule in advance. Today we set another milestone. There are a few points that are still on the agenda, which still need constructive and, above all, objective discussion so that we can make things right in time so that entry into force with 1. ==References====External links== Ladies and gentlemen! I believe that if we decide on a reform in this way, we also work out on matters, then there is some benefit to the citizen here, then we also have the necessary majority here in the house and outside. I would like to thank all those who have been so constructively involved in this.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-01-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00187_d8e17470	Next speaker: Mr Prehauser. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-01-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00187_d8e17491	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! High house! It is always pleasant to interpret a revision or a law where there is broad consent in the House. And after I am a very harmonious MP, it hurts me especially if a party remains out there. [[Abg. Scheibner: That's not true!]] I hear, parts of the law are also carried, but the great concern is the so-called withdrawal. Mr Scheibner, I assume that you have experienced my appreciation of you more often, but one thing I would like to say: Procedures, punishments can also be prevented by failing to take proceedings or by not making transgressions, and not by resorting to punishment. This is also a way to save costs. Of course, there are situations again and again – this is what happens to me – in which you turn left, if you should not, and that cost 160 €. Now it costs a little more. Left turn means on one side to cross the lock line if one is, or on the other side, to overlook a small panel that was not there for years. [[Abg. Scheibner: Organ Mandate! False parking! It costs 90 € now!]] That is something else, not a question, but of course you should also consider that you can avoid such punishments by not breaking laws and keeping administrative penalties. But that is not the point in this matter. [[Abg. Scheibner: Let's ask for 1 000 €!]] I think the previous speakers have said more than profoundly where the benefits of this simplification are. Mr Stefan, if you do not understand why you need from two to four weeks to finally give in, then it shows once again how important it is that there is a good basis for discussion in the committee that the coalition also has the power to listen to and listen to the opposition. And if it often takes only three minutes to vote, it is still a success for both sides, because it shows that one goes to one another, understands one another and then finally adopts the right law for the benefit of the citizens. I would like to express my express thanks to all political groups for their good cooperation, and I am committed to future discussions or discussions – for example, a security strategy – to the hope that a similar constructive discussion might also be possible to adopt a common strategy paper for the Republic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-01-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00187_d8e17553	I declare that, as a result of the short-term receipt of a request for a separate vote, a short part-session will not be enough to prepare for the vote and I will then put the vote on this item on the agenda until after the vote on item 2. The next speaker was Mr Huainigg. If desired, 4 minutes of speaking time will be set. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-01-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00187_d8e17577	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! High house! Language reflects social images. When it comes to blindness, it often says: A blind chicken also finds a grain. Or if someone doesn't do anything at all, they say: You're blind. If someone is blind on an eye, he is not open to social change. When the discussion is about blind judges, reservations and fears are on the rise. It is said that blind people cannot make an objective picture of reality and a local eyelight is not possible. It is true, however, that there are 60 blind judges in Germany. There is no blind judge in Austria. In autumn, we invited a blind judge from Germany: Your Boysen. He has reported how he manages his daily career with technical aids, with a scanner, with a lecture program, with a Braille line and with the support of assistance services. That is how he makes personal consent, and judgments come to pass. He has a multi-year professional experience and says that he can make a more objective image because he cannot be influenced by visual impressions. His ears are partly his eyes, for he notices that when someone is agitating around the chair, he is whittling or drumming with his fingers. These are signs that are important to him. So it's possible. In 2006 we passed the Federal Disability Equality Act and deleted the physical suitability for the judicial profession, and it should have been possible to do so. But so far, there is no blind judge in Austria, as has been said. That is why I very much welcome the launch of a pilot project for blind judges in the course of the reform of administrative jurisdiction. I would like to make a motion for a resolution to that effect. – Since I am personally handicapped, I can’t read it myself, but my personal assistant Linda will do it for me. [[Quoted print version removed]] I believe that the administrative jurisdiction is particularly suitable for this pilot project, as the local eye-catching is not in the foreground and now judges are also being sought. There is a registration of 80 judges, and I would also like to encourage people with visual impairments, blind lawyers to apply. Justitia judges with related eyes, makes such fair judgments, and I hope that this will be possible in Austria as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-01-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00187_d8e17634	The motion for a resolution which has just been tabled is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows:
ParlaMint-AT_2013-01-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00187_d8e17689	Next speaker: Mr Ing. Gartlehner. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-01-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00187_d8e17710	Mr President. Estimated Secretary of State! Ladies and gentlemen! I don't have much to say about that anymore. This reform package really represents an innovation in administrative jurisdiction. This has already been underlined by all the speakers in the political groups. It is really a big thing that we are deciding today, and here shows itself also the reform competence of this House, but also the Federal Government and the federal states. I would therefore like to insist on taking advantage of this opportunity and to take this legislative resolution as a start for further innovations in our state reform debate today. I think there are plenty of ways to move forward here. Citizens are often very desperate and face the situation that living conditions and living conditions, the quality of life in the individual Länder are very different. This concerns, for example, housing, social services, kindergarten services and school conditions and qualities. I do not want to know how the decisions would be taken here if any citizen were to come here and complain to the European Court of Justice because in his federal state some performance is worse than in another. That is to say, we have national taxpayers, but they can participate in different quality, so to speak, from the glamour that the state spends and spreads across the federal states. Mr Landeshauptmann Platter of Tyrol, who is currently chairman of the national conference, has already made a really great proposal from my point of view. He says that the federal states should not only receive the money from the federal government, but also take on political responsibility for a share of the federal tax revenue more or less and perhaps even implement a reduction or an increase, depending on the needs of the federal states, of these national shares. We discussed this many years ago, as Ferdinand Lacina was still the Federal Minister. At the time, the federal states strictly rejected this. I think this proposal is excellent and very good. I think there is a great need for reform. We have the problems of national finances in Carinthia, Salzburg, housing funds in Lower Austria. So the problems are fairly justly distributed. This should really be used to move forward here. Let me conclude by saying: Austria is a little smaller than Bavaria. If the Bayern were organized as we were in Austria with our federalist structure, they would not be financeable or so successful. However, because they are better organized, they can afford a research rate of 4.5 percent. I think we should sit here. It's really a big challenge, but I'm also convinced that people can do this, and we need to be aware of the relationships. ==References====External links== District has about the same number of people as the national leaders in the smaller federal states in Austria to manage. We should think about this, and I think today is a good occasion to continue these debates. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-01-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00187_d8e17749	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Maier. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-01-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00187_d8e17771	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! High house! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! The Administrative Jurisdictions Execution Act is the necessary consequence of the principle of reorganisation and reorganisation of administrative jurisdiction in Austria. In total, 16 administrative laws are amended with this federal law. This will, among other things, create a uniform procedural law which will continue to deal with our Members as well as with the standard recipients, the administrative courts and also the highest courts – including, for example, with the aspect of cross-border procedures, with the associated sanctions on the violation of administrative rules and their enforcement or enforcement. The discussion, ladies and gentlemen, must therefore continue. In addition to the administrative courts, however, the teaching is also required to critically accompany the development of the new administrative jurisdiction in Austria and the related procedures and decisions. It is a special challenge for universities, teachers and students, especially for the Jus students, since this basic reorganisation of administrative jurisdiction and administrative procedure, including the transitional provisions, will enter New Zealand. For the students, I hope that the necessary teaching materials and examination documents are completed in good time. However, these new regulations are also a challenge for all lawyers – as for the chairman of the Constitutional Committee Dr. Wittmann and also for his colleagues Dr. Fichtenbauer – in order to be able to best represent their clients. Allow me to say the following: This package of administrative jurisdiction laws will not only lead to a uniform decision-making and pronouncing practice, which was not always given by the UVS in the federal comparison. We will receive greater legal certainty through this uniform procedural law – and that is my conviction. It is also essential that the costs remain the same, and legal access is guaranteed. The agreement to extend the appeal period to four weeks is probably the decisive improvement. A well-known procedural problem is solved with the novels to the official liability law and the Organ Liability Act, thus improving legal protection. These two novels are about waiting for the decision on possible illegality of a decision before the decision is taken in the case itself in accordance with the AHG or the Organ Liability Act. High house! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! A note on administrative criminal law: In the future, we will in principle have to deal with issues of administrative criminal law and any new rules when we consider European development, where there are enormously high penalties for violations of administrative regulations or regulations. A recent example can be found in the provisions of the draft General Data Protection Regulation. Pönals are intended to relate to the company's turnover. In Austria, in the event of infringements of administrative penalties, a fine is paid. High house! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! We need to discuss this. Voices You're going to do this today!
ParlaMint-AT_2013-01-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00187_d8e17816	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Musiol speaking. Second word, 2 minutes of welcome speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-01-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00187_d8e17837	Ladies and gentlemen, I really didn't want to speak a second time, but I have to. In my speech, I have a motion for a resolution on § 68 para. 3 AVG mentions which was an essential welcome for us and was signaled by SPÖ and ÖVP, which contributed to the decision to agree. This motion for a resolution has not been reached. Living parliamentaryism – I do not want to hide that here. This request has not been made, among other things, because the mills in some political groups cannot be ground so quickly and any members of the government and ministries can also be involved. This means that the EIA has not yet been able to give this motion for a resolution its Sanctuary in this form, so that it can now come to the vote. Nevertheless, we will agree to the procedural law because we have the honest effort of the specialist. Mr Gerstl, who has promised us to try to make at least a self-employed request in the next two days in this direction. [[Abg. Grosz: I would not rely on the government!]] To the content: Why is that important to us? - I mentioned it before. It is about the possibility that decisions will be withdrawn by the authorities under the roof “Conservation of Public Goods”. At present there are: ‘Abolishing the life or health of people at risk’ or ‘Defence of serious economic harm’. What we, the Greens, are missing is the defence of a significant environmental damage. I have brought you the example Natura 2000 sites/Golfplatz before. This is an important concern for us. We have been promised by all those acting that efforts will be made to make this request in these two days, so that it will be negotiated in the Constitutional Committee. [[Abg. Grosz: Are you sure?]] We take you by word, even if we have already had other experiences, but we do not want to let our optimism disappear. Otherwise we would have to give up here, my colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-01-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00187_d8e17900	Second word: Mr Mag. Stefan. 2 minutes are set. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-01-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00187_d8e17922	Ladies and gentlemen! I have spoken a second time in order to clarify once again the problem of the alleged increase in the criminal framework mentioned here. There are no penalties laid down here, but it is only a matter of simplifying the administration or simplifying the collection of penalties. [[Abg. Grosz: Read the newspaper tomorrow!]] It is clearly about the possibility of abolishing criminal penalties up to a higher amount, abolishing organ penalties up to a higher amount and carrying out the procedure in case of automation-supported data processing up to a higher amount. The actual punishments are not laid down here, but in the matter laws. In other words, there is no increase in penalties at all here, no increase in the penalty framework. In the road transport system, we must vote against an increase in the penalties, because they can only be implemented here. It is only about creating the opportunity to do things in this way, to make anonymizations up to a higher amount. But that has nothing to do with how high the punishment itself is. This is regulated by the legislation on matter, where we need to discuss it. I'll give you all right. This is only about the type of implementation, i.e. a change in the administration. This is just as if you say to court that the jurisdiction of the national court or of the district court is to be introduced up to a certain amount. That doesn't change whether or not the criminality or anything else is increased. So this has nothing to do with it, but it is only a kind of responsibility in the administration. That is why you are not in the right position, Mr President.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-01-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00187_d8e17958	Further word message: Mr Scheibner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-01-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00187_d8e17980	Mr Stefan! It may be that you now need explanation because of this fact in your group, but the explanation was not correct from my point of view. Mr President, I should like to thank you very much for If we take the road traffic regulations, there is, for example, the possibility for false parks to hang an organ mandate. That's where you give me, I think, right. But there is not in which height the concrete punishment is to be imposed, but only an organ mandate. So, and now release the frame from 36 to 90 € to hang an organ mandate for false parking. So I guarantee that in the future there will be 90 € for false parks in Austria. You can now create this option with this change. I congratulate you on this.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-01-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00187_d8e18041	Further word message: Mr. Dr. Fichtenbauer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-01-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00187_d8e18062	A little legal supplement: Course one in the administrative procedure at the university: Organ penalties are a means of facilitating the collection of fines. Point two: No one is obliged to accept the organ punishment. Everyone is free to initiate the ordinary procedure. [[Abg. Grosz: There's another ad!]] Yes, of course. Everyone is also free to comply with the laws! [[Abg. To congratulations!]] I should like to draw attention to the fact that the National Council and its members are in favour of complying with the federal constitution and the laws! Each of you is obliged to comply with the laws – including the laws of the road traffic regulations. [[Abg. Scheibner: 1 000 € for wrong parks!]] This is one of the rule of law principles on which you have made an oath or vow. So I repeat: Today's provisions do not increase penalties, but facilitate the exercise of procedural rights. Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-01-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00187_d8e18130	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur wish for a final word? - That's not the case. As I have already announced, the vote on this item on the agenda has been moved, it will take place after the vote on item 2 on the agenda. [[13:30:17]] 2. Point Report by the Committee on Petitions and Citizens' Initiatives on petitions No. 142, 159 to 162, 166 and 167, 169 and 170, 172 and 173, 180 and on citizens' initiatives No. 39, 40, 42 to 46, 48 and 49 (2064 d.a.)
ParlaMint-AT_2013-01-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00187_d8e18164	We're coming to the 2nd. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. Mr Deputy Jury has spoken. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-01-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00187_d8e18191	Mr President. High house! The collective report of the Committee on Petitions and Citizens' Initiatives presents various petitions, in particular with the motion No. 161 on agricultural policy and food security, once again, that public health is a central issue for the citizens of the country. In terms of general care, it is also about the protection of local water from the sale of private investors. In this theme, which has already been illuminated in the morning, we say: Hands away from the water! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] The proposed EU directive on service concessions opens the door to international corporations to go about the sovereignty of a state, to its own achievements, to – I almost have to say – the desire of water. Sending water through Europe – we know the aspirations of European centralists that Turkey too should eventually belong to the European Union. The alarm bells are ringing because of the sale of Austrian water, the sale of Austrian interests. Ladies and gentlemen! If I see that the Austrian federal states have already rejected this EU Directive on service concessions in February, I wonder: How do our ministers represent the needs of the Austrian population in Brussels? – They sell the desires of the Austrian population. We see this every day in the missing economic policy. We see this every day in the missing agricultural policy. That is why I am tabling a motion for a resolution. This is, as it were, the paint must test for the government parties this afternoon: Wings Do you agree? Do you want to believe this protection of Austrian water? Or are you just talking nice words here? [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, I call on you to vote today in Parliament for this motion for a resolution and thus for the protection of Austrian waters. Hands away from our water!
ParlaMint-AT_2013-01-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00187_d8e18266	The motion for a resolution which has just been tabled is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2013-01-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00187_d8e18340	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Lohfeyer. 4 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-01-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00187_d8e18371	Mr President. High house! This time, this third joint report by the Committee on Petitions comprises eleven petitions and five citizens' initiatives, which we dealt with at parliamentary level in 2012. There are a wide variety of citizens, and these show that the possibilities of direct democracy are gaining in importance. In autumn, the lawyers also confirmed this in a debate with the Committee on Petitions. Citizens want more contact with political representatives and also expectations of the People's Procuratorate. Parliamentary structures are constantly in front of the The challenge is that they will be changed in a contemporary way. Incontrovertible is the fact that more contact and conversation opportunities for citizens also contribute to greater political stability. As this report shows, it is also more and more young people who bring petitions and citizens' initiatives. In concrete terms, I would like to mention a petition by students of the Upper-Stagerealgymnasium Perg, who, as part of the youth project “Peer Up! – Youth is the future”. They have used this form of participation to raise awareness with a petition for development cooperation and to draw attention to the fact that Austria is far away from the declared objective of spending 0.5 percent of GDP on development cooperation. The students were able to pass a total of 2,000 signatures on to Parliament. Another example of a citizens' initiative by students' representatives is the legitimate demand for direct election of the national and federal student representation by the high-level students of the Austrian AHS, BMHS and vocational schools. The direct election would also lead to more political discussion in schools and mean active participation in the choice of student representatives. The Citizens' Initiative was allocated to the Education Committee. However, I would also like to refer to the Citizens' Initiative No. 46. This citizens' initiative is about tobacco prevention and non-smokers protection. For initiators and numerous professionals, current bans on smoking and measures, particularly on the protection of children and young people, on tobacco prevention and access to tobacco products, are not far enough. There was a very differentiated opinion from the Minister of Health on this citizens' initiative, which points out in detail that the current situation is not satisfactory, that each cigarette is too much, and that the comprehensive, complete implementation of the current bans on smoking should continue. Not everything on this issue will be to be solved through commandments and bans. A whole set of measures is necessary, from prevention – keyword child health strategy – to promotion of public health awareness to support offers. At these levels, the Ministry of Health is also always active with campaigns. However, I would also like to add that the Ministry of Economic Affairs has declared itself not responsible for an opinion on this citizens' initiative and that there is no parliamentary majority in relation to a change in the tobacco law at present. Overall, it was an intensive year for the Petitions Committee with many petitions and citizens' initiatives and two hearings with the contributors and experts. In autumn, the petition speakers took part in a meeting of members of the German Bundestag and several German country days in Erfurt and an excursion to Brussels. I would like to thank the President of the National Council for making these very interesting discussions possible. Even if the petitions and citizens' initiatives do not always find the desired completion, we in the Committee try to make decisions in constructive cooperation and also in the best possible cooperation with the relevant departments, institutions and initiators. I would like to thank you very much for this.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-01-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00187_d8e18432	Next speaker: Mr. Dr. Pirklhuber. 7 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-01-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00187_d8e18453	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Lohfeyer rightly referred to the very good working environment in the Committee on Petitions. The president has also contributed to this, and above all the President, who has made it possible for us – thank you, Madam President, for the possibilities that the Committee had – to obtain information from other European political forums, especially from the German Bundestag, but also from the European Parliament. I think with this experience we should actually launch a great offensive for this instrument together. Madam President, I know that the debate on the Rules of Procedure – all the political groups here are called upon to give more weight to this instrument of petitions and citizens' initiatives in this House. [[It was in favour of the Greens as well as of representatives of FPÖ and BZÖ.]] That's the challenge we're facing. On the outside – we know it as a Member of Parliament, no matter what events we are in, citizens today are not poorly informed, they are sometimes even better informed than we are, because they may have the time to do some good research on one aspect or another. [[Abg. May. Prammer: In the working group I said this to all political groups that their wishes are all open!]] Thank you, Madam President. Madam President, Mr Prammer says that our wishes are open to those of the Committee on Petitions, also in the corresponding body of Rules of Procedure, in this working group. We know anyway of our colleagues working there. We are pleased that from the inside, too, there is a consensus that a reform of the Rules of Procedure will definitely take into account the rights of citizens in these small instruments, which seem to be insignificant. Some of these are simply taken note of here in the house, but others – and this is already one of the success stories of our committee – are now finally assigned to the specialist committees. I mention two positive examples: Mr Cap may not be pleased if he has to deal with a student initiative in the Committee on Foreign Affairs. I do not know what you are saying, Mr Cap, when the pupils in Perg have highly motivated their development cooperation to develop their own CD, made their own event and put in a petition in Parliament, where they simply say: What is going on, ladies and gentlemen, have we once had the goal of spending 0.7% of gross national income for development cooperation?- Oh, my God! The fact is: Austria is one of the final lights in this field. We're about 0.27 percent. The youth is impatient. You in the Committee on Foreign Affairs, and we must work together on these issues too! I think that's a real access. This is a necessary debate. It is impossible to comfort citizens with ancient political demands – in this case from the 1970s – forever. I would also like to draw attention to a good suggestion that we have given: a citizens' initiative that proposes accessibility as an educational area for the training of architects, for example. We have allocated this to the teaching committee. [[Abg. Amon: This belongs to the Scientific Committee!]] – We have assigned it there, you can assign it elsewhere. It is definitely the case that compulsory training on accessibility will ensure that no architect can do more than he does not know what it is all about. Building accessibility is norm, today is standard, and every architect should know and be able to do so. These are good examples, and now I come to the Mankos: What we need – and this is a matter of Rules of Procedure – is binding practices. We have currently carried out on a voluntary basis hearings. On a voluntary basis, on a decision-based basis – once in a while – we have made allocations to committees. And both are things that we should ensure, in that we are binding on certain quotas, on certain support – we have the opportunity to ask about online support, which is currently possible and which we are all proud of, that this has been implemented very well together with Parliament's management and that this instrument is adopted so well. We have a citizens' initiative to store data, which is very prominent on the agenda tomorrow and which has been allocated to the Justice Committee. There was an extensive hearing there. This one had an online support of more than 100 000 online supporters – on the side of Parliament! This is not a petition page on the web, it has been the Parliament's homepage. And there, I think, is also the synergies, the struggle with democracy. With these instruments, we are also leading many citizens to the level at which our work is pictured, where requests, requests from Members are made. I think that this is a really exciting instrument, an open Parliament, a glass parliament where citizens not only have access to Members, but also access to materials, have access to decisions and somehow feel that they not only have a petition but also have the opportunity to take a stand in a hearing. We in the Committee on Petitions have already implemented this, ladies and gentlemen. You should register this once! We have invited the petitioners, the representatives of the citizens' initiatives, and they have been able to speak and present their concerns. We have not done this strictly, but we have simply decided from case to case in what way we are doing it. I think we need the next steps. I hope here, too, that a good common shoulder closure will be introduced in order to further deepen this debate in the business order. On the other hand – and there we are exactly where the manko exists – we unfortunately also have petitions, which were only taken note of. Let me give you an example: “We are tired of it – a new agricultural and food policy now!” A very brilliant matter, supported by GLOBAL 2000, Attac, Greenpeace, IG-Milch, the Austrian Mining Association, Food First Information and Action Network FIAN and so on. A widely supported initiative, widely supported with almost 2 000 online support. We have noted this, although the agricultural-political debate is currently taking place in parallel, and precisely with this slogan in January in Berlin a demonstration with 25 000 participants has taken place. There you see: These are still things that we already have to understand in a cross-party way. We cannot just take note of things that are really up-to-date, but we should treat them seriously, we should assign them to a committee. Detto is a permanent burner: the citizens' initiative on Euratom. Also, ladies and gentlemen, good proposals have been made to start an exit conference. I still remember very well how Federal Minister Berlakovich said, yes, he already has something in preparation, he will be working here. There were approaches. And that would again be the opportunity to allocate this citizens' initiative to the Environment Committee, to discuss it in a technical way and also to force the Federal Minister to take further steps. For this purpose, citizens' initiatives and petitions can be used, and we should make greater use of them. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-01-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00187_d8e18520	Next speaker: Mrs Hellerer. 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-01-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00187_d8e18541	Mr President. High house! Democracy and the forthcoming reforms are daily topics. It is about amendments to the Rules of Procedure, and I think that especially in the course of the People's Survey on 20 November. In January, it was clearly demonstrated that citizens have the highest interest in citizens' participation. Of course, it is also about citizens' initiatives and petitions, about our committee, and it is also necessary for us to take part in these business changes within the meaning of the petitions. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] We have worked very successfully on the Committee's development, and this has also been very clearly explained by my previous speaker, Mr Pirklhuber. We have made excursions, one of them in Brussels, where we have also collected information on the European Citizens' Initiative, and where we have had the opportunity, in particular, to be in the Parliamentary Committee on Petitions of the European Parliament. We were very concerned about how carefully the petitions and petitions are handled there. This begins with the reporting of reports or shadows, and is about the possibility that every petitioner can also present his concerns to the Committee himself, up to the presence of the representatives of the EU Commission, who can also express their views on individual opinions. I found it particularly interesting that on the day we were in the committee, two Austrian petitions were also under negotiation concerning “food in waste” and “EIA Skylink”. Of course, we are aware that there are huge differences in business rules, but I believe that through this trip to Brussels we have been able to gain valuable insights and we will also be discussing changes for our committee based on them. The petitions and citizens' initiatives, which are being negotiated today in the collective report, are also greatly appreciated by this particular perception in Parliament. - That's how you have to see it, Mr. Deputies. I may also mention the petition ‘Retaining the fourth office of the Contracting Party in Langenlois’, which is a very regionally specific one, but which is particularly concerned with ensuring the comprehensive medical care of rural areas. This is a very brilliant health policy issue, which we have already dealt with intensively in the technical committee. The focus here is on the contractual doctors for general medicine, and we have also been promised by the Federal Minister of Health that a new family doctor model will be developed for which we are still waiting. That is why I think that this issue will also concern us in the technical committee for more time. On the petition “We are tired – a new agricultural and food policy now!” a very comprehensive opinion has been presented by the Ministry of Agriculture, which deals with all the thematic issues in great detail. This also shows very clearly that Austria still has very small-structured agriculture, even in the EU comparison, and that there can be no reference to agricultural industrial development in any way. We have farms with an average size of 19.5 hectares, 54 percent of farms are run by-farm, and with 16.3 percent organic and 75 percent ÖPUL farms we ensure the preservation of a farm-friendly agriculture in Austria. With this great participation in the environmental programme, we are also at the forefront of the EU countries, Mr Pirklhuber. These are benefits that our Austrian farmers provide for the whole society. This, of course, also applies to the future. [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: Right!]] Therefore, the political forces must now be bundled in order to act in Europe in the sense of farmers. [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: That is exactly what we should discuss in the Committee on Agriculture!]] The common agricultural policy is now under way from 2014 to 2020. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The report contains a total of eleven petitions and five citizens' initiatives, which are being debated in Parliament today. The annual report of the National Council 2012 states that there is a certain drop in the return of concerns to the Committee on Petitions compared with the year before. However, I still think that the interest of citizens in more citizen participation is very great. This is particularly evident from the fact that 166,000 online support has now been used since the installation in October 2011. This number can be seen. Our committee has done fine work here. I am also convinced that, in the sense of a change in the Rules of Procedure, which makes sense to the petitioners, to the concerns of the citizens, we can do something further and look forward to good cooperation.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-01-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00187_d8e18609	Next speaker: Mrs Haubner. 4 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-01-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00187_d8e18631	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! I should like to quote from the pressurised annual report 2012 of the National Council. On page 32, the topic of “Petitions and Citizens’ Initiatives” is as follows: “Citizens – seriously taken” – and here it says: “If the petition committee was once often talking about the ‘mauerblümchendasin’, it is today a model for many people’s successful involvement.” – Quotes. I think this is a great praise that we all in this committee deserve and that we can also be pleased with, because we have brought in a great deal of movement in recent years: very much movement as regards the number of committee meetings, the number of agenda items, hearings have already been addressed, regular debates with the public prosecutors, more exhibitions, such as the exhibition on international trade in human beings on the initiative “Stop sex trafficking with children and young people”, and educational trips have already been addressed. We've moved a lot, we've discussed a lot. But I think we must now take a very concrete step forward, because ultimately, the right to petition is one of the fundamental rights that everyone has. Every citizen, every citizen in Austria, has the right to turn to the state and to express his or her concerns. More and more citizens benefit from this, we know. But I think it still knows far too few citizens of this instrument. [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: That's right!]] Even though we have had the electronic support of citizens for almost a year and a half now, i.e. of citizens' initiatives and petitions, it is nevertheless – as I can always see from many discussions with citizens – an area for many that is not yet quite transparent and clear for them. It must be our primary task to remove the obstacles that are still present, for a modern right of petition, for a modern right of citizens' initiative. Modern adjustments must be made. It is essential that, as part of the forthcoming reform of the Rules of Procedure of the National Council, the electorate, the referendum and so on, the so-called democratic package, our points already drawn up jointly. [[Aufgaben bei BZÖ und der Abg. May. Aubauer.]] What makes me particularly happy now is: I have now seen that this first draft even includes the possibility of introducing so-called citizens' initiatives in addition to paper form by electronic means with the help of the citizen's card. Ladies and gentlemen, this is something that we have always said from the very beginning that we want to do so, because it is almost unique across Europe that only the paper form applies to us and not the electronic insertion. I know that there must be a lot of reorganisation, including in the area of employees, but if we do not do so, then, I believe, we are not at the forefront in Europe when it comes to implementing the citizens' concerns accordingly. We also said jointly in the Committee, and I would just like to mention this once again: We need to find a way that this parliamentary participation is finally lost – that is, that we always need a member of the National Council who ultimately brings in a petition. Our educational trips have shown us that this is also unique throughout Europe. They say: What? What's the matter with you? There's no such thing as that! We should take an important step here in the context of the new Rules of Procedure. Or: the legal setting of time limits for opinions so that it is not only at the discretion of the ministries. Or: the law-enforced right of the first signatory. Yes, if you understand yourself well, you agree, but that can't be it. Here, as Mr Pirklhuber said, there must be clear liabilities and clear frameworks. Further: Improved information and presentation of results when something is taken into account. Or also the liability when it comes to assigning something to the specialist committees. I cordially invite all my colleagues from the other political groups to bring in what we have agreed on, perhaps in the form of an amendment in the context of the Committee's debate, which will take a few weeks. I think we would be a good step further. As far as the allocation of specialist committees is concerned, it has already been said today that we have allocated some citizens' initiatives or petitions to the specialist committees in the current collective report. I very much regret that we have not allocated three citizens' initiatives or petitions: important, such as those relating to children's rights, important, such as those against the construction of the Tauerngas line – also a problem for the citizens who are based there – but also the citizens' initiative "Yes! to smoke-free breathing air’. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, it is not really a matter of deciding whether we agree with everything in terms of content. Especially at the Citizens' Initiative “YES! “too smoke-free air” means demands that I do not support all, but it is a matter of a petition committee when something is carried by a broad majority of citizens, to create the possibility that at the parliamentary level, at the technical level, intensive discussion about it and then the conclusions will be drawn from it. This is my access, and that is my particular concern, because otherwise the citizens feel that they are not taken seriously. If you say there was a note, then no one understands. We know what it means, and we're talking about it, but that's all we do. We are talking about it if it is not something that has already been implemented. Also because this “YES! “too smoke-free air” has so much content, because it is also about important suggestions for children and young people who are naturally at risk – this is undisputed, as it results in health damage when children start smoking too early – and because from my point of view this is much too little in the children’s health strategy, I would like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Ladies and gentlemen, More participation, more democracy, above all, means not only to be satisfied with the opinions of the ministries, but also to allow a qualified, good discussion with solutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-01-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00187_d8e18703	The motion for a resolution which has just been tabled is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2013-01-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00187_d8e18768	Next speaker: Mr Tadler. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-01-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00187_d8e18789	Mr President. High house! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! In the sense of our demand for more direct democracy, we consider citizens' concerns to be an important instrument for the people to be heard, and they must therefore be treated with due interest by Parliament, that is, by all of us. We are already debating the collective report of the Committee on Citizens' Initiatives and Petitions. No fewer than 21 petitions and citizens' initiatives are dealt with in this collective report, which alone shows that citizens want more participation. The citizens already in the morning and also at the time of television, that was not very often here in the high house – unfortunately not today either, we have once again fallen out of time. People's survey: please, no!, ask the Sovereign: please, no! but, as we have heard today, the People's Survey has taught us a better one: As we have seen, the population tends to suffer more from civil participation! There was a clear vote of the Sovereign. In the last Committee on Petitions, we again had a stack of new petitions and citizens' initiatives. Old and new and permanent burners, such as: Stop the change of time! – We, the people’s representatives, have to change our clocks once. We need to listen to the people again and respond to the people. We must allow more democracy again, otherwise the political starkness of the population will increase even more. Best example: the speculation disaster with us, in my home country Salzburg. People don't want to drive any more! For example, the 380 kV line with us in Salzburg or with the Tauerngas line is overtraveled over the population. There are enough examples of this. We must also take care of what happens to our water, as Mr Jury said. [[Congratulations with Team Stronach]] – There will still be the debate on the urgent request from colleagues. In short, this collection report shows us again: It will no longer be enough for petitions in the Recycle Bin or in the Round Tray to sink or to take notice of them. We must go back to people and take their concerns seriously. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-01-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00187_d8e18835	The next speaker was Mr Vock. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-01-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00187_d8e18857	My President! High house! Among other things, we are talking today about the petition “No to accommodate asylum seekers in barracks”. There were three interesting opinions, first of all those of the Ministry of State Defense, in which the Ministry of Kaserns did not in accordance with the rules laid down in this – Now the state of our barracks no longer surprises me if the Ministry of Defence does not declare itself responsible for barracks! The Ministry of the Interior considered this to be a possibility. That shows how important and up-to-date this petition is. Nevertheless, it has not been allocated to the Committee for further treatment, but it is being completed here today. The People's Procuratorate sees barracks as possible in an international comparison, but – and now follows an interesting sentence, which I would like to quote literally here –: “The Public Prosecutor’s Office refers in this context to its criticism also publicly expressed in numerous reports, according to which, on the basis of decades of failure and tight budgets, the housing and hygiene standards found at times do not meet the requirements of basic defence workers and the framework staff or relevant defence requirements.” [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] In other words, ladies and gentlemen: The empty barracks were an expression for our Austrian citizens. And now you want to think of those people who have fled their homelands because of a persecution to us? If we want to relieve our current asylum homes, we must pay attention to three points. On the one hand: Austria has always been a mediator internationally because of its neutral position. We should rebuild this and expand it further. Rapid asylum procedures to make clear! It is heard again and again that asylum procedures take a very long time. Thanks to the asylum court, many asylum procedures have been shortened. Nevertheless, we need faster asylum procedures. And: We need a consistent return and deportation on negative asylum grounds. Whoever has no refugee status has no right of residence as an asylumant either! [[Congratulations on the members of the FPÖ.]] In the past, Austria has always been ready to give refugees refuge. Let us not put this reputation at risk simply because we want to promote an asylum industry. Yes to help, but no to immigration on asylum law!
ParlaMint-AT_2013-01-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00187_d8e18924	Next speaker: Mr Hell. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-01-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00187_d8e18945	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! The possibility that citizens can address Parliament with their concerns about citizens' initiatives and petitions is also a very important impetus for our Members. This has already been demonstrated by the speeches made by my previous speakers. Also in the present collective report, the concerns are very diverse, which are partly fixed on regional issues, but, of course, there have also been fundamental demands and wishes here. A petition and four citizens' initiatives were allocated to specialised committees after receiving opinions. Among them is the petition 167. This is about raising awareness of development cooperation, and about financial resources – a topic that has already been discussed in the budgetary consultations here in this House in autumn. The Introducers of this In Austria, petition points out that the declared target of 0.7 percent of GDP is not currently achieved. The Committee on Petitions has here proposed a allocation to the Committee on Foreign Affairs, so that further discussions can be held there. The 45 citizens' initiative has also been discussed today. Content is the adaptation of the curriculum at universities, colleges and HTLs, namely the teaching material “Accessibility” as a compulsory subject. The request was discussed in the Committee together with five opinions and assigned to the Education Committee after the decision was taken. Ladies and gentlemen! The Committee took note of the motion for a resolution 180, which concerns more support for RailJet trains in Wörgl. In the preliminary discussion, there has already been a commitment by the Federal Minister to encourage a new review, and there is already a commitment that the train offer should be significantly improved from the 2013/14 timetable change. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Thank you, therefore, to the regional Members of all the political groups who have worked to ensure that this regional issue really comes into being here. I am particularly grateful to the mayor, Mr Josef Auer, who, with his talk with the Federal Minister, was probably able to reach the breakthrough here. Thank you!
ParlaMint-AT_2013-01-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00187_d8e18994	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Brunner. 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-01-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00187_d8e19015	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Seers! I would like to start by speaking to my previous speaker: I would like to thank all those who submit petitions and citizens' initiatives. However, I do not necessarily think that this is the case for the regional Members. These are the ones that bring the petitions to Parliament, but they are the concerns of citizens. The role of regional Members should perhaps be questioned in this context, because it is easy to make a petition here and then say: I'm working for you in the region. But if this issue comes to the vote here in Parliament, it is not always possible to give approval to an equal request. I do not think it is necessary for a Member or a Member of Parliament to make petitions, but we all have the opportunity to make very specific proposals here in this House and then actually to change something. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] For me, however, citizens' initiatives and petitions are a very, very important instrument for this House, because they are bringing us closer to the concerns of citizens and because citizens are also giving us suggestions on what we might need to change law here in the house. I would like to mention a petition here – I have tabled it together with Mr Widmann, but there is a citizens' initiative behind it – which is about the Tauerngas lineage and related land expropriations. This is a large gas pipeline planned in Salzburg, Carinthia and Upper Austria. The citizens' initiative behind this petition simply draws our attention to the fact that this is not about Austria's energy supply, that it is a transit pipeline, that this is contrary to the Austrian energy strategy, that one can really question the expropriations associated with it, because here the public is not really talking about public interest. I think that these are legitimate objections from a two-way point of view. When it comes to the expropriation of citizens, it is a sensitive area. And, of course, as environmental and energy spokesperson of the Greens, it is important to me that, in particular, energy policy issues have also been raised, in which it is worth looking at them as legislators. My answer to this petition would have been: Yes, it clearly needs a priority for renewable energy if we take the energy transition seriously, so that it is also legally possible to no longer approve such giant pipelines. That's what we're in charge of here in the house. And my answer would also be: Yes, it must be precisely regulated what is actually in the public interest, who expresses this public interest and who does not. It can't be that the gas industry itself is exhibiting! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. May. Kogler: Bravo!]] What answers have these citizens now received? – You have received an opinion from the Ministry of the Environment, in which the Ministry of the Environment is essentially not responsible and refers to the environmental impact assessment, although this was precisely the content of the petition: An environmental impact assessment, in which only more is seen, how a project is boxed and approved, but not whether such a project is necessary at all, that is exactly what the submitters have complained about. In its opinion, the Ministry of Economic Affairs also refers to the EIA and the national governments. And the Ministry of Justice, which we have also asked the Committee on Petitions for an opinion on the question of expropriation, refers in its opinion to the Ministry of Economic Affairs. Now I'm wondering, What do I think of as a citizen, as a citizen, when I get the opinions in which the ministries point more or less to the fact that it is the same as it is? De facto, it's like this: Yes, of course, the ministries have the laws they also have to comply with. But I think that's why we're required here. We are the legislator, and it is up to us to say: What laws do we need to change and which ones do we not need to change? For me, as I said – and this is also the answer I will give to these citizens – is exactly a priority for renewable energy projects. What do we really need infrastructure? – I don’t think we need additional gas pipelines through Austria. And: Who decides on this public interest and who does not? I have not only tabled this petition here, but also the applications which have unfortunately not been approved by you. I think that should be said to the citizens. But I still think that it is our task here to include these suggestions and, if you do not think that these suggestions are justified, to have the courage to vote differently and to carry them in the same way. I think that this would make a big contribution so that citizens rely more on these instruments and also participate more in democracy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-01-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00187_d8e19068	Next speaker: Mr Gahr. 4 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-01-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00187_d8e19089	Mr President. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) High house! This comprehensive report shows us the diversity of citizens, which can be dealt with directly and comprehensively here in Parliament. My previous speakers have already presented it: Actually, work in the Committee on Petitions is often underestimated because it has often not been taken so seriously. But in the meantime, I really have to say – and this is also my experience in recent years – it is possible to really address concerns about petitions and citizens' initiatives, including concerns about the opinions of the individual ministries. It is an important contribution to direct democracy that concerns are taken seriously. I should also like to make another observation. In particular petitions and citizens' initiatives are often the basis for providing us with data and facts and comparisons in order to show transparency to the public when it comes to co-designing and responsibleness. I would like to speak a little bit against Mr Brunner. I think it is important, especially in the area, to highlight regionality. We all come from regions, and our duty is to bring in concerns from the region, to take them along and to keep them in direct contact with citizens. As a Tyrolean MP, I have three petitions in the collective report, namely those concerning the Ferrari-Bodenaushub, the ÖBB-RailJet and the railway station Jenbach. I would like to point out briefly from the example of Bahnhof Jenbach that it is quite possible to achieve solutions and success through a petition. It was in 2007 when the first call was made to improve the park situation at this station, where three valleys met in the Tirol Inntal and important bus connections and the commuters were annoyed every day, because only 220 parking spaces were available. There has been a parking lot problem for years and, of course, punishments for those who park wrong. Due to this petition, the ÖBB also informed us that a study says that 450 parking spaces are necessary to take into account future mobility developments and, of course, the introduction of tactic traffic in the Tyrolean Inntal. What happened in 2012? – A citizens’ initiative was established and petitioned. There was a public discussion forum on the "Tyrol daily newspaper" and then summit talks between ÖBB, mayor, Transport Council and the Citizens' Initiative. At present, the situation is such – and this is the pleasure of doing so – that there is now a clear mandate to build a parking garage there. We're not quite the target yet. 50 percent of the construction costs are borne by the federal government – ÖBB – and 25 percent by the country and 25 percent by the municipalities involved. I think this shows us that if you invite, invite and open yourself, it is possible to ask for it, and that it is possible to open certain blockages that have existed from the local community. I would like to thank all those involved in the last few months for having complied with their commitments and that all those involved are working clearly on the problem solution. At the end of the day, all those involved should share this success. I would like to thank all those who have supported and brought in this petition. have contributed to solving this concern for citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-01-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00187_d8e19137	Next speaker: Mr Dolinschek. 3 minutes are adjusted as desired. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-01-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00187_d8e19174	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! This report on petitions and citizens' initiatives is ten petitions and six citizens' initiatives. I will make my contribution mainly to a citizens' initiative, namely number 42, on 2nd December. In May 2012, it was dedicated to the re-introduction of the direct bus connection between the city centre of Ferlach and the city center of Klagenfurt. I hope ladies and gentlemen from the Rose Valley, from Ferlach, that if you are sitting in front of the televisions now, you will notice that there is someone who is working to solve the problems in your region. [[Ah-noise at the SPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Silhavy.]] – Mrs Colleague, this journey between the centre of Ferlach and the city centre of Klagenfurt is generally about 17 kilometres. For a car this can be handled in 15 to 20 minutes, by bus – according to the old transport concept – in 20 to 30 minutes, and now – according to the new transport concept – by S-Bahn in 42 minutes. ==References== July 2011 was such that for decades there has been an excellent bus connection – every hour back and forth – between the city centre of Ferlach and the city centre of Klagenfurt, from morning to evening, and all passenger groups, whether the student or student were, whether the employee was or pensioners who wanted to go to the various medical practices for example, could get into the city centre and – through the various stops – leave directly on site, in Klagenfurt or before. There was no changeover and no purchase of other tickets was necessary, and there was also no need to go around the cross with the buses of the city works, namely from Klagenfurt station back to Rosentalerstraße or elsewhere. Of course, this is also related to different tariffs. In the past, the return trip cost €8.80, I think; now the tariffs for the urban works also come along, which leads to an increase of between 25 and 40 percent, depending on whether it is a simple ride or a return trip. It is true that this concept of traffic with S-Bahn 3 in the summer months, where there is no school, was, as it were, quietly and secretly introduced, with the consent of the Austrian Federal Railways and the Transport Officer of Carinthia, the head of state Dörfler. [[Abg. Jury: That's not true!]] [[Abg. Jury: This is not the truth!]] In the course of this Citizens' Initiative and Petitions Committee, it was tried to reach the Ministry. We got a letter from the ministry, ladies and gentlemen. In this, the Federal Ministry of Transport, Innovation and Technology answers that according to § 11 of the with 1. In any event, the regional authorities are responsible for the planning and any orders made by the relevant transport services in accordance with the public passenger and regional transport law entered into force in January 2000. It is therefore the responsibility of the Transport Officer of the country of Carinthia, and the responsibility for the continued existence of the Ferlach population with such disadvantages, must be borne by Mr. Landeshuptmann Gerhard Dörfler.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-01-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00187_d8e19236	Next, Mr Hechtl. 3 minutes of speaking time are adjusted in a wishful manner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-01-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00187_d8e19257	Mr President. Appreciate High House! The present report deals with many petitions and citizens' initiatives, it can be said that the Committee is working out, and it is a pleasure to see here in plenary in front of an ongoing camera anyone who has introduced a petition or a citizens' initiative can see how we treat them in the parliamentary way. The topics of these petitions and citizens' initiatives were again very diverse. They included areas such as pension insurance or accessibility, the educational issue was also very large, and also health protection, children's rights, fair taxes and income were essential points. All these concerns and topics were of personal but also collective interest and were dealt with extensively in the Committee. The Citizens' Initiative No. 49, in which the transfer of the pension insurance system of the Federal Chamber of Architects and Engineers to the State Pension Insurance System is required, of course, is also an area that we have dealt with in the Committee, and this, in my opinion, confirms above all that statutory pension and social security generally has a high priority in the population, among people. This citizens' initiative was also sent to the relevant Committee on Labour and Social Affairs and is being discussed there. Ladies and gentlemen, this example makes it clear, in my opinion, that there is no longer a need for private and less state in the social security and pension system, but that people demand a reliable state insurance for their pensions. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] In this sense, I would also like to thank all the Ministries and, above all, the People's Procuratorate for their cooperation.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-01-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00187_d8e19299	The next item is the speech by Mr Doppler. Speaking time: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-01-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00187_d8e19321	Mr President. High house! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! Collection report for petitions: I take a position on the petition No. 170 against the construction of the Tauerngas line. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen, it has been repeatedly claimed that the Tauerngas line is important for the supply of the domestic economy and for the domestic population. That is not at all true, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. The Tauerngas line is a project of various European energy suppliers such as Ruhrgas AG, Salzburg AG, KELAG, Energie AG. The Tauerngas line is a pure transit gas pipeline from southern Germany to northern Italy. The property in question in Austria is simply either forced to allow the lines to be allowed on their property, or they are almost forcibly expropriated. Very interesting, ladies and gentlemen, are also the opinions from the individual ministries. The Ministry of Justice says: constantly! The Ministry of the Environment says that the Ministry of Economic Affairs is responsible. The Ministry of Economic Affairs says that for projects that serve the security of supply of Austria, framework conditions are created. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen, the Tauerngas line does not serve the domestic population, which is a pure transit line. We strongly reject such practices from the FPÖ. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-01-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00187_d8e19357	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Hammer. Speech time: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-01-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00187_d8e19378	Mr President. High house! This report also contains a petition concerning legal recognition of student representations at the technical universities as bodies of public law with their own legal personality. I think we should support this approach. Our vocational colleges are educational institutions at the highest level, are a success story and are a truly important training facility for professionals in various fields. Special success factor – that is what we see in every federal state – is the regional rooting, the global networking, but above all really this regional work in the economy and the competence of its employees and students. Anyone who has been to a technical college – and many of us have already been there – notes that there is a lot of commitment, a lot of effort and self-initiative work there and that there is an eerie team spirit and a very family character. I think we should also appreciate this, because the interaction between the teachers and the trainees works well in the technical universities and the student representation is doing excellent work there. I mean, the student representations at the colleges should get this own legal personality. They are currently part of the Austrian high school, which entails an incredible bureaucracy. They often have to pre-finance things, have delays in buying and often too little money for projects at the vocational colleges, because they have to contribute and co-finance the general work of the ÖH, which they often do not want to contribute to content at all. One should really take this petition as the occasion for a discussion to create this own legal personality. In a statement, the Ministry of Science says that one would be willing to do so if a consensus could be found between student representations and high school. There is a working paper on this subject of high school, in which this is planned, but not yet a broad consensus. I think that the student representatives should continue to work on it. We could create the legal framework when this agreement exists. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-01-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00187_d8e19412	The next item is Mrs Gartelgruber. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-01-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00187_d8e19433	Mr President. High house! As far as petitions in principle are concerned, I would like to refer once again to Mrs Hellerer's comments. For me, petitions and citizens' initiatives are just like They are now present in the House of Lords, not a real instrument for citizens' participation, because of the condition that has already been mentioned by several colleagues that they are always a bit party-politically colored. In fact, as we have heard, petitions must be brought by a Member of Parliament, and it is similar in the case of citizens' initiatives, and there must also be support. I am also absolutely right to Mr Haubner when she says that Members' participation in the Rules of Procedure must be changed. No, I can tell myself that the petition No. 180 – it has already been addressed today – with regard to the holding of all ÖBB-Railjet trains in Wörgl Hauptbahnhof has not even been passed on to get an opinion from the Ministry of Transport. Mr Hell has said in this regard that this is no longer necessary, because the Minister has already made an oral commitment here. Nevertheless, it would be necessary, at least in the case of this petition, which has been filed cross-group by 21 local councils in my hometown, to maintain at least the propensity to give her a written opinion of the Minister for Transport. So it is really an affront, also against all municipal councils and also against the city of Wörgl, that it is not even considered necessary to give an opinion. I would also like to say the following: As Mrs Brunner said, petitions must not only be made but also requests. Of course, I have also made a request to hold all ÖBB Railjet trains in Wörgl Central Railway Station in the Transport Committee, which unfortunately still lies there, but because of the promises and positive signals I have received there, I very much hope that it will also be judged positively. But I would also like to say: Mr Gahr, that you, as a Tyrolean in the committee, have made this request, I am a little surprised, because you should also know that this is necessary. In the district sheet today is an article with a photo of you, with the title: OeBB have citizens talk along. - Okay, but with this request, you've really turned it off very nicely.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-01-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00187_d8e19481	Next speaker: Mr Lipitsch. Speaking time: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-01-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00187_d8e19503	Mr President. I would like to start by thanking my group very much for the cooperation in this committee. It's been a lot of times today. We have been moving in the last four years, I think, but a lot, because when I came in four years ago, it was said that it was nothing special. Now a lot is happening, and for that a thank you to all the members of the committee – and also the obsessor! [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] However, I would like to say the following: Mr Pirklhuber said that an assignment might not make our clubman Cap so happy. I think we can speak to our group when I say that we are always happy when new ideas come that we can then discuss, I say, can work in some place, and we are glad that the population is ready to take initiatives and introduce new ideas to this extent. It is also clear, however, that initiatives that fall within the competence of the federal government, but also of the countries or communities, which can only be taken into account. However, Mr Gahr said that it is even important for such initiatives to come, because they lead to a discussion, while implementation then takes place in the country or in the community. Mr Dolinschek, I am not spared it, I have something to do with the citizens' initiative No. 42 on the reintroduction of the direct bus connection between Ferlach city centre and Klagenfurt city centre. [[Abg. Dolinschek:... a lot of slugs...!]] I am right to say that the country's policy in Carinthia has failed over the last 15 years, because we have only dismantled public transport everywhere, we have got nothing to do with it. It has become increasingly difficult for people. But it would be worth noting that the S 3 has been put into operation, and the goal for the future is to drive with this S 3 to Ferlach – we have had that before. I think it's quite, very important that we get existing sideways. From Weizelsdorf to Ferlach there is still the Museumsbahn. When you fix it again, you can go back to Ferlach by train. Only the secondary trains guarantee that the main trains will stay, because we have to bring people to the main railways. [[Congratulations with representatives of the SPÖ.]] I think that's the important thing, and it's the right way. That was the plan of Personenverkehr AG in Carinthia, which said we are making an S-Bahn connection across the whole of Carinthia in one cycle. I think that's a real step. I already know when a railway line is now being put into service again, that not everyone who lives close to the train is happy. [[Abg. May. Kogler: You must explain this to the Minister of Transport!]] [[Abg. Dolinschek: It's by the train!]] In fact, in this area there is the possibility that trains will return, but I say that by-roads are national competence, and in Carinthia we have now gone the way to reactivate secondary trains – quite unlike other federal states, where secondary trains have been purchased from the country and then stopped. It would also be important for Carinthia to have a corresponding donor promotion. Mr Dolinschek, that would be our task, because in recent years, the promotion of donors in the country of Carinthia has seriously deteriorated. Pendler funding again belongs to the Chamber of Workers, then there would be more money, because in recent years alone, € 5 million has been paid less in commuting. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Dolinschek.]] I think we should work together to bring the commuters to work with clean energy.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-01-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00187_d8e19600	The next item is the speech by Mr Köfer. Speech time: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-01-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00187_d8e19622	Mr President. High house! The unfulfilled election promises, lack of proximity to the people, self-interest of parties, social reduction and so on, and so on. – Citizens obviously do not feel involved anymore and are therefore also left with political shatters. As far as direct democracy in this package is concerned, which has been presented today and which should be blessed, the package has been bound with a certain degree of modesty and with a very great courage to fall short, while the direct democracy of citizens is also reasonable to those. People's elections, popular desire and popular polls, above all, also strengthen control, not only here in the House. Many voters today no longer feel perceived outside elections. The democratic package presented today aims to avoid the ever-increasing alienation of the population from the political representatives, but it has not become more than a democratic package of light this time, Mr Kogler. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] What I miss is that which was also the expectation of the population, namely that in this part of the package the popular desire should gain more impact. So what are the positive and most important cornerstones of this package? I see it as a positive approach that those people who receive more than 100,000 signatures are guaranteed that there is a special session of the National Council. Then there must be a preliminary consultation in a special committee. I think that's very good. It is also positive to note that the initiators are to be given the right to speak in plenary. The second important point for me is the question of citizens, which is to be dealt with and answered by at least 10 000 supporters. This can also be set electronically, which can also be noted positively. These questions should be dealt with at least four times a year with an own Question Time in the National Council. Although direct democracy in our country remains a well-kept stepchild of politics, the population – and this is a constant demand that should be met – needs to be better informed before it is called to any urns. A good example was also this incredibly high voter participation now in Carinthia. Counting the valid and invalid voices together, more than 50 percent of the Carinthian population participated in this population survey. This shows that there is an absolute interest in participation in political expression. We should be aware of this fact and at least reflect on other measures to strengthen democracy. A popular desire or a popular survey should not only be binding in the event of a qualified citizen's participation, but also the request of a qualified majority must be mandatory. One should also have the courage to think about whether the force of the club is still modern. Although it is not established in this form by law, the parties should try to ban it from the House at some point in time, because this force clearly contradicts the free mandate of Members guaranteed by the Constitution. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] Ladies and gentlemen, this democratic package is good and it is also welcomed and supported by me. But it must never mean the end of the flag rod!
ParlaMint-AT_2013-01-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00187_d8e19685	The next item is Mrs Marek's speech. 4 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-01-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00187_d8e19708	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! I would like the Citizens' Initiative No. 39. This is about the direct election of the national and federal student representatives by the pupils, the direct election is required. Ladies and gentlemen, I see this critically, because what is it about? – It is about the representation, which is elected for exactly one year. And if they are touring all over the country, then that means, of course, election campaign, then that also means a lot of abstinence from the school, then that means a lot of absence also from teaching and then, of course, it means problems in teaching there and there. We have to look very carefully at whether this makes sense and whether it actually works. I believe that the current system has proved itself well and that we should remain in the current system. I believe, however, that we should look at how we can actually strengthen the co-determination and participation rights for the students and, as a whole, the co-determination rights in the school – because, I believe, we still need action, even if, of course, a lot has already happened with the school partners. I believe that as far as the federal and national levels are concerned, we could do a lot in the area of the School Community Committee. To implement and discuss creative ideas and to strengthen democratic initiatives would be a good thing for us. I would like to address another citizens' initiative, ladies and gentlemen, because I believe that this is an example of what it should not be like. We couldn't do anything with that. We took note of this initiative, the Citizens' Initiative No. 48 on child rights. Unfortunately, even if there and there are legitimate concerns, these are only headings: “common care for both parents”, “mediation before family procedures”, but also a “reasonable educational reform”. We do not even know what the initiators of this citizens' initiative want in what direction they want. Ladies and gentlemen, we cannot do more than just take note because we do not know the content, the intentions. I can only ask you to really give us the line, the direction, which is important, and to go a little more specific in detail. This was my concern to stress now because I believe that legitimate concerns are contained in the citizens' initiative, very important points, where we have done and worked very much, but on many points we do not know where to go. That is why we have been able to do nothing more than simply take note of this initiative.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-01-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00187_d8e19755	Next speaker: Mr Keck. 2 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-01-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00187_d8e19776	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! I am now the eleventh year member of this committee, and I think I can say that I am the kindest member. In these eleven years, which were eleven exciting years, a lot has changed, it has changed a lot to the positive. [[Call: Thank God]] I would like to recall: What was 11 years ago? What did the work in the petition committee look like? – There have been delays until the legislative period was over, because then the petition, the citizens’ initiative, was automatically gone. That's where you got rid of unpleasant things here in this house – off! That's how it was back then. The proceedings of the Committee on Petitions took place here in plenary always after midnight, it was about agenda item 36, at midnight or at a later hour, where no one took care of any more. That is to say, the framework that this committee has been given was a very embarrassing one. It has changed a lot since then. There was only one collection report in the Committee on Petitions earlier this year. What's it look like today? – I can say: Finally, after eleven years – I think I have already said this 15 times or even more often – we can already put in Agenda item 2 the concerns and wishes that are dealt with in the Committee on Petitions. It would be desirable if this were to be done in TOP 1, because it is the concerns of the citizens who are being presented here. [[It was in favour of the SPÖ and the BZÖ representatives.]] I think we should do this in the future so that we don't stand on TOP 2, but prove TOP 1. There is now a rapid treatment of concerns. There's no longer any permanent delay. Nor can petitions and citizens' initiatives be lost. There are now some reports every two months, here in this House, wherever they are made and treated. For the future, it would be desirable – I say again – to provide TOP 1 for the collective report of the citizens' initiatives. It would also be very good if the ministers affected by these petitions and citizens' initiatives would sit on the government bank and listen to what wishes, complaints or other citizens have. I can only say that this work is so done, that we have many ladies here in this house to thank, and I really can only thank Rosa Lohfeyer of our group, the Anni Höllerer, the Uschi Haubner, – and now the male part – Wolfgang Pirklhuber, but also the Susanne Winter. It's really a good cooperation. I hope it remains in this committee that it continues as it is now and that further improvements will be made.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-01-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00187_d8e19816	As the last speaker on this item on the agenda, Mrs Mag. Aubauer. 4 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-01-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00187_d8e19837	Mr President. High house! My previous speaker was very charming about the success of this committee. I'm being asked again and again: What brings a petition? Is there any chance of success? Does it even make sense to be politically involved? It always brings something to get involved. I would like to take the example of a citizens' initiative, where we want accessibility as a duty at universities, colleges, HTLs – a very important concern for us too. We have a national action plan for people with disabilities. According to this plan, accessibility as a matter of duty in all Member States already this year relevant trainings are installed. Alone, the reality allows doubt; this has already been explained by the People's Procuratorate in its opinion. We have therefore dealt very, very intensively with this in the Committee on Petitions. Now this concern is in the teaching committee, where the experts will take the decision. When it comes to accessibility, I would like to say in principle: This is not only about needs for seniors, pensioners, elderly people, but about concerns for young and old, it is about young mothers who are bothering themselves with the strolls with the strolls, and it is also about seniors who are no longer dealing with the stairs. I am therefore pleased that we here in Parliament are seeking solutions on this matter. Ladies and gentlemen! The participation of citizens is becoming an increasingly important concern. What will our democracy look like in the future? For us, the solution is: more participation of citizens! We want to make this offer. How does that work? – The cornerstones are on the table. People's desires, supported by 100,000 people, are to be debated at a mandatory special meeting here in the National Council. And what I particularly welcome: The initiators are also to speak here in the National Council. Further point: Parliamentary questions to members of the government should be made not only by Members but also by the citizens themselves. This would require 10,000 supporters – an essential step towards greater citizens' participation. The fact that there is interest has shown itself to be compulsory in the survey of the people. So the citizens want to say more, they should be able to do the same. That is why our goal is clear: more direct democracy! The train with the reform package is already on rails – I hope that we will soon pay more attention to all the wishes and concerns of the citizens. And then, in the National Council, it could look like an initiator, a representative of a popular desire, standing here at the speaker's desk and clarifying his view of things. I'm looking forward to it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-01-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00187_d8e19895	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. In order to make a print error correction, I would like to inform the rapporteur, Mrs Magistrate. Lohfeyer, the closing word. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-01-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00187_d8e19920	I present the following print error correction to TOP 2: In the Committee's proposal, the word "the" must be replaced by the word "the" before the word "citizen initiatives". The Committee's request is therefore correct: "As a result of its deliberations, the Committee on Petitions and Citizens' Initiatives therefore proposes that the National Council should submit the current report on petitions No. 142, 159 to 162, 166, 167, 169, 170, 172, 173 and 180 as well as the citizens' initiatives No. Take note of 39, 40, 42 to 46, 48 and 49.’
ParlaMint-AT_2013-01-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00187_d8e19953	We shall now proceed to the votes. Vote on the request of the Committee on Petitions and Citizens' Initiatives, its report 2064 of the Supplements, taking into account the just presented print error correction regarding petitions No. 142, 159 to 162, 166, 167, 169, 170, 172, 173 and 180 as well as the citizens' initiatives No. 39, 40, 42 to 46, 48 and 49. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to give an appropriate sign. – This is accepted by a majority. We are now voting on the motion for a resolution by the Members of Parliament on the proposed EU Directive on service concessions and the protection of local water. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – That's the minority. The application is therefore rejected. We shall also vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Ursula Haubner, colleague and colleagues on improving non-smokers protection for children and young people. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – That too is the minority. The application is therefore rejected. [[14:50:40]] Agenda item 1 vote
ParlaMint-AT_2013-01-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00187_d8e20022	We are now moving to the vote on agenda item 1: Draft Administrative Jurisdiction Execution Act 2012 in 2112 of the Supplements. Mrs Wittmann, Mr Mag. Hiezu. Mr Gerstl, ladies and gentlemen, tabled an amendment or amendment. There is also a desire for a separate vote on Rule 7 34, 35, 37, 40, 49, 50 and 57 of Mr Scheibner, colleagues. First of all, I shall vote in favour of the parts of the bill concerned by the supplementary or amendment tabled and the request for separate vote, and finally on the remaining parts of the draft law, which have not yet been voted on. Deputies Dr. Wittmann, Mag. Gerstl, colleagues have tabled an additional amendment or amendment which refers to Articles 1, 2, 3 and 4. I am looking for those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this, to be a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. We shall now proceed to a separate vote on Article 7 34, 35, 37, 40, 49, 50 and 57 of the draft law as amended by the Committee's report. Whoever speaks for it, I ask for a corresponding sign. – This is accepted by a majority. Deputies Dr. Wittmann, Mag. Gerstl, colleagues have tabled an additional amendment or amendment which refers to the amendments in Article 16. I am looking for those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this, to be a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. Finally, I come to the vote on the remaining parts of the draft law and the title and receipt of the Committee's report. I am looking for those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this, to be a sign of approval. – This too is unanimously adopted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who are also at third reading for this draft law to be a sign of approval. - That's the majority. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Huainigg, Dr Wittmann, colleagues on the pilot project for administrative judges with visual impairment. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is unanimously accepted. (E 282.) [[14:55:36]] 3rd. Point Report of the Court of Auditors on the Court of Auditors report on the 2011/10 series (III-277/2083, D.B.) 4. Point Report of the Court of Auditors on the Court of Auditors report on the 2011/7 series (III-261/2084, D.B.) 5. Point Report of the Court of Auditors on the Court of Auditors report on BUND 2010/8 (III-161/2085, D.B.) 6. Point Report of the Court of Auditors on the Court of Auditors’ report Series Bund 2012/3 (III-314/2117 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2013-01-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00187_d8e20140	We now come to points 3 to 6 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. There was no oral reporting. Mrs Mag. Lap. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-01-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00187_d8e20167	Mr President of the Court of Auditors. High house! We are dealing here with four Court of Auditors reports. In my speech, I would like to address the 2011/10 report, which concerns the re-run of Parliament's web presence. In September 2010, Parliament's new homepage went on air, so to speak, that is, there was a great expansion. Under the motto “dynamic – transparent – close to the citizens”, the homepage was intensively redesigned and redesigned. Success is based on access. There were 98 million accesses in 2010 and 220 million accesses in 2012. 150 000 visitors use Parliament's homepage on a monthly basis. This is a very important contribution to presenting the work, our work here in this House. The presentation of the work done is very important in a democracy in order to prevent any vilification or evasion of democracy. Parliament's home page is also available as an internal working tool for Members. The President of the National Council had asked the Court of Auditors at the same time or already after the Homepage on air had gone, or had given him the order to review the execution of the contract, the presentation of the overall project, the project organisation and project management as well as the implementation. Procurement and procurement were also reviewed by the Court of Auditors and made public in the 2011 report. The Court of Auditors has found a successful settlement of the web presence. Several measures have been developed from the report, for example, that a new IT project management manual is being implemented, that the project organisation should have cost and performance accounts and that there should be more extensive documentation. Sign language services or – as we heard in the collection report for petitions earlier – that petitions can also be accepted online, but also full text search are essential elements of a successful homepage. The Court of Auditors' review and the report are a good example of President Prammer's consistent approach to the specific handling of new projects and, above all, of the transparent subsequent review. It is apparent that the successful web appearance has also been successfully assessed by the control body and proposals are further implemented so that further improvements can be made and, above all, can be learned from this test report. A good example of a window out there to illustrate what work we are doing here in a democracy which is a consideration of the different opinions. That's a good thing.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-01-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00187_d8e20209	I am now interrupting the negotiations on points 3 to 6 of the agenda, so that the required procedure for urgent procedure can take place at 3 p.m. in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. [[15:00:15]] Request for urgent procedure by Mr Josef Bucher, fellow Members to the Federal Chancellor on the protection of local water (2179/A)(E)
ParlaMint-AT_2013-01-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00187_d8e20240	We come to the urgent treatment of the self-employed application 2179/A(E). As he has now approached the honourable Member, a reading by the writer is not necessary. The urgent application has the following wording: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2013-01-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00187_d8e20347	I give the floor to Mr Klubobmann Bucher as an applicant for the reasons for the urgent request. According to § 74a para. 5 of the Rules of Procedure shall not exceed 20 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-01-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00187_d8e20368	Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen! After the morning discussion, it was hard to guess that we are today accepting our urgent issue of water. It is an important elixir of life that sees the population in Austria as extremely threatened. And especially when one has followed the discussions in the morning – that is what many have in front of the TV at home – then one gets a picture in which it is not quite clearly aable, who is in this house for the sale of our water and who is against it. [[President Mag. Prammer is taking over the presidency again.]] In the meantime, I have looked at who said something about the privatisation of the water and how the history of the European directive was that which we are being drawn attention to. I am pleased that the Federal Chancellor is present at this important debate because he has the competence at European level to represent the Austrian position. It is therefore not, as the ÖVP presented today in the morning, a brain spider without a real basis, but a real threat to us, an attack on Austrian drinking water. It is therefore important, from our point of view, to address this. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] As early as March last year, the mayors of many European cities criticised this, the mayors of Berlin, Trieste, Bratislava, and the mayor of Vienna. And there I am already at the SPÖ. Mr Häupl, for example, said that this directive is an attack on the self-government of the communities, is incompatible with subsidiarity and is therefore to be reduced. This was said in March last year by the SPÖ mayor of Vienna. And he has received good society from the German Trade Union Confederation, which has said that this directive has a negative impact on the municipalities and the employees, but also on the citizens. In Austria, many parties and organisations joined this displeasure – the Federal Council, the Austrian Trade Union Confederation, the Chamber of Workers, all of them opposed this European directive. And on the 30th day of his death. In October 2012, the Federal Council of the EU Committee made the following statement: A adoption of the Directive is ‘an intervention into the right to municipal self-government guaranteed by primary law’ and the proposal to the European Commission is to ‘reject this Directive’. This is a decision that was taken in the Austrian Federal Council. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] The Federal Council then unanimously, which is very important, also for the understanding of fellow Members, so that they know what has happened to misleading arguments in the past, has agreed to a motion for a resolution, including SPÖ and ÖVP, in which the Austrian Federal Government was invited to oppose the liberalisation of drinking water supply. – A mandate from the Austrian Federal Council to the Federal Government, unanimously decided. ==References== The Austrian representative of the Competitiveness Council, Mr Mitterlehner, did not even speak on December last year, so the Federal Council's decision was totally ignored. Mr Bundeskanzler, I do not know if you know this – that would be quite interesting – since your envoy and your member of the government Mitterlehner have not even spoken at the said Council meeting. ==References== January – now we are already in 2013 – the Internal Market Committee in the European Parliament has then spoken. This directive was then adopted by a majority in this Committee on the Internal Market, and an amendment to which it would have been an exception to the water has been rejected. ==References== Janen then spoke to the ÖVP member Seeber and said: The EIA is “against the proposed directive because we do not see any need for change”. This is what your honourable Member Seeber says after the directive has been adopted in the committee responsible. Just so that everyone may once remember what happened and what politics is today: a unique confusion, where not even the people themselves know what is happening and what they say. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] And we ask the citizens to follow politics and follow where you can't follow yourself anymore and don't know what you're saying. Today, 30. January, comes an OTS broadcast from Mr Mitterlehner. I don't know, Chancellor, if you've read this. Have you read today's broadcast? [[Federal Chancellor Faymann: Not read, only heard!]] [[Abg. Neubauer: He has read those of Swoboda!]] Well, if you have just heard of it, I will now return this issue of Mr Mitterlehner. Just to remember: Mr Seeber said a few days ago that the EIA will not agree to this directive because it does not see any need for amendment. Mitterlehner says today that the proposed EU Directive on service concessions does not provide a privatisation requirement for water supply, and then: [[Abg. Dr. Bartenstein: That's it!]] “The topic is still being overdramatized in Austria.” – Yes, when it is overdramatized, I wonder if Parliamentary Seeber, who is still a member of the ÖVP – things often change overnight, so I want to know that – whether he is still a member of the ÖVP. [[Cheerfulness at ÖVP and FPÖ]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: That's why we need state targets!]] There is no danger in me, a Joseph's bookkeeping what he promises, and remains what he is. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Mr Mitterlehner says that there has been a “wiss of the Federal Chancellor” today in an issue, Mr. Bundeskanzler. And he's holding on: "For the Competitiveness Council on 10 October. There was an instruction from the Federal Chancellery on December 2012, which the Austrian messenger read out and thus agreed to the concession directive within the framework of the contract law package.” So there was an instruction from you, Mr Bundeskanzler, to Mr Mitterlehner, to agree to this European Drinking Water Directive. [[Abg. Dr Bartenstein: I can't believe that!]] That's what Mitterlehner says today. [[Abg. Dr Bartenstein: I don't think so!]] – Okay, now Mr Bartenstein is no longer taking his successor seriously, so far as we are now in the debate. The events overlap. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] But that is hopefully understandable for the ÖVP itself; to read in an OTS issue by the Federal Minister Mitterlehner. Now, of course, I wonder what's true, Mr. Faymann. A simple question: Have you given Mr Mitterlehner the instructions to agree to this European Drinking Water Directive? You can only answer that either with yes or with no, there is now no drum. Did you do this or not? If you did that, tell me. But that is quite contrary to your argument this morning. This morning you made yourself a protector of Austrian drinking water, which is a tough place in Brussels – how did you say this morning? – who clearly and clearly states what Austrian interests are. We have now learned from Mitterlehner, who made his broadcast on the morning after your statement. Their interests are obvious, Mr. Bundeskanzler, to sacrifice Austrian drinking water to the companies and banks. And to this, I hope, ladies and gentlemen in the House, we will present a barge today. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] It cannot be said that you are constantly fooling not only the colleagues of MEPs from your own ranks, but the whole population. One does that, the other does it. One says there is an instruction that tells others that there is no instruction. And it is often so – and we have seen it in recent years – that we hear words and sentences from you here in this House, which are strangely familiar with what you represent in Brussels or Strasbourg. This is where you have made very different political demands, which you always weaken here or act as pointless. No one understands that. Today, Mr Bundeskanzler and also Mr Klubobmann Cap are the biggest water protectors, and then we see how you agree on Brussels soil and do not feel patriotism, because there is something for Austria to regulate. [[Abg. Dr. Strutz: That's nothing new, isn't it?]] – Of course, this is nothing new. But in the present situation, in which it is not just a small directive, but a vital and endangered food, one must stand together and keep together and make the right decisions in the interests of the country and the population. That is why we have also tabled this urgent request. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] They should once find out what serious consequences the privatisation of water supply in Europe has had, for example in Portugal or in Greece. There people go to the streets in a mass way. That only cost them. But not only costs, but also poorer water quality. These were the consequences of water privatisation in the south of Europe. This has even happened under the pressure of the Troika. The Troika has brought this privatisation to the attention of the Portuguese and the Greeks. This is the troika that we are so proud of in Europe because it saves the south and because it tells the south what serious measures and savings packages one has to decide there. In the Netherlands and the UK, water quality has also deteriorated and water has become more expensive for the population concerned. This forced privatisation, ladies and gentlemen, is primarily damaging to the citizen. It harms the population. It benefits only the corporations and banks that finance this and which have it to our drinking water in Austria. [[BZÖ and FPÖ are welcome.]] That is the central point of this development, and that is what it is going to do. Many Group leaders, whether this was the company Nestlé – you can say it quite openly, because the media have already reported it – also have to do with the water sources in Austria because they know that this will make a lot of money to do in the near future. We therefore have to take these fears of the population seriously. It is our damn duty and duty as parliamentarians and representatives of the people that we take these concerns and fears of the population seriously and put them in front of one bar, so that we can say once and for all: This does not come into question for Austria! We keep our water, no matter what corporate and banking interests behind it. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] The “Süddeutsche Zeitung” has reported developments in Grenoble, where the water is dirty and expensive. The only ones who filed were politicians who took up lubrications. In London all the lines are rotted and dirty. In Potsdam, the water supply contracts are repurchased by the taxpayer for expensive money. – These are enough examples that should be a warning signal for us to turn this undertaking off in time. So do not turn off the water, but turn off the European Commission's approach to what is being prepared here. [[BZÖ and FPÖ are welcome.]] I would like to raise in each of us the sensitivity that has heard a lot from the government bank in recent years. At the beginning, every Member of Parliament has been given an understanding. I remember the bank rescue package. At that time, we were all sitting there and saying: Yes, we must help the population and the economy of Austria. - That's where you advertised your understanding. Then the problem field of Greece came up: That is what we need to help, because it is about the European Union. If Greece falls, then the whole economic area falls. – It was about a lot of money. And in all these cases, the Federal Government has also argued that this will be a business for us. Do you remember? This was the first argument in the first speech by the then Minister of Finance Pröll: We have to help Greece, we have to help the banks, that will be a big business for us! After that, all of this has become a disaster, and we have only been afraid to find out what wrong decisions have been made there. Thus the whole mud has taken its exit, and it is not yet an end in sight. That is to say, all these efforts from the European level start sometime and then have a terrible effect. We often underestimate the drive behind such directives and laws. We underestimate the consequences. Today it is said that this has no effect on our water – and we suddenly have no access to it tomorrow. That is why it is not only necessary for us to adopt at Austrian level a clear, clear constitutional law, which once and for all makes it clear that we are protecting our water in Austria, but it is even more important to turn this approach around at European level. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Everyone knows that European law on our right is in Austria. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Bitch.]] Everyone knows. And we must not let it get so far that there is a negative impact on the population here. That is why it is crucial to put forward the rules now and not just to decide a government target as a placebo, which basically has no real impact. It is crucial to launch this defence attempt at European level and to ensure that it does not even come to this. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] That is why we are working today in this urgent proposal. It is about ending this misguided and ending with this tactic of fog, which was started here from the Federal Government – once Mitterlehner is responsible, then again the Federal Chancellor is responsible and guilty. Basically, the subject is pushed back and forth like a hot potato and the population remains on the track. It is no wonder, then, that the people turn away from politics and say that what is happening here is no longer to be represented, because these are all remote-controlled group lobbyists and bank lobbyists who have long lost sight of the essential, namely the state welfare and the well-being of citizens. [[Abg. Strache: In the lobbyist register they do not seem to be on!]] That is why, ladies and gentlemen, we have tabled this proposal today. I hope that everyone who is interested in maintaining Austrian water supply – so that we can remain the determining force in our House of Austria – will agree to this request and ensure that politics continues to have the issue in hand, and not any corporations that cost people, the population and finally the country a lot of money.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-01-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00187_d8e20603	Mr Faymann spoke on the submission of an opinion. The opinion should not exceed 20 minutes. - Please, Federal Chancellor.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-01-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00187_d8e20624	Madam President. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! We have already had the opportunity to hold the debate in the morning, and I would like to start by saying a word which I did not share in this way by Mr Bartenstein, because the conclusion that a constitutional law would not make sense in Austria, because European law would be stronger, is wrong in that case. And for the following reason: If we – you have said, even if we adopt a Constitutional Act, it would not help us if European law provides for a different regime. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Bartenstein.]] [[New call for tender of the Abg. Dr. Bartenstein.]] [[Abg. Head: This is what Öhlinger said in the morning!]] Well, if you didn't mean it like that, you didn't mean it that way. The others will have heard it too. Mainly, you didn't mean it that way. I would therefore like to tell you why I am convinced that if Austria creates a Constitutional Law – and I assume that we are doing this together – in which it is clear and clear that we are not prepared to privatise public water supply in any way, but to regard it as a clear public task, then the European Union would not have the opportunity to take a different decision, because that is subject to unanimity. That means: If someone comes to the idea – that is not the current discussion at all, but we assume that there are many in Europe who sell their water networks in part or concessions for the construction of water pipelines – if one day they have the majority and come to the idea of creating a law requiring the tendering of the water networks and the privatisation of these water networks, Austria could vote against it alone, because this is the case with unanimity, and it is with a constitutional law in Austria, which is guaranteed by a two-thirds majority to ensure that this is not the case. [[Congratulation of the Abg. Street@item incidence access is by owner only]] [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] That is why I am so important to explain, because I am convinced that this Constitutional Law has a very good sense, although I have heard some mocking remarks that it is populist and not necessary, and so on. I consider the protection of our water to be so necessary that the word populism is truly not appropriate, but that is a protection that is justified. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] So, and now we come to the question: What does this directive, this proposal for a directive, which is currently being discussed at European level, indeed, also have to do with this discussion of drinking water? [[Abg. Bucher: Instruction!]] Apart from the fact that the Property Directive concerns several parts, I will come to the point where drinking water is concerned. I am convinced - and I also said this in the morning - that if someone I do not want in Austria, which I cannot determine in Italy, in Spain, in the UK, because it is the right of the respective countries, if someone in Europe sells parts of a water network or concessions for the construction of water pipelines or the care of water pipelines, then he cannot sell them to his cousin, except the one who wins the tender in accordance with European directives. So this has to be an orderly concession procedure under European law. And I don't know what we're talking about now. The final wording, which will then be decided in the European Council, we do not have yet. That is why I have said that we are going to follow this debate very closely, which is now taking place in the European Parliament, which has so far been – I want to explain that. [[Abg. Scheibner: Then why were you against it first?]] Because, of course, there is a danger that someone in this discussion process will smuggle into some kind of commitment of a call that we do not want. But, as the proposal for a directive is now formulated, there is no concern at the hour with the approval of Mr Mitterlehner. The Commissioner for the Internal Market has also given an opinion on this, including my constitutional service, which says exactly the same, the competent bodies in Brussels have also examined this very carefully, and all of them jointly say: The proposal for a directive does not in any way affect the autonomy of local authorities in the organisation of water supply. It does not contain any obligation to award such services on the market. And that's what it's all about. [[Abg. Dr Bartenstein: Please!]] [[Abg. Bucher: The head sees this differently!]] And why should I have objected to that now? Apart from the fact that the Federal Chancellor's Office gives me an instruction and the Minister is now in a discussion process and I do not know if it is still being adversely modified. Finally, I have the decision in the European Council and you can rely on it. [[Abg. We don't want to leave!]] [[Abg. Bookbooker: We've seen that already!]] I will only agree to a regulation if it does not in any way oblige us to question our water supply because I am in favour of remaining in public hands! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The idea that I have to vote against it, no matter what it stands in there, just because the word “drinking water” is present, I cannot understand it, because it will probably be better for us than something disorder. And I stay there, and that is why the debate on the morning, where I have already said this, was important to me, and I thank you for the opportunity to make this clear again: You can measure us by whether we represent the Austrian position in this discussion process. And I would like to point this out by another example, by the nuclear energy. [[Abg. Strache: You haven't missed the latte since many times!]] In fact, I will always be in favour of our abandoning nuclear energy throughout Europe, including worldwide, as in Austria. Step by step, the faster, the better. But I will not oppose it if, in a stress test with the NGOs tomorrow – that would be the best thing for me, because I have more confidence than in one place or another – the safety standards of nuclear power plants are reviewed. That's an up-to-date discussion. There might also be someone saying: What do we need to check nuclear power plants if we are against nuclear power plants anyway? It has failed, we only more agree with the immediate abandonment of all nuclear power plants. We do not take another decision for safety's sake, because perhaps one of us derives from the review that one can always rely on nuclear power. That is why, I believe, one can speak a very clear language. We will again and again agree to things that have to do with proper awarding – or where safety is concerned – with a check of safety; in that case, the issue of awarding, the right of concession – but will make it clear in terms of content that we do not agree to privatisation of water supply and that we also want to be an example in Europe, as in many other topics, in dual training, in employment, in rural areas, an example in Europe that has full access to public water supply as a state, together with the countries and municipalities, to guarantee the Austrians this drinking water, which is outstanding to us compared to many other countries in the world. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] That's why I don't even use the 20 minutes, because I had the opportunity to comment on it today. I just want to focus on the fact that it was said that we are always driving into a disaster. Mr Bucher! I know that you are always making more material points in your discussions. They know that the fact that all the countries of the European Union who wanted to remain in the euro area, which, as difficult as this is, have remained members of the euro area, that it has used the whole of the European Union. There has been no one in the world who said that we would trust the euro zone more if two or three had been torn out, with the result that an inevitable insolvency discussion begins. It is true that the political debate that has led to this fact that we have achieved a first stabilisation – the crisis is not over for a long time, nor the euro area – has made use of Europe as a whole, and that this has used the delicate, beginning economic growth, anyway, in just a few countries, and trust in Europe all over the world. And so it's not a question of disaster, it's a question of: What use does this make of our home country Austria? And I am actually glad that we have put in place appropriate measures in the crisis, investment measures, stability measures, measures that have also helped in Austria to ensure that we have low unemployment - even too high - and youth unemployment, because this stability in Europe also has something to do with what we are doing in Austria.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-01-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00187_d8e20811	We are now going into the debate. I would draw attention to the fact that, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, no speaker may speak for more than 10 minutes. Each club has a total speaking time of 25 minutes. First of all, Mr Dolinschek. I'm not commenting on this now, I'm setting up the time you've given us, even if it's shorter than 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-01-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00187_d8e20838	Madam President. Federal Chancellor! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! It is known to all that for years the BZÖ has called for the protection of Austrian water and is committed to the constitutional ceremony. The stay of the local water in the Austrian hand is important for us. Mr Bundeskanzler, it was a pleasure for me to hear that you said yes, of course, when it comes to water, we are all behind it, and that this would also be so when protecting the water in the Constitution. – I can fully support that, and you would certainly have fellow fighters if it were. But, unfortunately, at European level, we have now shown in a dramatic way how justified our warnings were in the past. In concrete terms, this is the European Commission, which presented a concession award directive in 2011. The content is that public authorities such as municipalities can open up the provision of services, such as water supply, to general competition. Now service is not the same service. Mr Mayor, you will be right to give me that the service, like snow clearing or waste disposal, is quite different from the water supply. That's a big difference once. And if I now take this call for tender in the concession as a further step in the direction that all public life activities should be awarded to private companies in the future, I must already announce my protest against it. Some communities in Austria have partially privatized water supply or water disposal, so to speak, passed on to companies, but these companies, which are outsourced, are all in the possession of the municipalities. This is once a big difference because they are in the possession of the municipalities. [[Abg. Dr. Bartenstein: Not everyone!]] From this one! This threat, which is linked to this privatisation pressure for our water, for the white gold we have, is great, because most of the Austrian communities, as we know, are in debt and could fall into the reputation of the fast money, the offers of the corporations and take advantage of the opportunity to fill the municipal funds. The pressure from the companies that want to make fat profits or returns with the water supply, the water business, on exactly this financially weak communities is enormous. The water resources, the water itself, but also the distribution infrastructure such as the sources, the water tanks, the whole pipes and so on, all of this must remain in public hands. I wonder, for example, if a private businessman does not want to invest in the containers, in lines, in sources and so on, because not enough profit is lost for him. What happens then? Or what if these companies are unable to operate the lines for whatever reason? What is it then? Then the public hand has to come back, as was the case with the banks and large corporations, where the profits have been exhausted, strong commissions have been paid, but if there is a loss, then the public hand has to jump in, and the taxpayer fails again. And so it can't stop, ladies and gentlemen! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] We have already experienced it in the spatial order, how quickly communities bend to economic pressure quite simply. That's what you've seen in the spatial order. And that is why I appeal to you, Mr Bundeskanzler, that you are in the interests of the Austrians – I am already aware that there are different legal bases in Europe; with some you cannot privatize it, with others already – here take precautions, and to that end it would be necessary to write it in the constitutional rank in Austria so that we have secured it. You just need to look at how this is then privatized. For example, in England with its private lines, where the toilets are locked, the yarns are unclean, the tariffs expensive and so on. That's an insanity, you can see that the whole thing just doesn't fit anymore. Mr Klubobmann Bucher has already brought examples from other areas. The Klagenfurt towns, for example, have had an agreement with a French water surplus, which has now been argued. So that's not the truth. We must maintain access to water for the general public, this must remain in public hands in Austria!
ParlaMint-AT_2013-01-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00187_d8e20883	Next speaker: Mr. Klubobmann Dr. Cap. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-01-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00187_d8e20904	High house! Madam President. Perhaps the last words that the Federal Chancellor said were still submitted to the Klubobmann Bucher: You will certainly read the “Handelsblatt ” day after day. As you can see, the successful consolidation policy, including the Austrian Federal Government under the leadership of the Federal Chancellor, has confirmed that Italy and Spain can resume their borrowings at a reasonable interest rate, billions return to the Greek banks, and the relationship between the euro and the dollar has become more stable and better. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: No, it's not inside!]] [[Abg. Bucher: Faymann saved the world!]] [[Abg. Bucher: Excellent, excellent! You're just for the banks!]] But it doesn’t just have to be the “trade sheet”, you can also look at the “Financial Times” wherever you want. In any case, that is the result of this policy. And if you don't convince our arguments, then keep an eye on that. The “handelsblatt” next to other newspapers and media will confirm this to you. On the one hand. The Second is: As we have heard in the debate today, the directive is not yet ready. There are hundreds but hundreds of amendments. [[Abg. Bucher: What does Häupl say? The chief's making a popular survey!]] That's one thing. The other thing is, it is not our invention, but because of the argument that was very clear and which the Federal Chancellor has now brought, we are going to take the first step, and you are invited to take part in it, with a motion for a resolution by Mr Cap and Mr Kopf, colleagues on ensuring water supply by the public hand that I am bringing in. The preamble to this motion for a resolution states, among other things, that we are confessing that the water is “an indispensable basis of human life”. ‘The security of water supply is therefore an urgent task of the public authorities.’ And the immediate text of the motion for a resolution reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]] This is the sharpest possible arrangement to be reached here in Parliament, and we will take this path, and you are most welcome to agree to this motion for a resolution by the two coalition parties. Many come around the world a little, whether in Europe or wherever, and you will always hear the warnings: Drink You prefer the mineral water or the simple water from the bottle! Don't drink the water that comes out of the tap! And now I'm telling you something: We in Vienna and we in Austria can be proud that we can enjoy our drinking water because it is of the highest quality. And the confession is a thousand percent: This our water we will know to defend, and we will do the same!
ParlaMint-AT_2013-01-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00187_d8e21005	The motion for a resolution which has just been tabled is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2013-01-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00187_d8e21067	Next speaker: Mr. Klubobmann's head is. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-01-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00187_d8e21088	Madam President. Federal Chancellor! Mr State Secretary! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) The Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany has previously fully and precisely stated that this directive, which has now apparently triggered this whole debate, namely this directive at European level, merely regulates the tendering and awarding procedure in the event that one - and with us it is the municipalities responsible - wants to hand over such services to private or partial enterprises, free of charge, services of general interest, including water supply, to private or private enterprises. [[Abg. Bucher: Why does the ÖVP not agree?]] The German Chancellor has perfectly explained that this is the intention of this directive, and nothing else. This directive does not force privatisation at all. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Bucher: Colleague Seeber is not in agreement!]] It is therefore, ladies and gentlemen, really white nonsense, yes, it is irresponsible polemics, dramatisation and fear of the population, if the opposite is claimed here that this directive forces anyone in Austria to privatise water supply. That's simple and just wrong. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Bucher: What does the Seeber say?]] Mr Bundeskanzler, however, what I do not understand, is that this directive is being taken as an occasion, including your Secretary of State Ostermayer, a few days ago, then to demand a constitutional ban on this privatisation at an event. This has nothing to do with this directive in the back and front. That doesn't mean this – no, it doesn't stand in there. [[Abg. Bucher: You're up there too!]] Read it exactly! That has nothing to do with it. [[Abg. Bucher: “head” is up there! Now it's gonna be weird!]] And Mr. Tumpel, who is not quite far away from your party, then puts the whole thing on, dramatizes and paints the devil on the wall, which cannot happen here. [[Abg. Bucher: It says “constitutional legislation”! And there's "head" up there!]] Mr Bundeskanzler, you have quite rightly said that if someone wanted to smuggle something into this directive, you would be against it, as you have said, that could go towards forced privatisation. – There's no danger, that can't happen at all. Article 192 of the Lisbon Treaty clearly states that measures relating to the availability of water resources directly or indirectly can only be adopted unanimously in the European Council. And I assume once that we agree that with Austrian consent this has never happened towards forced privatisation. I think we agree. [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. Riepl.]] That is to say, there is no danger that the EU could force us through this directive to privatise water, or that the European level could introduce such a privatisation bid without our consent, but, ladies and gentlemen, it is hopefully crystal clear to all here inside, water is such a precious asset and such an important basis of living that we all want water supply to be a public service task today and to remain such a public hand task. [[Abg. Bucher: You want to privatize it!]] It should also remain under the control of the public authorities. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! But it is not a matter of saying that communities, on a very voluntary basis, either set up a cooperative from which they will make this provision, or that they will also be able to do so on their behalf by a private or partial private person, but they must have control over it and they must be able to determine the conditions. If they clean this up, neither can it happen what was described in the “South German newspaper ” that happened in Portugal or France or in England. [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: Germany!]] If, in the award of such concessions, those who have the right of concession make it clean and decent, so in the awarding of the conditions clean, then what has happened in these countries cannot happen to him. That is why, ladies and gentlemen: About a hundred municipalities in Austria are already using private or part-private enterprises and are able to handle parts of the water supply or disposal. And they are all satisfied with this service, but, of course, they do not exercise the right – they could not – that they are responsible for granting this concession. Let's say it again. There is no reason to worry in Austria because there is no danger. Speaking here of threat scenarios as in this urgent request is really unnecessary panic, moods and frights. You shouldn't be able to do that. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Bucher: Why do you even make a motion for a resolution? Cap has just tabled a motion for a resolution!]] That is why, ladies and gentlemen, from the government parties, Mr Cap, just before, we have tabled this motion for a resolution, which is contrary to your panic, which you want to use to prohibit the award of a service to private individuals. [[Abg. Bucher: For whom?]] This is nonsense and not necessary. We note in this resolution that we want a constitutional provision under which the Republic of Austria should continue to ensure control of the supply of drinking water to the population and that water supply continues to be the objective and task of the public authorities. This is something else: to ensure the task. This nevertheless allows a community to be made without problems to a private or partial private person, as in Upper Austria, in Lower Austria, in various federal states by red, blue or black communities, there are still concessions, but we continue to keep unconditionally and without any limitation control of Austrian waters. [[Abg. Dr. Strutz: Not from blue!]] And we will ensure that with this constitutional provision. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] That's why I really ask you from the opposition: Set that panic, that fear! It is not justified. [[Abg. Bucher: What does the Seeber say?]] It is not justified, not necessary and does not in any way correspond to the current legal situation or to any intention at European or Austrian level. Don't do that! That's really bad!
ParlaMint-AT_2013-01-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00187_d8e21312	Mr Dr. Strutz is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-01-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00187_d8e21333	Madam President. Federal Chancellor! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr. Klubobmann's head, it's not about the panic of the opposition. If you are talking about "Panikmache", you should also take your Secretary of State to the task of bringing this issue to the tapet on the occasion of the SPÖ Carinthia election campaign. It is about the legitimate concern of all Members here in the House and also of parts of the government that we are once again presented by the representatives of the European Union in Brussels and that we are once again deceived and brought to light by the representatives of the EU. I still smiled when I heard that State Secretary Ostermayer had discovered the topic of water for himself at the Party of Social Democrats in Carinthia, because I still remember well the year 2003 when it was the socialist communities – Mayor Manzenreiter you know, Mrs. Col. Muttonen, also Mayor Mock of St. Veit aan der Glan; from the Water Association Millstätter See, someone sits in here, although he is no longer part of the Social Democratic Party – who has applied for exactly this privatisation and made these transactions via Cross Border-Leasing. If we liberals had not prevented this by the guidance of the head of state, then huge financial losses would have happened there, then the water would have already been privatized and sold out in the small framework. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I still have to smile when Eastermayer suddenly discovered this topic, but all the alarm bells have shuddered at me, when former Commissioner Fischler, as the ÖVP is doing today, has spoken and said, well, it is not necessary to talk about the subject at all, that is half as bad. I'll tell you one thing: Whenever the great Freemasons come out of Brussels to explain to us Austrians that there is no danger, I can tell you that the lamp is set on red and then we have to ring the alarm bells! [[Consistency with the FPÖ and the Abg. Hagen.]] Whenever these gentlemen have explained to us how history is going, it has gone exactly the opposite direction. What didn't you promise us, Mrs. Ederer? Skill Do you remember the EU-thousand? What happened to it? Before joining the EU, it was said that only as an EU member could Austria represent its interests and put in a veto. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wheeler.]] – Not even a veto has been inserted. In the meantime, we have left the principle of unanimity on important issues, there are majority decisions. Skill You remember just how those gentlemen who are constantly applying for this European Union promised to join the EU before joining the European Union. EU accession will all be cheaper, and Austria's hard and strong schilling will remain in the EU's accession? That is exactly what Mr Fischler and the Minister of Finance promised us at the time. What happened to it? – There is no more schilling, and the euro is worse than ever. The EU Constitution, the Treaty of Lisbon. - Promise, broken. The voters were deceived. EU rescue packages. – It was promised that this would be a one-time payment to help Greece. In reality, it has become billions of payments, and we do not see any cents of our hard-worked tax money ever again. I could add a whole series of things, but that means that we have to be warned when these signals come from the European Union. And that is why these concerns exist across all party borders. What's important? – Closeness here in the House! Mr Klubobmann Cap, we from the FPÖ will, of course, vote in favour of this motion for a resolution, because I believe that we must do everything we can to ensure that there is closeness here in the House on this crucial issue. It may be out of dispute that our water, especially the quality of our water in Austria, is our most important resource and that we must do everything we can to prevent the access of speculators, from investors to our resources, to our most important resource and to counter this attack. This is relatively simple, Mr. Klubobmann. We need a constitutional anchorage, as all of us have recognized. However, today's motion for a resolution can only be a first step. We call on the Federal Government to submit a Constitutional Act as soon as possible. I hope that this will actually happen in the necessary time before new elections are announced. We need to set a state target in the Constitution. And before that we have seen again, the SPÖ is moving in one direction, explaining how necessary this is, but the ÖVP is moving in the other direction. I do not think that this Constitutional Act will be here in the House at all during this legislative period. Mr Bartenstein's speech this morning was also so revealing to me when he said that the Constitutional Law had no meaning at all, it was of no use to me. I do not think it would have been possible for a member of the ÖVP to say what attitude the ÖVP represents here. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] No matter what this House decides in the constitutional order, the representatives of the European Union do not care. This attack is another example of how the EU does not represent the interests of its citizens, but rather the interests of corporations, speculators and lobbyists. There is no doubt that these directives, these laws, which come from Brussels, do not matter whether we are being ordered to have new light bulbs or whether we want to access our water, have a very monetary background, an economic background. And there it is necessary to oppose it with all vehemence. I believe that this will also be a sample of nails for the Social Democrats before the election. Mr Klubobmann Cap, there is a constitutional majority here in the House. The ÖVP has argued through Bartenstein, through its head, why that actually It is not necessary why we do not need it. Bring this law to the vote here in the House! They have a majority with the liberals, with the Greens, with the BZÖ. Even if the ÖVP is against: Let us carry out this important initiative for Austria, and let us decide this in the interests of the Austrians and, above all, our future generations and our children!
ParlaMint-AT_2013-01-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00187_d8e21439	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Brunner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-01-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00187_d8e21461	Madam President. Mr. Bundeskanzler! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Seers! We have experienced in recent weeks, the topic of water is a very emotional topic; I think it is also right because we all know that water is a very valuable asset, an essential existential asset – and not only some water, but also a healthy water. [[Abg. Grosz: The Federal Chancellor drinks Parliamentary water! Is it okay?]] That is why it is also an important asset in our general care, and for us it is clear that water supply, drinking water supply must be the task of the public authorities. It is our task to protect our water supply in Austria. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] For us Greens, therefore, it is quite clear what we will do. First of all: We support the European Citizens' Initiative ‘water is a human right’. Secondly, We are fighting in the EU Parliament, where decisions are now being taken, for the exclusion of water from the concession directive. This is possible, because on other issues it was possible. Why not with water? Thirdly, We are here proposing what we can do in Austria in order to ensure that this is exactly what is happening. The first is a call to the Federal Chancellor or to our Federal Government to represent the Austrian interests vehemently at European level. That is why I put forward the following first motion for a resolution: [[Quoted print version removed]] In a second step, we must ensure that the protection of our drinking water, the protection of our water supply remains in Austrian hands. That is why I put the following second motion for a resolution: Motion for a resolution by Mr Christiane Brunner, Mr Pirklhuber, Mr von Wogau, on no sale of water The National Council wants to decide: The Federal Government, in particular the Federal Chancellor and the Federal Minister for Agriculture, Forestry, Environment and Water Management, are invited to submit to the National Council a draft Constitutional Act prohibiting the municipalities from outsourcing municipal water supply to profit-oriented private companies. [[Abg. Wheeler: Communism pure! Forced Communism!]] It has already been sounded several times, the water supply in Austria works very well. We have a small-structured water supply. We are very lucky to live in a water-rich country. That should be worth us too. But you also have to see it differently: The richness of water is not present everywhere in Austria, we are fighting dryness in the east. In this context, I would also like to remind you that we are living in times of climate change and that the impact of climate change in Austria means that we have to expect more water scarcity, especially in the eastern regions. It is therefore all the more important – we have to ensure this here – to deal with this scarce good, with this important scarce material as well, and to ensure a gentle handling of water removal. In my opinion, this is simply a blatant contradiction. Genuine handling, sustainable management of a scarce asset, it stands for me in stark contradiction to the action of profit-oriented companies. They must make profits that rely on growth, they have two possibilities to ensure in the water supply: either to deteriorate quality or to increase prices. I don't think we both want to. There are enough examples of liberalisation, of privatisations in the infrastructure sector, which are then negative. We know that if a profit-oriented company has infrastructure in its hand, then investment not only has to be expected, but they have to lose profits. And there are enough examples of where these investments in important infrastructure were then not made and the public hand marode infrastructure had to buy back very expensive. We don't want all of this. That is why we must ensure that something just as important as the water supply, a basic good of general care, remains in public hands. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Wheeler: Communism!]] And that's not about panic or fear. On the contrary! I think it is our duty here to draw attention to the impact of a directive at European level or a law at Austrian level, even though it may not be a priority in the law. But there are rules that also have such an impact, and it is our duty to take a close look at it and to make it clear to the public what dangers there may be behind it. Mr Kopf has referred to it that there is no obligation to privatise. [[Abg. Wheeler: Eben!]] That is true, no one has claimed here, but it would be irresponsible to pretend that this would have no effect at all. The directive says that the aim is to open the water market. The German Federal Council has, inter alia, opposed this directive for reasons of subsidiarity. In the direction of ÖVP, I would like to say: Her colleagues in the Burgenland are starting petitions or a water charter to ensure that the communities are opposed to this directive – so much to the panic. Perhaps you can also align this to your colleagues in Burgenland: Swelling up in small regions does not help at all. They are acting again where one acts as if one is involved, but when it comes to deciding something here or in the European Parliament, then it is They quickly return to the other side and do not represent the interests of the Austrians. We only warn against the fact that the directive is very likely to open the back door to privatisation. We all know in what financial situation our communities are in – especially you of SPÖ and ÖVP should know this very well – and that pressure to privatise on communities in a financially difficult situation could easily increase. I'm also a councillor in my home town. I wish I could have more control of the water associations and the wastewater associations, because there are the mayors inside of you, and as a councillor, I would like you to be able to control them more often and look more inside. [[Abg. May. Gaßner: What did the mayors do wrong in water supply?]] But this has nothing to do with the fact that we in itself very much appreciate the small-structured water supply, because in Austria it also leads to a high level of identification of water supply, a great interest of the inhabitants of the region in keeping the water clean, to act more responsible. Privatization would resist this. That is why we should be very, very careful in this directive, even if it does not mean direct compulsion, and do everything we can to actually exclude privatisations and to actually keep our richness of water and the handling of our water in our hands. I think that is our task, and I hope that we can reach an agreement here. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] By the way, I believe that Austria needs an independent, strong and committed Ministry of the Environment, not just because of water supply, but generally in environmental policy.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-01-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00187_d8e21591	The two motions for resolutions which have just been tabled are sufficiently supported and are therefore also under negotiation. The two applications have the following general wording: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2013-01-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00187_d8e21690	Next speaker: Mr Klubobmann Ing. Lugar. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-01-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00187_d8e21711	Madam President. High house! I am now trying to clarify the discussion. As you know, I am an unscrupulous matter politician, I hope this will also be a good thing here. [[Ironic hustle and bustle at BZÖ.]] If you look at the whole discussion, it's something very important from my point of view. The EU has tried to regulate something which, in my view, does not have to be regulated, because in principle we have to consider: Do we need that at all? We know that in the past some drinking water networks have been privatized. Now the EU is going to go and want this practice, I say, objectively or on track. In my view, this would not be necessary if we were to ask ourselves, in principle, whether we should be privatising at all, or whether we would not need a privatisation ban. If you look at the whole thing objectively and without emotion, you have to think about it: Why privatize a drinking water network at all? Now probably many here know that we are great friends of privatisation and competition from the Stronach team in many areas. But no one can explain it to me – and I don't think anyone can do it here today – where a competitive situation can be created in the drinking water network, so that it will ultimately become cheaper for the citizen, because that's what it is all about. This was also the idea behind the privatisation of mobile networks, that through the competition through which different providers would ultimately fall prices. That is, as it were, the thought of the backlog, which is why one privatizes. Now I wonder how to benefit from the drinking water network. Do we want to privatize this and then dig two, three, four additional drinking water lines in each house to let different providers come to the train to create competition? – I can't do that, it doesn't work! That means privatizing a drinking water network does not do anything at all. - Why? Because there can be no competition here and because there can be no added value for the customer either, that is not possible. The only reason to privatize is that the communities do not have money and by privatisation, by selling short-term money. Finally, the citizen pays. - Why? Because the private, to whom I sell and put my drinking water in hand, then wants to make profits, and these profits then pay the citizens. If I had kept the water supply immediately, I could work non-profit without having to make profits as a community, and it would definitely be cheaper. Therefore, in the discussion we should also consider whether it should not be generally prohibited to privatise certain things, such as drinking water or electricity lines or the ÖBB rail network. [[Abg. May. Josef Auer: The Frankie wanted to buy it!]] You can't sell that! [[Abg. May. Josef Auer: Oh ever, he's a bad coach, he has to be coached first!]] That doesn't make any sense at all! Finally, someone who buys the drinking water network has no interest at all in getting it over the next 200, 300 years, but will try to get as much profit as possible, and ultimately the citizen pays. That is why we do not need the EU to regulate something, but we need a general ban on the sale of public goods, on drinking water lines. As we are particularly concerned with drinking water, we are also talking generally about the quality of Austrian drinking water. I do not know if everyone knows that, but in Austria we have a big problem in some regions. There are regions in which the drinking water providers, whether they are municipalities or private, are unable to provide enough drinking water in sufficient quality – and where there are drinking water limits, especially in the nitrate area, which are far too high! It is a mistake to reduce drinking water limits for nitrates, for example, from 50 milligrams to 25 milligrams, although WHO recommends 25 milligrams, for infants only ten milligrams. On the contrary, you keep the old limit of 50 milligrams, and many communities in Austria do not even do that. This is not about privatising the water or not privatising it, but it is about human rights – someone of the Greens has said it right today. It is a human right that each of us has clean and edible drinking water available in sufficient quantities, and unfortunately this is not the case. I myself possessed a water treatment company before I became a clubman and had to give it up, and I can tell you that the problems are huge and not yet recognized in small communities. [[Abg. Grosz: And who does the company belong to now? Does that belong to the Stronach now?]] There's definitely something we need to do. The EU could intervene here. The EU could go here and say: We focus on WHO and lower these drinking water limits to the level that is acceptable to all people, even for small children. – You have to imagine this: A little child should not drink water, just as it flows from our line. A child up to six months may not drink water with a nitrate content of more than ten milligrams, it may even die from it. That is the case in Austria! That is why we need proper water supply, which is why we need to pay attention to these issues, and above all we do not need to discuss whether the EU is now absorbing our water with the straw. I can tell you from my experience that water cannot be transported economically over great distances. In bottles already, Vöslauer, Roman source that works; but with a pipeline you can not transport water over long distances, because that is no longer affordable. [[Abg. May. Kogler: From Hochschwab to Vienna we are already going!]] For oil and gas, this works of course, because for oil and gas the medium is, so to speak, the same energy source. You can then supply the pump stations with the gas or with the oil. I can't do that with the water. With the water you need an electric supply for the pumps, and then this is no longer economic from 500, 600, 700 kilometers. Therefore, please, we are not afraid that the EU will suck the water with the straw. It is crucial that we find good solutions, and I am absolutely opposed – and I agree with the BZÖ’s request – to continue to encourage privatisation here, and nothing else is. With this move, the EU has recognised a problem – privatising sticky communities something because they can no longer afford it – but instead of forbidding it and supporting the communities, one makes a regulation that governs and, so to speak, makes privatisation legal or comprehensible. Finally, we need proper drinking water supply for our communities, for our citizens. And if you look at what the EU does in this way, I really wonder why it is so important in this area where privatisation does not bring anything at all, and in other areas where we have long needed privatisation, it sleeps and finally falls into the hands of the citizens. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] One more word at the end, because I still have enough time: I would be really pleased if we could have a more objective discussion here on some issues. I know this is not in the interest of some people here in the House, because you can work very, very well with emotions and sometimes also convince some voters. In the end, however, we are talking about making good decisions for the citizens, and this together as far as possible. This is only a matter of contentious discussion, and therefore my appeal at this point. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-01-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00187_d8e21811	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Widmann. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-01-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00187_d8e21832	Madam President. High house! I am really amazed how much the ÖVP has changed its opinion on populism in the last two weeks, to panic. I remember briefly the popular survey, then the rescue would have come half an hour too late, then the Minister of Finance would have said that we are losing the AAA – didn't we? – and social affairs would also have collapsed. – That was all the facts, no populism, no panic – and today you come out here and make serious and say that drinking water is not in danger at all. I wonder whether your party friends – whether in the Federal Council or in the Landstags – are the NGOs, whether they are all wrong at European level? And I wonder, Where is the Minister Mitterlehner? The Feshak of the Federal Government is usually always sitting here, very cool – where is it today? [[Abg. Dr. Matznetter: Why did you not address the question to Mr Mitterlehner?]] He's leaving the SPÖ today, and you're gonna like it. It would have been interesting, as he himself argued, why he did not say anything outside Brussels when this directive went through. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, we seem to have a double conflict here, Mr Matznetter, between the government parties, but also within the SPÖ. I'll explain this briefly. For example, Mr Kopf said that there was no need for a constitutional provision, but then he himself wrote it back into the application. – So what is right now, colleague Cap, do we need one or do we not need one? [[Abg. Dr. Cap: Why did you not address the request to Minister Mitterlehner?]] We say: Yeah, it's an important step. But it would be even more important to be cool, like your colleague Weidenholzer, on the table in the EU, and to stand outside for such a nonsensus not to happen at all! That would be the right way! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, when my colleague's head says: Well, with this request, which we have just found out, we can still privatize the water anyway!, then you know what spirit child this request is. Therefore, unlike other opposition parties, we will certainly not agree to this government proposal, which is more than weakening, because there is much better – ultimately, the BZÖ – in which the EU also calls for appropriate measures. – That was said once as an introduction, ladies and gentlemen. For the award of concessions, the Directive itself: Of course, no one is forced to privatise, nor has anyone claimed that the opposition is not at all the subject. But you know from the SPÖ and also from the ÖVP that the water market at European level is a three-digit billion market. I say once again, maybe a video will appear somewhere in which someone confesses that he will intervene for perhaps loosening this market. – I don’t want to put anything under anyone’s hands, but I’m already excited about how this will continue. The citizens are sensitive here, and they think differently here. I believe that the sovereign, the Parliament and also the parliamentarians at European level must represent the citizens, not the corporations, not the lobbyists, not the banks and the speculators. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! The intention of the directive to create more transparency in the award process is not wrong in principle. The question is whether you don't pour the child out with the bath, because I'll tell you one thing: To set up a threshold at €5 million, that is to say, municipalities in the order of 10 000 or more inhabitants are obliged to carry out Europe-wide concession award procedures in the future. Do you know what that means? Have you ever tried to engage in an award procedure in this order of magnitude with legal departments of international corporations? There's a long dispute. You don't bring that together at community level. So we believe that to be true of the communities! And that is why the communities are right to say: Not with us! Yes, ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP, it is not even clear whether it will still be allowed to establish community associations by outsourcing water supply and disposal. This is also open, it is still to be clarified. All these are things that belong to the legal side. That is why we already think that this would cause massive damage to rural areas and would also put jobs at risk. By the way: That 80 percent, 90 percent of citizens do not want to privatise the water according to surveys, also says a lot. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! The negative examples of Portugal and Greece have already been mentioned. There the Commission has insisted on privatising water supply in order to manage revenue, with the result that the charges have increased massively, doubled, tripled, quadrupled, the quality of the water has fallen, the pipes have been pumped with any approved chemicals so that they can be used longer, but in reality, nothing has been invested there. It is only a matter of privatizing the common good, exploiting profits, and if everything is broken and over, then the state should buy it back expensively and then you can rebuild it with the charges of the citizens. We say: We've already paid enough, we don't want that. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] I have already mentioned the unwholesome spectacle of the government. My colleague, Mr Hahn, has given the Commission unconditional approval, Mr Mitterlehner has given unconditional approval, but the summit is probably now reached: There is a conflict within the SPÖ – Mr Weidenholzer is fighting the ban on speculation, even at EU level, you do not want it here in the request – but the biggest conflict is actually between SPÖ and ÖVP! It is quite clear what is happening here. Do you really know, Mr State Secretary, Mr Bundeskanzler Ostermayer, that in this debate your colleague from the government bank, Minister Mitterlehner, has this direction distributed by Mr Faymann to the press in Austria, do you know that? [[State Secretary Dr. Ostermayer: No official estimates please!]] Do you know who you're in bed with? [[Call the BZÖ: This is crazy!]] Is that what you're doing? We know the ÖVP, we know how it acts and reacts. I hope you wake up once, but in time, because otherwise you are no longer where you sit today. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Ladies and gentlemen! We are apparently already in the middle of the election campaign. I am excited about how the elections in Carinthia and in Lower Austria will go out, whether we will vote in advance, because this government is in fact doing nothing more. [[Abg. May. Josef Auer: Enough sulphurized!]] The only thing we need now is a failed request, with which we do homework here on the one hand with the constitutional provision – no to sell out the water – and on the other hand, what is even more important – Mr Bucher has already mentioned this – to instruct the government to act massively against this insanity directive at European level and to protect our white gold, because we have already paid enough, quite right!
ParlaMint-AT_2013-01-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00187_d8e21977	Mr Matznetter is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-01-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00187_d8e22009	Madam President. Mr State Secretary! High house! We have the feeling that the Federal Chancellor has really explained the difference between a regulation at EU level concerning the procedure, if there is a concession, and the question whether it should be possible for drinking water to be privatized in Austria. These are two completely different things. Nevertheless, there is an attempt to mix these two things together, and that is why one should devote one more time to the difference. It's rare that I'm Mr. Ing. Lugar must be right in a question, but his explanation of why water supply is not suitable to be privately managed according to market economic criteria is school accounting. Where I have a natural monopoly, I cannot expect the criteria of the market economy to lead to higher efficiency and to satisfy the needs of people. This will undoubtedly affect the water, because – it is right – if there is only one provider, yet for the good that a person cannot give up, the interaction between supply and demand cannot work. A single provider and a consumer who, for reasons of survival, cannot decide not to consume water will not result in a regulation – bought and eaten. As to the smallness that Mr. Lugar does not understand a few other things, we want to look away, like, for example, that he does not yet know that water is relatively heavy and that therefore the gravity of our planet is sufficient to make the water flow from top to bottom over hundreds of kilometers. So we're lucky to have Mr. Ing. Lugar did not operate his water treatment company at the time when the Viennas began to build the best drinking water network in a million town. This runs over hundreds of miles, because it is attracted by this planet at 9.81 meters per second square and therefore flows from top to bottom. Maybe you could do that to him? – A small post-schooling in this area. Where at the same time we lack a little bit of knowledge, it is in the background of the fact that Mr Stronach-Listen-Fractionsobmann here told us ten minutes ago that the railway is not suitable for privatisation. [[Abg. Hagen: The rails!]] He's right! [[Abg. Hagen: The rail network!]] Well, who was the guy who showed up right after Mr. Vice-Chancellor's summer talk? Wasn't that a certain Frank Stronach who said I'd buy that right now? [[Abg. Riepl: Yes, he was!]] This speaks for Mr Stronach as regards his business ability, because the next monopoly is great for his cash register – but it is bad for people, for the economy and for the country where it is to take place. It is written in the main book that believe that they have something for the population with a Mr. Stronach. He has a single interest – that's okay – that's his wallet. It is bad enough that Members can have similar interests and then change the group within five minutes, but as a clubman of the Stronach list here and explain to us that the ÖBB are not suitable for privatisation, is a strong piece in view of what Mr Stronach actually did before. [[Abg. Hagen: He is not talking about the ÖBB, but about the rail network!]] [[Abg. May. Kogler: Maybe he wants to get rid of the sect?]] – That could be too. So in that case, the best gag is that of Bucher, who made himself here and said that the delegates change the party overnight – because at the BZÖ this seems to be also between breakfast and morning meal. In this sense: Maybe you can start a recovery operation from the BZÖ? Maybe this will be successful? [[Abg. Ursula Haubner: No interest!]] [[Further calls to members of the BZÖ.]] Coming back to the question why the BZÖ cannot agree with our resolution: First: This motion for a resolution clearly states that we need a constitutional regime. You can't agree with that? That's exactly what the Federal Chancellor says: If you are not allowed to sell, a concession directive, even if it does not go as we wish, cannot enter into force. For an award which may not take place, a Europe-wide tender cannot be made either. At the same time, some of us in the country, who may dream of privatising it, would have to put back their interests for a long time – which would be very good. In this sense, this proposal is a very, very reasonable one. I'm advocating for your approval. It is intended to help us get this provision during this legislative period. And who believes that the water is with us – now I am not talking about it: it would be life-threatening for the children, as Mr. Lugar has claimed, because we have one of the best waterers in the world – today alone in public hands, who may look at the sources in whose possession they are. In this sense, therefore, this constitutional arrangement is very useful. I'm here for this. You agree – especially if you are supposed to be a matter politician! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-01-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00187_d8e22133	This is what Mr Ing has to say. Schools. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-01-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00187_d8e22154	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Estimated Secretary of State! Ladies and gentlemen! The good news: The water remains in our hand. The bad news: We're going far beyond the subject today. [[Call at BZÖ: That's nothing new at Matznetter!]] The second message: The Austrian Water Law law is indeed a law that can be changed by simple-law majority. That is why it may not be so bad to put such an important topic as precious food water into a legislative framework that may be of course in other areas. That is why it makes sense for us to discuss this question here; we just do not want to be superfluous. The fact is that, in the European context, this concession directive is intended to regulate operations that may be a subject in some European countries, but which are not a problem for us in Austria. It would be bad if it were now to be binding on Europe in this regulatory attempt to impose constraints on us in Austria. If we now want to require a European tendering procedure at European level, this will mean that some municipalities, some public bodies, will think very carefully about whether it is considering the economically meaningful type of operator in itself even a private operator at all. Then it will probably become more expensive for the water-reducer – for the many communities that have just considered in recent years: Where can I save money if we change the type of operator?, there's something I've been thinking about. And these operators are economically audited companies who, of course, pass on their experiences. If in those days, my neighboring community of Angers deals with water supply with the EVN water, this is an interesting story: One is a socially democratically dominated community, the other is a 51 percent company in state ownership, protected by state constitution, by federal constitution. What about it, please be bad? Who's going to have a problem? And no one should tell me that a company employed on it, which operates in many similar water supplies with specialists and employees, who have the optimal training for their special tasks, can not provide better services, better services at less cost. And: It may already be that some community may have a difficult problem with the collection of some amount of money among the parish citizens. A company you're used to working just as it works, doesn't have these problems either. And at the very end and at the bottom of the line, it turns out suddenly that a well-run plant in which well-invested, however, provides low-cost water for water users – and I expressly do not say: cheap – water. If the water is to become cheap, then someone has not understood how precious our wet really is. Water needs to be properly maintained and maintained, and there we have good conditions in Austria. I am therefore seeking, at European level, to negotiate these complications in terms of awarding at the next negotiations, because we really do not need the European legal award for the Austrian dimension. On the other hand, I see that we are on the highest level in Austrian handling of our water. The Austrian water law is exemplary, the Austrian water is in the best condition, and the Austrian water is water that is transported across country borders. Let's be honest: Sometime the Styria for Vienna was almost something like a foreign country, and the Steirers made their water available to the Viennaers smoothly – not sold, business was none, but after all, the Wieners do not live from it and it works well. Ladies and gentlemen! Water is something people need. Water is something that deserves our protection. Water is something that is best protected where the property is linked to water law and based on legal regulations – on the municipal regulations, on the state laws, on the federal law – it is ensured that in the administrative procedure it is clear who can really claim water to what extent. – It works well, it doesn’t need vortex, it doesn’t need scandal, there doesn’t need to be a fear of Lugar or anyone else. It's just a great story. And if anyone wants to take nice greetings after Carinthia: Most water rights in Carinthia are said to belong to KELAG, so today a colleague has told us. And that just before Christmas in Carinthia this KELAG was given in foreign hands, and thus the water rights as well, is really a stupid story. [[Abg. Booker: Don't look at me, Mr. Colleague! Don't look at me!]] Colleague Bucher, but if you want to get excited, then at home in Carinthia, there you are the Liberator. [[Congratulations on MEPs of the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Ursula Haubner: He can get excited!]] So I think, ladies and gentlemen, that is a good topic, but it is in the wrong place. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-01-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00187_d8e22226	Next speaker: Mr Linder. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-01-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00187_d8e22248	Madam President. Mr State Secretary! Dear Members! Dear colleagues! Mr Schultes, when deciding that the water that KELAG was sold was still with you, and decided to do so in the coalition. But it seems in the ÖVP going and would be that you forget very quickly where you were and where you voted. But don't do anything! It's already sounded like this: Many people have already come up with how dangerous it is to lie in a bed with you, how fast you are going to take care of something. It was mentioned today that there are quite good examples that show how water supply works through large companies. From a legal or professional point of view, I do not want to deny that this works well, but in the present age of globalisation, we know how fast it happens that these enterprises are no longer in the state ownership, are no longer in municipal ownership, but that any international corporations have their hands inside. I think we have experienced it enough in rural areas in recent years, which means that we have been privatised or really subject to the efforts of the institutions to win. Let us remember that we lost the post offices, that we already have huge problems in rural areas today, that the post is still being delivered, that many people who live further up need to get their mail somewhere. If you have to give up a more complicated package, you have to go to the city. In the city the service increases, as it works, but in rural areas we have huge problems. In view of the fact that today it is almost impossible to give up a partezite at a funeral in the country quite normally with the post, because the post is no longer able to deliver it in four days, because it is no longer interested in doing so in rural areas, I think we should think about whether it really makes sense to say a bit of competition, a bit of internationalization of the water does not matter. Public transport, the buses: restricted in rural areas, lines set. Railway lines: set because the privatized ÖBB says that this is no longer possible; in the central area we drive, we operate the traffic – but in the rural area it is gone. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, what does water supply mean for us? – This means to me in the community that I also bring the water to the remote houses, that it is also possible not only to create building grounds in the central area, but also to create a little further out of the building grounds and to bring the water. Dear members of the ÖVP, we know how little a large group is interested in having a care assignment. He looks like: Where can I make money, where can I earn, where can I really make a lot? And whether the community has a kilometre away from the center still a building ground and maybe there a few waving Inheritance in the community would like to make it possible to stay in the community, which is heartily no matter what. That is why it is very important for us that we continue to manage to keep the water supply in the community, to keep in public hands, and in no way to make the water supply over large corporations a game ball for profit-oriented people. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I believe that this does not matter in the central area, but I say once again, in the rural area, we must not continue to see how everything is privatized and how everything is put out of hand. The smallest possibility must also be prevented! I am thinking about how the SPÖ mayors in Spittal, Millstätter See, wanted to sell the entire waste water supply through cross-board leasing. Only we were with Dr. Jörg Haider who said: Stop, this must not happen, we can prevent that! And today we are all happy and happy about it. There was only the possibility, but many mayors were once enthusiastic about this idea and said: 8, 9 million € we get with a blow! We'd be stupid if we didn't! – And that’s why, ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP, we must do everything we can to ensure that there is no even the possibility that anyone will have the idea of privatising the water and giving it into the hands of large corporations. With today's experience, I think, we need to know that we must not subordinate everything to competition. We have a service assignment that we need to meet. And I think we all have to do everything together to ensure that our water does not become playball by European speculators, that the supply remains in our hands, in the public hands. Then, I believe, we will also be able to protect rural areas, and we will continue to be able to carry out our task in the small communities.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-01-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00187_d8e22314	Mr Pirklhuber. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-01-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00187_d8e22335	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! It has already been pointed out several times that the concession directive does not require privatisation in the narrower sense, but that it provides that even if areas of general interest – water, wastewater, other social services – are externally granted, the corresponding competition criteria of the European Union must be established. I have to say that the consistency of the European political positions of the individual political groups in the European Parliament has to be put on the scale. It is incredible, however, that a German chancellor – although it is of course positive that he speaks out for it – is here producing and speaking very fully of the importance and need for constitutional protection of the water, but at the same time the Socialist Group almost closed in the European Parliament, except for an exception, voted for this concession directive. Of the ten votes against, only one was against, the Greens. We were opposed, and this is consistent policy – because areas of general interest have nothing to do with competition, free competition. And why? – Because in these areas – education, social institutions, public goods – infrastructure costs are enormous. Privatization in this area is only interesting if one builds up the infrastructure with public funds – then then there is something – and then privatizes the operation. Because if all of this is built, it is of course nice if you can take over it and make decent profits over fees. This is practice. That was so in Great Britain, that was true in some German municipalities. And this has led to a total disaster, especially in the UK, in London. That's legendary, there are excellent dokus. So that's, I think, an important story. Let us now look at the Austrian situation. What's it look like today? Mr Auer, we know: In the water supply sector, more than 86 percent of total water supply is currently organised locally in Austria. The proportion of co-organised water supply, where the owners are organized through cooperatives, accounts for about 5.6 percent. So in total, 92 percent of the total water is publicly organized, and that is good and important. If Mr Schultes here speaks of these outsourcings and business models, then of course one can discuss them – Mr Auer, you can do that – but there is a danger that when large players in Europe like Veolia and other large water companies are on the way with an annual turnover of more than €13 billion, they will have the opportunity and opportunities to subject local providers very quickly to dumping offers and suddenly to have their noses on competition law, so to speak, and to enter Austria too. We have seen from the example of KELAG how quickly such a thing goes when it is politically misguided. But, ladies and gentlemen, an area that is at least as relevant is wastewater disposal. If you take both areas together – water and wastewater – then these are huge infrastructure elements of our public goods. In the canal sector, where we have 95 percent connectivity, 26 000 projects have been funded since 1993 – since 1993 the Environmental Promotion Act. This was an investment of €13 billion. Of these, over €4 billion were public funds, i.e. taxpayers, to build up this infrastructure, so that, as far as the burden on citizens is concerned, it would be a harmonious and even burden, since, of course, the supply or disposal in central areas may be cheaper than in remote rural regions or rural centres. The rate of funding was 31 percent in the wastewater areas. With 31 percent, we have supported these projects. And in the water area, how does it look since 1993? – 9 500 projects were funded. € 515 million of funding has been provided in the water supply sector in Austria. You see, something has been built up here with enormous means of taxation, and now it is about challenges. Thus, we are involved in the problems in this area – there are, of course, problems – and then the discussion is needed. The problems are the high burden on the communities with this infrastructure. These are burdens that are reflected in budgets. President Mödlhammer of the Municipal Government has rightly said that, on average, 70 percent of the investments made in the water and wastewater sector over the last one and a half decades in Austria are responsible for the external positions of the municipalities, in the deficits, in debt. This is, I believe, an important point that must be taken into account, also with regard to the pressure on these communities. And precisely because... – A keyword is “cost-effective fee”. [[Abg. Jakob Auer: Cost-effective fees!]] Right, but if we want to discuss this, Mr Auer, we need a public awareness of public goods, and that is exactly where we are called as politicians. We need to make it clear to the public that a public service, a community service with these services at Weitem is the safer and also the cheaper variant. There are comparative studies – I am also a member of the Committee on Water Economics, who thank God for coordinating these activities across borders; I have been a green representative in this Commission for years – which clearly demonstrates that our system is more cost-effective and also very efficient compared to privatised models and can definitely keep up with quality. I think we can be proud of that. However, we also need to use cost-effective potentials, and that is when it comes to local cooperation, intercommunal cooperation and cooperation. In this area, I believe, we can and must already do a lot of things, and there, too, modern structures and good marketing, a management, above all, in order to deliver these services most cost-effectively. Of course, we also have problems when it comes to controlling these institutions. This is important on site so that no skindluder is driven. The municipal councils currently have too little insight. They don't have a control right in all the outsourced facilities of municipalities, I think they're a giant manko. There you have to intervene massively, because everything happens there, of course. That's exactly where you have to put the bar, so that these things can no longer happen or can be exposed in time. Then, of course, there is an important area, namely the quality of the water. This is a problem that cannot be underestimated at the cost. It is the nitrate load, it is pesticides that force water suppliers to carry out rehabilitation measures. These are old loads. We've made an estimate: What is the annual investment needed in Austria to maintain the current infrastructure? In the water sector, it is about €200 to €300 million – based on the reports of the municipalities that carried out the municipal credit – and in the wastewater sector it is 300 to 500 million. These are huge public tasks. We are convinced by the Greens that if one really considers the public good to be constitutional, one can also offer the citizens low charges in the long term, while at the same time providing high security of supply, if one considers the public good to protect the water in such a way as to include waste water. That must be the goal of politics, and we will be committed to that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-01-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00187_d8e22377	Mr Hagen has now been spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-01-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00187_d8e22398	Madam President. High house! Mr Bundeskanzler, it is nice that you are here, because I would like to give you a job because I am going to do this to Mr Matznetter – he was once a State Secretary in the government; one would really like to think that he has the gift of knowing something, but he knows how it looks, nothing at all – can not say personally now. At the next SPÖ instruction, you may then be able to tell him how it really is with the ÖBB and Stronach. Frank Stronach said he wanted to buy and clean up the ÖBB. But this has nothing to do with the rail network, because the rail network is state-owned. In Switzerland, this works perfectly, and Robert Lugar mentioned this earlier. In Switzerland, the rail network belongs to the state, is financed and made available by it. The trains that drive on it are private and pay a rent for use. - That's how it works. Unfortunately, Mr Matznetter did not understand. I would have liked to tell him myself now, but I think he just diluted himself when he knew what nonsense he was telling him. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] But I can now come to the point of the real issue of water. – We all know this statement: The water is the white gold of Austria, and I think that is how we should treat it. Like the black gold oil, you want to speculate with it now. We've seen what happens when you speculate and drive prices up. Example Sprit prices – I have already said it this morning –: Instead of 88 cents like ten years ago, we now pay for a litre of diesel 1,40 €. This has a lot to do with speculation, of course. also with tax speculation of our Federal Government, which has put a proper tax on it. Let's come to these speculators. I can only imagine that this discussion has occurred in the EU, because perhaps some forces are interested in speculating with the water, with the white gold of Austria. All I can say is, ladies and gentlemen: Hands away from our water! As a reminder, I would like to give just two examples. On the one hand, this is the Portuguese town of Paços de Ferreira, whose water supply was privatized in 2004. – In the first years, the water price increased by 400 percent. Now it is true that the water price increases by 6 percent each year at an inflation rate of 2.8 percent. Now you can imagine what it means when you privatize water, how profit is made and the population needs to bleed again. This is the wrong way, ladies and gentlemen. My second example leads us across the ocean: The World Bank and the IMF have invited the Bolivian city of Cochabamba in 1999 to privatize the water price. The result was that within a short time the water price increased by 300 percent, resulting in the so-called water war. In the year 2000 the whole thing was then withdrawn. I have therefore cited these examples because it is always said here that no one is forced to privatise the water. That is true, as it is now set out, but it is possible with gentle pressure from the IMF, as we see, to privatize the water, and that was actually the wrong way. I don't think it's excluded that the water comes into the wrong hands and people have to suffer. That is why I might also mention that Mr. Theo Öhlinger, who is certainly not – I am saying that this is the case now – some sort of person who is more or less familiar with constitutional law, has warned about it today, and has also said that, even if we are now making a constitutional law in Austria, this will be out of the EU's law. There you can already see how precarious and how dangerous the situation is. I tell you not only as an Austrian learner, but also as a European learner: In this area, caution is needed! We all know that. In the meantime, we all know the EU very well, we know what is going on there and how people are often made decisions and how the people are being enslaved and maligned by the EU. This is a clear matter, these are facts that you can understand in many decisions, and that is why we warn you, Federal Chancellor, against deciding in Brussels against the will of the Austrian population. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-01-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00187_d8e22469	Next speaker: Mr Huber. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-01-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00187_d8e22490	Be the beginnings! – Madam President, I should like to thank the President-in-Office of the Council. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Federal Chancellor! Mr Bundeskanzler, this federal government lacks every spirit, this federal government lacks any vision of a common goal to stand up for the population. I have the feeling – and that is the truth – that you represent only one goal here, and this is an EU SSR. We've all experienced what this brings. But now without any polemics! Mr Bundeskanzler, I have listened carefully to your comments – vote You today to our request, we are finally dealing with the brain, with the heart and with the mind of the house! Now, very briefly, to the honesty of the ÖVP: We have now all heard what the ÖVP has said, what great words the ÖVP has. I have here an expression from the homepage of the Tyrolean People's Party. Mr Richard Seeber, European People's Party Environment Commissioner, says – please listen carefully! –: ‘In reality, there is only one () legislative proposal for EU-wide uniform rules of procedure for public concessions.’ Richard Seeber – I quote – also writes: “The proposed law is also intended to help Austrian companies come to public contracts in other EU countries.” – Well, look at this: Is it now all the same that Austrian companies abroad want to take over the water supply?- Oh, my God! This is the “honestness” of these ÖVPs. Nevertheless, Richard Seeber continues to write – and this also explains Mr Karas: “The city of Vienna, with its resistance to transparency in its own procedures, is not allowed to throw thousands of Austrian companies abroad in between their legs.” Mr. Bundeskanzler, stop – as the ÖVP says – throwing the Austrian company stuff between the feet! The reality is that the Tyrolean People's Party wants that. Something else very interesting to protect water. What does the Tyrolean People's Party do? – The Tyrolean People's Party has long sold the entire water with TIWAG, all Tyrolean hydropower plants to American financial sharks! This ÖVP is so hypocritical, makes itself here, and claims to protect our water! – Therefore: Please stop that falsehood! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Mr Bundeskanzler, this must be kept in mind: In Tyrol it is that the Tyrolean state mortgage engulfs hundreds of millions – and then the TIWAG, managed by the ÖVP, governs by the ÖVP, takes hundreds of millions into control, takes money from the taxpayer, from the Tyrolean, from the Tyrolean, and pushes it on to the hypo! That’s “Tyrol Water Protection” with you! Mr Bundeskanzler, I tell you quite honestly: A state without justice is nothing but a cave of robbers. Therefore: Let's see that this ÖVP robber's cave is finally ending! Voices Let us ask you to do this. It's also like this: Hans has not learned what he has learned for a long time! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] That is why, Federal Chancellor: Let us end that only more banks are represented! Let us stop striving towards a European central state! Have courage at last! Be Austrian, and therefore we all agree to this proposal together! Faith I don't know what you're talking about. The population is of course also of the opinion: Be the beginnings! The fact that some European Freemason institutions are tearing our water over the back door under the nail must not happen! To the honesty of the EIA on this question: This is really a detailed document from which I have previously quoted; this can be read by everyone, just on the homepage of Tyrolean People's Party. I can only say: If you take the clown off the mask, you see the real face. To the work of this Federal Government an example: ==References== January was a matter for the Standing EU Subcommittee to conclude customs-free agreements with India and China. This is against any protection of Austrian jobs, but it must not even be discussed. It is simply decided that these countries will be able to deliver without duty. This is also part of the policy of the ÖVP. If companies like Swarovski say today – I am certainly not suspected of speaking for Swarovski – if the ÖVP decides to do so, then 5 000 jobs are at risk in Tyrol, then ÖVP is not even interested, because the ÖVP is only making a policy for banks, for the EU. But that is the wrong way. - That's where we have to keep together! In view of what you have said here today, Mr Bundeskanzler, what mayor Häupl has said, I can only call you: If you have so much character, you have so much sense of responsibility and today you agree to this BZÖ proposal, Josef Bucher's request, because then we have solved this problem once and for all. That's not going to be over the back door again, and the ÖVP doesn't need to talk to a split tongue anymore. Finally, Mr Bundeskanzler: Even the ÖGB, even the workers' chamber have examined this and come to the same conclusion. You write: ‘We therefore ask you to vote in favour of the rejection of the new Directive.’ I think that should be an assignment for all of us. Let's stick together and let's all be Austrians together, including you from the ÖVP! Now let us all be Austrians and work for the values of our country and make a policy with the brain, with the heart and with the mind of the house!
ParlaMint-AT_2013-01-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00187_d8e22611	Mr Huber, I would like to give you a call for an order. Next speaker: Mr Mag. Gaßner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-01-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00187_d8e22641	Madam President. Federal Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen! My previous speaker once again said that we should finally make ourselves strong together in the EU. Mr Huber, even though all Austrians who have been sent to the EU would vote against it, it is still so – you may be right for me – that we still do not have a majority there. So you have to show the people a lot and clearly the series of votes. The Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection has just voted in favour of this directive. Next, the EU Parliament is in a row, and as the majority show, this directive will also be voted for. And then we will vote on it in the EU Council. That is why I am so glad that we are now adopting a motion for a resolution that, in Austria, we are constitutionally ensuring that the water remains in public hands, that drinking water is supplied. This is already the case at a very high percentage. And here I am very much with Mr Auer that this must remain with the communities; the communities are precisely predestined for this. The only thing I fear about this concession award directive is the fact that if we in Austria do not look at it in the Constitution, communities that are financially on the wall will not be left to sell their drinking water at all. I have been mayor for some time and have repeatedly talked to finance ministers about what we should do in the communities so that we are financially better placed there. And I have heard from all – without regard to the party color – again and again: You don't need to be sorry. You still have enough wealth. Sell your canals, sell your houses, and sell your water. This has always been in the background, and if that is not the case now, then I am happy and happy that this is no longer possible. Of course, this should also be safeguarded by constitutional law. Mr Bucher, it is good and legitimate if you are here so committed to the preservation of drinking water in public hands. Fine, just: How do you explain to us or to the Austrians that you are, on the 22nd day of the year? January 2012, in an OTS issue have used to privatize the Federal Forests?- Oh, my God! [[Call the SPÖ:Hear, hear!]] As you know, the Federal Forests have a lot of water on their properties. Mr Bucher, you have to decide once: Do you want to keep public health care in public hands? If so, then you should not make such statements. Mr Bucher, you are also in favour of privatising schools, energy companies, the ÖBB and so on. However, this cannot be combined with your current statement. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! There is also the possibility for citizens to express their abuse of a European Union approach by signing an EU citizens' initiative. This possibility exists for all citizens, and I call for all those who listen to us at home in our discussion on water to take part in this EU-citizen's initiative. At the address www.right2water.eu everyone can write his signature. That would be a very essential thing – then we finally have a European citizens' initiative and the necessary procedure. [[Abg. Kickl: What is the result?]] [[Inter-call at BZÖ.]] – Yes, but in the Council we are only with one voice, but we do know that, don’t we? - That's something else again. [[Abg. Scheibner: Let's finally make one!]] [[Abg. Grosz: The weak voice is sitting behind!]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, I understand The weak voice behind me – that is not the case with guarantee, because today the Federal Chancellor has explained to us very clearly how this directive is and what we want with this proposal that we have tabled today. [[Abg. Bucher: He will agree, he has said!]] We want to have recorded public water supply in the Constitution, and those who guarantee it are essentially the communities or the associations, the cooperatives that are 100% in public possession. [[Congratulation with the SPÖ]] [[President Neugebauer shall take over the chairmanship.]] That's all we want, and that's what we want. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-01-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00187_d8e22765	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Gerstl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-01-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00187_d8e22787	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Mr State Secretary! It is difficult when, in some federal states, the election campaign has begun – only in this way can I understand the comments of Mr Huber – to come here to a serious and serious debate. But it has already said a well-known mayor that election campaign is the time of focused intelligence, and I think that more is what you said, Mr Huber, is not adding. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Grosz: Who was the mayor?]] [[Phone call at the SPÖ.]] – I come to the mayor to speak later in my remarks. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Grosz.]] It should be noted once again that this EU Directive does not provide for a privatisation obligation on water supply for service concessions. I believe that there were representatives of all parties in their contributions to the debate; it was only in the growings that it was always a different representation; everyone tried to win a public opinion for themselves here and stir up one against the other. That was the uniosity that has been demonstrated here today, because those who have looked closer to it know quite clearly that it is not about privatising the water, that it is not about selling, that it is not about prohibiting the sale in the future, but it is here – and here we are all agreed – about water quality and ensuring the water supply and that this is controlled by the public hand in the future. That is, I believe, the very crucial point. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] To this end, we all confess ourselves: to ensure the provision of general care. It is also particularly important for me to highlight one once again, because it has been said by a party that the supply contract would not have been given. – No, this service contract in the municipalities is clearly allocated to the municipalities, and this is guaranteed in the European Union Treaty. In Article 14 of the European Union Treaty, general provisions are excluded from all other market-economy elements, and these are: There is no attack on public health, not on this directive. However, what is done with this directive is that in the case where a municipality decides not to do so on its own behalf, but to outsource it to a company – some public sector of general interest – from an Austrian company, from a community-owned company – that it is then bound to certain requirements. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Gaßner.]] Why should it be bound by certain standards? – Because in the past, of course, certain transactions have been made in some communities with individual enterprises, which were not for the benefit of the taxpayer. Therefore, this Services Directive is in fact an anti-corruption provision, an anti-corruption provision within the meaning of the taxpayers, that the money is properly handled, that offers are collected and that there is an orderly comparison and that the surcharge is transparent. [[Abg. Kickl: The EU finally intervenes! It's incredible!]] Especially for the Greens who have launched an anti-corruption popular desire, it is very important that they should actually be for this service directive, because this service directive is an anti-corruption directive, Mrs Brunner. You would really be well advised if you approached these anti-corruption rules. [[Ironic Holiness of the Abg. Kickl.]] [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: I look at what they pay!]] This is not just about water, it is about energy supply, it is about transport, it is about postal services. These are many areas which many communities are already operating through their own businesses. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber.]] [[Abg. Kickl: For knowing that they are fighting corruption!]] That this is the case shows a contribution in the press – you should only have read the “press” on the weekend – in which Mr. Schellhorn clearly states that this staged scandal is none. He writes that the breakdown of water plants is a process of disseminating other companies. They are also part of the government in Vienna. It is quite clear that Vienna Kanal, namely wastewater management, for example is already a cross-board business, that this is no longer done in the public order, but that this is only a 100 percent property, Mr. Colleague. [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: Before our time! Long before our time, you know that!]] You probably forgot that trams have already been sold to American trusts and have been re-readed – we also have in the channel area. Ladies and gentlemen! For example, that in this area of the city of Vienna, lubrications were not returned to those who paid for the water, but were poured into the general budget, is a sign that we need not only control of the private sector. We also need control where public providers are on the go. If the water charges in Vienna are increased by 33 percent, but the total expenditure is actually covered by additional revenue, then I have to ask myself whether we should also try to ensure that, if there are non-profit providers, there can also be no profits that one budget pot in the other pot should not be shifted. This has already been demonstrated by the Court of Auditors in its 2010 report, and it has been said that the surpluses generated in the field of canal, water and waste in Vienna alone amounted to €390 million from 2005 to 2007 and that non-targeted reserves have been added. So, ladies and gentlemen, it is not just a matter of who the concrete owner is, but it always depends on how the matter is dealt with in concrete terms. That is why I expect from every public provider, but also from any private person who acts in the sense of the public service provider, to proceed with the same quality and with the same claim: that we ensure that the citizen always pays only what is necessary, and that he has the same quality each time. We are committed to this, because that is, I believe, in the sense of the people, that they get the highest quality in ensuring all the orders that a community that has the public hand, at the lowest prices. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen, to conclude, I would like to inform you that public contracts are already being made by the public sector; not only do contracts make private ones. The city of Vienna currently has 39 partners – pardon, not currently, but for a number of years – with which it had water supply contracts, water exchange contracts or water supply contracts: Municipalities and water associations from Altlengbach via Klosterneuburg and Purkersdorf to Wöllersdorf and Wolfsgraben et cetera. But I would also like to see certain other communities not doing business, but that is also subject to control. Therefore, once again: Equal treatment for all public providers and private providers in the field of general provisions for the protection of taxpayers and the protection of Austrians!
ParlaMint-AT_2013-01-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00187_d8e22930	Next speaker: Mrs Bayr. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-01-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00187_d8e22952	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Mr State Secretary! High house! Ladies and gentlemen from the trade union school Mistelbach, welcome you here in the house! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Water is not just basic foods, it is not just food, water is survival. For decades we have been able to see how the IMF and the World Bank have forced some countries, especially developing countries, to liberalize services of general care, especially water supply, as it has so beautifully said, to privatize. The consequences were more than fatal. We know that everywhere prices have increased, the quality has become worse, and rising prices and falling quality cause people to have to buy water in bottles in part; this is really a life-threatening disaster for the poorest. The only ones who won were the companies. To privatize general provisions, to privatize services of general care is rarely good, and especially when it comes to water. I am very, very proud of the fact that in 2001 – as then vice-chairman of the Environment Committee in the Vienna Municipal Council – I was responsible for putting the Vienna water supply under constitutional protection, with § 3a para. 2 of the Vienna Water Supply Act. The fact that this protection has proved successful is also evidenced, among other things, by the fact that an all-party application has just been decided in the Vienna municipal council about half an hour ago, in which the Federal Government is asked to protect the water de facto, protect water supply and support the local authorities. I think that this proposal, which we have tabled today as the parties to the government, is a real step in this direction. Let me come to the situation in Vienna again! I rarely have such an awe before a political decision, as before those who fell in the 1860s, namely to build the first high-sourced water pipeline, which is becoming 140 years old this year. [[Mr Scheibner and Mr Mag. Stefan.]] That was an incredible investment at the time and an incredible amount of money, but an investment from which Vienna benefits to this day, with high-quality water. [[Abg. Kickl: Who was mayor at the time?]] 380 million litres of water per day is transported to Vienna in the natural accident. There are over 3,000 kilometres of pipe network, over 100,000 terminals that are maintained and maintained. And it is also quite natural that the source protected areas of Hirschwang, Nasswald and Wild Alps, which are owned by the municipality of Vienna and make up a total of 33,500 hectares, are also managed in a sustainable manner. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kickl.]] By the way, this costs € 15 million a year, and this also explains the water price – to which I come then – which can also be seen in the international comparison. A lot has been invested in Vienna to reduce water losses. There is about a quarter less water consumption than in the 1970s, on the one hand by rehabilitating the pipe network, on the other hand by water-saving household appliances. At the cost: 1 cubic metre of water costs 1,73 €, which is when compared with the other cities of Europe, at the very bottom of the cost scale. [[Abg. Scheibner: That's a lot!]] Considering that every person in Vienna consumes an average of 130 litres of water a day alone at home and a three-member family pays about €300 a year, I think that the costs are quite appropriate. The quality of the water in Vienna – and this applies equally to the quality of water from many local water associations, from many other municipal associations that provide water – is only due to the fact that there is on the one hand a really great commitment of the employees and that there is, on the other hand, the political will to provide this important asset, this important survival of water in this quality. This Austrian treasure of water and the investments that depend on simply throwing themselves into the throats of corporations where it is clear that they want nothing but to make profit would really be a crime on the health of Austrians and on the quality of life in that country. I am therefore very happy about this proposal today and hope that it will receive broad support because I believe that our water is really worth all our political protection. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-01-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00187_d8e23019	Next speaker: Mr Katzian. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-01-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00187_d8e23057	I don't know why you're so upset. This is a European citizens' initiative, you are always for more and more citizens' participation. European trade unions have called on water to support this European citizens' initiative. [[Abg. Kickl: There is already!]] I would like to invite you to this! Mr. Kickl asked what this is going to bring. – Well, we don’t know yet, because it’s a new instrument. [[Abg. Kickl: Nothing will bring it! I can tell you now that it doesn't do anything!]] – Don’t wake up, Mr Kickl, you are always for citizens’ participation! It is a new instrument in the EU, and the trade unions have said: Okay, let's try that out. There are over 600 000 signatures, and we will soon have a million – so that's not going to be so bad. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I can only say the following: Whoever we are discussing here today is a concern, he should support it. You don't need to get upset. I believe that in today's debate, ladies and gentlemen, the concern of all, including across party borders, has been expressed by the fact that there is a great tendency to liberalise public services in the European Union. The scepticism of the population is shared by many here in the High House, because if the water supply and other public services are supplied exclusively by profit, then the protection of resources, sustainability aspects and, above all, the maintenance and renewal of the facilities remain on the track. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Book]] People don't want that. In the water, people are particularly sensitive, and therefore it is quite clear: Water supply must remain a public task. This has been clearly expressed today. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Where is a better place to ensure social fundamental rights and public public health, than in the Constitution, in the Austrian federal constitution? It is therefore perfectly clear that what has been discussed here today, which is also part of the motion for a resolution, namely the safeguarding of the federal constitution, has a high priority and that this must be implemented accordingly. I believe that it is a matter - and this has also been expressed in the debate - of preventing the option of privatisation in Austria from becoming a subject, and it is also a matter of ensuring that water supply and other services of public interest are not subject to market principles. There has also been a very high degree of clarity in the debate. Municipal services, ladies and gentlemen, ensure durable services and quality of life for all. Privatisation results in lower quality and, above all, worse working conditions for those employed in public service companies. When it comes to profit, the framework conditions for employees in this area are different. This is also the reason why this citizens' initiative was launched specifically from the public service trade unions in Europe. It is clear that concession awarding is not yet an automatic privatisation, but pressure on local authorities is increasing, and a few private companies in Europe are expecting billions of businesses. We must therefore make every effort to do what we can in Europe and, above all, in Austria. The water belongs to all of us, it has to stay that way!
ParlaMint-AT_2013-01-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00187_d8e23126	Next speaker: Mrs Dr. Moser. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-01-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00187_d8e23147	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Appreciate sisters! Mr Bundeskanzler, you are quite right: There are two pairs of shoes. That means a couple: We never want to have the water supply in private hands in Austria. There is broad consensus across all political groups. The other pair of shoes is at EU level, the approach you have made quite clear: If a community, when a body decides to sell, privatises, it is to be decided under EU rules on competition law. However, these two pairs of shoes, Mr. Federal Chancellor, have – how to say? – a mutual boot spoon function. One pair of shoes is the boot spoon for the other, quite simply expressed. We Greens fear that the back door of this directive, which, as it were, privatise competition, which provides for transparent, anti-corruption-free privatisation, may in future create additional rules that could endanger the other pair of shoes – the public good water, the public water supply. This is our fear, and therefore we have tabled two motions for resolutions which are in full conformity with your, including the second part of the motion for a resolution tabled by the Committee on Budgets: We want constitutional security in Austria. Hands of the private away from the water! And the other request goes towards precautionary at EU level. I can clarify this to you by means of a letter just arrived from Brussels. This letter from Brussels shows the voting behaviour, the current voting behaviour in the Internal Market Committee, where this Directive is being discussed and also adopted. Interestingly, there is the agreement of almost all members of the Social Democrats to this directive at EU level – there is a single vote in this committee, Evelyne Gebhardt, who did not join her group, but also the Greens, as well as the Liberals and so on. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek.]] There are two people in the European People's Party, but the majority of the European People's Party has contributed to this directive. And interestingly, weidenholzer, SPÖ, a deputy member, was not there, and Karas also pressed. [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: They didn't let him in!]] I am curious how Karas will ultimately vote in the EU Parliament on the issue of sausages. The safest way is certainly to close the barriers nationally on the one hand, says to make today's decisions towards the Constitution, but on the other hand – and that's superlative – to take precautions against any – I deliberately say: possible – opening locks towards privatisation opportunities at EU level. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-01-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00187_d8e23195	No one is reporting on this. I therefore conclude the debate. We come to the votes. First of all, we are voting on the self-employed amendment 2179/A(E) tabled by Mr Josef Bucher, colleagues and colleagues on the protection of local water. I would ask those Members who are in favour of this request to have a similar sign. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. President. — The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek]] Whoever is in favour of this request, I ask him for a sign. – This is accepted by a majority. (E 283.) Debates of the European Parliament Christiane Brunner, colleagues on negotiations on the award of service concessions. If we support this motion for a resolution, I would ask for a sign of approval. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution by Members. Christiane Brunner, colleagues on no sale of water. Who is for this, I ask him for a sign of approval. – Finds no majority. The application is rejected. [[17:22:59]] Short debate on the response to the question 12795/AB
ParlaMint-AT_2013-01-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00187_d8e23301	We are now coming to the brief debate on the reply of the Federal Minister for Agriculture, Forestry, the Environment and the Water Industry with the order number 12795/AB. The answer to the question has been distributed. A reading by the writer is therefore lacking. We are going into the debate. I draw attention to the fact that according to § 57a para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure, no speaker may speak for more than 5 minutes, with a speaking time of 10 minutes for the first speaker. Statements by members of the Government or by a State Secretary notified in writing shall not take more than 10 minutes. Mr Pirklhuber came to speak. Speech time: 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-01-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00187_d8e23336	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Values Advisors! The answer to this question by Federal Minister Berlakovich on development policy and environmental concerns about the use of agrofuels is one of the most serious environmental and energy issues we are currently discussing in Europe and also in Austria. On this occasion I would like to point out that I am pleased that this is a question that Mr Bayr from SPÖ and I have tabled together. Why together? – Because we also work closely together on the network with various NGOs from the development policy field, from the environment, from the church sector, and we exchange about the incredible developments, namely that today, wheat – so to speak, an old Christian symbol, grain, bread and wine – is that we today sprinkle bread and fill in the tanks and a billion people on this planet and a minister who is still calling himself environmental ministers – it is the question to what extent this applies – for more than a year on every occasion, with hands and feet, we have defended and driven his goal from the introduction of E10, this increase in the addition of agro-ethanol to petrol. I have to tell you, this is very, very remarkable. Who stopped that? – On the one hand, because of the massive pressure in the Austrian population, together here in Parliament with the NGOs, with church institutions who have clearly said that it cannot be. [[Abg. Hornek: You forgot the ÖMV!]] The spraying of food, of cereals is not ecologically meaningful and ethically irresponsible, Mr President. [[Abg. Hornek: The ÖMV was in truth!]] At the same time, the Commission adopted on 17 July. In October 2012, an amendment to EU Directives 2009/28/EC and 2009/30/EC was presented, in particular, to one of the main arguments of criticism, which has not been taken into account so far, namely the so-called indirect land use changes by the cultivation of agricultural fuels, the Indirect Land Use Change, the change in the cultivation situation in developing countries. Ladies and gentlemen! We now know that European investment funds operate land tombing on a large scale in Africa, and 60 percent of these areas – which is evidenced by international investigations and surveys – are being grown for export. That's how it looks! And the Minister seriously says that this is a sustainable way of producing energy, an opportunity to reduce climate change and enforce environmental measures in the transport sector. [[Abg. Hornek: He's right!]] In Europe, we cannot meet the demand we have to achieve the 2020 targets of 10 per cent of agricultural fuels in the transport sector, if at the same time we do not put our agricultural policy completely on the head. That's not possible, everyone who's been looking at the numbers is aware of that. And: E10 also prevents: It prevents the innovation of car manufacturers, because it is calculated in the context of the climate balances, and with agrofuels they can operate their old engines for even longer than it would actually be useful. [[Abg. Hornek: This is a Salto backward brand Pirklhuber!]] – Mr Commissioner, we will look at it in detail. [[Abg. Hornek: It would be good if you did it before you talked!]] You see, the development must go in a different direction. Our goals are: Energy efficiency, renewable raw materials, of course renewable energy, the use of second generation agrofuels mainly in environmental sectors, such as 100 percent in agriculture. Mr President, that would be reasonable and sensible in the sense of security of supply, but not unblemished for transport, simply beeing, beekeeping, increasing and thus driving the crisis forward and not solving it. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Hornek.]] Let us look at what the Minister answered. – This is stupid, says the colleague. [[Abg. Hornek: I didn't say that!]] Dear colleague Hornek, I am reading to you literally now – good, moving clouds, then I will move a cloud in front of your mind, namely the cloud, which is the matter and what now experts from the German Ministry of Agriculture say. [[Abg. Hornek: I said you were moving clouds! Did you watch what I said?]] I quote from the opinion “Food security and sustainable productivity increase” of the Scientific Advisory Council for Agricultural Policy at the Ministry of Agriculture of the Federal Republic of Germany from January 2012, which says: [[Abg. Hornek: Ask your green colleagues in Germany, who support this!]] “The competition between tank and plate will therefore exist in this way or so and will continue to grow in importance. But that is why this competition should not be further strengthened by politically defined quotas." That's exactly what you're doing, Minister of State! They are trying to make further progress in this tightening by means of a politically fixed increase in quotas. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Hornek.]] If we look at the answer to the question, let us look at the answer. I would like to take a brief look at the answer to Question 5, which shows how this Minister is ticking. The Minister said quite clearly: ‘The planned introduction of the biofuels E10 with 1. It was temporarily suspended on 1 October 2012.’ So, still a clear commitment, you want to continue to introduce this fuel and have now “restrained” the introduction only once. So you're still on the wrong steamer. They have obviously not yet carried out the studies submitted by the Commission and international institutes. The studies of the German agricultural resort, international studies, no, you don't want to observe that. The second answer, which shows particularly clearly how unpleasant you answer: They are referring to the question of how these raw materials are concerned, where they come from, how much is imported, what is from Austrian production, quite specifically: ‘In order to achieve its own (national) targets, the need for cereals (grains, maize, triticals) for bioethanol may be covered primarily by domestic production.’ They have all the time suggested that we could now cover production in the biodiesel and ethanol sectors from our own production – with Raps as well. – Now, my colleague, Schultes, smiles very much. Mr Schultes, you're involved in this project. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Ing. Schools.]] Pischelsdorf is not only a participation project of AGRANA, but it is also involved in the Lower Austrian Rübenbauernbund – profit-based, I assume. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Ing. Schools.]] It is a restriction of agricultural bureaucracy and agricultural officials sitting here in Parliament with the Austrian agricultural industry, and this agricultural industry has received massive public support. [[Abg. Hornek: That's what you're saying, where you are!]] € 8 million Federal resources, € 4 million from the state of Lower Austria for the construction of this plant. Let's see how the Minister argues. What does he say about it? – He says: OK, priority from Austria. - Okay, you can sort of interpret what that means. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hornek.]] – Yes, you are rightly upset, because what the Minister has answered is quite immense. Minister Berlakovich says: “Depending on the results of the harvest and the general conditions of the market, something is being imported – “The raw materials of lower quality (food) imported from other neighbouring Member States (Slovakia, Czech Republic, Hungary, Romania, Germany)” Okay, cool! So Austria is a priority, and then we import from five or six neighbouring Member States. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Hornek.]] [[Abg. Hornek: Where do we import the oil, Mr. Colleague?]] Now, of course, comes the particular question he might be able to answer. Mr Minister, tell me straight and clear: Can you guarantee that the cereals imported from Romania were not imported into Romania via the Black Sea Port and delivered from there by a dealer to AGRANA?- Oh, my God! Can you guarantee that cereals, fodder, ethanol rice imported from Germany to Austria, not via Rotterdam, from anywhere in the world, to a German port, to a German warehouse and from there to Austria? If you cannot guarantee this, I would urge you to consider your provisional political determination, your provisional political position and to come to a sustainable and right position, namely to support the European Commission in this proposal and to make clear within the framework of the Federal Government that food of the first generation, wheat, rape, maize – that is objectively, the striking argument, colleague – is that these raw materials are reduced to 5 percent. [[Abg. Jakob Auer: a little more objective!]] [[further calls to the ÖVP]] Now a number, Minister of State, – I don't know, Mr Hornek, but he doesn't know any numbers at all and does anything in front of him. [[Abg. Hornek: Mr Pirklhuber has no idea, but plenty of it!]] Mr Hornek, here I call you the 2012/13 AMA performance balance sheet, which is the official cereals preview of the agricultural market Austria – not a green advance organisation. She's a stone and she's clear: The demand for bioethanol in the soft wheat sector, maize, triticals, is 537 000 tonnes. And – listen! – the balance, the negative balance of the 2012/13 cereal balance, is almost 500 000 tonnes. That means he's about the amount that's missing in the balance sheet somewhere. And security of supply – always a big topic, even in ÖVP travel – is only 88 percent. Our total cereal balance was earlier so that we always had a slight surplus, could export cereals, now we can only cover 88 percent, and that's what it has been since 2010. [[Abg. Hornek: You really didn't understand anything!]] [[Abg. Hornek: You're a herb and rub professor!]] [[President Neugebauer gives the bell sign.]] And it is verifiable, ladies and gentlemen, that the imports of cereals have increased dramatically from 2008 onwards – due to the production of fuel. [[President Neugebauer gives the bell sign again.]] Now a little note
ParlaMint-AT_2013-01-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00187_d8e23598	Your speaking time is over, please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-01-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00187_d8e23613	Mr President, you could have turned on the red lamb. It is not a good practice if you did not give me a light signal, otherwise I could have given my speaking time better, because I would have had some important arguments to make. But I'm sure that's what my colleague will do. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-01-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00187_d8e23641	Mr Dipl.-Ing. Berlakovich. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-01-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00187_d8e23662	Mr President. High house! Ladies and gentlemen! What about biofuels at all? This is not an Austrian initiative, it is a European joint project. Climate change is all the more important. Climate change is generated by the combustion of fossil energy sources, oil, coal and gas. There are greenhouse gases, and the global temperature is warmed. It is therefore the goal of protecting the climate and of getting rid of fossil energy sources, namely electricity, heat and fuel. Therefore, as part of the European Union, the European Union and Austria have established that in the case of fossil fuels, petrol and diesel, we are replacing some of them with biofuels, making them more environmentally friendly and thus more organic. What I tried to do last year was to implement two regulations of the European Union: the Fuel Directive, which concerns the quality of the fuels that people buy, and the achievement of the degree of by-catch, which is still 10 percent. 10 percent are expected to come from renewable energy sources in transport. This can be electromobility, but that can also be biofuels. We're already mixing biofuels. This is the task to be solved. There is a new development at the European level, according to which these European Union regulations are to be redesigned. And Austria will be involved in this discussion. But I'd like to hold on because there's panic in here. [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: No panic!]] We don't heat food in Austria! Foods belong to the plate and not to the tank! This has always been the maximum of Austrian agriculture. [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. Wenninger.]] We have a clear priority, which is: plate, trough, tank. We feed people, that is the first task of domestic agriculture. We're producing feed for the cattle, for the trough. And the rest we don't need is used for raw materials. And it's true: We import cereals because it creates industrial jobs. 18 percent of an Austrian cereal harvest – which is to be said to people because you are operating a tactic of confusion here – is quality wheat for the diet of people. We even generate more than the people in Austria need. We export our quality goods to Germany and Italy. 50 percent of the cereals are used for animal feed, and 30 percent of a grain harvest, less grain, are now processed industrially. We are the world's largest lemon acid producer, young Bunzlauer, we produce strength, we produce organic alcohols. [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: corn!]] And people find a job in industry. We also import surplus products from neighbouring countries Hungary and Slovakia. We also import metals and other raw materials and create industrial jobs in Austria. [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: Industrial policy, but no agricultural policy, no food policy!]] I do not know why you oppose the creation of jobs in Austria. I see it as a right strategy to refine less cereals, which is not suitable for food, into high-quality raw materials and thus create jobs in industry. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: This is ecological nonsense!]] Furthermore, there are by-products in the production of biofuels, and protein feed is produced alongside the biofuel. We can replace soya with that. We import a lot of soya from South America for animal feed, and we replace the imports with the protein feed produced as a by-product for biofuels. We are thus becoming more independent from abroad. We produce our own protein feed, our own fuels. I am an important asset in the independence of Austria. We import crude oil from crisis regions – and winning a piece of independence is the approach to this debate. [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: tax exemption for AGRANA!]] It is clear that the Austrian farmers and the farmers who supply must sign sustainability criteria. [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: This is industrial policy!]] Cereals used for bio-prit production must meet sustainability criteria, i.e. be grown reasonably. [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: Do you control that?- Oh, my God!]] It is said – and there are a number of things mixed – when we produce biofuels in Austria, this increases hunger in the world. That's not true! This is a serious topic, hunger in the world. But it doesn't make sense to deliver grain to Africa – to help in the crisis, yes. But these countries must be able to feed themselves. We support them and in Berlin we noted at the last agricultural ministerial summit that investment in agriculture in African, Asian regions must be increased so that people can feed there. I'll tell you one thing: A third of the world's harvests are lost because in these countries the storage is bad, the grain is molded and partly discarded. And I would like such fighters as you, who fight against biofuels, to be against discarding food. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] That's where I miss it. I would like to see those who oppose biofuels also occur with such a vehemence against fossil oil, because in truth you are doing the procrastination. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] What's this about? – The traffic is in Austria... – Yes, you can shout here, but it is not true what you are telling here. [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: Renewable energy!]] The point is climate protection. We do not achieve our climate targets in transport. Since 1990, emissions have increased by 50 percent, with transport responsible for 30 percent of greenhouse gas emissions. And now I'm not saying as an Environment Minister – They say this as greens – people are no longer allowed to drive by car, I don't say this as Minister of the Environment, I want traffic to become more environmentally friendly that the cars consume less fuel, the engines become more economical, but that we also make the fuel more friendly. We need transport for economic development and also for individual well-being. Transport is a need for people, and that is why we have transposed the EU directive. But I think it makes sense for the European Union to say that we are rethinking our goals, because you know what is happening in Europe at the moment, I am surprised that you are not upset about this? – Europe imports from Indonesia, where the original forest is raw, palm oil, Europe imported from the Brazilian jungle biofuels. [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: Palm oil, we know that!]] On the other hand, we are, because no one can agree that this is ecological if we bring palm oil that is reddished in Indonesia, Malaysia to Europe or bring the Brazilian forest red and the biofuels. [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: We too!]] On the other hand, we are! But if this comes from domestic production, where we have a potential, I support it and think it makes sense. And I expect clarification at European level, because Europe allows all of this to happen. I had a discussion with Commissioner Oettinger at the end of the year, where I did exactly that. Yes, I am in favour of a critical discussion, and we are not working there easily, it is very likely to distinguish between food and other agricultural raw materials. We support what the European Union says that fuels of the second generation are to be produced. We can do this today. Then, however, the spray costs an x-axis of what it costs today, and people are already getting upset about the spray price. That is, we need a lot of research so that we can generate second generation fuels in such a way that people can afford to do so. We must therefore have a proper discussion at European level, which reads as follows: We must clarify at European level which biofuels are ecological and which are not. And according to fair criteria, we really need to keep track of the conditions under which a fuel must be produced, that it is really ecological. This is our position, which I represent there, that we should clarify it so that we do not constantly discuss it here. In addition, environmental NGOs also say that biofuels have a meaning when they are produced ecologically. And I also see the NGOs as a partner there, because it is at least about reducing greenhouse gases. And I tell you honestly, and without polemics, I'd rather be a biofuel from Austria than fossil oil from any crisis regions. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: This is the untruth!]] Therefore: If land use factors are to be introduced, yes, I am in favour, but I am very sure that similar criteria will then be applied to the exploitation of fossil oil. It can't be that no one says anything when it comes to oil, you as greens – that's most surprising to me – don't say anything, while you're a crusader against biofuels. I think that's the wrong way. We want to produce sustainable fuels. Food is the first task of agriculture to feed livestock so that food is produced, and then to refine remains of higher quality. This is what we stand for, and we will do so at European level. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-01-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00187_d8e23879	Next speaker: Mr Wenninger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-01-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00187_d8e23900	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! First of all, consensus that food does not belong to the tank, even under the pretext of climate protection, sustainability or the promotion of renewable energy. I have only one question I would like to ask as a non-agricultural expert. Maybe we can discuss this on an occasion. What I don't understand is why we have to import Soya from South America into Austria for animal feed. I wonder what the animals ate when there was no soya from Brazil in Austria. That's where the pigs, cows, lived the same way. But I'd like to... [[Federal Minister Dipl.-Ing. Berlakovich: Nutritional physiological!]] Dietary physiological for animals or humans? But I would like to make this debate as far as I think it is better if we perhaps get away from the agricultural debate to an environmental debate, because then we would probably discuss the whole issue of agrofuel E10 much more objectively. [[Interlocutory call to the ÖVP]] As a SPÖ environmental speaker, I would say that we are discussing the parts where they belong. Mr Pirklhuber, we have also had very good discussions in the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection on this issue, which was not as emotional as it is here. This may be at the forum, but it may also be that there has been a very technical discussion. What's this about? – When we wanted to introduce this E10 into Austria, the EU has risen to the brakes. There are considerations about amending the current directive. This has led to Austria saying that if there is no longer any EU targets, we will not introduce E10 in Austria, but we will remain with the previously agreed quantities. This is the result of the discrepancy in the answer to the question. Of course, you can read a lot similar to the water theme. We are now at the negotiating stage, and it is about how Austria will position itself at European level, as the Minister for the Environment, at the same time as the Minister for Agriculture, is. My/our position is careful in the first generation of agrofuels, with all the concerns already raised, rising food prices, redundancies in developing countries, hunger in the world, imports of wheat and rapes for the production of agrofuels. However, I am entirely in favour of us moving towards the second or third generation of agrofuels, which the Minister has referred to. Let us take the incentives for us to actually invest in the second, third generation of waste in order to make this useful for a favourable, sustainable fuel in Austria. Let us also take the funds to promote savings potential for fuels while investing in electric cars at the same time. We have the liberation from the NOVA and in some federal states there is little support for electric mobility. But in every trade journal you read, no, that doesn't pay, the cars are still too expensive, the infrastructure doesn't work. – It will not come from itself, and the oil lobby will not support us. I appeal that, for example, as we have paid relatively successfully the scrapping premium for crisis management at the same time with an environmental policy objective, we consider how we can promote electromobility, but with subsidies that will give real impetus, on the one hand, to development, on the other, to the promotion of Austrian technology that makes e-mobility the key. I am once again seeking to address this issue not only from an agricultural policy point of view, but also, above all, to take into account the sustainable, ecological and development criteria. In contrast to what we have criticised in the EU today as regards the directive on water, we now have a reference from Brussels, which reads as follows: Be careful with the first generation of agrofuels! And I think that's a sign you should pay attention to in Austria too. Finally, because today so much has already been discussed nationally: There are also country elections in Lower Austria. One way to move the population, to switch to public transport would be to make it cheap. [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: Right!]] In Vienna there is a ticket of 365 € for the whole year. What is natural in Vienna must also be possible in Lower Austria. Then we would have a lot of discussion about gasping food, using for agrofuels, or saving others. In this sense, I appeal, we promote public transport and we slow down in areas that are not sustainable!
ParlaMint-AT_2013-01-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00187_d8e23960	Next speaker: Member of the Council of Ministers of the European Communities. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-01-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00187_d8e23981	Mr President. Estimated Minister of State! Ladies and gentlemen! I believe that with regard to the Commission's proposals, which Mr Pirklhuber has also referred to, with regard to land use change and the indications that we should take care of CO2 production in the agricultural sector, we must also ask very clearly how we can save even more CO2 in the agricultural sector. They know as well as I do that this is possible mainly by using genetically modified plants. So be very careful that you do not open the door and door to genetic engineering in Europe with these regulations and with the consent of these things, and are therefore riding drivers for companies such as Monsanto and Co. In Austria we have sustainable agriculture, since 2010 we have a sustainability system. We know that we save 60 percent CO2 on the biodiesel and 70 percent on the production of bioethanol. We manage sustainablely. But I also say quite clearly Yes to control imports when it comes to controlling where palm oil comes, for example. It is important to look closely at what is going on in South America, what is happening in Asia, how the social and environmental standards, i.e. the framework conditions, are there. But you should not go back and overstep your own production and go back, but perhaps strengthen your own production. If we illustrate today's discussions, we remember that we first had the discussion about the water, where we have a national shoulder closure and know very well that what we have in our country must be treasured as great treasure. But we also have exactly the same in agricultural production. With what we produce, we know how we produce it, and there we have 100% security. But I would also like to address the protein gap. Mr Weninger had previously asked the question: Why do we have to import soya? [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: 80 percent!]] We have a protein gap in animal feed in Europe. Especially in the production of bioethanol, as one of the waste products in this production cycle, we have high-quality protein for animal feed. This is the product ActiProt from the plant in Pischelsdorf, which you have already criticized here. We can compensate for soya imports, because we can generate Austrian value added and thus also have safety in animal feeding. In the European Union, we are currently discussing the common agricultural policy for the next seven years. This is also a proposal that wants to require that 7 percent of Europe's entire agricultural area be removed from production as an ecological priority. That's 7 percent. [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: This has been reduced to 3 percent!]] Do you know how much percentage is currently being used for agricultural fuels worldwide? - That's 3 percent! That is, we take noble 7 percent out of production, but we know that with 3 percent we can already meet some goals. That means we have to go in the direction of intensifying production in this area and producing protein plants. The next thing that is really unclean in the discussion is the indication of competition for food. Dear ladies and gentlemen! In Austria, 157 000 tonnes of food are thrown away per year, which is 19 kilos per head. We could only feed half a million Austrians for a year with the food we throw away. It's objectionable when you face that to the agrodiesel. It's not a competition for nutrition. That's the competition. And if someone is discussing the fact that agricultural prices or food prices are too high, I will only start this discussion once we stop throwing it away. We need to get cleaner, we need to get more accurate! Dear ladies and gentlemen! If we strengthen domestic production, we control imports and cover the whole wide range of agricultural production in Austria, the trough, the plate and the tank, so that we have all parts in our own country: feed in the livestock sector, of course the production of food, but also the production of renewable energy! This promotes growth and ensures that our businesses are able to operate properly.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-01-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00187_d8e24044	Next speaker: Mr Jannach. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-01-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00187_d8e24066	Mr President. Federal Minister! I have now heard the pleas made by the colleague and, Minister, your plea. The way you present your arguments here is really unique. I have to say that the presentation of your ideas really did you today. The only hook on the whole thing is the following, I quote from the “EconomiesBlatt”, no free party newspaper, after the failure of the E10. With your argument, you did not even convince Minister of Finance Fekter and the Minister of Economic Affairs Mitterlehner. You can still plead so much for this. You didn't even convince your own people, I didn't even talk about the SPÖ Ministers. I read to: “Support he received” – Minister Berlakovich – “not even from his own party. Minister of Finance Maria Fekter (V) rejected a tax advantage such as the currently sold E5 and Minister of Economic Affairs Reinhold Mitterlehner showed little hurry in his approval of a change in the fuel regulation.” Not even your own ministers have convinced you of your line of argument. On the answers to the questions raised by the Minister of Agriculture: The answer to our questions is also very sparse. Most of the time, it's none of his business. AMA and AMA marketing, that's none of his business. Unique – that doesn't touch him. This is a key point for farmers, but it is not an answer from the Minister for Agriculture. Or the answers to the questions are so general that you can read them all out or read them in. But I would like to remind you, Minister, that the year 2012 was not your year. E10 – that was the fourth flop in 2012. You have a LEADER report to answer, real mismanagement with public money. You have an destructive LEADER report in the Ministry of Life, €4 million for the homepage, I do not mention any more. Then you have a public report to answer, not yet published, but already known, also mismanagement special- the same, and then with E10 you have put down a legendary flop. Until shortly before the notification by the European Union, you have held this project. But you have not managed to set up a single gas station in Austria until a week before that. The logistical preparation for E10 was, we say, polite, diletantic, in the rural Jargon one would say, under every sow. Further: It has not even succeeded – an answer to a request from us – to list all the car brands that are tolerated by E10. Because it's not like every car can get E10. Not even that was successful. However, they have confirmed that the consumption of E10 is much higher. This is clearly documented in a question to us: If the drivers drink E10, the consumption is much higher. You really have to imagine that a company is trying to place a product, but logistically no preparation has taken! They say: On 1.10 we will introduce that. But you don't have a sales shelf where you can do it. Anyway, E10 is a clear flop and a abdominal patch for us and from your preparation. I already said that. And I then wondered why, in fact, the ÖVP with the Farmers' Federation and the Ministry of Agriculture against all resistances, not only the SPÖ and the opposition parties, but also ÖAMTC and ARBÖ and all these organizations, are so massively in favour of E10. And there I met an interesting person, and this person is called Fritz Kaltenegger. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Mr Mayerhofer knows Mr Fritz Kaltenegger. Mr Fritz Kaltenegger was director of the Austrian Farmers' Federation, he was Secretary General of the Austrian People's Party and Chief of Cabinet under Minister of Agriculture Josef Pröll. Fritz Kaltenegger withdrew from politics in 2009 and said he was going to the private sector. But in the ÖVP one does not need to go to the private sector, but one goes to the minister and has a job. In this case, he got a job in the Raiffeisen group, this time at AGRANA. And do you know what he's responsible for at AGRANA? – For the introduction of E10, ethanol. And that's how it works: The Ministry of Agriculture, together with the Federal Farmers' Association, ensures that the AGRANA receives hundreds of thousands of euros from the agricultural budget. To do this, the AGRANA must ensure that jobs for political officials are created. It is actually repulsive for me that such a large group, a world group like AGRANA, is not too bad to be abused in this way, and is trying to make lobbyism for its own interests in such a cheap and obvious way in the Austrian Parliament. For this, Mr Minister, is not an environmental interest that you are pursuing, it is not in the interests of local farmers, but it is only lobbyism for AGRANA in connection with Mr Fritz Kaltenegger. [[Congratulations with FPÖ, BZÖ and Greens.]] I'm just saying one more word: Ernst Strasser says hello in this area! You see here, the AGRANA also turns on ads in the “Austrian Farmers' Federation” page by page. [[The speaker shall keep a document up to date.]] It is therefore clear why the Federal Government and the Ministry of Agriculture are so massive for the introduction of E10 here against all resistances. Mr Minister, what you have fabricated with the Federal Farmers' Organisation, with the Members here in Parliament and with the Chairman of the Board of Management of AGRANA, was a veritable abdominal area. I ask you: Go back to the start and talk serious about E10 and the introduction of bioethanol!
ParlaMint-AT_2013-01-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00187_d8e24123	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Brunner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-01-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00187_d8e24145	Mr President. Minister for Agriculture! Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Minister, from your reply, from your statement I have not become quite smart, because there has been quite a confusion of different arguments. They have somehow represented agrofuels versus fossil fuels, who is not for agrofuels, is for fossil fuels. Nothing bad, but we Greens are discussing what fuels are used or how to make transport policy more climate-friendly, a bit beyond this alternative fossil versus agrofuels. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I'm quite consenting to: Agrofuels have been discussed for some time as an alternative, also as a contribution to climate protection. However, this has been a few years or decades since, and now there are very, very many studies that clearly demonstrate that agrofuels can have even stronger climate damage effects, depending on what they were produced and how they are used. In several cases, the impact on climate is even more negative than fossil fuels. Therefore, the use of agrofuels is not a climate protection measure, and the EU Commission has changed its line in this area. The EU Commission is certainly anything but a climate change or environmental organisation. The Commission's change of line is nevertheless a positive example of political discussions being able to adapt to new developments in the field of science and technology. This is also a very positive signal towards the population that the topics are taken seriously, discussed at the state of science, and that it also derives from appropriate policy actions. I would also like to see that in Austria. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] One can deal with the topic of agrofuels quite differently. We can certainly imagine the use of agrofuels in regional agricultural cycles, but not to a large extent, because, as I have said, this can have climate-damaging effects, leads to land use changes and, globally, it is also likely to lead to problems in the food sector, to social problems, for which we bear responsibility here, because, Minister, it is at least an EU directive. If there are certain beekeeping quotas at EU level, certain quantities are also needed, and this is very likely to have a global impact. As Austrian responsibilities, we also bear responsibility at EU level. Therefore, your positioning on the EU line is very much to be considered on the Commission's proposal. In fact, your opinion does not show whether you are in favour of or against an American quota at European level. It is not clear whether you are for or against the recognition of ILUC factors. On the contrary. You even feel more skeptical, you say: If we only do this at EU level, it will not do anything, because that is a global problem! Nothing bad, but if there are regulations at EU level, then this will have a very likely global impact, and then we cannot say that we are doing this and everything else is none of our concern. We're in favour of the beeman quots being exposed. They have not only committed themselves to maintaining the 5 percent, but also to higher quotas. I am therefore also asking you how you intend to assume the responsibility of Austria within the EU. You know exactly where I am now speaking to you as the Minister for the Environment, we are the final climate protection light. The use of agrofuels is not a climate protection measure, but rather it serves to prevent climate protection from being properly addressed, because de facto it also needs something else in the transport sector, if you also address it as a climate sinter. Agrofuels have long prevented lower consumption cars from entering the market. It will prevent a real turnaround in traffic, which is a reduction in the number of shifts towards public transport. If we really think that climate change is seriously meant in this area, then I ask you to finally fight for it. I have always thought that you as Minister for the Environment are fighting for nothing and that is not so important to you. Fight Now They are opposed to this Commission proposal, but from a climate and environmental point of view only, unfortunately, exactly for the wrong one. I would like us to be ambitious about active environmental and climate protection in Austria and to make the right decisions and to carry out them. This issue also shows very, very clearly: Austria needs a strong, independent and committed Ministry of the Environment.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-01-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00187_d8e24221	Next speaker: Mr Huber. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-01-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00187_d8e24242	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Federal Minister! It's time we ended this ÖVP fairy tale hour. Let us return to an objective agricultural policy, which the Austrian farmer and the Austrian farmer have just earned. These are people who work 365 days a year, and they don't want to work in an agriculture where they like slaves depend on contracts with Agrana, with raiffeisen. No, Mr. Federal Minister! The farmer wants to be free! In view of the fact that today we produce only more than 88 percent of the cereals we need in Austria – the rest we have to import – it is what you have given of yourself. Mr Bundesminister, once quite honestly: It is about the highly praised plant in Pischelsdorf, which produces 700 000 tonnes of bioethanol each year. It is only a matter of cheap cereals for the use of this plant, which is a pure Raiffeisen plant. Did you ask the farmers if they felt it was right that most of the cereals processed there were from Romania, Ukraine, and how else does God come from? – And that’s where you’re talking about a positive environmental balance?- Oh, my God! Mr. Federal Minister, you don't even believe that's the stupidest person on this earth. Apart from that, I made a request in March last year, in which I argued that, in order to achieve the target you have stated, we need 69 000 square kilometres more on arable land in Europe by 2020. would be. To cultivate this field alone, we consume much more energy than the whole biofuel produces; only the carbon dioxide emissions from cultivation is much, much higher. There are studies – I can give them to you. Mr. Federal Minister, in 2010, 142 million tonnes of cereals were processed to Sprit worldwide. Now we know – there are dozens of calculations – that we could have fed 420 million people with this grain. And you're saying that's not food! They say this is inferior grain. Mr. Federal Minister, on which planets do you live? Don't you know that this grain is very much feed? This feeder could be fed instead! Instead, companies like Monsanto, like Raiffeisen, make millions of profits, we import 600 000 tons of genetically contaminated soya. This genetically contaminated soya is refined over our farm animals, the pigs, the chickens, the fish breeding and placed on the table one by one to the consumer. Let's stop this! Federal Minister! Let us look at the fact that we can secure the existence of our local farmers and that we are finally bringing farmers to produce cereals again. They only produce more than 88 percent of the demand! These numbers are not by Gerhard Huber, these numbers are not from the BZÖ, but these numbers come from yourself, you can read them in the Green Report. One, Mr. Federal Minister, will not acquit you: the agricultural policy has been firmly in the hands of a party, a group for more than 30 years. This party is the ÖVP, and this group is Raiffeisen. Mr Federal Minister, you know that new bioethanol plants are being built at European level, in Poland, everywhere. There are works 300 kilometers from Vienna that have an emission of millions of tons of bioethanol. You know that there are no areas of cultivation for this purpose. Today, we in Europe have to import 35 million hectares of cereals. Only to send millions of euros to certain corporations, such as Raiffeisen, and certain lobbyists, will equip them with these works, allow that. Mr. Federal Minister, you've been very blaming! My request was that we in Austria immediately and once again refrain from using E10. We have the biodiesel anyway, we don't need E10. Mr Federal Minister, at last you are making credible policies, which you can also argue, because food is not part of the tank! Our farmers have absolutely not deserved this! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Mr Federal Minister, you should look at positive examples. Let's compare regions! If we compare North Tyrol with South Tyrol, compare Salzburg, Upper Austria, Lower Austria with Bavaria, then you will see there is agricultural policy that works for the farmers. In such regions, the level of farm mortality is ridiculous, not as pronounced as we are. Look at the numbers in South Tyrol! [[President Neugebauer gives the bell sign.]] We could do that in Austria too! Let us make policy for our country – and not for corporations!
ParlaMint-AT_2013-01-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00187_d8e24327	No one is reporting on this. I therefore conclude the debate. [[18:10:59]] The continuation of the agenda
ParlaMint-AT_2013-01-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00187_d8e24348	I will resume the negotiations on points 3 to 6 of the agenda. Next speaker: Mr Gahr. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-01-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00187_d8e24372	Mr President. Mr President of the Court of Auditors! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) The Court of Auditors has examined the management bodies in public undertakings, including the so-called management contracts. After this test, which was extremely complex, it shows, on 544 pages, that there are systems, special regulations, but also customs and practices, which of course can only be dismantled over a certain period of time. This report on the years 2006 to 2008 shows that there is a need for action, improvement and optimization at all levels. It is about getting more transparency, but also that legal requirements such as the so-called stencil regulation are implemented and complied with. But it is also about – there are a lot of companies, a total of 232 – that the references – and of course they are always a criticism point in the public. Of the 232 companies and companies, 30 have been examined, for example the ASFINAG, the Bundesimmobiliengesellschaft, the Vorarlberger Landes- und Mortgagekenbank, but also the Energie AG Styria and the Association. [[Abg. Huber: The Tyrolean hypo has forgotten you!]] The total number of contracts is not uniform and is not transparent, the Court of Auditors notes. There are often no pay limits, and there are, of course, little or little coherent provisions on the salary level in connection with the management performance. Almost none of the companies adhered to the so-called stencil regulation. At the time of the invitation to tender of bodies to be occupied, so many things have not been done quite as specified in the Federal Law. Overall, the Court also notes that of 472 management functions, only 5 percent of women are in management positions. Furthermore, the Court of Auditors makes it clear that the remunerations to be awarded publicly should not be presented either. In part, bonuses were paid prior to the entry into force of the success targets, which should not have been awarded. In total, there is therefore a lot to do here – and the Court of Auditors has, of course, highlighted this – here. It recommends that successful participations be granted only in accordance with verifiable criteria and verifiable requirements and only after the success that has actually occurred. Retroactive increases in management salaries should only be granted in clearly eligible cases. The appointment of managers, including subsidiaries, should be made in accordance with the Federal Employment Act. And the fees granted should be published in the annual accounts, in an annex. What are the standards? – Mr Ostermayer was in the committee. It is true that, in the meantime, a change has taken place in the Federal Employment Act and must now be signed out afterwards. There has also been a code of principles in public enterprises with federal holdings for a short time now; in the Committee, the Secretary of State has presented this code to us. It should help to comply with legal obligations, although this code is not necessarily legally binding. Overall, this report shows: It's still a lot to do. We can still improve and optimize a lot and contribute to removing the criticism of public enterprises that are getting loud and loud when we work transparently and openly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-01-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00187_d8e24409	Next speaker: Mr Zanger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-01-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00187_d8e24430	Mr President. Mr President of the Court of Auditors! Mrs Lapp has already dealt with Parliament's Internet presence in her statement and has put a great deal of emphasis on it. I can agree with her in large parts. It is a very, very important instrument, and I also think it essential and important that the people can be transparent about the work here in the House and that this also provides us with an essential research tool for our Members. It is particularly interesting, however, what you have not said, Mrs Lapp. There have been some shortcomings, and I do believe that one should address them, not to attach to someone any criticisms or mistakes, but simply to learn from them and to say: Let's optimize the whole story! Next time, we'll do better! The Court of Auditors has identified shortcomings in the project organisation and project management. There was a lack of an overall concept, which made it necessary to award further additional contracts. There was also a lack of an estimate of the expected total cost, so that true cost comparisons were not finally possible. Approximately two thirds of the external costs, i.e. around €1.3 million, were charged with computer service providers over existing and ongoing contracts of Parliament. Apart from this, further external services amounted to around €700 000, so that this project cost €2 million. It should also be noted that the award procedure was carried out without public notice. The Court of Auditors also notes that the services purchased by Parliament do not, in fact, constitute economic services and it would have failed to employ appropriate personnel and to carry out this activity locally, so-called insourcing. The President of the Committee then promised to introduce the medium-term. It is at the test stage. At present, the budgetary measures are still missing, and nothing has been changed in the last budget. Let's see how this goes on. Another essential part is that the Court of Auditors could contribute significantly to the added value of the Republic, as in this case, or to the other reports that are under discussion today, if it were to implement its recommendations. Instead, we are increasingly burdening the Court of Auditors with administrative tasks, just a few weeks or months ago in the field of media cooperation and media promotion. In this context, the Court of Auditors has again been assigned special activities which have already cost it 680 man days. That must be imagined, because these are about eleven follow-up tests that escape us through these administrative activities. The cost of this has been about €500 000, and we know that the Court of Auditors is only going to take some time with its budget, but not for too long. For this reason, I would like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] That would be a good thing to give the Court of Auditors the opportunity to carry out those activities for which it is responsible, namely carrying out audits, to raise potential, so that we can act here in the sense of the taxpayer. I would like to have this kind of agitation right now, and I would like to draw your attention to it. ==References== Jann has become aware that the public prosecutor's anti-diacony investigation is based on the fact that multiple settlements are expected to have been made during the consultation of asylum seekers, and the asylum seekers have signed notices of delegation in favour of the deacony, which authorizes the deacony to correct, receive and reserve all due liability damages from the financial attorney. The trigger of the whole thing is that the deacony says that it has a consulting effort when someone is wrongfully in a pushy state. The pusher receives 660 € for this, and the deacony can donate it. The question arises whether federal funds are used in accordance with their commitment. I think it would be interesting to follow this up. That would be a core task of the Court of Auditors. We're going to have some more thoughts about this.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-01-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00187_d8e24497	The motion for a resolution tabled is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2013-01-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00187_d8e24572	Next speaker: Mrs Schenk. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-01-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00187_d8e24593	Mr President. Mr President-in-Office of the Council! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! At the beginning of my speech, I would like to point out that it is gratifying that today we are not discussing the Court of Auditors' reports at mid-night, but at a time that is somewhat good and may also highlight the importance of the Court of Auditors. Thanks to my group, I would like to thank the Court of Auditors and its staff for the four reports that we have been discussing today and which we want to discuss. The reports are partly older and some of them have already been implemented by the Court of Auditors, and improvements have already been made. An examination concerns the AMS Wien. There, the Court of Auditors has found inefficiency in many areas. It has been found that no action has been taken on the economic and practical aspects of training. However, there has already been a number of improvements, as we have heard in the Committee. In addition, the fight against the unemployment of young adults at the AMS Tirol and Styria was reflected, and there was also criticism from the Court of Auditors. In my opinion, an alarm sign that emerges from this report is the fact that only about 55 percent of young unemployed people have vocational training at all. This is already a fact that we need to discuss here and where there is a great need for action by the Minister for Labour and Social Affairs and the Minister for Education. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] The cost of medical care in criminal proceedings is really the framework. I need to talk to you about this. There was an increase of over 150 percent in the cost of supply. In 2009 it was around €8 900 per prisoner. This is the triple of the treatment costs per Austrian, that is an insanity. There must be saved! Ms Karl explained to the Committee some steps she took to achieve a cost reduction in this regard. But it has not yet reached everything. Cooperation with the barely exploited army hospitals is also outstanding. The Court of Auditors has found that the military hospitals are only used up to about 5 percent. There you also have to look for the conversation and use the synergies much better. The reports - I have already mentioned - show how important and correct the audit activity of the Court of Auditors is, they show the positive work it is doing. The representatives of the government parties also repeatedly praise and thank the Court of Auditors, and the implementation of the recommendations is no longer so far from the point of view of praise. It will be a little more calm, especially if the President of the Court of Auditors allows itself to criticise the proposal of the constitutional ban on speculation, because he considers it insufficient – then very little comes from the government parties and this important opinion of the President of the Court of Auditors will be taken away. This law concerning the prohibition of speculation, This is what needs to be done, which has an impact on Austria as a whole, and the criticism must be heard and taken seriously as well. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Even when it comes to expanding the competence of the Court of Auditors, it is somewhat silent in the ranks of ÖVP and SPÖ. I can remind you, we have on 17 November. Here in the House on November 2010, the Court of Auditors decided to extend its audit competence; on the initiative of the BZÖ, we decided to do so with the government parties. In addition, the two other opposition parties voted in favour. But that was just a step in the right direction for us, because we believe that all communities are to be examined and not just the communities with more than 10,000 inhabitants, because it is always shown that even smaller communities have very, very high debts. We believe that the Court of Auditors must also have the competence to examine these communities. At the Committee meeting on 10 October. In October last year, a request from our group was postponed, pointing out that the Act of extension of competence adopted in 2010 should first be evaluated. The Chairman of the Committee of the Regions, Kogler, has here agreed to initiate a procedure and to proceed with this evaluation. What's happening? – There is no evaluation to date. The government parties are inactive, and nothing has happened. I cannot spare you this accusation, ladies and gentlemen. With regard to finance: The Court of Auditors is getting more and more tasks, making important work for the country, for the taxpayer, but has less and less money at its disposal. The colleague, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, said: By 2016, €3.6 million is missing in the budget. We have already debated this in committee enough, but nothing has happened to date either. One cannot, on the one hand, give the Court of Auditors more and more powers, such as the media transparency law, the new party law, and on the other hand, cut the funds and the number of employees, because at some point the whole thing is no longer going out. The President-in-Office of the Council has also said that he can no longer carry out the duties in the ordinary and customary way and can no longer make the results available to our House. That would be a pity. The amount that is missing would be much more useful because the taxpayer and the taxpayer will get a lot back from the Court of Auditors through the efficient and good audit carried out there. In this sense, I would like to say that we agree with this proposal which was tabled earlier. I can appeal to you from Red and Black for your opinion to be considered and for this request for a budget increase for the Court of Auditors to be accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-01-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00187_d8e24682	Next speaker: Mrs Kaufmann-Bruckberger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-01-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00187_d8e24703	Mr President, I should like to thank the President-in-Office of the Mr President-in-Office of the Council. High house! If one reads through the Court of Auditors' report on combating the unemployment of young adults, then it is quite clear that, in general, everything is okay. My children would say: Mom, don't worry, it's all right. All Roger! It is clear from the report that the AMS is very committed to combating the problem. The AMS was also equipped with additional funds. But of course it is also quite clear that the AMS is not the all-healing agent. We also hear again and again that the economic situation is excellent. In the last social report, for example: “After the crisis-related critical labour market developments in Austria and the EU, the situation on the Austrian labour market has improved since 2010 – rising employment rates have been recorded as well as in the EU comparison very low unemployment rates” I do not wish to sign the fact that the unemployment rate is low. The report of the Court of Auditors of 2009 clearly shows that the 20 to 24 year olds are at least charged with a quota of 9.5%, which is significantly above the total unemployment rate at that time, which is 7.2 percent. Of course, this is the wrong item on the agenda to discuss in detail the unemployment rates, but I see these figures between 4.5 per cent and 5.3 per cent, which constantly move around, already as non-comprehensible quota beauties. I don't really see any connection there anymore. But it is quite clear to me that you simply have to divide the actual unemployed in the form of quotas, be that now in those you send in training, or those who are just at home or in early retirement. Of course, the government needs low quotas that it can present. But as I said, this is a different subject. I think we should look at the rate of concern in detail here, which is the indicator of risk being unemployed. The report on the labour market also clearly shows this problem. That's what they say: “After age, 20 to 24-year-olds recorded the highest rate of distress.” – This is at least 39.5 percent, ladies and gentlemen. But that also means that the permanent component – as it continues to be written – is growing, “with increasing age.” That is, the older the people, these young adults, the worse the chance of rapid reemployment. I think we all know where the root cause of the unemployment of these young adults lies. I myself am firmly convinced that the root of the evil lies in the recruitment of schools. There is the offer of students from the 7th and 8th years of age. School level gives them the opportunity to send them to the AMS or to professional information centres, but if you have to read that some 37,000 students use only 19 percent of them, then I believe that the 7th and 8ths. School levels must simply accept this offer. So I'd be for the 7th or 8th. In any case, school level is obliged to make professional days in the economy once. In my opinion, that would be an important step in the right direction. I think it might be possible to reduce the number of trainees, but also the number of young adults who will certainly have to fight with the issue that they are not sufficiently qualified, because they simply have a low level of training. This measure could easily be used to counteract the whole situation. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] Federal Minister Hundstorfer has set himself the goal, as he himself said in the committee, that he wants to establish a statutory training requirement for 15-18-year-olds. I hope that the goal – which is to be achieved by 2015 – will not be lost in the eye, not only in order to give young people a perspective, but also in the sense of the Austrian economy. Unfortunately, the Federal Minister is not here today, but I will then send him the questions in writing, because unfortunately I have not found any answers to the extent to which there is already progress in the implementation of the statutory training requirement, whether there is already a federal directive for the regulation of the placement of young unemployed people or also a uniform definition for young adults, which has already been criticised. Ladies and gentlemen! The Swiss Conference on Social Assistance has already pointed out the problem of unemployment in young adults or the risk of poverty in this target group in 2007. I think we all agree here, we know this problem, and we really should immediately take action against it. I have already mentioned some possibilities, and I am sure that the Minister for Economic Affairs, the Minister for Social Affairs and the Ministry of Education will support us.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-01-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00187_d8e24772	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Mulder. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-01-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00187_d8e24794	Mr President. Mr President of the Court of Auditors! Before I come to my comments on the unemployment of young adults in Tyrol and Styria, it is a need to say that I believe that we should be more sensitive in terms of social and labour market policies in particular and should be careful to use the socio-scientificly correct concept of unemployment. I think it is undisputed that the vast majority of those people affected by unemployment are not really unemployed. Now I come to the Court of Auditors report. It is a very important complement to the basic work of the Ministry of Social Affairs and Employment, and the solution to the problem of youth unemployment is, of course, a crucial issue not only for Austria, but also for all European economies and social systems. In order to determine the Court of Auditors, which has researched the selected regional offices of the AMS, that better target group-oriented support would be necessary, it should be said that this is now available and that the national authorities have precise requirements in this regard. The Court of Auditors has particularly positively stressed that the AMS is committed to providing the young unemployed according to their training, and that it is jointly tried to cooperate with the schools in order to offer a better offer and better support for students. To discuss is certainly the creation of the Federal Directive for the better care of young adults, and it is also important that there is a definition here for young people and young adults and that the corresponding priorities of target group care are formed accordingly. It is gratifying that since 2011, the unemployment rate of 15-19 year olds has been substantially declining. This is certainly due to the dual training system we have, and above all to the many social and labour market policies. I think we must do everything and do everything we can to continue to defend the lowest unemployment rate.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-01-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00187_d8e24833	Mr Singer is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-01-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00187_d8e24854	Mr President. Mr President of the Court of Auditors! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) I am dealing with the Court of Auditors' report on the award of curative measures by the AMS. The AMS Austria, in particular the Vienna, Lower Austria and Burgenland, was examined. The purpose of the performance review was to assess the effectiveness of the purchasing organisation, the cost-effectiveness of the purchase of the curative measures and the regularity of the award procedures. A few numbers at the beginning: From 2005 to 2009, the annual AMS curative payments doubled from around €234 million to €441 million. The number of participants from 2006 to 2009 also increased from 131 000 to 227,000 per year, i.e. about 73 per cent. That is, there are correspondingly high increases. It is also interesting that the share of curative measures in the budget for active labour market policy varies between 28 percent of the AMS Tirol and Vorarlberg and 46 percent of the AMS Vienna. What has the Court of Auditors found? – I can quote a few points: It criticises above all that the Austrian price and performance comparisons per region and price providers are missing. As a result, the creation of regionally limited sub-markets with few educational institutions and higher prices was favoured accordingly. There were different procurement strategies, and this prevented greater competition. It is logical that the Court of Auditors has pointed out that there is a need to work towards uniform procurement directives. The organisation and costs of the purchasing device could not be determined due to the lack of key figures, and appropriate evaluations could not be made. Of course, the reference to appropriate indicators has been made. Interestingly, it was criticised that the market was not sufficiently processed. In other words, the lack of exchange of knowledge between the Landeswirtschaftsstelles could not achieve appropriate supply prices. The Court of Auditors is also proposing a coordinated comparison of supply prices between national trading bodies. The Court of Auditors lacks success criteria in the case of work contracts, and therefore no appropriate quality and performance control could be achieved. The Court of Auditors writes that the appropriate criteria for success should be laid down in the contract. ==References====External links== In the implementation of training measures, different standards and specifications were different for all local business bodies. The Court of Auditors also calls for a uniformity. One point that has been noted in the report is that despite the low credit quality of a private adult education company known to the AMS Vienna since 2005, this company increased its business range from around € 5.3 million to around € 11.8 million in 2007. That is, the increase was 122 percent. For all other companies, this increase was only 40 percent. Therefore, it was found that the AMS did not cause any special precautions. The financial damage arose after the collapse of the company, because of course these courses had to be transferred to other companies. Additional costs have been incurred. In summary, the AMS has promised Austria that the Court of Auditors' suggestions will be implemented accordingly. Some have already been launched. Finally, I should like to thank the staff of the Court of Auditors for their valuable work. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-01-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00187_d8e24916	Next speaker: Deputy Grazauer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-01-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00187_d8e24937	Mr President. Mr President of the Court of Auditors! Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen. I hope that the flu is broken out because there is so little interest in the Court of Auditors' reports. [[Abg. Dr Bartenstein: Especially with your group! With us, the clubman's here! How are you?]] [[Further calls to the ÖVP.]] – Yes, Mr Bartenstein, I also mean my group. It's kind of a shame. Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to add to the report on the management contracts in public enterprises, Mr Gahr has already begun. Mr Gahr has spoken a little mildly about the Court of Auditors' report, I would like to add a few more things and perhaps report a little more closely. They know that these contracts for managers in public enterprises are based on the German Federal Government’s contract stencil regulation, which, however, has a huge hook, namely that it does not raise any limits. This means that there are compensations of more than € 700 000 or € 800 000 per year for managers in this area. The Court of Auditors also noted the following shortcomings: In some cases, these contracts exclude value adjustments, i.e. increases, and are not provided for, but are nevertheless paid. Tantimes and special schemes make an accurate review very difficult. Premiums – and this is the joke of the week – are partly paid out in advance, not after annual financial statements and not after the achievement of the goal. This is totally impossible in the private sector. The targets partly do not reflect sustainable economic success. I have already mentioned that the top-rankers in the public enterprises in connection with €745,000 annually, at the post at €706 000 a year, at which ÖIAG can be found at €700 a year – each with special premiums, which are partly distributed even without justification. There are variable reference components that move between 1 percent and 127 percent – you have heard correctly – of the total annual reference. That's a scandal! You really wonder: Who agreed to such contracts? Who takes responsibility for such contracts? – The population certainly has no understanding of this, especially because, for example, pensioners are reduced by 1 per cent, but these managers are overburdened in the very safe areas with rich salaries, with premiums, with settlements and with benefits in kind. Often, ladies and gentlemen, these get the x-fold content of that of a Federal Chancellor of the Republic of Austria. The boards of the energy sector are particularly prominent, they give themselves plenty of salary increases, while low-income families can no longer afford electricity and gas. – Ladies and gentlemen, this is inappropriate, that must be stopped! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I would also like to say a few words on the Court of Auditors' report III-314. This is the cost of medical care in criminal proceedings. Mrs Schenk has already lost a few words on this. It's about the medical care of prisoners anyway. In the period from 2000 to 2010, costs rose from € 30 million to € 74 million, equivalent to an increase of 51 percent. The cost of external treatment rose from 17.3 to 46.3 million €. The largest spending position is the accommodation in psychiatric hospitals. The rate paid by the federal government to the Otto-Wagner-Spital in Vienna stands out as follows: In 2000 it was 226 € per day, 2010 it was 645 € per day, which is an increase of 185 percent. – Ladies and gentlemen, this is a joke! That's absolute vomit, and this voucher must catch the taxpayer. There is a large number of savings in this area. For example, the medical contracts are uneven and inconsistencies. Hourly rates vary from 0 to 47 percent. Medicinal prescriptions take place at free discretion, there is no prescription practice. I'm not a doctor, but that's what the report says: Only if you were to prescribe methadone exclusively in the substitution could you save € 750 000 annually. But that's not happening. I have the impression that everyone is still doing what they want in this area. The Minister has announced that something will change. There are no clear rules, there are no sustainable controls, taxpayers' money is managed. Many benefit from this system and are free of charge. That's mismanagement, it's a huge slut, ladies and gentlemen. The Court of Auditors' recommendations must be implemented urgently in this area. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-01-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00187_d8e24999	Next speaker: Mr Oellinger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-01-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00187_d8e25020	Ladies and gentlemen! Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Mr Grazauer is already right in many points. I would just like to point out that what Mr Grabauer rightly asked for for for in the public service managers must, to a certain extent, also apply to the private sector. If it is not enforceable because price formation or salary formation is different, then this must be done through fiscal measures. It will be no different, ladies and gentlemen, than that we are moving forward a step on this path. It cannot be – I give it completely right if it was meant to be so, and I think it was meant so – that the differences between the minimum income and the maximum income in the last two decades have not been reduced, but have been strongly accepted. people. The wage differences are not 1 : 10, but 1 : 20 or 1 : 30 or 1 : 40. The public service is still moving in a relatively modest framework with regard to these disparities. Nevertheless, I think: It is right, we can and should not afford to do so in the public sector. Mr President, Mr Moser, one more comment: We are discussing not only on a given occasion, but also on the basis of raw reports from the Court of Auditors, which are not accessible to the public. Unfortunately, they are not accessible to Parliament either, but are discussed. I think that's okay, too. However, I would also like to see the Court of Auditors as an institution of Parliament that we can co-examination. I do not want us as parliamentarians to be the ones who depend on us to learn something in the public. I am convinced that the Members of Parliament have a right to do so. It cannot be said that the opinions of the Federal Ministries, which will then be incorporated into the final reports, are what the public learns from a Court of Auditors report with the final opinion of the Court of Auditors. I believe that we should be involved in the work of the Court of Auditors at every stage. There is only the first phase, the raw report, and the second phase, the final report. The fact that the Court of Auditors should work completely unhindered before is of course for me. But I believe that this practice, which we only learn from the final report, what is still going on and what has not been explained by statements from the Federal Ministries, should be looked at urgently. This applies in particular to the public debated discussions on the Court's raw report on the advisory contracts. The Ministries are responding to the criticism expressed in the raw report. We are, as it were, banished into the role of spectators, so we can watch: What does the Ministry say? What does the Court of Auditors report say, which we do not know? This is honestly not enough for me as a parliamentarian. That is just a comment on this area. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Thank you. In fact, I would like to say something about the Court of Auditors' proposals or comments on the AMS courses. I have tried to express these remarks. Unfortunately, this has not succeeded. This is a footnote to the re-launch of the Parliament's homepage, so the pages have come out empty, only with BMASK and the Court of Auditors report on it. But no matter, I noticed the note. In principle, the award of these contracts should be based on operational criteria. - Yeah, that's not wrong. I can sign that. But that alone is too little for me, Mr President. That's where I can go about what was said in advance. Yes, it is that there are obviously different markets in the AMS sector. But there is also a different criterion than that one tries to produce the cheapest offer via an overall market in Austria. The case of awarding the cures to VENETIA is a good example. With actual offers of dumping, which were then not complied with, attempts were made to lower the price at the expense of the employees in these spa measures. They had a gross hourly wage of €20. These were free service contracts or work contracts. At 20 € gross you can not work in this area. In principle, you can't do a good job by 24 € or by 26 € if you are prepared and prepared. After-treatment period for one hour price measure is calculated. That is to say, the only economic criterion is too little. The Court of Auditors' recommendations in this area are often to be signed. I have once again looked at the AMS revision report. I'll save you because my time has already run out. In addition to the Court of Auditors' comments, what I would like to criticise is the fact that the example of VENETIA, which the Court of Auditors particularly viewed in detail, shows that no control has taken place at all. In fact, in no way has the corresponding record obligation, which would actually be present, been done or controlled. Mr President. This market – price provider for the AMS – still seems to be a very lucrative one, despite these cheapest offers. This situation and that there are obviously practices in this market which the Court of Auditors also need to look at urgently are worth a comment. I just remember that there are unemployment insurance contributions from which these curative measures are financed – no matter if you want to say unemployment insurance contributions, Mrs Becher. If individual price providers make a huge business out of it and make millions more successful in the year, then something has obviously gone wrong in this area. I would ask you, Mr President, to look more closely at this area in one of the next investigations.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-01-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00187_d8e25095	Next speaker: Mr Sacher. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-01-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00187_d8e25117	Mr President. Mr President of the Court of Auditors! High house! At the beginning I would like to welcome a group of visitors from the market town of Wölbling in the district of St. Pölten with mayor Krammel at the top quite cordially. [[As a result of the SPÖ and the representatives of the FPÖ.]] On the subject, which my previous speaker also discussed, the award of curative measures by the AMS, I would like to point out in general, ladies and gentlemen, that, not least thanks to these measures, Austria has the lowest youth unemployment in Europe, that Austria has a good employment situation and relatively low unemployment overall. [[President Dr. Graf takes over the chairmanship.]] Austria has a training system, which has already been mentioned in the debate today, worldwide, which is not least due to this positive situation. But for all those who are nevertheless affected by unemployment, and especially for the younger people who are affected, an active labour market policy can be pursued which can also be sought. Thanks therefore to the Federal Government, which continues to implement these measures, and in particular to our Social Minister, Rudolf Hundstorfer. Those who are without employment, in spite of all efforts, are also offered opportunities, especially through these curative measures of the AMS. It has already been said that in the period 2005-2009 presented and examined, the benefits have been almost doubled from €234 million to €442 million spent on these courses. In this period, around 4 200 courses employed around 230 000 people. Ladies and gentlemen, these are 230 000 people who have not been on the streets during this time. These measures have ensured social peace in Austria. In the period from 2005 to 2010, the budget for active labour market policy was increased from €630 million to almost €1 billion. This fight against unemployment is also very, very valuable to us in the future, ladies and gentlemen. The Court of Auditors was right to review the execution of these curative measures, and, it has already been said, unfortunately, criminal activities were carried out in one case, which were also concluded by appropriate convictions. The AMS has taken the consequences and has responded accordingly, taking many measures, in particular the control measures. The AMS also does a lot to give young people more opportunities. I would just like to mention measures such as apprenticeship coaching in cooperation with various providers and institutions, or in the field of education policy, the measures teaching with Matura and the super-company teaching workshops that have been created. But above all, it is still these AMS courses that have a high share in the fight against unemployment, especially young people. This may also be secured in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-01-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00187_d8e25193	The next speaker was Mrs Schittenhelm. Four minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-01-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00187_d8e25214	Dear President! Dear ladies and gentlemen! As always, the Court of Auditors, that is, Mr President Moser and his team, have done excellent and excellent work. If you look at the reports, you see, it has not only been researched very closely, it has also been examined and recommendations have also been made. This also applies to the area I have looked closely at. It is about reviewing the procurement process for electronic supervision, i.e. the footband. Here it was not assessed whether this electronic supervision, say footbands, has proved itself in the practical house arrest or not, but it is only about whether or not the award procedure has complied with the federal procurement law. Yes, the award procedure has been in line with the German Federal Procurement Act, but the Court of Auditors has shown very clearly and critically that in the end the selected award procedure has no written notices. That means that this is not exactly what has been done. Even the Steering Committee, which was set up by the project team, could not be implemented – it was simply not understandable because there was no documentation there – which tasks, which responsibilities and the objectives of this Steering Committee actually had. What did he have to do? – That was not understandable. What the Court of Auditors particularly points out is a serious factor, namely the time pressure. ==References== On April 1, 2010, the draft law for this electronic supervision sent for review, and the law itself is already on 1 April 2010. ==References== In this short period of time it is Almost impossible to carry out these award procedures in a concrete and correct manner, especially if it is necessary to carry out a test. This was not possible in the form. Therefore, the Court of Auditors' recommendation that future procurement procedures should only be initiated if the relevant law is also adopted. I believe that there are probably other areas where purchases are made, procedures are initiated without the consent of the legislator. This criticism of the Court of Auditors is therefore not only to be accepted, but also to be dealt with in principle in all procurement processes. My Dear Ones However, ladies and gentlemen, I would also like to address the subject of foot restraints today, because I know that this emotional issue is being discussed too little or that too little material information is being passed on. The fact is that, in the case of electronically supervised house arrest, the applicant must have an appropriate accommodation, must pursue domestic employment and that persons who live in a common household must also give their consent in writing to the person concerned who is carrying a foothold. And it is very likely that the social environment will be reviewed, the potential risk factors. All of this is being scrutinized precisely in order to check closely what has been done or even past convictions. The armchair has been used over the last two years, i.e. 1 100 people in Austria have now been fitted with a footcuff. Currently 200 people in Austria are carrying the foot shackles. I very much hope that the new novel to the Criminal Enforcement Act will also be reinforced, especially in the application of the footbands for sexual offenders. We know that it is only at the end of a sentence that they must at least be arrested, but I hope that, as the Minister of Justice has announced, there will be an increased procedure against sexual offenders. I also believe that the Court of Auditors' report will, in the future, show how far it has actually been possible to establish how far the success is guaranteed. At any rate, thank you very much to you, Mr President Moser, and your team, it was an excellent work again. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-01-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00187_d8e25291	Next speaker: Mr Lausch. Four minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-01-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00187_d8e25312	Mr President, I should like to thank the President-in-Office of the Council. High house! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear listeners! In one, I can already agree with my predecessor, too, thank you to the Court of Auditors for this comprehensive and very good and very practical report. You can really understand everything, partly everything is very beautifully defined. It must always be assumed that the Court of Auditors will, of course, be well-checked, but that it will also lead to a fine blade in the choice of words. Nevertheless, when you read this more accurately and look into practice a little bit, it reads in part like a horror report. My previous speaker Alois Grastaur has already said a lot about this, you really have to let it work. If the colleague Schittenhelm talks about the procurement process of electronic control/EUH/foot, then one must say that the execution management set up a project team at the beginning of May 2010 – the colleague Schittenhelm said this correctly, but only a little bit passed that a steering committee had been set up in addition to the project team in the Federal Ministry of Justice. You have to think, the purchase of the foot shackle was a big project, which is not something you say, you quickly buy a few coffees, but that was a big thing. A steering committee has been set up. It was not possible for the Court of Auditors to do so, and the Minister in the Committee could not tell the Court of Auditors of the task, responsibility, objective and decision-making competence of this Steering Committee. She could only name three members of the Steering Committee, and I have to say that a person who was there – I don't want to name her – is now the head of an institution. This Steering Committee, if one reads this Court of Auditors report – as I have already said in the Committee – is given a whole new meaning in which direction – without interpreting anything here now – might have been guided. But, as has been said, this project team, this steering committee, in such an important matter as the ownership of a foothold, does not even have records, which is already very, very strange. Furthermore, I am still straining the cost of medical care in the execution of the sentence. Yeah, they're exploding. This has already been demonstrated by a great many questions from me to the Federal Minister and her predecessor, the Court of Auditors confirms this. You can't do that. In recent years, ÖVP Justice Ministers have been in charge, and no one has dared to access it. And you have to explain to the taxpayer outside, where the sickness costs are increasing, where you have to pay where the benefits are getting less and less, that prisoners in Austria have the status of a private patient, that prisoners often have to receive benefits for weeks and months, and often receive these benefits not only once, but several times, and, and, and. It should be so, but it must be said that it is obvious that there is no way of thinking about how to get half a grip on these costs. If one reads these ten pages of the Court of Auditors – perfectly researched, one can fully agree – then it reads like a horror story. And you can see that here in the health care of prisoners, by inmates in judicial institutions, the money with both hands is just thrown out and therefore the costs rise annually. You don't get that under control. There are no results from special hospitals in the judicial institutions, there are project teams that have been in existence for a year. One has only one result, namely that one currently does not have the money. You want to do not just hospitals in the judicial institutions, but really small judicial hospitals. This is not understandable, only costs money, and you can't do special treatments again, you have to go back to the hospitals, where the prisoners are private patients. And these are costs that are no longer manageable. That is why we can say that the costs have increased by 51 percent in recent years, and that is an insanity! While one has to say that at the In the area of justice, the wheel is turning in the other direction. It's getting more expensive, it's getting better and better, it's getting more and more extensive. That's not to be seen. You should act here as soon as possible. We should have acted here, and, unfortunately, the Minister of Foreign Affairs does not dare to change anything here. In the Committee, it has announced that, as the Court of Auditors has already stated, it now wants to set up a chief medical service. Well, you've been there for three years. Hopefully this will be soon, but this is also just a drop on the hot stone and unfortunately will not do much to reduce costs. And that's a shame. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-01-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00187_d8e25384	The next speaker was Mr Mag. Gaßner to speak. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-01-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00187_d8e25406	Mr President. Mr President of the Court of Auditors! The outcome of the audit of the management contracts in companies with public participation is anything but gratifying. Not your work, but the result is very, very unpleasant. Especially when considering that there have been clear legal provisions for over ten years. There's the employment law, there's the contract template. Whether they're still worthy of improvement or not, that's what it's all about, just: You just don't comply with these laws – and that in public companies. That is the fact that is really shocking. It's still more colorful in the countries. There are only four countries which have analogy legal provisions, the rest of the five do not care at all. This is a development that is actually very, very negative. The consequences are, of course, clear: There are no upper salary limits, there is no transparency, no comparability of salaries, automatic value adjustments – one simply increases this without any performance relation – and many more misadjustments. What has particularly occurred to me is the fact that the post-manager salaries are on average at €706,686. [[Abg. Riepl: That's a lot!]] Now I don't want to start any envy complexes, but – Mr Linder has already responded to them today – especially in the country, postal services are getting worse and worse. Mrs Schönpass told me that invitations to municipal council meetings were delayed, that official communications needed 14 days, that the post was carried in the wrong place, that she was no longer found, that she should be taken back, that is, conditions that are simply unbearable in rural areas. [[Abg. Binder-Maier: That's incredible!]] And there are not, ladies and gentlemen, the suppliers blame, because they work for very little money – I have let myself say to the 1,300 € grossly a letter carrier. There's also an interesting number: Riepl and Csörgits have made a request, which means that holiday replacement staff at the post office will receive €821.20 for a 40-hour week, although they will have to replace a letter carrier fully. They're hungry! And then there are top-ranking people in the post who say they have to go faster, the Rayons we have to enlarge and so on and so on. This is simply a cleaner, what happens to the people who work there, and also to those who can expect there to be an ordinary postal service. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I am not talking about how the contracts with the postal partners look. I call them a gag contract. Hardly the conditions set by the post are fulfilled, the contracts are changed. So that's what we should look at quite carefully. I just wanted to say that when you consider that more than €700 000 will be paid for the managers at the post office. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-01-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00187_d8e25468	Next speaker: Mr Einwallner. 4 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-01-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00187_d8e25490	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. High house! I am dedicated to the Court of Auditors' report on the measures taken by the AMS Styria and the AMS Tirol to combat the unemployment of young adults. Let me begin by explaining the positive aspects of the report. In particular, the high sustainability of the measures should be mentioned. 90 percent of all the youth unemployed who were taught by the AMS were not again affected by unemployment and were able to retain their job. Among those 10 percent who had to be re-acquired, 40 percent are working in seasonally oriented occupations, which explains the new temporary unemployment. In addition, the AMS was able to convey most of the young people according to their training. For example, 75 percent of all unemployed young people found a job that corresponded to their training. 25 percent of the young people who were taught found a job that did not correspond to their training. But it must be said that this is because they took on a job that was available faster or better paid. However, the Court of Auditors also has suggestions and draws attention to the potential for improvement, which is very important. There are also some suggestions in this report, where there are some points to be made for the AMS and, of course, for the ministry responsible. First, it is complained that there is no national target group-oriented support for young adults by the AMS. This means that young unemployed people are not treated equally in all federal states, but in some cases young people are treated as adults. This is, of course, a need for re-examination from my point of view. It is also true that the AMS does not offer a uniform nationally uniform requirement profile for consultants or uniform training courses throughout the country to support youth unemployed. It is also true that Tyrol is very positively mentioned in the report with its actions, but unfortunately God, as said, these positive trainings do not occur uniformly throughout the country. I think it would be time to set uniform national minimum standards for the care of young unemployed people. In my view, however, it is also significant that 43 per cent – which is generally a high level, but nevertheless it is 43 per cent – of the unemployed young people who are cared for by the AMS, not vocational training, but only have a compulsory education degree. I think that's too many. However, a cooperation has already been established with the AMS in 2009, where students can come to AMS professional information centres and can be consulted. The Ministry of Education wishes all students from the 7th and 8th years. School level. It is true, however, that the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs has no targets for the AMS – and this must be mentioned here too. That is to say, only 19.3 percent of the students come from the 7th and 8th years of age. School level on these important consultations. I don't think that's enough. Summary: The measures of the AMS are quite good, it is working well here. Nevertheless, improvements are still necessary in these points of approach, which I have now spoken of, and of course this should be done as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-01-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00187_d8e25545	The next speaker was Mr Ing. Oh, my God, my God. 2 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-01-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00187_d8e25566	Mr President. Mr President of the Court of Auditors! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Among other things, the Court of Auditors has also devoted itself to the cost development of medical care in criminal proceedings, with the result that expenditure increased from 29 million to 74 million euros between 2000 and 2010. This means at least €8 400 per prisoner, and that also means the triple of the rest of the Austrian population. Even adjusted by the largest cost factor, namely housing in psychiatric institutions, which accounts for about 50 percent of total expenditure, the number per prisoner is still close to €5,000. The same is true of drug spending. In the years 2000 to 2008, costs increased from € 2.8 million to € 8.2 million, with substitution therapies making up a significant increase. In this context, it would be quite interesting to know the outcome of a working group set up for the treatment of detoxification. The Minister of Justice has stated in the Committee that cost reduction measures are on the way. That's good. However, it must be ensured that, for example, proper documentation in the field of drugs or the adjustment of the flat-rate remuneration of countries in relation to treatment in public hospitals, which have initially fallen to 20 percent, as well as the implementation of further recommendations of the Court of Auditors, are part of the measures announced by the Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-01-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00187_d8e25597	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Lettenbichler. Four minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-01-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00187_d8e25618	Mr President. Mr President of the Court of Auditors. High house! I too, like my previous speaker, dedicate myself to the Court of Auditors' report on medical care and enforcement. We know that Austria's prisons have been partially overcrowded at the latest since yesterday's report in the ORF "Report". And that the costs for the prisoners in particular in the medical field and in relation to the average Austrian and to the average Austrians are three times as high, we know for almost a year thanks to the Court of Auditors, because in March 2012 the Court of Auditors presented this report. Since the review period of this matter has already been a period of time, two years ago, I would like to say in particular what has happened since then, what are the main recommendations of the Court of Auditors which have already been implemented. These are some of them, even if the colleagues from the FPÖ do not want to be true. But I'm here to do that right now. For example, the report shows – and this has already been mentioned – the increases in expenditure between the years 2000 and 2010, which have been examined, and here also a note: It was also ministers of the FPÖ in the government who led this place, a Mr Krüger, who may not want to know or know here, for years a Minister Böhmdorfer, then a Mrs Gastinger for the FPÖ, the BZÖ or without parties. The mostly smaller part in this decade was ÖVP-led. It has also been said by the colleague that the large proportion of this cost increase is due to the large number of abnormal legal breakers in external institutions and that, as already mentioned, prisoners in Austria are considered as private patients, since they are not socially insured. [[Abg. Neubauer: Who are you?]] [[Abg. Neubauer: Can you also talk or read only?]] This development was countered by the establishment of the Forensic Center in Asten as a judicial institution. Costs have been reduced. On this point, the Ministry has created a more cost-effective treatment in its field of responsibility – even if you do not want to do so, esteemed colleagues from the FPÖ, and always with intermediate calls want to get something out of the concept, which will not succeed! [[Abg. New builder: Now he doesn't even know what to say!]] [[Abg. Neubauer: Leave the note away! Then it will be shown if you have something to say too!]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: A good call, right?]] However, the question of social security must be clarified by others. We must stay at the ball, President-in-Office of the Council. I also ask for your support, because many in criminal proceedings also confirm to me that social security for prisoners would be an important step towards reducing costs. It was also initiated and suggested that there should be a cost bill. Here, too, the Ministry has responded. Such a cost and performance account has been available since the beginning of the year. At this point I do not wish to hold a military debate again. ==References====External links== In any case, Mr President, there is a clear decision here. But if we discuss the utilization of the military hospitals and speculate on possible closures, I can already point out the Court of Auditors' report to those responsible in the Ministry of Defence. It is recommended not only to treat outpatient prisoners in the military hospital, but also to be hospitalized in addition. The Ministry of Justice lets us know that, in the end, such efforts have always failed in the army administration, which, in my view, is very unfortunate and not understandable. My appeal to the Minister responsible is therefore to deal not only with closures, but also with the useful utilization of unburdened military properties. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-01-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00187_d8e25722	Next speaker: Mrs Schönpass. 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-01-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00187_d8e25743	Mr President, I should like to thank the President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen! Dear listeners! ==References== The Court of Auditors' report, which was discussed in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs, presented a number of problematic areas in the field of justice. Among other things, a strong increase in the cost of medical care in criminal proceedings has been observed. Within ten years, these costs had increased from just under €30 million to over €70 million. On average, in 2009, expenditure per prisoner was €8 418, three times as high as current public health expenditure per capita in Austria. Most of the expenditure has been spent on external housing of abnormal legal breaks in psychiatric institutions. Since the prisoners are not socially insured, private patients must pay tariffs, which also caused very high costs. Expenditure on drugs also increased disproportionately during the review period. Ms. Justice Minister Karl assured us in the Committee that a number of cost reduction measures had already been taken. I would ask our Minister of Justice to take the Court of Auditors' recommendations seriously. In particular, I call for a cost bill to be introduced in order to finally understand the use of the funds in detail. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-01-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00187_d8e25773	Next speaker: Mr Prehauser. 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-01-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00187_d8e25795	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! It is always fascinating to find out how anoquent criticism can be formulated in order not to be gross. [[In the direction of President of the Court of Auditors, Dr. Moser:]] Mr President, respect for this! Once Mrs Schittenhelm, who is a defender of the ÖVP in defence in every form, recognizes criticism of the footband, then it is really time to talk about it openly again. Although it is a relatively small sum of €2.7 million to which it went, as it came to be, it is typically Austrian. You create yourself constraints through actions where they are to be used, where it should be possible by law, you do not create any room for tendering and then refer only to three providers, because you do not have the opportunity to write out even larger, since time is too short. One then decides for the most expensive, because the two other providers cannot deliver what one needs, but it must admit that the best bidder also has critical points. So that means what you should learn from it is: If laws are to be initiated, you should not only think about what they should look like in advance, but also give the tools needed to do so time-consuming to call for tenders. to formulate, examine and then take decisions. Then you can save millions in the future. I also believe that the armchair is a good decision. Only as it always is in Austria when it comes to political decisions: If individual cases become known who gets a foot shackle, the uproar is great. But the law and the possibility we have created together, then we should also create the requirements together and stand by our own standards. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-01-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00187_d8e25840	Mr Magistrate is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Kogler. 7 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-01-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00187_d8e25861	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Four reports – I would just like to focus on one and on other issues related to the Court of Auditors' submissions and the fate of the reports here in the House if we already have four. It would also be interesting to talk about what we do not have – but let us stay with those where we can be very close to the Rules of Procedure. I'm focusing on the management contracts, that's going to be You're not so surprised. I may even have to say manager contracts now, because among the persons to be criticized is also a woman. I have to pronounce it like that. Let's just take out the e-business from everything. This special report, in order to document the praise to the Court of Auditors as well, this own report, this perceptive report on the management contracts, is, in fact, different from the other income reports we have: It is precisely what the different tasks here are. Among other things, the National Council thus benefits from several comparative calculations. I just want to look at the comparison – and always only in the e-business – with internationally comparable groups, industry comparison internationally. For decades, the e-business in Austria has always been criticized for this, at least in a particularly observed light, because within the Austrian public companies the e-business has always been outstanding. They've been wondering for decades: For what? – Because with the electricity system we had, everything was always safe anyway. It's been built on devils coming out, and the tariffs have been transferred to the customers. Then one could still argue about whether the industry gets too cheap or not, but even for that we needed hosts of overpaid managers! There has been liberalisation, which only partially affects and works, but I do not want to spread ideologically. I only note on the basis of this report – and this has not yet been sufficiently honoured – that in Austria, in public or majority public enterprises – only those are present – in the public Austrian electricity industry, managers deserve far more than all who are comparable in Europe – far more, they are in the forefront! What was always the reason for the high salaries in Austria? – It has always been done as if these were so much higher in the comparable foreign companies that the amount alone is justified so that they do not migrate there, because they are so good. Now we note that our already galloping in front of us and one might actually wish that perhaps from somewhere else which comes, that the electricity industry may work better with us, because here there is enough to criticize. However, what really hits the bottom of the barrel is processes that are inconceivably still suitable here. I must mention the former colleague here in the National Council Mrs Baumgartner-Gabitzer, because in this process, this post chess does not believe that one can still experience this on an open stage in 2012/2013! In this process, the lady is turned out from the top of the board, so to speak, but is not put on a post of the APG, the Austrian Power Grid, where they say: Well, there are two members of the board of directors, one of them stops, we are going to accept Mrs Baumgartner-Gabitzer, who is particularly positive in energy management issues! – No, there is also a third post created, by an Austrian Power Grid, who always acts anything but happy in their power-efficient and also network-political – one has to say “political” – decisions. What Is Qualified Now Woman Baumgartner-Gabitzer really to go there? – Maybe she has learned to distinguish between kilowatt and kilowatt hours. [[Rejoicing with representatives of the FPÖ.]] This may have helped her with the multi-year internship on the Board of Directors of the Association Society. This occupation was already a scandal! We had the opportunity here in the committees of the National Council to discuss it. Mrs Baumgartner-Gabitzer has been excellent in some, also positive, I do not want to dispute that, but one thing was quite certain: From the energy industry – from energy policy, perhaps, what one has understood under the bowl of it; after all, he has been particularly strong in his continuing career of energy policy, but he will already know what he is doing; whether he has known what he is doing there, energy-efficient, I do not know; party-politically, post-occupied – she had no idea. The fact that Mrs Baumgartner-Gabitzer has provided proof at every committee meeting that she has no idea in the energy industry should have been enough to think anything about it. Why this must now lead to the creation of its own posts – in front of all our eyes! – you need to explain this in detail. We are already in the process of writing a list; first a black book, perhaps it will also be a black-red book with the rising proportion we experience. And always before new national elections! [[Abg. Dr. Glawischnig-Piesczek: (to ÖVP point out)... Read the newspaper!]] We already know it now – only by public reporting and counting together is our list already several pages long –: You are obviously trying to carry out multi-annual occupations with your couleur before the National Council election – and this against the background that this whole post-schaker theme, the whole credibility of the policy issue, has experienced such an uplifting of the whole anti-corruption theme that it still falls on your skull! I don't understand why you still trust this. We won't let you out. I believed in the previous year – with the whole movement towards transparency in several laws et cetera – that one has been failed in some, but obviously it is not. We also experience it elsewhere. It has been said today and here – and now we are in the Court of Auditors' reports, which are not presented here – that the Court of Auditors' record of the transactions in Lower Austria, where more than one billion have already been placed in the sand, does not contribute. This has also been defended with the truth statement of Lower Austria, which makes Members here. However, the report on these issues is not being discussed here, for good reasons, because we also prevent this, but only because the ÖVP prevents the Court of Auditors from calling the right witnesses to do so. [[Abg. Where the truth...!]] This is your transparency policy! We won't let that happen. Finally, to ban speculation, because today you have become so jealous in the wrong direction: We will invite the Court of Auditors – we from our group and I, as chairman of the committee – to deliver an opinion on the conflict of law, including the way it views things – and, by the way, a work-to-work burden that you never take into account. But one will certainly not go: I have here the round, which was sent from red and black to the next committee meeting of the Financial Committee, where say and write half an hour for the whole package. - That's where the president looks again. Do they send out something you don't know? - Obviously, yes. In the round, it has already been signed by your group: half an hour for a constitutional ban on speculation, for the suffering and criticizing articles-15a contracts and for the federal financing law, that is indeed an insanity! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. stupid.]] - Excuse me, will you still have your own group under control?- Oh, my God! But obviously, the drivers and drivers in your group stand up to the fact that the poor colleague is stupidly out of control of his own committee. We will do something different in the Court of Auditors and we will do that again.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-01-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00187_d8e25936	The President of the Court of Auditors, Dr. Moser, has now spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-01-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00187_d8e25958	Mr President. High house! I would also like to thank, in advance, on behalf of my staff, for the fact that the 16 reports of the Court of Auditors on the one hand, on the one hand, and on the other hand, on the other hand, have been dealt with very intensively in the debate today. It is also rather unusual that the Court of Auditors reports are on the agenda at this time. Now to the reports: A number of follow-up reviews have been discussed today, and the impact of the Court of Auditors has also been demonstrated, because this has been addressed by some Members: That is, more than 70 percent of the Court’s recommendations have been implemented. However, there are also recommendations from the Court of Auditors which would result in a great deal of cost-saving and optimization, but whose implementation fails to ensure that the necessary cooperation does not take place at present or that possible cooperations are not exploited. In this direction, for example, the two health examinations, which have also been addressed in part: in the field of day-to-day health services or in the area of the cost of medical care in criminal proceedings. If you look at the daily clinical services, it turns out that the costs could be reduced by 50 percent if you were to perform certain services, such as cataract operations, i.e. Grey Star operations, in the daily clinical field. In the Styria alone one could save over 60 beds, Austria over 400 beds. This does not happen, however, because the current charge of performance does not cause patients to be supplied daily – which would be optimal for them – but rather to be hospitalised because it allows the hospital to demand higher rates or higher amounts. This circumstance is not in the sense of the patients and actually leads to enormous costs for the public hand. Therefore, one should go in the direction of expanding daily clinical services. The expansion level is 1.5 percent of all services in Styria, Austria 2.8 percent. I have already shown the cost reduction potential associated with it in the cataract operations. I don't think it's reasonable for people who have to undergo chemotherapy to be hospitalized only because then the hospital has the possibility to charge higher rates. It is therefore appropriate to draw up an overall concept and to draw up an integrated supply planning between the established area, the stationary area, rehabilitation and care, which is still not the case. The sufferers are in this case on the one hand the patients and on the other hand also the taxpayers. The fact that there are opportunities to act more cost-effectively also shows the field of medical care, where it is positive on the one hand that in the area of army hospitals, cooperation is also being made with the execution of the penalty, so that outpatient treatments are carried out in army hospitals. This cooperation, however, refers only to outpatient services, not to stationary services. Considering that the burden in army hospitals was 5 percent and that one did not evaluate the extent to which the prisoners can be accommodated in army hospitals before building new hospitals again, this is not to be understood. If you want to save costs, you want to use the synergies, you should certainly also evaluate the extent to which the accommodation of mentally ill prisoners in army hospitals would be possible to increase the utilization there. Mr Oellinger also addressed the curative measures at the AMS: This report does not go in the direction – I think the report has been misunderstood – that we generally say that this is the more economic solution that should be the priority. They have addressed the VENETIA, which has always been the cheapest bidder, but which has not been able to provide the services at these conditions, which has also led to bankruptcy being registered. But if there are no price and performance indices throughout Austria, there is no overall strategy, there is no clear procurement strategy in the area and, for example, only 5 per cent of the services in the country of Burgenland are advertised in competition, 32 per cent in Vienna, and only a quarter in total of € 1.3 billion in competition, then one must say: This is not enough – nor to where we have found that In this case, regionally limited sub-markets have existed with few educational providers and therefore, of course, higher prices have been favoured. So in this case, the Court of Auditors goes in the direction of setting price criteria, setting quality criteria, but also very likely to benefit from competition in order to be able to achieve cost savings even in the price segment. Manager contracts have also been addressed: This is an issue on which the Court of Auditors repeatedly points out that there are non-comprehensible income increases in this area, unfounded settlement and pension benefits and a lack of transparency. The Court of Auditors therefore carried out this audit with the Federal Republic of Germany, countries and municipalities. The outcome was also discussed in the context of the debate. This shows in particular the fact that transparency is left to be desired. Transparency in particular would, however, be a matter of greater credibility. I refer to the OECD principles on corporate governance or to the Austrian Corporate Governance Code for listed companies, where it is stated that greater transparency would be a contribution to improving the public's understanding of corporate structures and activities and to strengthening the credibility of entrepreneurship as a whole. According to OECD principles, transparency in managerial relations would be a decisive tool to influence corporate behaviour and to protect investors, whereas limiting transparency of unethical behaviour would be an incentive. Each listed company shall disclose the manager's relations, each shareholder shall have a right to do so. In the public sector This is only possible if the person concerned agrees; only in this case a publication can be made. I do not think that is feasible. What the shareholder owes is also intended to be the citizen of the taxpayer. That is why we should also implement the corporate governance principles in this case, in order to ensure precisely the transparency that would be necessary. It has also been mentioned by honourable Member Lettenbichler in connection with prisoners that they should be socially insured in order to save costs. The problem we have with this is the private insurance rate, which, of course, benefits the hospitals. For this reason, it was agreed with the countries at the time that they paid off the extra costs of the social security rate at the private patient rate, at a rate of 50 percent. This Article 15a agreement has not been renewed, so that 20 percent of the 50 percent share has become. That is why we have pointed out that there should be an evaluation in order not to allow relocations from one local authority to another. Mr Oellinger has also raised a subject which is also at the heart of the Court of Auditors, the so-called audit results or raw reports as you have referred to them. It is about the principle that before a public debate takes place, the person concerned should have the opportunity to be heard of the Court of Auditors' findings, which I hope – and I attach the highest value – are based on figures and facts. That is why the Court of Auditors is making every effort to ensure that the so-called raw reports do not come to the public. But he's not there either. if, for example, the audited body or persons of the audited body are playing Court of Auditors reports to the public in order to give the report a particular meaning either in one or the other direction. I refer to the Salzburg Festival, where parts of the report have been played out in such a way that, when the report came, the Court of Auditors took a time to explain the true figures and facts. This is a fact in which the Court of Auditors is doing everything possible to ensure that this is not done. On the other hand, of course, it would be targeted and also in the interest of the audited body that it also adheres to the silence. There is no such obligation for them, but very well for the Court of Auditors. They also mentioned that something is not being ‘preached’. Since I was President of the Court of Auditors, there has been a product. That means that there is the test result. And this audit result will be published with the opinion of the audited body. The only point to be changed in this case is where the business and business secrecy is affected or when editorial changes or clarifications are required. Otherwise, you will receive exactly the report that the audited body has received. This change of strategy is also evident in the fact that 900 pages have been published by the Court of Auditors before my time. There are now over 6 000 pages to give you an opportunity to assess what the Court of Auditors has found. What the audited body is supposed to know is that you, as a Member of Parliament, too, and should also know the public. I hope that the questions raised or points raised will be dealt with or answered. As far as the statements by Mr Kogler and the ban on speculation are concerned, which has also invited the Court of Auditors to deliver an opinion, I can inform you that I will be happy to deliver an opinion on this because it is only possible to issue an opinion if the objectives are so clearly defined that the Court of Auditors can assess the way to the goal in this case. If one does not define a goal, one cannot expect the Court of Auditors to set a target itself. He would then exceed his constitutional powers and in this case become a politician or a legislator. This is not for us, but very well that we judge whether we are able, with the present documents, to fulfil the task you expect. In this respect, the Court of Auditors will also deliver an opinion. – Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-01-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00187_d8e26077	No one is reporting on this. I therefore conclude the debate. Does the rapporteur or one of the rapporteur wish to have a final word? - That's not the case. We shall proceed to the vote which I shall put to the vote on each of the Committee's proposals. We shall first proceed to the vote on agenda item 3: Request by the Court of Auditors to take note of this report III-277 of the supplements. I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who are for their attention to be a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. We come to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Zanger, colleagues, on budgetary increase and support for administrative activities in the field of § 1 para. 3 BVG Media Cooperation and Media Funding for the Court of Auditors. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of the motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority and thus rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on agenda item 4: Request by the Court of Auditors to take note of this report III-261 of the supplements. I'm looking for the Ladies and gentlemen, who are in favour of it, to give a sign of approval. – This too is unanimously adopted. We shall now proceed to the vote on agenda item 5: Request by the Court of Auditors to take note of this report III-161 of the supplements. I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who are for their attention to be a sign of approval. – This too is unanimously adopted. We shall now proceed to the vote on agenda item 6: Request by the Court of Auditors to take note of this report III-314 of the supplements. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of taking note of it to give a sign of approval. – This is also unanimously adopted. [[19:52:19]] 7. Point Report of the Economic and Industrial Committee on the Government Template (1937, d.e._Other Organiser Federal Act on the establishment of a security control system, the safeguarding of nuclear materials and installations and on export control to ensure the peaceful use of nuclear energy (Safety Control Act 2013 – SGG 2013) (2065 d.b.) 8. Point Report by the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Affairs on Amendment 2140/A by Mr Konrad Steindl, Dr Christoph Matznetter, colleagues on a Federal Act amending the 2011 Foreign Economic Act (2068b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2013-01-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00187_d8e26184	We come to points 7 and 8 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. There was no oral reporting. First of all, Mrs Mag. Brunner. Speaking time: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-01-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00187_d8e26212	Mr President. I'm going to talk to the Security Control Act. This law concerns the regulation of exports of goods with a double purpose, i.e. goods that could be used for nuclear weapons as well as nuclear power plants. According to this Government bill, such exports are subject to authorisation and authorisation is granted if these goods are only used for peaceful use. For example, “peaceful use” means the use of nuclear power plants. We can now ask ourselves whether the operation of nuclear power plants is a very peaceful matter. I wonder that this law will obviously receive a very broad consent. We have not already approved of the Committee. I have always assumed that we have here in this house and in Austria an anti-atomic consensus, which we all share. We also negotiated a joint proposal before the summer of last year and then we decided that we want to consistently implement the anti-atomic policy in Austria. What is consistent implementation now? So I wonder how consistent it is to set up our neighbours, please shut down your nuclear power plants, but at the same time allow Austrian companies to deliver goods to our neighbouring countries, which are then also used for the construction of nuclear power plants. In my opinion, this is not a consistent anti-CFC policy. I am also looking at the other two opposition parties, who are always very vehement about other neighbouring countries. This is not very consistent for me. [[Abg. May. Widmann: EU law!]] It seems that it is over with the political objective or with the environmental objective when it comes to cutting down the interests of Austrian companies. Austrian companies are already involved in the construction of nuclear power plants. The need to make arrangements here is also reflected in a question that the Federal Minister has answered. Exports of goods also used for nuclear power plants have increased since 2002. In the last five years, goods from Austria have been used in 50 CFCs. 56 AKWs are currently in new construction worldwide, so almost in everyone, when you see it this way, there is something from Austria. As has been said, these goods are also going in many of our neighbouring countries, and many of you rightly criticise the fact that very worrying nuclear power plants have been built and are becoming what we are fighting against. Many of them are also being expanded, but, as I said, I am surprised that the fight is over when it comes to Austrian companies also cutting in there. We want to change that. I therefore propose an amendment to the Government template, which reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]] This change could prevent the export of goods for the construction of nuclear power plants. I would therefore ask you to agree to our request. If our request is accepted, we will also agree to the Government's proposal in the amended form. If we want to make a consistent anti-atomic policy together, that means great approval of our request. - I'm waiting for it. In this sense, thank you very much. And: Austria needs an independent, strong and committed Ministry of the Environment.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-01-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00187_d8e26272	The amendment just tabled is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2013-01-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00187_d8e26334	Next speaker: Mr Steindl. 5 minutes of speaking time are adjusted as desired. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-01-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00187_d8e26355	Mr President. Estimated Minister of State! Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs Brunner, you already know that there are also European legislation on this security control law, which we decide today in accordance with European regulations and therefore act in accordance with European provisions. There are probably enough provisions to provide safety regarding criminal nuclear or nuclear use. I would essentially like to deal with the External Economic Act and the amendments that we are adopting today. It is an important measure for Austria and also for the other European countries to control, on the one hand, the unnoticed or partial and majority acquisitions when it comes to controlling critical areas in the individual Member States, i.e. also in Austria. Critical areas are, for example, the supply of the population, the provision of services, but also the internal and external security for the production of weapons of war and the like. In this area, acquisitions by individuals, legal persons or companies not established within the European Union or the EEA countries or Switzerland will be subject to authorisation if the share of voting rights exceeds 25 percent. The economic sectors as a whole are, as has been said, internal and external security, and security services are also involved, but in the end they are mainly the business sector for general and crisis prevention. In particular, this area includes energy supply, water supply – especially today, we have talked about water supply facilities and the sale of water; once again there is a legal provision which regulates this water supply as such in the European field in particular – telecommunications, transport and infrastructure facilities, health care and further education. I have already mentioned the voting rights, as has been said. In general, an important law that should protect the independence of the European States, in Austria essential areas of general interest and critical sectors of the economy in particular! Thank you!
ParlaMint-AT_2013-01-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00187_d8e26392	Next speaker: Deputies of windwood. 4 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-01-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00187_d8e26416	Mr President. Minister! High house! On agenda item 7, Security Control Act, and Agenda item 8, External Economic Law: I can say to the Safety Control Act that this is a very essential area. For example, the present draft contains regulations on safety control for the monitoring of the peaceful use of nuclear materials and relevant activities, the export control of nuclear materials, nuclear goods, safeguards and property protection. And we also have the reporting obligation on sites of high-activity waste. There were also serious concerns in the opinions and proceedings of the Chamber of Commerce, which were largely eliminated. I should also like to point out that there are, in this area, prestigious Austrian companies which supply such goods in significant amounts. We speak of annual sales of 120, 130 million € and more. According to calculations by economic research institutes, we speak of about 1 000 jobs. That's an order of magnitude. We will, in any case, give our assent to this government proposal. Otherwise, it is in the Foreign Economic Act. I would like to thank the previous speaker, the ÖVP member Steindl, who invited me to a meeting with experts from the competent ministry. I was told there that there is this criticism of the European Union on the subject of areas subject to authorisation. This is, of course, essential if I am thinking only of the energy supply, especially natural gas supply or water, which has already been debated accordingly today. There was the criticism that we have some too many regulations. I was told that the fields of hospitals, rescue, fire brigade, disaster prevention, traffic, education should fall out. I then got a draft, as it was actually planned, that was changed again, and we now have traffic back; instead of hospitals, rescues and education, it is now called infrastructure in the field of education and training and health care. This is, of course, a question of precise interpretation. But one could explain this even further now, then the argument that the European Union wants less regulation would lead exactly to the reverse. The two government parties have now agreed on this text in addition. What remains: There was no review procedure, and I think that time would have been enough, because it would not have arrived at a review procedure. I know it is a narrow ride, but in this case we will not give our approval to Agenda item 8.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-01-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00187_d8e26453	Next speaker: Mr Dr. Matznetter. 4 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-01-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00187_d8e26474	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! With regard to the last statements, I have no understanding of why you cannot agree, because we have debated for a very long time today and I believe that we have heard very uniformly in the area of opposition, we must look to ensure that we do not become a game ball of interests that is otherwise stored on the most essential supply issues of the population. It is clear that a number of colleagues have pointed out, I too, that, especially in critical areas, the purely commercial interest in the supply sector can be detrimental. All the more so in the case of the crisis or disaster – for who believes that an international investor, an international group that invests in critical infrastructure today in Austria, will take precautions to ensure that in the case of crisis – in the external economic law today, it is guaranteed that there is at least a discussion with the investor – that then there is enough energy, that gas is in charge, that water is in the water pipeline, that is wrong. In this area – and thanks to the Federal Minister and especially his employees – we have decided in the light of the discussion about the OMV in its importance as a gas supplier of this law in 2011. However, we were aware that the European Union, the European Commission, would like to see only that there are no restrictions. Due to German experience, we were aware that it would not be easy to fight with the Commission. I was also skeptical of whether, at the time, 2011 will succeed in keeping this law to the Commission, especially because of the danger of being tipped through European law and ultimately by the ECJ. The Germans have only reached a ceasefire with the Commission as long as they do not apply the law. However, we have now achieved much more than that, and Mr Federal Minister, I would like to thank you very much also to your employees, because they have managed to bring about a regulation that we are making the law today, that in peace, including with the Commission, we have the opportunity to undergo the really critical areas of monitoring and authorisation. This is a huge success, and thanks are due in that case to the officials who have been able to reach a solution in Brussels with much conviction; and I am glad that we can decide today. That we have not provided for additional excitement about this chapter in the form of a review procedure is logical, because it is a relatively delicate process, where there should be no doubt in the Brussels bureaucracy that perhaps 100 percent of their wishes are not fulfilled; and these are precisely the occasions for which there is also the possibility of making laws in the form of a parliamentary initiative. And that is exactly what Mr Steindl and I have done in that case, because we want this negotiation success to go on stage without much excitement. We have a safe legal basis, we can tell investors that come, if you need more than 25 percent, then you have to ask first. And on the occasion, what he's up to can be discussed with him. And whoever intends to simply loot that and thus endanger the necessary security in the country, will not be allowed to do so. The investor who says: Friends, I'm permanent with you, and I'm gonna do this, he'll get the approval. Why you cannot agree to this is a mystery, I honestly say, Mr President. I recommend that you agree, even in the light of today's water discussion. It's a good law, it protects the country, it's a moderate intervention in the Market economy and a much more reasonable regulatory policy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-01-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00187_d8e26532	The next speaker is Mrs Lichtenecker. 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-01-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00187_d8e26553	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! We will agree to the revision of the Foreign Economic Act, since we believe that some gaps will be closed with it. I therefore come to the second most important point, the Safety Control Act, to which my colleague, our environmental spokesman Christiane Brunner has already tabled a request. I am convinced that it is really important to support this in this form too, because if you are pursuing an honest, sincere anti-atomic policy, you must also ensure that goods that can be used for the production of energy from nuclear power cannot be exported and produced in this form. Once in a while, but that's what I'm on a very important topic, and that's Temelín – Temelín, who's been working on us in this form for decades. Mr Minister, this is an appeal to the entire Federal Government, but also to you, as a member of an electoral group, which is, as it were, right in front of the doorstep of Temelín, that this Federal Government is awakening from its winter sleep and finally taking the appropriate steps! The competent minister Berlakovich always chats nicely about it. If you ask Federal Chancellor Faymann the relevant questions, as he intends to become more active in his commitment to Temelín, the first sentence he makes is: I'm essentially not responsible for this. The question, of course, arises: If not even the chancellor feels responsible for a threat that we have right in front of our door, who should it be, Mr Minister? There are very important points here, because Temelín is facing a next enlargement and has on 18 June. Yes, receive the positive EIA notice from the Ministry of the Czech Republic – although all experts are convinced that Temelín is already dangerous and outdated, and above all what is planned is much more. We also believe that the EIA procedure is quite clearly illegal in Europe and in this EIA decision a fictitious type of reactor is adopted without knowing exactly what and how it should be built. It's dangerous, it's environmentally harmful in perspective, it's absurdly expensive. There are many, many reasons why this is to be prevented and why at last the Federal Government – and this is the great request to you, Mr Minister – must take steps and become active accordingly. Last week, the state government in Upper Austria, the Landtag adopted a resolution calling on the Federal Government to finally become active and take all possible legal and political steps – against Temelín, against the expansion of Temelín. There is a very essential, crucial step in initiating the EU infringement procedure. It's been on the agenda for a long time. A second important point, which I can only stress and support here, is that the issue of Euratom should also be considered in principle and the resources that are still being channelled into this outdated, dangerous, senseless technology. the research of renewable energies and energy efficiency. These are the concerns which, I believe, are rightly debated in this important law, in the Security Control Act. I would like to end today by calling on you once again to support the Greens' request on this point, and especially call on you, Mr Minister, to actively support also the resolution and the major concerns regarding the commitment to Temelín from Upper Austria.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-01-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00187_d8e26608	Mr Mitterlehner spoke on a point of view. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-01-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00187_d8e26630	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! We now have two agenda items to negotiate. One concerns the security control law and the other the external economic law, one particular section. As far as the first issue is concerned, it has already been made quite clear that it is a question of clarifying and implementing the nuclear barrier contract in Austria. No activity of an Austrian company should in any way contribute to a nuclear weapons programme, and since we have not included the competence stock in the B-VG, this must now also be secured accordingly. In essence, we have had a regulation up to now, but it will de facto be extended and improved in terms of time and quality. We now have three types of controls based on this law: On the one hand, safety control is concerned with certain reporting obligations of nuclear material and nuclear activities to the International Atomic Energy Organisation. The second is property protection and the third is export control. I do not want to go into it in detail now, but I would like to address the question raised by some Green Members, because the problem in the amendment proposal is also affected, whether we should also prevent the export of goods and products which are not directly nuclear material, but may or might also be used safely in the construction of a nuclear power plant. There, ladies and gentlemen, we do not cover this matter with the competence of this law. And I also believe that in practice we would do nothing good if we entered the area, because then we would have nothing else but that Austrian companies might be produced abroad, then jobs will also be lost. Another argument: In the final effect, it may then be hidden and produced using the incorrect indication of the intended use, while it is very comprehensible in the nuclear field where that comes from. Therefore, I would say that is a good law, and let us leave it once in this regulation. As far as Temelín is concerned: Mrs Colleagues, we just have competence, and I cannot possibly exceed these competences, and I am now talking about Temelín and the procedure at an item on the agenda, which has quite a different content. And why you can find contact very difficult in the Federal Government simply results from the situation in the contract area where the production of energy is still national. All the measures we have tried to find during the enlargement negotiations are very, very difficult to implement. The international case and others are a very problematic legal matter, and others are also concerned. With this, ladies and gentlemen, I come to the second law mentioned here. This is the Foreign Economic Act. As has been said correctly, this is in particular about the clarification regarding § 25a, where we have addressed EU objections. You also need to know the philosophy we have shown. Mr Matznetter mentioned it. In the field of general care and important services, we take a relatively narrow path, a cross-country migration, whether this is also compatible with the EU Treaties, and the EU has had certain comments. This is about infrastructure services, security of supply. In this respect, I must tell you quite honestly, if you look at this law and then, in a different context with other services of general care, we would support privatisation, I find that relatively remarkable and very, very far-reaching. I also have to say, because Mr Widmann referred to me with an issue just before, and the topic of public health is in line with this: Mr President, why did you not address the urgent question to me today, if you accuse me of not being here? Then I could give you an answer. [[Abg. May. Widmann: You say the competence has!]] But you didn't address them to me because I'm not responsible for it. [[Abg. May. Widmann: You said that yourself!]] But I tell you, in the matter I feel quite committed to the process, because then the privatisation is not on the agenda, and I really feel it sad, really sad that today no differentiated debate was possible in here. [[Abg. May. Widmann: Because you weren't there! Didn't you hear?- Oh, my God!]] I would recommend you, since you still have a lot of time today and the paper is on hand: Read You are the "Kurier", page 2, not what Mr Bundeskanzler says, but what Mr Barnier, in particular, says on the subject! And these are two facts. One is the concession, and that is the improvement in general care and quality, and the other is the subject that you always want to have, privatisation. Thus, in the final effect, quality will be improved for the public and not the privatisation will be made possible. I'm sorry if you can't or will not have this discussion. But it's really bad, because the audience, the citizen is totally unsure when he hears it, now Nestlé or someone else comes and sits on the water reserves of Freistadt, or where they always want to come from. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP]] So I'm really worried that we can't deal with other issues properly either. Back to the real topic: Among other things, we have also had a problem with § 25a when it comes to carrying out certain tests whether the results can also be published. We've done all of this now. I would also like to thank and hope, Mr Windholz, if you can read through again that you can also agree to these formulations. It is in itself a totally positive orientation in the sense of Austria as regards the possibilities of general care, and perhaps you can rethink that, jump over and agree on your shadow. The law would deserve it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-01-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00187_d8e26703	The next speaker was Mr Themessl. 4 minutes are set. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-01-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00187_d8e26724	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen! I think I can be quite brief because many details have already been mentioned by the Federal Minister and by my previous speakers, Mr Matznetter and Mr Steindl. We of the FPÖ will give our approval to both agenda items. But one more thing to the Greens: What I do not fully understand in your request is whether you have considered both the economic impact that your application might have on you and the general approach to the peaceful use of nuclear energy by other countries around Austria. In Austria, we have to thank God, the consensus and feel that we do not need it. But we cannot oblige the other countries to abandon nuclear energy as well. That would be the task of our Members in Brussels to perhaps bring about a change of opinion. They know exactly that the Austrian companies produce and export high-quality products and that the export industry in Austria is a non-necessary component of our gross domestic product. I'll tell you one thing: I would rather that if a nuclear power plant is built on the border with Austria, it is built with Austrian quality products, and not with any inferior products from somewhere. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-01-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00187_d8e26759	As the last speaker on this item on the agenda, Mrs Hakel is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. 3 minutes are set. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-01-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00187_d8e26780	Mr President. Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! In a globalised economy where trade flows no longer know borders, and in a united Europe in which we see economic policy as a common thing, of course, it also needs clear rules at national level so that everything works well. We have already discussed one of these rules several times today, which I would like to sum up briefly now. It is the Foreign Economic Act that we decided in 2011 to control these acquisitions by third-country nationals of Austrian companies. Since then, there has been an authorisation requirement for the acquisition of companies that are relevant – we have heard this many times today – for public security, the order including the provision of services and crisis management as well as infrastructure. With the amendment now before us, the gaps are now being closed so that the obligation to approve can no longer be avoided. However, the amendment is also a step towards greater transparency in the external economy, because a requirement for the publication of decisions in the approval procedure makes these procedures particularly understandable to the applicants. In addition, ensuring that such authorisation procedures can no longer be circumvented by a further formulation of the requirements for test procedures. And that's exactly what it's all about.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-01-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00187_d8e26820	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does one of the rapporteur want a final word? - That's not the case. We shall now proceed to the vote which I shall put to the vote on each of the Committee's proposals. Firstly, we shall proceed to the vote on agenda item 7: Draft Security Control Act 2013 in 1937 of the Supplements. The Members of Parliament have Magnificence here. Mr Brunner, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to make a supplementary request. I am therefore going to vote on the supplementary proposal and, finally, on the draft law. Since the present draft law contains a constitutional provision, I first make a provision within the meaning of § 82 para. 2 C 1 of the Rules of Procedure, the presence of the constitutional number of Members required for the vote. Deputies Mag. Brunner, ladies and gentlemen, have tabled an additional proposal aimed at introducing a new Z 1a in Art. Section 12 para. 3 refers. Whoever stands for it, I'm looking for a sign. – This is the minority and thus rejected. We shall come to the vote on the draft law and the title and receipt in the version of the Government template. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to give a sign on this. – This is accepted by the majority. I expressly note the two-thirds majority required by constitution. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who, at third reading, also give their approval to this draft law, in order to give an appropriate sign. – This is accepted by the majority. In turn, I expressly define the two-thirds majority required for constitutional purposes. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. We shall proceed to the vote on agenda item 8: Draft federal law amending the 2011 Foreign Economic Act, including title and receipt in 2068 of the Supplements. I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this bill to have a sign of approval. – This is accepted by the majority. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who, at third reading, also give their approval to this draft law, for a sign. – That too is the majority. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. [[20:27:15]] 9. Point Report of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy on the Government Template (1962 D.B._Other Organiser Federal Act on Steering Measures for the Protection of Energy Supply (Energielenkungsgesetz 2012 – EnLG 2012) (2066 d.B.)
ParlaMint-AT_2013-01-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00187_d8e26921	We're coming to the 9th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. Mr Magnificent came to speak. Widmann. 3 minutes of speaking time are adjusted in a wishful manner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-01-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00187_d8e26948	Mr President. High house! The later the evening, the more the members of the government fell on the government bank. Salute God, Minister! I'm really happy about what you said before, because it shows me one thing: They want to get rid of the responsibility for water in Austria. In the morning, we discussed here very intensively, very objectively and, of course, emotionally about the protection of the water. The BZÖ has by no means brought the accusation that there was a privatisation obligation. If you had been here, you would have known. It was the representatives of the ÖVP there and everyone else too, but the ÖVP was not a minister on the government bank. Now you say we should have put the request to you. Why? You yourself have said by sending out that you are not responsible. [[Federal Minister Dr. Mitterlehner: Then don't accuse me of not being there!]] No, we accuse you that you did not represent the interests of Austria outside Brussels, at European level. That's the accusation, and that's true. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] This has begun with Mr Hahn and continues with you as you were in the Council where this directive was concerned. [[Further notice by Federal Minister Dr. Mitterlehner.]] Yes, Minister, I know, but I'll tell you one more: Today you are quite alone at home on the government bank, but also in terms of content and content, because your colleagues in the Landtags, in the Federal Council, to the municipal government see this as quite different from you. If even the Federal Chancellor's Office says that this directive is in no way acceptable, and one month later, after the Germans and the French have fallen by, you do not leave a comment and take note of it silently, then you have fallen over. Take note of this! That's the case. [[Abg. Head: This is a lie!]] Ladies and gentlemen, read the minutes, everything is understandable. Say that out loud! Mr President, I think Mr Kopf is begging for a call for an order. He lied to me. Take it back! [[Abg. Head: I don't think about it!]] It's all legible. To the Energy Steering Act: Mr Minister, this is a matter of managing natural gas and electricity accordingly in the event of a crisis. The intention is not bad, it's good. The law has also brought many improvements, such as the involvement of e-controls in the prevention and emergency plans. There are exercises. There are now also clear responsibilities. You can support that. But what we don't support – that's what we have to say – is the way it has been regulated. This is where a mere regulation has taken place. You need seven federal regulations, we have already discussed this in the Committee, the Ministry of Economic Affairs, the E-Control, and you need nine more regulations from the Heads of State. Then you can count it together: Nine and seven is 16. Of course one can say that these are drawer regulations, but the problem is, if the federal government is missing in one area, then the head of state cannot decide either. Or: The Federal Government also mounts about § 7 that one would have to regulate this beforehand. That means that implementation is not the way we want it to be. We will therefore also reject the Energy Steering Act in this form. You should have been dealing with a crisis for a long time, Minister, that's the rising electricity prices and that's the rising gas prices. After liberalisation, electricity prices for households have fallen, but now they are rising again in Austria, at European level, disproportionately. Fortunately, they are below the EU average in industry, but I think that the right to use industry should also be granted to households. It's similar with the gas prices. They are once again on the rise, with households, but also with industry in particular. At the spot market, the megawatt hour of gas costs €25, in the long term contracts where we are bound, €35 – is clear, you can't get out that easily – and compared to this, the gas in North America costs €8, with the problem of shale gas. We're not in the lead field, but you can still think of something. And this is also a site question, because if companies are already considering moving away from Austria because of the high energy prices, then this is a warning signal, colleague Haubner of the ÖVP. And since I ask you to take appropriate measures to cope with this crisis that is in place here.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-01-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00187_d8e27035	Mr. Klubobmann's head has made an accusation in the direction of Mr. Widmann that what he said was a lie. For the use of the term “loyal” I must beat you, so you also get a call for order, and I request that this may be described in the future. Next speaker: Mr Haubner. 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-01-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00187_d8e27068	Mr President. Mr. Minister! Mr Widmann. I know you and I know you as a very subject-oriented person when we talk about energy. Today it hasn't been that way, I have to say. I am very glad that the interests of the Minister for Economic Affairs, Mr Mitterlehner, are being exercised in Brussels and not by you. I really have to say this first. [[Congratulations on MEPs of the ÖVP.]] Secondly, I would also like to take a brief look at the point – I will not do that otherwise – that you are talking about a Tohuwabohu. With the 1982 Energy Control Act, it was always the case that the countries were also involved. And I think that's good. They know the whole area and know that the principle legislation is at the federal level and the rest of the countries. It is therefore also necessary for us to involve the countries here. In this respect, the accusation goes to and for itself into emptiness. The Energy Steering Act, as we have it here today, is very important and right because it is essential for the supply of energy in Austria. Our households and our companies depend both in summer and winter on being supplied with electricity and gas at any time. Austria is a country with very, very high security of supply, but of course there can also be crises. And we've experienced that before. In the last crisis regarding Russia and Ukraine, we have been reminded of how dependent we are on foreign supply. And that is why I believe that it is very important that we launch this law today. Austria has prepared very well in terms of energy safety. We have many gas storage capacities. Our storage volume in 2011 amounted to around 7 billion cubic meters. As measured by annual consumption, Austria is the top priority with this volume of storage in Europe, so that we can also master the bottlenecks. However, the expansion of gas storage, gas sources and routes must continue to be promoted in the future. We also have a high security of supply in the electricity sector. If I look at the year 2011, we've had a downtime of about 27 minutes. As far as security of supply is concerned, we are the absolute top of Europe. Of course, it is important that Austria, like Europe, faces major new challenges with the energy transition. We've taken care of that too. And we have seen that renewable energy sources in recent years are very high. From 2005 to 2011, total energy consumption achieved an increase in renewable energy sources from 23 to 31 percent. This is also a very successful balance sheet. If we adopt this Energy Steering Act today, this is an important step towards modern energy policy. Because with this energy steering law, we have the opportunity to intervene quickly in a crisis case. And if there is a supply crisis in the future – of course we do not want it all – then there is the possibility to give direct instructions and orders to the electricity, gas and district heating operators or to the customers of energy, thus quickly restoring the supply. In the event of a crisis – Mr Hofer knows – with the main committee of the National Council and the Ministry of Energy to ensure optimum cooperation in the home, the parties represented in the main committee will have a representative on the Energy Steering Board in the future. Parliament is also fully involved in this. Thank you for the cooperation in advance and thank you for the cooperation. I think it is gratifying that this law is given a particularly broad approval. And, of course, I also invite the BZÖ to contribute to the fact that there will be a unanimous decision of this law today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-01-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00187_d8e27129	Mr Klubobmann's head spoke on an actual correction. I would remind you of the relevant provisions of the Rules of Procedure. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-01-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00187_d8e27155	Mr President. - That's clear to me! – Ladies and gentlemen! [[Abg. May. Kogler: An order call cannot be revised!]] Mr Widmann said earlier that the Federal Chancellor's Office had said to the EU Directive, i.e. the concession directive, that this directive would not be acceptable. I am correcting him that today, at the urgent question, the Federal Chancellor explained quite clearly and in detail why the Federal Chancellor's Office by instructions to the Minister of Economic Affairs present in the Competitiveness Council had submitted to him. It is because it considers it to be correct and because it does exactly that – and it has also explained that – it only regulates how such concessions are to be written out and awarded, and does not in any way prescribe the privatisation of water, as some of the people here claim.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-01-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00187_d8e27203	Next speaker: Mr Katzian. 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-01-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00187_d8e27225	Regardless of that, we will still ensure it in particular in the Austrian federal constitution, as we have already discussed in detail today. Ladies and gentlemen! Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! With the Energy Steering Act 2012, we are implementing a European directive again, in this case the regulation on measures to ensure the safe supply of natural gas. We have seen, in recent days and weeks, that the Commission, with regard to the design of general care, is sometimes annoying activities. In the water we have already discussed this in detail today. But in this case, ladies and gentlemen, it is about one, as I believe, very sensible implementation. For in the case of goods such as electricity or gas, which move over lines and cross several states, it makes a lot of sense to make a common solution and joint arrangements to ensure energy supply. You won't be able to do anything on your own unless you somehow have a very personal interpretation of Autarkie. That is why these common rules are needed. In recent years, we have seen – it has already been mentioned – what effects seem to have a far-reaching impact on energy supply in Austria, for example between Russia and Ukraine. And if I have read everything properly today, there are once again intense discussions between both parties about which page has once again become contractual. We'll see what's going on. And if we know that there will also be such conflicts in the future, it makes sense and important that we take the appropriate measures for the crisis and for this debate. A particular focus in the regulation and in national implementation is the special consideration of protected customers. In any case, this includes all household customers. Their supply of natural gas and heat, mostly district heating, has absolute priority over other customer groups, and I also consider this to be a very, very important and proper process. On the other hand, there are a lot of formal clarifications and responsibilities. The Mr Haubner has already said that I do not need to go into it in detail. We will surely find some opportunity in the near future to also talk about the gas price, Mr Widmann, but I think we all know that there is, on the one hand, a long-term agreement with the Gazprom, which was also in our interest, since of course we are interested in security of supply and that, on the other hand, prices on the spot markets are already being negotiated and judicial proceedings are pending. So there's already a lot, a lot in the river, and you can't say, nothing is done. I am very glad that you yourself have pointed out that we have a reason to see why price developments are very volatile with the whole subject of shale gas. And I say this very openly, we are at all times by the Russian partners, no matter what year you have been looking at since 1945, well supplied with gas, and I would also ask that you be very careful to take steps here that are annoying an important trading partner. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-01-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00187_d8e27270	Next speaker and second word: Mr Mag. Widmann. If desired, 1 minute speaking time is set. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-01-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00187_d8e27291	Mr President. High house! Mr Kopf, what is it? You said there was no actual correction, because you should have put forward what was wrong. I didn't say anything wrong, quite the contrary. ==References====External links== Holds in an official broadcast on 1 October 2012: ‘Austrian position: The EC's approach to regulate concessions in its own directive is strictly rejected by Austria." ==References== December, six weeks later, there is another information – quite rightly –: “After the discussion at COREPER on 28 May, the Commission adopted a proposal for a Council Directive on the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the protection of individuals with regard to the protection of their personal data. However, it was found that Austria was completely isolated with its fundamental rejection of the RL,” because France and Germany have also given up. Ladies and gentlemen, I have just quoted. - Point one. Point two: This was not an actual correction. And point three: Apparently there is a conflict between ÖVP and SPÖ in communication, otherwise something like this cannot happen. Because the fact is that the SPÖ Group at EU level is in a position to vote in favour of this directive, but here the Federal Chancellor's instructions come to vote in favour, and the Minister is speaking out here, the SPÖ, the Federal Chancellor is guilty. That's probably not the way it is, but that's nothing new. This is about the concession of water, the protection of the water, and you laugh at the fact that your country days, your representatives, your municipal councils, your mayors and your experts are mobilizing. We from BZÖ take this seriously – in contrast to you.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-01-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00187_d8e27329	Next speaker: Mr Ing. Hofer. Four minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-01-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00187_d8e27352	Thank you very much, Mr President. I will take a short look because the contents have been illuminated in advance. I should like to thank Mr Haubner and Mr Katzian for their cooperation and would like to add that a point was open from our point of view, and that was the representation in the Advisory Council, because, so far, only the federal states, the ministries, the social partners, but not people from Parliament were represented. This has now been changed, and I can therefore make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] I see that you are all well excited about this request, and I ask you to support it as widely as possible.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-01-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00187_d8e27441	The amendment just tabled is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2013-01-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00187_d8e27534	Mr Mitterlehner spoke on a point of view. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-01-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00187_d8e27555	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Widmann, I am sorry to have to go back to what you have just mentioned, and the issue is somehow in line with this item on the agenda. The situation of competence, who is responsible, has already looked at you, I suppose, and therefore the urgent question has been so justified. And if you want to construct a process now, it would have happened to someone, then I have to speak for the Federal Chancellery and say that there has been further development of the subject. And it has also been justified why one has then come to the view that the topic in the form, as I have explained, is decisive. And there we were also informed in written form – we were in the Council on 10 October. December also outside – that the package as a total compromise is compatible accordingly. Two points have been noted, which have been based on signature and other circumstances – not on the water area. That is why I must tell you quite honestly if you would like to give me the floor here and repeat it all the time here, I would have fallen over there in some way, then I can only understand that if I did not repeat it accordingly, with the fact that this was also presented by the relevant representative, because the right to award is not my area of competence. That's it! And in my opinion, in the final effect, neither the Federal Chancellor nor the Federal Chancellery, where the subject was coordinated, nor who else fell, is, in my opinion, the German Chancellor or the Federal Chancellery, but one has quite properly, like a subject that is being dealt with. The only mistake on the subject is that you or others have ordered the hanger to put the privatisation of the water or something else in the foreground. I have noticed today in the discussion – I have partly followed it – some of them are not at all clear as to how the legal situation in the water actually is. That's not a public asset, it's connected to soil and soil, the water right! Therefore: The Mondsee is a private water, other detto. So there you should dive a little deeper into the thing before you even talk on the subject. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] And with regard to what you always don't want to admit, it's about improvements. So you're actually talking about the lines and how to write out lines. [[Abg. May. Widmann: The ÖVP wants to sell out the water!]] All that you have noted today, which does not work in Berlin or in Zurich – Sigi Dolinschek has mentioned this – can be better done on the basis of a quality call for proposals as the EU regulates. So, I hope that's clear now. I mean, there won't be anything. We'll still have the repetition of the same. It's a shame that we can't have a differentiated discussion about this, but maybe it's a fruition if you repeat it. Don't worry, we've got time for it. [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: Nevertheless, the municipalities, the municipal institutions organize the supply! You shouldn't forget that!]] Yes, but not only, there are others who provide themselves privately or have a company well. Do you want them to be expropriated, you don't want them to do that anymore? [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: No! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,]] So the whole issue is, unfortunately, a little more complex, and I do not want to tighten the time now and come to the subject. The Energy Steering Act is nothing but that we should now recapture what we had in 1982 on the basis of a corresponding development and include, among other things, district heating and also include that we have a corresponding organization with the e-control that makes the monitoring: What kind of wearer is there? What is there for a special development? And what do you need to pay attention to? For competence. Mr Widmann, I should like to bring this to your attention once again. What you are addressing with the competence of regulations is of course due to the fact that I have different energy sources. The fact that I have to include the countries in regulations is based on the fact that I have a competence in the sense of federalism. But that does not mean that all the regulations are now always being implemented in full, but rather focused on the particular threat situation. With the extension to the main committee, you have one assurance that this matter is being handled very carefully, but on the other hand, as far as the preparation and reaction is concerned, we are really well equipped. In the 2009 crisis, we also saw that this works, but this will work even better now at an improved level with the involvement of other energy sources, but also e-control. That is why I can only ask that this system, which is really very in line, be accepted, and not anymore. There are really no more starting points. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-01-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00187_d8e27627	Mrs Lichtenecker came to speak. Five minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-01-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00187_d8e27649	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! We will vote in favour of this Energy Steering Act, because we are also convinced that it is important to ensure energy supply even in cases of crisis. Of course also in the case of gas. Gas is a bridge technology, and it is important that you do not hang on the bridge, but arrive sometime over on the other shore. And that is why, I believe, we should push this forward in the form and at a proper pace. And that means simply strengthening independence in energy supply. This requires a good, strong energy efficiency law, Mr Minister, and I hope that in the next few weeks a good, forward-looking law will be the result. And the second is, of course, the expansion of renewable energies. I don't know, Minister, how you did. It happened to me shortly after New Year's Eve so much that I received many emails, calls where the people told me: A whore! This OeMAG funding story is really crazy! They haven't come in for hours. And that, of course, has had consequences. There are not only dedicated citizens who wanted to make a corresponding request, which did not even manage to make such a request before 4 o'clock in the morning, but also an EIA Council of State, namely the colleague Pernkopf from Lower Austria, strongly criticised this matter. ==References====External links== On 1 January, he issued an energy-conjunction package for Austria and explicitly stressed the need for support in the field of photovoltaics and the need for action. And I can only stress that, because we are deeply convinced that this is not the way it can continue in the field of photovoltaic promotion. Here we need appropriate regulations, corresponding volumes, in order to enable citizens who want to invest their resources in the energy transition, which we all welcome together, to actually realize. That is why we Greens have tabled an appropriate proposal today to launch a reform here, and, Minister, I would like to briefly outline the four points. This is a self-evident request that has been filed here. First, Minister: We want a special fund so that all correct applications can in fact be made to compensate citizens for the leased New Year's Eve and also to make it clear that the energy transition is a very good thing to do. [[Congratulation with the Greens]] The second is that we believe that the practice of awarding is generally in need of reform. Here it is necessary to discuss the relevant amendments, to pour them into a law and to decide on them. The third thing we also believe is that it is urgently necessary to lift the cover. And before a moaning comes, I can say that it is quite clear that we also need to discuss how the feed-in tariffs are designed, whether there is also an adjustment need. We should all really discuss these points in order to finally drive the photovoltaics and thus also the energy transition in the sense that it is not only in crisis cases of an energy steering law that we are going to decide today, but in general it is a goal to become as independent as possible from fossil energy sources as possible, to secure climate protection here and to invest in renewable energies and thus to create jobs in the regions.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-01-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00187_d8e27706	Next speaker: Mr Ing. Lugar. 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-01-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00187_d8e27727	Mr President. High house! Minister! We are talking today about an emergency programme, which we certainly must always drive when there are problems, especially with the gas supply. We had this in the past, that Ukraine suddenly turned the gas tap and we had great problems. Thanks be to God, this soon resolves relatively well. The current developments, however, show us: that this can happen again at any time, right now with shell. Shell wants to update the shale gas deposits in Ukraine accordingly, and there are negative signals from Russia again. So it might well be that we have to apply this law relatively soon in order to prevent the flow of electricity and light through the lack of gas. As we all know, we are not only dependent on gas heating, but unfortunately there are also many gas turbines in Austria that produce electricity – and if there is no gas, there is no electricity either. Even if that was not the case: What do people do if they no longer have gas heating? - They turn up the heating. In some regions of Austria, the lines of 100 percent – some even say, 110 percent – are burdened and then overloaded relatively quickly. That means, ultimately, that we make ourselves independent of the gas, but unfortunately there is no effort from your side at all to do quite the opposite. I can still remember that was about one or one and a half years ago, because the VERBUND came to us and wanted a capital increase. At this point, we could have claimed as the owner that the combination also relies on renewable energies. Unfortunately, the VERBUND has not shown any interest and is now building a large gas power plant again, which ultimately leads us to need even more gas and the dependence is getting even greater. Mr Minister, if we decide an emergency programme here – that is also useful, not a question; if the gas goes out, we need an emergency programme to prevent the electricity grid from collapseing, the infrastructure collapses, the economy collapses, because we have to ensure that things still work – then it would be much, much better not just to decide an emergency programme, but finally to make ourselves independent of foreign energy supplies. There is a good approach to this, an energy autarchy concept, which your Minister of the Environment repeatedly refers to and is repeatedly promoted, but unfortunately there are no measures in this direction at all. [[President Mag. Prammer is taking over the presidency again.]] That is to say, it is set here on an old, familiar technology, namely fossil energy sources. Unfortunately, all the things that we could do in a country like Austria, which, especially as regards biomass, is unlikely to have great treasures and a very large forest stock – as we could do decentralised heat and power coupling, use decentralised biomass, and push back the gas, which is becoming increasingly popular, – are not interested in your side. At the time when the VERBUND wanted to raise the capital and we proposed to him exactly that he not invest in this gas power plant, but to make decentralized power-heat-coupling, so that we can use the domestic resource forest, also leave the purchasing power in Austria and can thus become independent, the VERBUND has said that it does not calculate itself. You, Mr Minister, have made the wall and said that we cannot intervene that this is a private economic decision. – An absolute wrong decision! If the federal government already had money for a capital increase, it would have been absolutely all right from my point of view if you had stepped in and said: Dear friends, this is a decision of national importance, we need to become a lot more independent of the gas supplies. Mr Minister, if you look at gas supply ratios rising every year, gas loss rising every year, and that dependence is increasing every year, that is a strong alarm from my point of view. I would really like to If you stand up here today and in principle talk about whether it must be that a country like Austria in such a sensitive country The area such as energy is so dependent on foreign countries that a country like Austria transfers 12 billion for energy supplies abroad, whereby in Austria we could produce at least a large part of this amount with domestic energy generation, with renewable energy itself. That is why, Minister: Of course, we need an emergency program if our gas supplies no longer flow. But wouldn't it be much more reasonable to make a piece of yourself independent of the gas? They also know that we produce more than 10 percent of the domestic gas consumed, that is, there is potential. There are also gas fields in Austria that could be tapped. Even there you're juicy, even there isn't much happening. So in the end, it's about energy autarchy. And there's a good mix made: first of all, the domestic resources are optimally useful, even fossil resources; that's not a question. In addition, use the forest, which is present in the flood, which remains unused. Furthermore, expand the hydropower. We also know, Mr Minister, that it takes up to ten years on average in Austria, until a larger hydroelectric power plant is carried out by the EIA and all the other permits. That is why we need to do something about this. Because I have a lot of speaking time today, I'll tell you... [[Ironic hustle and bustle with the Greens.]] – I know you’re always very happy when I talk a lot here. I see that too – how should I say? – as a small gift to the greens who always enjoy it. That is why I would like to address something that concerns small-scale hydropower today. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Kogler.]] As far as small hydropower is concerned, there is a very great potential in Austria. We have a lot of potential here, but if we look at the approval procedures – and there is a Court of Auditors report that shows this exactly – it looks as follows: The approval procedures are so complex in the small hydropower sector that one is over 70 – over 70! – Individual permits are needed to build a small hydropower plant. And that's the problem. In other words, in Austria, renewables are hampered on the one hand, and on the other hand, gas consumption is seen to rise as much as possible. Measures are being taken to further propagate the gas, but we would need exactly the opposite. We would need the opposite because we want to become independent, and above all because we want to leave the purchasing power here in Austria. That is why, Minister: We will, of course, agree today, of course we need an emergency programme, but will Please be active! Unfortunately, we have an Environment Minister who does not become active, who prefers to buy 1 billion of criminal payments under the Kyoto Protocol, rather than finally introducing measures here. As this Minister is, so to speak, subordinate to you: Get active! See that you are motivating Mr Berlakovich, who is not going too far here! We finally need renewable energy in Austria. The Greens say that again and again, I'm on your line. I also consider it from the economic side, because domestic energy production also means purchasing power in Austria, meaning economic recovery, means additional jobs. These are all things that are very lucrative and very good. The Greens have repeatedly spoken about this. I share this view. And that's why, Minister: Get active and finally expand the renewable energies! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-01-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00187_d8e27827	Now comes Mr Mag. Lettenbichler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-01-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00187_d8e27848	Madam President. Estimated Minister for Economic Affairs! High house! The main changes and adjustments to the Energy Steering Act have already been explained in detail. It is good and important that we decide today, because the safe supply of energy is of course essential for us as consumers, as private customers, but much more natural for Austria's economy. For industry, this is even an essential location factor. In view of some of the media's presentations that have been made in the course of the day, we should all be aware that the energy-intensive industry in Austria alone employs more than 160,000 people, that the energy-intensive industry also invests around €2.2 billion a year in the business and thus in the work site of Austria. We should also not forget that our industry is in a tough location competition for settlement and for keeping jobs. We're here in a three battle: EU, USA and Asia. In order to continue to be competitive on the international markets, it is therefore essential for domestic companies to have a well functioning but also a durable energy supply. Let us look at the competitive situation in terms of electricity prices! This was 21 percent above that of the USA and even 197% above that of China in Austria in 2010. For gas, the US industry now pays only one third of Austria's price – not one third less, but only one third. Despite these additional costs in the energy sector and despite these uneven conditions, Austria's companies have been able to invest billions in energy-saving and emission-reducing production techniques in recent years. They are thus one of the most energy efficient industries in the world. The pain limit, ladies and gentlemen, is probably reached. In view of the competitive situation, further burdens, as they have been indirectly demanded today, are highly risky – and therefore: Hands off! Referring to the security of supply with gas, I can say that we still record a gap of about 20 kilometres between Saalfelden and the Tyrolean high felt in the west of Austria. My appeal therefore to those responsible in Tyrol, but also in Salzburg: Sit down and quickly find a way to build the remaining section of the route! Tirol would therefore have a second gas supply in the case of cases that hopefully would never occur. The citizens, but also the businesses, would thank them for this. – Thank you for the attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-01-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00187_d8e27891	Mr Wenninger has now come to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-01-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00187_d8e27915	Madam President. Federal Minister! High house! We will adopt a regulation with the Energy Steering Act, which we hope we will never need, but consumers, citizens and the economy will be very pleased to have this mechanism as a guarantee of security of supply in the event of an emergency. As colleagues have already mentioned, the budgets are at the forefront of an absolute priority, but also of the Austrian economy. Both of us are of particular importance to social democrats in terms of their economic location, but also in terms of quality of life. I would also like to address Mr Lichtenecker and Mr Lugar briefly. The path to the energy transition and the expansion of renewable energy forms must be taken together and provided with the corresponding networks – “nets” now as a super term for the connection of traditional energy supply facilities, from power plants to photovoltaic plants in large formats, in the individual area, but also from large wind farms et cetera. It will not work to build huge alternative energy parks and not establish connections with high-capacity pipe systems. In Austria, the desire to switch to alternative renewable energy forms is very strong in the population, and also the path of the energy transition and the exit from nuclear power is borne by a large majority of the population, Our task as an energy politician, but also as an environmental politician, is to ensure that this energy transition can also be implemented quickly and consistently – in conjunction with the necessary storage systems, with management systems, not only in their own country, but also at European level. It is very important to me in this context not only to describe the crisis scenario, but also the challenges we face if we want to successfully challenge the energy transition.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-01-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00187_d8e27948	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Brunner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-01-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00187_d8e27969	Madam President. Minister! My colleague Lichtenecker has already mentioned this: We Greens will vote in favour of this law, which was created in the event of a crisis. As an environmental spokesman for the Greens, however, I say that the real crisis we are facing is the climate crisis, the shortage of resources and the increase in prices for fossil energy imports. The only solution, not just for emergency scenarios, but overall for these problems, is independent energy supply, decentralised energy supply and therefore renewable energy supply. A lot of expansion has already been said here, which I support. The energy concept of the Stronach team is obvious: More of everything and that as fast as possible. It is another question, whether this would contradict and perhaps be able to go backwards in a few years. But I think if we deal honestly and correctly with this, then it's all about reducing consumption. That must be the next step. I hope that we can take very concrete steps together under the Energy Efficiency Act in order to actually reduce energy consumption in Austria. Second, there is a need for a consistent transition to renewable energy, as well as clear rules and decisions. We should not take advantage of some fossil resources on every occasion, but we should encourage oil heating, but make clear decisions and then implement them in concrete terms. Mr Weninger referred to the networks. – Yes, one can discuss this, but what it needs above all is transparency and civil participation. We need to know what we need at all, because if it is said that people want to change and feed in their area, then these are more adaptations to decentralised feed-ins and networks and not large infrastructure lines. There, I think, it also needs a more serious debate. It is also important for us not to frustrate the citizens who want to change. Mr Lichtenecker has already mentioned this. That's why we want all of them to be on the 1st. Mr President, I would like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. In addition, it is our task to find regulations so that such a support chaos cannot happen again. We are prepared to cooperate and submit our proposals. I have just read in an Austrian daily newspaper, the ecostrom has burdened households. I would like an honest debate from all of us here and also from the Government. Of course, there is an eco-electric surcharge for households, but one should then communicate honestly what the burden of fossil energy sources on external loads, loss of value added and climate change payments for households mean. So even there should be measured with the same measure. I believe that this will help to force the energy debate in Austria and consistently drive the green energy transition in Austria. We have as great a potential as no other country, and we should benefit from that. By the way, I believe that Austria needs an independent, strong and committed Ministry of the Environment.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-01-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00187_d8e28021	Next speaker: Mr Ing. Gartlehner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-01-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00187_d8e28042	Madam President. Estimated Minister of State! Ladies and gentlemen! I think it is undisputed that we make an important decision with this law. This Party-politically motivated “emergery”, which is so elaborate with regulations and empowerments, has nothing to do with the fact that the Minister or his ministry adopts a bad law, but that is simply our federal structures. And maybe we should think about it. In principle, it is nice to call for higher support for renewable energy here. But I believe that better innovations are needed. I see that next year, too, very important innovations will become marketable, which will lead to massive distortions with traditional energy producers. That is to say, the substitution of soya by algae will most likely be realized by large-scale industry from next year onwards. Innovations in the solar field, which are, as it were, in product development, will allow you to stop logging in to OeMAG in order to obtain a feed-in permit, but you will simply invest- Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. That is to say, it will change a lot in the next few years. There will be major challenges for traditional energy producers and fuel producers, but this has led to a very positive development. Nevertheless, we need this energy supply law, but we still need gas in the future and we need to manage and secure our industrial resources – in the energy sector that will continue to be necessary – well. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-01-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00187_d8e28087	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. The rapporteur's conclusion is that there is no such thing as a wish. We therefore vote on the draft law in 2066. Hiezu have Members Peter Haubner, Katzian, Ing. President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). First of all, I shall vote on the parts concerned by the supplementary or amending proposal and finally on the remaining parts of the draft law, which have not yet been voted on. Since the present draft law and the said supplementary or amendment proposal contain constitutional provisions, I shall first put it in accordance with § 82 para. Paragraph 1 of the Rules of Procedure establishes the presence of the constitutional number of Members required for the vote. Deputies Peter Haubner, Katzian, Ing. Hofer, colleagues and others have tabled an amendment or amendment which refers to Sections 1, 27 and 36. I would ask those Members of the House who are in favour of it to give a sign of approval. – This is accepted by the majority. I expressly note the two-thirds majority required by constitution. Finally, we shall vote on the remaining parts of the draft law, together with the title and receipt of the Committee's report. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their agreement to do so to give an appropriate sign. – This is, in turn, accepted by the majority. I also expressly note here the constitutionally required two-thirds majority. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who, at third reading, also give their approval to this draft law, to give an appropriate sign. – This is accepted by the majority. In turn, I expressly define the two-thirds majority required for constitutional purposes. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. [[21:20:03]] 10. Point Report by the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Affairs on the proposal from Mr Bernhard Vock, colleagues, on the acquisition by the public of the costs of the audit of skilled workers (“joint examination”) by the public authorities (2069 d.b.) 11th@item: inlistbox Point Report by the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy on the motion for a resolution 1832/A(E) by Mrs Mathias Venier, ladies and gentlemen, on consumer-friendly award of magazines and magazines (2070 a.m.)
ParlaMint-AT_2013-01-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00187_d8e28195	We come to points 10 and 11 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. There was no oral reporting. We are therefore going into the debate. Mr Vock is the first to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-01-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00187_d8e28225	Madam President. Minister! High house! We have already discussed this request in the committee, and I have not fully understood how to misinterpret this request. It is in the heading and in the application: ‘Acquisition of the costs of the professional worker examination’ by the public authorities’. [[Abg. Bucher: Which one?]] [[Abg. Ursula Haubner: This is just sloppy formulated!]] We just wanted to make it clear: The apprentice is in training, just like a student, a student, the examination is part of a training. While the student and the student are replaced with all the costs – a student does not need to pay an exam tax, for example for a matura commission comparable to that of the course exam – the apprentice must pay them, even if he is then replaced by the employer. But at the end of the day, he's got to make it. Even if it pays the entrepreneur, he must earn it. We then said that to achieve equality here, it would be only fair to simply take over these costs by public authorities and not to transfer them to individual employees or employers. First of all, the apprentice must pay the fee, prefer it, and then the employer must replace it. This must be achieved, this does not bear the public hand. Our idea was simply an equation of the pupils with students and students. A teaching is an education, and there should also be justice there. The SPÖ is always talking about justice. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] But explain to me why the apprentice must pay his employer something, but the student does not.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-01-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00187_d8e28282	Next speaker: Mr Obernosterer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-01-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00187_d8e28303	Madam President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! This proposal has not, as has been said, been misinterpreted, we have already been working on it in committee. But I think you've got to deal with what's in the text, not what you might mean. This request literally states: “Applicants for joint examination must pay the examination documents and fees from their own pocket. ” – You know that is not the case. We know that's what the company pays for, that's clear. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Vock.]] You have also heard the arguments in the committee. Something, I think, is already clear to us entrepreneurs, but also to all employees: Everything that the state is re-disbursing in subsidies is basically to be paid back by all of us. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Steibl: Of whom exactly, over 2 million do not pay taxes!]] The cost alone for this amount to € 5.2 million annually. I am a businessman myself, so I trust to say this very loud. We are also an apprentice training firm, by many, many apprentices, but rather we pay the apprentice these exam costs and for them a little less taxes than vice versa. If the State or the Ministry of Economic Affairs really has €5.2 million left, I can better imagine this in another economic promotion. For the second request concerning consumer-friendly award of magazines and magazines: I mean, we only need to look at the “Kronen Zeitung” once. [[The speaker keeps today’s edition of the “Kronen Zeitung” up to date.]] This problem, which deals with this proposal, cannot be solved here in our country alone, but it can only be solved at EU level. We cannot impose on the Swisss the amount of their obligation to award in euro. We cannot prescribe to the German “star” for example, how great the obligation to award is if he prints the prize for the “star” in Austria at the front of his expenses. That's not possible, we all know exactly. If so, then there is a need for a regulation at EU level, so that everything is the same size. We can't solve this alone, and I think that's what lights everyone. That is why these two amendments, as I have said, will be rejected in the vote here in plenary.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-01-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00187_d8e28361	Mrs Mag. Honey's coming to terms now. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-01-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00187_d8e28382	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! First of all, I would like to say something about the application for consumer-friendly award of magazines and magazines. I see this as different from the honourable Member's supernoster. I believe that this is a very supportive request. Many magazines have just written the prize for Germany in the front and then little the price for the remaining European countries, which also pay in euro. This is quite confusing for consumers and consumers. I myself am also more frightened that you pay between 50 cents and 2.50 € more at the end of the day, because you are oriented to the large printed German price. And I think we should not wait here until perhaps a regulation comes at European level. There are retailers who are already more consumer-friendly, for example by adding an extra price award, so you know, that's the price I pay for this magazine in Austria. That would be something I mean that we really need action. I would like to make a very different assessment of the second request. Here I join the interpretation of Mr Obernoster. Unfortunately, the application is quite sloppy. Apart from the fact that we haven't had a joint examination for a long time, but a course examination, the application text does not show what you really want. [[Abg. Vock: You only need to read the title!]] Well, you have explained this in such a way that you do not want the training firm to take over the costs, so to speak, but write in the request that it should not pay the apprentice. However, the apprentice does not pay for this because § 9 of the Vocational Training Act regulates that the company must take over the costs. So you explain a different approach here than he says in the application. [[Abg. Vock: But that pays again the apprentice!]] In connection with the Master's exam – which I would like to discuss here a little bit – the problem is quite another. Maybe this also happens to you: Again and again, hairdressers tell me that they would like to take a master's exam, but they can't afford it. This does not surprise me either, when you look at what it actually costs. For example, there are preparation courses that cost € 2 160 at the WIFI Wien, then there are exam fees of € 760, i.e. you have to count at least € 3 000. Now it's like this: These women are young, engaged, intelligent, want to achieve something in life, mostly relatively soon after a well-finished degree examination. And then they should pay €3 000 for an exam, but earn €1 186 in the first year after graduation, then up to €3. Year 1 286 €. These are net incomes of around 1 000 and around 1 050 €. These are incomes at the risk of poverty, and we know that those who are involved just such incomes cannot afford to put something aside, for example, in order to save something for an exam fee. I think there really is a need for action. It cannot be that, as this example shows, thousands of young women of higher qualification are held by the master exam simply because they find financial obstacles. I think we need action here.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-01-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00187_d8e28432	Mr Riepl is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-01-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00187_d8e28453	Madam President. Mr Vock, we will not be able to give your request by the Social Democracy today. But I would also like to say that he is in some way particularly textual. If you look at the reasons, it says: “Teachers in a training establishment have some financial disadvantages for students”. – The sentence alone shows that you have no idea of matter. Where's the disadvantage? One thing is clear: The apprentice receives an apprenticeship compensation, while the student does not receive any salary. So if, then it's reversed, but not so. That's the first thing ever. Second, write: “Competents for the joint examination” – the colleague of the ÖVP has already pointed out – “must pay the examination documents and fees from their own pocket”. - That's just wrong. A look into the vocational training law would show you that in § 9 para. 7 says for decades now that the teacher has to replace or pay the exam tax and the related costs for material or other. [[Abg. Vock: That doesn't make sense!]] I remember when I graduated in 1968, I didn't have to take control of any schilling, which clearly went over the operation. My teaching company paid for it, and that was never a problem. – As far as the reasons are concerned. Of course, it is right and legitimate that you say that the public hand should best pay everything and, of course, that. I think it will be interesting if one reads the reasons now again in peace and shows itself amazed why there is such a thing – I say it almost under quotation marks – nonsense inside. That's where I have to ask myself the question: What was on the 11th? June 2011 when you formulated the application? – I can tell you, there was no problem from the weather. We had 29 degrees in Vienna, it was bright, the sun shone, it was blue sky. But maybe they were. You somewhere in a blue fog field, I don't know, so such formulations come about. So for me, that's not actually explainable. The public hand does not need to pay either. I am of the opinion that those who train apprentices also receive public funding for this, who often use young people as full-time workers in the course of their studies, and often also charges customers in such a way, can at the end also pay the 94 € exam tax and any cost of material. The companies do so without any problems. You're doing even more. I only quote from a collective contract, such as the metal industry, where the teacher – that is, the economy itself – says: I even put something on it, I give the apprentice a little bit more, i.e. a premium of €150 if he has the examination. Entrepreneurs are therefore not the exploiters that need to be publicly supported, but rather, they are reasonable and even happy when there are apprentices who reach the goal of teaching. If they can support this with a few euros, this is not a problem. In fact, the request is simple and simply absurd and so reject.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-01-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00187_d8e28490	Next speaker: Mr Windholz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-01-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00187_d8e28511	Madam President. Minister! High house! We are dealing with two requests, which – kindly formulated – have certain inaccuracies. However, we have assessed the fundamental trend in our voting behaviour, and this is in order in both applications. Agenda item 10 is a sort of financial improvement for apprentices. I think it is a constant challenge to create incentives for apprentices to be trained. You can never do enough. We from the BZÖ have made several requests during this legislative period. However, this was not a success. This was obviously not too big a concern for the two government parties. The substance of the request is all right. The wording, I would say now, can certainly be described as an accident. The second item on the agenda is about consumer protection. Here, too, the fundamental trend is perfectly in order. I would say that we do not always have to wait until things are regulated in the European Union. It's an open field. Why shouldn't we even go ahead here? I would think that was reasonable. There are really many citizens who have already addressed me, who regard this as a lack. If this has not yet been a subject in the European Union, which has been enforced for the improvement of consumers, then we should address it in the National Council. That is why I think it is entirely legitimate here to support such a request. However, we have already heard that the two government parties are again and again following the practice practiced in opposition applications and do not give their consent.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-01-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00187_d8e28548	Next speaker: Mr Kirchgatterer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-01-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00187_d8e28569	Madam President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! A positive career start, a successful career start is of great importance to us Social Democrats. I am personally pleased that since autumn 2012 in the New Secondary Schools and in the primary schools, the “vocational orientation” duty has been introduced and that, in order to provide young people with an important assistance, they have to choose the right profession, namely their abilities, their inclinations, but also the offer. This is why, ladies and gentlemen, this is so important because a very narrow spectrum, a very narrow area is still being selected as a teaching profession from the wide range of the working world, while many other industries are fighting for apprentices. I am also on the second point which I would like to address, namely the various sectors, the sectors, the institu tions that promote career growth. Here I would like to ask you to present to young people these beautiful, forward-looking professions and the opportunities they offer, as well as to point out that the teaching with teaching with Matura has become even more attractive. Ladies and gentlemen! This federal government is doing a lot for young people, for professional work. It is the skilled workers who are very much developing prosperity in our country. I think we're on the right path: Vocational orientation in the new secondary schools, primary schools and increased involvement of the industries. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-01-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00187_d8e28602	Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to draw attention to the fact that I have already put the bell to the vote and that I am going to ring the two-thirds bell on the previous speaker, because we have the two-thirds of the Rules of Procedure immediately after the vote on these two agenda items, so that no one can see it. Only to guide, of course, the two-thirds majority does not apply to these two agenda items, but immediately thereafter. Mr Bundesminister Dr. Mitterlehner has now spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-01-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00187_d8e28627	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! What the two applications have been made is: Some things have already been said. I'd like to give you some additional information. The first application to replace the relevant examination fees is simply inconsistent, as you have built up the whole application on the fact that the apprentice would be affected. The fact is that the teacher has the costs and that we have set up a number of grants for the teacher, namely a total of €160 million, on which the social partners decide. If it were important for the social partners to do a replacement of costs in this area, they could do so. They don't want it. For those who achieve good, yes excellent successes in this context, there is a corresponding support that makes it possible for the social partners already as an incentive to do so. - That's the one point. A second point in this context: Before someone comes to the idea, he must also propose a replacement of the costs for the Master who is taking part in the exam – we are already doing so. This is directly affected. At least part of the audit costs will be replaced by a support to provide incentives here as well. For the second request concerning the award of prices. In practice, this problem does not arise at all. If someone buys a newspaper or magazine, he either knows their price in addition to the content he expects, and if he does not know it, he asks the seller. We don't have a single occasion where anyone would have thought or articulated such a thing. They keep me and others in mind on every occasion that we'd all be overburdening with bureaucracy and administration. So please, leave everything there. We don't need that. That's what the market regulates. And we have no complaints.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-01-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00187_d8e28669	Next speaker: Mr Markowitz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-01-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00187_d8e28690	Madam President. Minister! High house! On behalf of Mr Vock: Yes, we will support it, because in principle it is going in the right direction. I have already made a few requests on this matter myself. Mr Minister, you said in the Committee that €300 million is investing in youth and practically in education. I like that too. When we talk about the 94 € that costs the graduation exam, do you, Mr. Vock, speak here of the fact that the apprentice has to pre-finance this amount, doesn't it? [[Federal Minister Dr. Mitterlehner: The teacher!]] The apprentice finances it before, and the teacher returns the money to him. And Mr Vock then meant something – I do not want to speak for the FPÖ now; I have read the proposal, and that is why I am simply saying it this way: [[Abg. Vock: That's what the application says!]] Since it has to be pre-financed by the apprentice, it would have failed if it was immediately financed by the public authorities, so that it is not the case that this amount is pre-financed and then the money is repaid. But we should certainly consider one thing: As far as the Master's exams are concerned, there are already great differences, Mr Minister – I am sure you will be right. On the one hand, you support professions, and on the other hand, it is true that the money for the master's exams has to be taken over completely. This is really about a lot of money – the colleague, treasure, just said it – and there it is just that especially in the Master's exams? [[Federal Minister Dr. Mitterlehner: In part, the company pays immediately, for example with the builders, and not the apprentice!]] [[Federal Minister Dr. Mitterlehner: No, at the!]] I'm just talking about the master's exams. I've been on one side, but you've been talking to the colleague. [[New interim remark by Federal Minister Dr. Mitterlehner.]] Yeah, yeah, sure. That's right. That's what we've discussed before. But in the master's exams it's really that way – you just talked to the colleague, so you didn't hear it – that you have to finance it yourself. This is really a lot of money, and it simply cannot afford certain industries or certain people. And there you should be these people – [[further notice by Federal Minister Dr. Mitterlehner]] They come from the Chamber of Commerce – even more support so that just more people in Austria are top trained. You will find in us a partner to do this in the long term. That's where we should definitely put the lever on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-01-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00187_d8e28785	Mr Mag. Kuzdas is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-01-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00187_d8e28806	Madam President. Federal Minister! High house! It is not often the case that we are discussing requests in plenary, which have been rejected – with the two current ones it is so. [[Abg. May. Honey: They are usually postponed!]] I would like to comment on Mr Venier's request, but I am not sure whether Mr Venier and his colleagues are always pursuing a consistent line. On the one hand, he sometimes demands a de facto night watchman state and on the other hand state intervention. That really doesn't fit in. In this context, I would like to remind you, Mr Venier, of a speech you gave on 14 May. In November, a fire for the removal of social benefits and pension subsidies. I quote literally from this speech: “ Instead of spending more and more money on new promotions and social transfer payments, we should focus on reducing them. These purely consumer tasks and expenditure that we are doing have no equivalent value compared to an infrastructure measure in which we actually have an equivalent value. For example, we have the pension grant from the budget – a purely consumer issue with which we do not receive an equivalent.” – Quote. What do you mean by that? Don't you want state pension subsidies? Do you want to abolish the pension subsidies? Do you even know what that means? We have a cost coverage for pension insurance in the area of ASVG of around 80 percent, for the professionals of 46 percent and for the farmers of 19 percent. That would mean – I come to the request, don't worry –: [[Intrusion of the Abg. Venier]] Pension reductions in the ASVG area by 20 percent, by 54 percent for the industrial sector and by 81 percent for farmers. And what does “purely consuming tasks and expenses ” mean? Don't the pensioners have any equivalent? Would you like to tell the pensioners that? Or is this the new basic value of the social home party? Then we must also tell pensioners that the state pension subsidies are abolished from you. The summit is: They also refer to “transfer payments and social charges” you want to “turn off”. – pension grants are therefore “social contributions”? The expression alone is a blow to the face for all pensioners. This is politely formulated, one could also say: scandalous. I'll tell you something. There is no interplay between generations for social democracy, because it can't be called young or old, but only young and old. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] They demand personal responsibility on the one hand and criticize the state's premeditation and state intervention on the other. However, with your request – and now I come to that – you demand state intervention: a uniform award of prices, a minimum font size, other positioning, especially of country-specific prices – i.e. more bureaucracy. Or do we pick up the pickerl on the newspapers? It can only be media available internationally. This can then look like the price is great – that is certainly readable for everyone – or so it can look out. [[the speaker keeps a copy of a magazine up to date]] [[the speaker keeps a copy of another magazine up to date]] So I could imagine that you can do something legally with the Austrian media. But what do you do with the “spiegel” – this publishing house is in Germany – with “Newsweek” – this publishing house is in New York – with the “Financial Times” with its headquarters in London? – Mr Obernosterer has already mentioned it: It's just not possible. And with that, this request has also deserved the rejection.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-01-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00187_d8e28874	Mr Venier. — (DE) Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-01-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00187_d8e28895	Madam President. Federal Minister! In short, to the remarks of my previous speaker – where is he sitting? –: I am in principle right to say that in my speeches in advance I have always said that it is precisely this premeditation that should be abandoned by the state. That's what I'm still standing for. However, on this issue I really believe that this is a massive improvement from a consumer perspective, and I am absolutely in favour of that. Nor do I think that this is a problem to be solved at European level. You have shown this a little bit plausibly, of course you don't have to do that, but I can very well demand these printing media from the laws that we have, which are just too dirtyly formulated. And I do not think – especially since other country-specific things are being printed on – that it is not possible to mark the price even greater. In principle, I find it incomprehensible once again that one simply rejects an oppositional request, because, as I believe, this is a completely ideology-free request, which is also unable to make any choices for our To re-establish society. I would rather understand if he were rejected from the government parties. This is simply a matter of awarding prices, which should be made more consumer-friendly. And here things are relatively clear: We see in the existing, valid laws Swammy provisions, such as in § 4 – which you can properly understand, if you want –: ‘The prices of visible goods shall be marked in such a way that an average eye-catching observer can easily read and allocate them.’ There is also an § 9 – which I would like to spare you – which contains determinations at the various European prices. I would also like to comment briefly on the statements made by the Minister, who says he assumes that everyone knows what his magazine costs. I recommend you, Mr Minister, to look through the product range of the two large media houses in Austria. You will find that there are well over 1,000 different newspapers and magazines in Austria. An average dealer has a minimum of 200 to 500 copies, whose prices change, I know from my own experience, sometimes weekly, sometimes even every day – see several magazines. For example, what you also ignore is that not only does the consumer need to know this price externally – he may know it – but it is also about retailers. And as far as I can remember, you are at least responsible for the Minister of Economic Affairs and also for these people. Prices change regularly, the award will be difficult, traders are running risk of selling products at the wrong price. What you are doing here, Minister of Economic Affairs, together with SPÖ and ÖVP, is what I am used to from you, namely leaving consumers and, in this case, retailers in the rain.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-01-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00187_d8e28954	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. No final word on the part of the reporting is desired. We shall come to the vote which I shall put to the vote on each of the Committee's proposals. We shall proceed to the vote on agenda item 10: Proposal from the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy to take note of its report 2069 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this. – This is the majority and thus accepted. We shall now proceed to the vote on agenda item 11: Proposal from the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy to take note of its 2070 report of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this. – This is accepted by the majority. [[21:49:31]] 12. Point Report by the Committee on the Rules of Procedure on the motion for a resolution (Doc. Barbara Prammer, Fritz Neugebauer, Mag. Dr. Martin Graf, colleagues in a federal law amending the Federal Law on the Rules of Procedure of the National Council (Regulatory Act 1975) (2019 d.b.) (Third reading)
ParlaMint-AT_2013-01-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00187_d8e29023	We're on the 12th. Agenda item. – Please don’t leave the hall, we will come to the vote immediately! I would like to make one more point. – The Federal Minister may go, until now he is not entitled to vote. [[In the direction of the Federal Minister for the Interior, Dr. Mitterlehner:]] The requirements of § 108 of the Rules of Procedure are fulfilled. We shall come to the vote. In accordance with Article 30(l)(c) of the basic Regulation. 2 B-VG in conjunction with § 82 para. 2nd paragraph of the Rules of Procedure of the National Council, the decision may be taken only on the presence of at least half of the members and by a majority of two thirds of the votes cast. First of all, I note the presence of the constitutional number of Members required for the vote. Those ladies and gentlemen, who will also give their approval to this draft law and its title and receipt in 2019 at third reading, I would ask for a sign to this effect. – This is unanimously accepted. This also gives the constitutionally required two-thirds majority. [[21:51:07]] 13. Point First reading: Request of Members Josef Bucher, colleagues concerning a federal law amending the Federal Constitutional Act on the Limitation of Remunerations of Official Officials, the Federal Remuneration Act and the Reference Act (2110/A)
ParlaMint-AT_2013-01-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00187_d8e29081	We arrive at the 13th. Agenda item. We are going into the debate. Mr Oellinger is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. – Ladies and gentlemen, you are speaking. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Oils.]] We do not have an applicant who would have spoken, so you are speaking.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-01-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00187_d8e29115	I would have liked to waive this speech, Madam President. I absolutely do not intend to accept from the content once again this request by the applicants, who are actually outdated in content. We have already held this debate. We don't need to lead them again. In terms of content, I have explained on this point. I do not understand why the applicants themselves do not want to comment on this.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-01-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00187_d8e29147	There is a difference between the political group and the applicant, Mr deputies. Mr Grosz has now been mentioned. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-01-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00187_d8e29171	There is no concern, Mr Oellinger, because, first of all, the BZÖ is speaking, second of all, we have rightly tabled this request, and thirdly, it is also a question of perhaps informing you of what is stated in this proposal. It is true that you have now been caught by the word on the left foot, but that could not have happened if you were to prepare yourself, Mr Oellinger, a little earlier for the respective agenda items. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Oils.]] What we are talking about is not to criticize something that unfortunately God has already happened – against the resistance of the BZÖ, but with the consent of the Greens, namely the increase of political salaries – but rather to exclude it pro futuro. Ladies and gentlemen! At the height of the economic crisis, the failure of the European institutions, at the height of the political indifference and the despondency of people, still to believe in politics, just on days, months and years like this, where politics is abandoned in a latent corruption investigation committee, as Mrs. Moser nodds to note, in times when almost every day a politician of that republic is brought to justice and condemned, at least as criminals, we consider it moral for the BZÖ to raise political salaries while we feed pensioners with a beggar. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Matznetter.]] Yes, Mr Matznetter, I don't know, can't you get your throat full enough?- Oh, my God! Isn't 8 300 € gross enough for you with your civil profession?- Oh, my God! Can't you get 8 300 € – and that 14 times a year – out?- Oh, my God! And I ask the High Federal Ministers, your Excellencies, the members of the government: Can't you get 16 000 € per month – and that 14 times a year – to get out?- Oh, my God! There are no more listeners today. But let us ask those people who are unscathingly persecuting parliamentary debates, who are “pleasing” this political debacle in front of the television! Let's ask them if they get 16 000 € per month! Let us ask the compensation beneficiary with 728 € or the commercial pensioner with 780 € whether she can dream of a salary of 16 000 € – and there will be an increase in political salaries! Therefore: It is inappropriate, it is immoral to raise political salaries that are anyway high enough. We from the BZÖ believe that people have paid enough into a system that has become incapable of putting into any action. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, we naturally maintain this request, and we want to exclude in the future that politicians' salaries will be quietly and secretly re-adapted each year with the income report. That is why we want to have a discussion on this, but I know anyway, then the intellectual words come back, whose radius does not exceed that of a soup bowl, where it is said: Yes, the Faul was right! – If the Faul was right, then instead of Victor Adler, as your new pillar saints for political level, clear him into the chambers of your party offices, if your Mr. Faul was so right. Where's Mr. Faul now? Perhaps you can recruit Mr. Faul from Mr. Köfer, from the Stronach team. He did not feel well with you; therefore your Lord Faul also went to the “Uncle Frank” to Oberwaltersdorf, your Lord Faul, your pillar saint. It is appropriate for this Mr Faul to come here today as an intermediate call, a Mr Faul, who had three salaries. – As a school director, he was chosen, not spending a single day at this school, but spending 75 percent of his salary. In addition, Mr. Faul was more national councillor with a reference of €8,300 – and in addition, Mr. Faul had a third job because he could not get his throat full as a Social Democratic Bonze. That is what we are discussing, thank you for the call with Mr Faul. Three Gagen, a few students beaten, a few journalists verbally attacked and others behaved. But Mr Faul was right, according to Mr Wittmann. I congratulate this attitude in the face of a debate on reducing political privileges and political salaries, but not raising political salaries. That is why we maintain this request and believe that there must be more humility in the future also in relation to political salaries.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-01-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00187_d8e29220	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. I accept Amendment No 2110/A to the Constitutional Committee. [[21:57:47]] 14. Point First reading: Parliament's motion for a resolution (Doc. Birgit Schatz, colleagues and colleagues concerning a federal law amending the Arms Act 1996 (2125/A)
ParlaMint-AT_2013-01-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00187_d8e29262	We get to the 14th. Agenda item. We are going into the debate. Firstly, the applicant receives the floor, which is Mrs Mag. Honey. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-01-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00187_d8e29290	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! This amendment to the Weapons Act deals with the subject of plane bombs. Those of you who have closely observed the events in this legislative period know that I am not submitting this request more or less in this form for the first time. It is about the fact that if there is a suspicion that a plane bomb is stocked in ground and ground, it is currently a legal situation that the property owner must bear the cost of exploration, recovery and disposal. We do not think that is justified, and we want the public hand to take over these costs. The corresponding requests I have addressed have been rejected either over and over again, but mostly delayed, with the reference to a ongoing legal procedure, namely a dispute between the city of Salzburg and the federal government on the cost issue. Now there is really no longer any instance in which this procedure can be implemented. There is a more or less final decision of the Supreme Court, which comes to the conclusion that there is no clear legal provision on this cost issue. And that's what has always been our point. That is, you now have it black on white, we need to become active by law. The Constitutional Court recommends a clear legal system and the Supreme Court recommends a clear legal regime. We have put forward a proposal on how this regulation can look, and I hope that the proposal can be really seriously discussed as a result. Another small formal thing: As in December a novel to the Waffengesetz has been decided on another matter here in the House, the numbering of this request is changing. We will make a corresponding amendment to this in the Committee. That means you can't argue now that there's some form of something wrong. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-01-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00187_d8e29341	I'm right about Mrs. Klubobfrau Dr. Glavischnig, the sound level is already enormously high again, but in general. Maybe you could get him off again. Mr Pendl is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-01-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00187_d8e29365	Madam President. High house! Ladies and gentlemen! In principle, I would like to say the following: That is an interesting question and an important issue, not at all a question. I believe that many in this Republic have been waiting for what comes out through the courts in the way of jurisdiction. The Supreme Court has not interfered with the question raised. This is a topic – like so many in the Republic – that concerns finances between the local authorities. I understand that from the point of view of a community, one says that the federal government should actually pay, and that the federal government is wondering why it should pay it alone. I would just like to point out one thing if we are seriously discussing this question – and I really have to discuss it seriously, because I not only recognize the problem but also understand and understand it –: I believe that the Arms Act is not the appropriate framework to solve the problem. I just wanted to say that. As a rule, we all know what we're sitting here, how such stories are, when it comes to the money between the local authorities. But we want to bring this issue seriously to justice, and that is why I just want to say that I do not think that the Weapons Act is appropriate for that. We will see that during the course of the treatment, and we will discuss it. From our side, we really have access to solve the problem. With a novel of which law we disband, it would really be no matter. I'm just saying, everyone here knows how difficult it will be when it comes to who pays what is paid by the local authorities. By the way, I look forward to an interesting discussion.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-01-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00187_d8e29405	Mr Mag. Hammer is now coming to the fore. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-01-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00187_d8e29426	Madam President. High house! I can only agree with my previous speaker, Mr Pendl, that there is a need for a serious discussion, but I would like to maintain – and that has already been mentioned – that we have not long since adopted a novel of the arms law. I would like to point out once again that we have regulated the central point, the really decisive one in this context, namely the compensation and disposal of such war relics, that there are now clear responsibilities which are taken over by the Federal Ministry of Defence and Sport, that there is also the cost reduction. I think that's the immediate decision. For everything else, I'm right about Mr Pendl, you have to take your time and discuss it.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-01-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00187_d8e29453	Mr Doppler is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-01-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00187_d8e29475	Madam President. High house! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! 17. October 2012, the city of Salzburg has lost the process of the Fliegerbombenbergung. Whoever has to pay the costs for the recovery of a blind man has been since the 17th century. ==References== The property owner remains at the expense. The cost is between € 100 000 and € 300 000 and must be paid by the property owner himself. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! The reason for this is as follows: Since no standard in the Austrian legal order regulates the search for plane bombs blinders, a cost-bearing scheme is missing for replacement claims from the title. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! It can and must not be that the citizens of the Republic of Austria, who pay their taxes in good terms, are financially ruined because on their land and soil there is a bomb, a blind man and must be disposed of. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] For everything, ladies and gentlemen, this federal government has money – for the EU, for the banks, for the soccer industry – but when it comes to supporting its own people, there is no money. We reject such practices from FPÖ, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. The property owner or the owner is not the causer either. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-01-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00187_d8e29514	The list of Members is now being discussed. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-01-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00187_d8e29535	Madam President. High house! Dear ladies and gentlemen! Experts suspect that about 15,000 aircraft bombs are still scattered all over Austria under the ground. Calculations according to the cost of the search and recovery per bomb around 200 000 €. Each of us can be affected. Therefore, the high cost of eliminating these war relics, the plane bombs, must no longer be borne by the citizens. The correct handling of war material is not the task of individuals, but of the Republic. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Dear ladies and gentlemen! It is also a moral obligation – I emphasize: a moral obligation – that the Federation should take over these tasks without delay and bear all the costs. This proposed change in the law will create the necessary basis for this. Subject to further internal consultations, the BZÖ will support this change in the Waffengesetz.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-01-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00187_d8e29574	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. I accept Amendment No 2125/A to the Committee on Internal Affairs. [[22:06:41]] 15. Point Re-election of committees
ParlaMint-AT_2013-01-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00187_d8e29610	We're coming to the 15th. Agenda item: Re-election of committees. According to § 32 para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure shall be re-elected by existing committees if changes in the force ratio of the clubs require this. After consulting at the Presidential Conference, the Committee on Internal Affairs, the Financial Committee; and of the Court of Auditors This is the first time that we have been able to The National Council shall determine the number of members and substitute members. Members and alternate members shall be distributed to parliamentary clubs in proportion to the number of Members who belong to them. Following consultation at the Presidential Conference, a committee size of 35 members and substitute members is now proposed for the above committees with currently 26 members and replacement members, whose distribution among the political groups is calculated in accordance with the d’Hondt system as follows: each 11 members and replacement members to the SPÖ, each 10 members and replacement members to the ÖVP, each 7 members and replacement members to the FPÖ, 4 members and substitute members in the Greens; each two members and replacement members at the BZÖ; and Each one member and replacement member on the Stronach team. We shall proceed to the vote. I shall vote on the amendment of the Committee size of the Committee on Internal Affairs, the Financial Committee and the Committee on the Court of Auditors from 26 to 35 members and alternate members. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their agreement to do so to give an appropriate sign. – This is unanimously accepted. The names of the members or substitutes who have been announced by the President's clubs, and thus as elected Members, are to be found in the list of committees. [[The members and substitute members as well as the elected functions are available on the Internet under the heading ‘Parliament Activ’.]] The agenda is exhausted. [[22:08:40]] Reading of a part of the Official Protocol
ParlaMint-AT_2013-01-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00187_d8e29713	I have the written request of 20 Members, the proposed version of the 187 Official Protocol. To read the meeting of the National Council on agenda item 15 – re-election of committees – so that this part is deemed approved at the end of the meeting. I am now reading the corresponding part of the Official Protocol. ‘TO point 15: Re-election of committees Due to changes in the strength ratio of the clubs, after consulting the Committee on Internal Affairs, the Financial Committee and the Committee of the Court of Auditors, a new election will be held. The size of the committee shall be determined unanimously with 35 members and replacement members. The SPÖs amount to 11, each with the ÖVPs 10 per 10 on the FPÖs, 7 on the greens, 4 on the BZÖs each, 2 members and replacement members, and on Stronachs each one member and replacement member. There is a desire according to § 51 para. 6 GOG by 20 MEPs on reading the Official Protocol on Agenda item 15 – Re-election of Committees before (Annex XV/1).’ Are there any objections to the version or content of this part of the Official Protocol? - That's not the case. The corresponding part of the Official Protocol is therefore applicable in accordance with section 51 para. 6 of the Rules of Procedure as approved at the end of this sitting. [[22:10:26]] Inflow
ParlaMint-AT_2013-01-30-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00187_d8e29761	I am still announcing that in today's session, the self-employed have received applications from 2177/A to 2201/A(E). Question No 13680/J to 13792/J has also been received. Finally, Mr Markowitz and Mr Grosz have been asked to the President of the National Council. The next meeting of the National Council is scheduled for Thursday, 31. January 2013, 9 a.m. The agenda will be delivered by the clubs. I also announce that the new constitutions of the Financial Committee and the Committee on the Court of Auditors will take place following this meeting in the local VI area. The composition of the newly elected Committee on Internal Affairs will be followed by tomorrow's plenary debate. This meeting is closed.
