ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00198_d7e3494	I'll open the 198. Meeting of the National Council, which is based on a sufficiently supported request in accordance with § 46 para. 7 of the Rules of Procedure. The official protocols of 196 and 197. 3rd meeting of 3rd meeting In April 2013, the Parliament's Directorate remained unanswered and undisputed. Deputies Csörgits, Duster, Amon, Hörl, Großruck, Steibl, Doppler, Ing. Hofer, Dr. Winter, Mag. Jarmer, Mag. Honey, windbüchler-soushill, Ursula Haubnerand Muchitsch. [[10:01:30]] Representation of members of the Federal Government
ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00198_d7e3531	For this meeting, the Federal Chancellery on the representation of members of the Federal Government who are present in another Member State of the European Union has made the following communication: The Federal Minister for Agriculture, Forestry, Environment and Water Management Dipl.-Ing. Nikolaus Berlakovich is the Federal Minister for the Interior. Johanna Mikl-Leiter, Federal Minister for European and International Affairs Deputy Chancellor Dr. Michael Spindelegger by State Secretary Dr. Reinhold Lopatka. [[10:01:56]] Absence of mandate and fishing
ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00198_d7e3579	The Federal Electoral Authority has received the notification that Mr Gerhard Köfer has renounced his mandate and has been appointed to the National Council by Mrs Irene Szep instead. Since the election permit is already in place and the said person is present in the house, I will immediately make their fishing observation. After reading the vow formula by writing, the new mandater will have to do her fishing with the words “I promise”. I am now looking for the writer, Mrs Mag. Lohfeyer, to read the vow formula. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00198_d7e3618	“They will be vowed unbreakable fidelity of the Republic of Austria, constant and full observation of the constitutional laws and all other laws and conscientious fulfilment of your obligations.”
ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00198_d7e3640	I promise.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00198_d7e3655	I very much welcome the new Members in our midst. [[General condolences.]] [[10:03:01]] Entry and allocations
ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00198_d7e3684	As regards the negotiated items and their allocations, I refer to them according to § 23 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure to the communication distributed at the meeting room. The written communication shall contain the following text: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00198_d7e3835	I announce that this meeting will be transferred to ORF 2 in full length from 10 a.m. to 1 p.m. and to ORF III. Let's go into the agenda. [[10:03:57]] Text-to-Speech Limitation
ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00198_d7e3859	Consensus on the duration of the debate was reached between the members of the presidential conference. Accordingly, a day block time of 4 ‘Vienna hours’ was agreed. In line with the preliminary redistribution of the speaking time within a ‘Vienna hour’, for 4 ‘Vienna hours’ there are the following speaking times: SPÖ and ÖVP per 58 minutes, FPÖ 50 minutes, Green 42 minutes, BZÖ 38 minutes and STRONACH 30 minutes. We shall now proceed to the vote on the speaking time just presented. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this proposal to give an appropriate sign. – This is unanimously accepted. [[10:00:00]] Report of the Standing Subcommittee on the Government Template in ESM matters (2265, e.g._Other Organiser Request by the Federal Government for the authorisation of the Austrian representative or representative of the European Stability Mechanism (ESM) in accordance with Art. 50b Z 1 B-VG (2272 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00198_d7e3898	We now come to the report of the Standing Subcommittee on ESM matters. There was no oral reporting. The first is Mr Klubobmann Strache. I would like to speak on behalf of the Group of the 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00198_d7e3926	Madam President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! ==References====External links== April, the “Süddeutsche Zeitung” wrote the following: “The more money in the game is, the less legal rules apply. [] The entire euro rescue is based on injustice. Contracts and laws are increasingly less binding in relation to monetary union members and to the financial market. [.] Parliament can only nod. [] From Europe, such a kind of emergency democracy becomes: Every rescue action creates its right. That's not right. The euro is important, but most important are law and democracy." [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] The “Süddeutsche Zeitung” has, as I think, put this to the fore. These sentences describe very precisely the development, whose effects we have been experiencing since 2008, that is, since the beginning of the crisis. It was broken right. The Maastricht rules were also broken. It is precisely this right and with it the democratic rules are made visible and de facto out of force. These are developments that all of us need not only to perceive with concern, but also in view of which we should counter them. Obviously, every new rescue action creates one's own right. In reality, for five years we have been experiencing a huge event legislation that has taken place in Brussels. In the meantime, there is almost nothing to be afraid of, as one now had to experience in Cyprus, where one has planned to access the savings of the small savers in order to test how the citizens react. Is there an uprising? Is there a revolution? What's going on? – That was such a test balloon, and one would not have been scared back from a possible expropriation of the small savers, from which one has now distanced from the protests for the time being. In the meantime, EU finance ministers have decided to ask savers with over €100 000 in cash even in future possible and unfortunately expected bank claims. It seems to be expected in Brussels that further collapses of credit institutions will soon occur, and there is no doubt that what the EU finance ministers have decided and determined will also hold – and that is bad enough, namely, that savings of over €100 000 can be used! It lacks legal certainty, and that is what it is all about. Right is obviously no longer worth anything today, and people can rely on nothing more. But that's exactly what it's all about! I do not rely on the fact that in the future, in the face of a further escalation of the crisis, the small savers, as they have been predicted from the outset in Cyprus, will not be the ones to whom savings will be made. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] So now Cyprus is to be saved. After Ireland was the subject after Portugal was the subject of Spain and Greece, we now want to save Cyprus. Many economists say: Where does that stop? Next Italy and then France? How will this overall be financed by this European Stability Mechanism? To what extent does the crisis, as we hear here, have an approach? Now that we are talking about aid for Cyprus again, that is just as little as Greece is helping the local citizens, but instead the money is ultimately put into the rehabilitation of the Cypriot banks and other banking areas behind them – that is the reality! – which ultimately increases public debt. Of course, the measures imposed by the EU will also further boost the economy. So the question is, where there is really a “salvation” that you want to decide here today. Of course, real aid would mean increasing the country's future profitability with the funds made available. This could, of course, help Cyprus, if appropriate, so that it has a chance to get out of the debt trap and ultimately repay its debts. I have been saying since the beginning of the crisis: It would have been reasonable to recognise from the beginning of this crisis that the euro has failed in this form and that those countries that cannot meet the criteria and have difficulties will have to be released from the euro zone. To its advantage, this decision would have been the right thing to do to be able to devalue and have a chance to get out of this crisis. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] But the European Union seems to have only an interest in maintaining the system, it costs what it would like to pump the money into the pleite banks and thus ultimately ensure that the banks continue to speculate, because that is the reality: You keep speculating! At the same time, we experience that ultimately the financial oligarchy will also be helped. Cyprus will, of course, not be able to compensate for its debts through this kind of irrational policy. For the future, therefore, further aid packages are to be feared to help other Marod countries – but also Cyprus again. The Austrian share of ESM aid for Cyprus is €250 million, which can already be written in the wind. Perhaps this will be seen again today, as is the case with Greece, so that one will talk about it from the government parties as if it were a big business for Austrian taxpayers. We fear it's not a good business – and that's not just a fear, it's a real fix. Unfortunately, this money will also be to write to God in the wind. Let's be honest: What is to be saved is not Cyprus, no, but what is to be saved again is the euro, which has long failed, which is an art currency between different economies. And many economists – and also our liberals – have rightly warned about and have kept right against the introduction of the euro. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] In reality, there is, of course, a naked panic that a bankruptcy of Cyprus could tip the euro-currency system. In reality, Cyprus is not the only problem, but I have already listed the countries where we will have to realistically expect a lot more to happen. I wonder when we are finally ready to debate the euro and the further development. Of course, it is also necessary to debate honestly what is available for alternatives and opportunities. The euro is obviously not the final end of wisdom, and it has caused a damage that is real and that can no longer be discussed away. Now the question is: Are we willing to minimize the damage that has already been done, and to stop the development, or do we want to continue to potentify this damage and run the risk that at the end of the damage is twice, three times, four times as high and then finally our entire liability will fall? If that ever occurs, then the Republic of Austria could register bankruptcy, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] It must be obvious to anyone who bears responsibility here that you have to think about alternatives, discuss them, and calculate whether a division of the euro zone would be more reasonable – in areas of economies that fit together, such as a North and a South Euro – or whether you should not return to the national currencies, such as schilling. Many Austrians rightly say: The schilling that still had value compared to the euro! – You just need to see how the cost of living has increased. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] You have to call things by name. The euro has obviously failed in the form we have today. It is therefore important that this debate should be held at last. To start, as is the case in other European countries. From France to Italy to Germany there are movements of citizens who rightly say that the euro has failed. They want to go back to national currencies and want to start this discussion process at least once. If we look at the situation in the European Union today: Well, it is always being questioned, but the Swiss UBS bank has rightly published a study that shows that the real wage losses of the Austrians have been estimated at 30 percent since the introduction of the euro. The ECB has recently published a study that has been held back for some time, stating that the budget of the Austrians is very, very far behind compared to that in the alleged crisis countries, namely the southern euro countries. In these countries, citizens actually have much more private property than the people in Austria today. This has to be thought out to everyone, and there you have to be ready to think about alternatives and not make the mistake you have made of red and black for years, namely to say that the euro is alternativesless. This is at all the worst access to show one-dimensionality and not to show a willingness to discuss other ways. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] As far as Cyprus is concerned, the country has already had great difficulties in financing its own share of originally €7.5 billion, and now this figure is increasing to € 13 billion. As you would like to add this increased amount, there is no answer to that up to now. It is therefore irresponsible if we agree to this package today. It is not responsible to the Austrian taxpayer because we ultimately do not know how to finance this amount. I therefore say: Today, every responsible Member of Parliament would have to reject this step of ESM assistance here in the high house in the interest of the Austrians, because we are obliged to do so and not the banks, like red and black here in the house.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00198_d7e4077	Next speaker: Mr Dr. Stummvoll. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00198_d7e4098	Madam President. Mrs Finanzminister! Mr State Secretary! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Yeah, it's a pleasure for none of us if we have to bind rescue packages all the time. Mr Strache, I agree with you. The question is only – you have raised it yourself –: What are the alternatives? This is the only question: Rescue package or alternatives. The alternative is a pleite of Cyprus, a pleite of the two large Cypriot banks, the Laiki Bank and the Bank of Cyprus. Cyprus has a double problem – a state problem and a banking problem. Ladies and gentlemen, that is to say, if we do not really decide today, we would say that the two largest banks are pleading for Cyprus and that the State of Cyprus is also pleading. [[Abg. Dr. Rosenkranz: We already had that! With Greece...!]] The fact that Austria has 3 billion euros in loans in Cyprus, according to information from the central bank, and also 3 billion euros in direct investment, is absolutely clear to me: More help with 2.8 percent of the ESM than maybe lose €6 billion in Cyprus, ladies and gentlemen. That is what we are talking about, Mr Strache. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Mr Strache, I ask you: Who of us at the time – Lehman Brothers – thought that the pleite of an American bank would trigger a global global financial crisis that cost us tens of thousands of jobs? You can talk about it responsibly, according to the motto: But, Mr Strache, we bear political responsibility, responsibility for tens of thousands, hundreds of thousands of jobs. [[Abg. Strache: That's why we currently have a record unemployment!]] We bear responsibility for this €6 billion Austrian money in Cyprus, direct investment, loans, we bear responsibility for this! This is the difference between government work and opposition work. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. That is why we now have a record unemployment, Mr President!]] That is the responsibility, Mr Strache. I understand your position. They say: Of course, we rarely have such a good opportunity to act populistly. – No question, of course, this is a playground for the populists to say: For the Greeks they have money, for the Cypriots they have money and for us they have none! [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: That's right!]] [[Abg. Strache: Because it's true! That's right!]] This is an excellent way of playing for the populists, but you have mentioned the alternatives, Mr Strache, and the alternative is that we are losing billions in Cyprus and that we will pay the token again with thousands of jobs. Ladies and gentlemen, this is the alternative! I would rather say that with the 2.8 percent with which Austria is involved in the stability mechanism, I am helping to lose thousands of jobs – a clear alternative, ladies and gentlemen! One thing you also have to say: Why is it that far, Mr. Strache? – The facts are quite simple: because many members of the eurozone have not yet realized what a monetary union means. They believe that you can let the reins be sanded, you can lose competitiveness and then stop – as you did earlier – the currency will be devalued. – This does not happen in a monetary union, ladies and gentlemen. The warning of the Monetary Fund has been given quite rightly: The Member States of the eurozone need to increase their discipline and their public budgets. The time is over when one has said there is prosperity on pump. The time has come to say that debt can be used to secure jobs. If we are honest, we must say that we have experienced this in our own country 30 years ago: billions lost in national debt, billions of debt and tens of thousands of jobs. This is the dilemma, Mr. Strache. We have to say goodbye to a philosophy that says: With debt, you can secure jobs and prosperity. [[Abg. Strache: So the debtors have been you for the past seven years! For the last seven years, you have the highest debt development to answer!]] That was never the position of the People's Party, Mr. Strache! [[Abg. Strache: For the past seven years, you have been the debtors! They've been the debtors for the last seven years!]] [[Abg. Dr. Graf: You act like we have a credit!]] What is now necessary – and there is no way past that – is therefore also the warning of the Monetary Fund: If the Member States of the euro area do not consistently comply with this strategic triangle, which is the first budgetary consolidation, the correction of the government budget, the second structural reform and the third incentive and incentives for growth and employment, then we will have these problems constantly. Therefore, I think it is necessary to say: It is only by discipline that we can obtain this monetary union. And the euro is not sick, Mr. Strache! The euro is worth 30 percent more today than the dollar. In euro, the world's second largest currency reserves, ladies and gentlemen, and the euro is basically a success story. No success story is the policy of those member countries that let the reins be cut! You have to sit there, ladies and gentlemen! And as far as Cyprus is concerned: Cyprus is a special case in which it is an economy where 700 percent of the social product is in the financial sector alone. It is such an unhealthy structure that you must not be surprised when such things happen. One thing has to be said, and there I am with you, Mr Strache: It would have been easier to help a few months ago. But to help are always two: the one who wants to help, and the other who can be helped. And the Cypriots haven't been able to help for months! I myself was at the meeting of the financial committee members in Nicosia in Cyprus with your colleague Alois Gradauer in November. That's where our ambassador told us, yes, if the Cypriots were to be helped, everything would be much easier. They then put all the hopes in the President's election, and in fact, since the new President Anastasiadis is at work, Cyprus can be helped and has entered into constructive talks with the European Union. This is a problem, of course, because, as I said, you have to let yourself be helped. As far as Cyprus is concerned, Mr Strache: I think there has never been a rescue package in the history of rescue packages, where the country's own contribution was much higher, € 13 billion, than international aid: 9 billion from the European Stability Mechanism and 1 billion from the Monetary Fund. And the Cypriots are asked to check out, there's no question: Privatisations, tax increases, settlement of a large bank – the Laiki Bank – restructuring of the largest Cypriot bank – the Bank of Cyprus – compulsory taxes on savings of over €100 000. So the Cypriots don't envy me, they're being massively asked to cash out here. And that is, I think, the right thing to do, because in the end the problem has caused Cyprus. Not the European Union, not the euro, has caused the whole, basically the Cypriots themselves, because they waited for months, have made a wrong policy for years. But since the alternatives are much more ugly now – loss of jobs, loss of billions, bank pleas, state arguments – I have to say openly, I agree with this package's honest heart and good conscience.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00198_d7e4257	Mr Magistrate has now come to speak. Kogler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00198_d7e4278	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! To be honest, if there is perhaps a single agreement with the previous speaker, Klubobmann Strache, then this constant speech of alternativelessness really gets a little nervous about it, because it is a policy to create alternatives, even on issues of European economic and financial policy. But that may be the only agreement, but anyway. But now to the first argument on the so-called meta-level: After all, it is possible for us to discuss in detail what is not possible in most of the parliaments of the other countries in the euro area. This also gives rise to the possibility to talk about alternatives, even if it is sometimes discovered by representatives of Team Stronach, BZÖ or FPÖ, that this freedom will then be completely outraged by every expert. – But it is also a freedom. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] In any case, we are now dealing with the issue of granting a mandate today – banally – that the Federal Minister may give her consent in the relevant body. There will probably be a majority. Our votes, the Greens, will not be there. I will explain this in detail and also talk about the alternatives. Nevertheless, once again: That this is possible, we think it is both right and reasonable, because this is one of the very large deficits of the fragmented European unification work at all, as well as in all economic and financial policy, in all of this alarmism, in these rescue package sequences, in this whole diplomatic struggle. There are also a number of shortcomings here, and one of them is that there is often no discussion in the respective elected bodies. It is a problem, even for European cohesion, if the impression arises, because the troika is constantly emerging – who has authorized it at all? – you don’t know what the mechanisms behind it are – you don’t know – and all have to eat at the end of the day. And everywhere there is confusion and dissatisfaction – or often stop. And this can already be met with, even if it is only a small step, that one can open the debate on what is going on – I have to say it in place for the Green Group in particular; not only in Austria, but also in other countries the Greens are always ahead of it – because the possibility has been created that we can debate it in the form of this National Council, first in the Committee, then here. And then, as a result, there will also be a report, because we are not supposed to puddle out every detail here and should, if it is not known in the media. So there will be a completely transparent – and we hope, Mrs. Minister – reporting in retrospect. I really think that this sequence, although worthy of parliamentary improvement in detail, has really been successful, and we are living it here. It has even led to this, because it was not possible on time, not on principle riding, that there is now this special meeting here, so that the representative of the Austrian people, the Parliament, can advise and even decide on this matter. Therefore, it is so that any detail could be specified. A no would be a no. This is not only more information and transparency, although it is often the most important, but it is clear co-determination rights of the Austrian National Council, and we should not neglect and forget that. And when I think about what is going on in the whole of the hustle and bustle when it comes to European dimensions, what we have in Austria is really that much trouble. Do you know how many financial decisions or liability decisions are taken anywhere, in much, much greater dimension than here and today, where a democratically legitimate body is never involved, but always indirectly, where the government then decides with the control bank anything?- Oh, my God! Maybe there's an advisory board, but he can't see most of it. Finally, after a year and a half, there is a report which does not contain exactly what is relevant. That's the practice! We have achieved here that the opposite is true in this European segment, and this should not be completely unworthy. This now enables us to get into the matter ourselves as far as Cyprus is concerned. I would also like to say that I am going to make a few points that are quite positive, but then I would like to point out the odds which we regret in this work, and, as a result, I will look at the role of Austria in particular, because, in fact, and quite rightly so, because of this hopeful rescue and in the run-up, so-called Cyprus rescue, a much more important debate has actually arisen from a longer-term dimension for the whole globe, not only because of the offshore-leaks affair, but also because of Cyprus and also because of Cyprus, a debate on the role of tax havens and their injury and on which countries do something about it and which are not. And unfortunately, one has to diagnose that the Austrian Federal Government has a relatively privileged position in front of it in Europe, here in this villain, that tax fraud continues to be torpedoed. And this goes on to your cap, not only to those of black, but also to those of red, although you are always playing as the tax justice fighters. This cannot be mentioned in the debate. To this end, we will also make a request for Austria to finally adopt a white money strategy itself, with the end of the smuddeleck into which one goes, to the detriment of the financial location shortly, and that we also take a credible position in Europe, and that thirdly, not the long-needed reasonable negotiations to increase tax fraud, to collect all capital incomes and all mandate allocations so that, if one wants, tax havens can be closed further by driving around Austria on its veto law, than then only the country of the European Union, so that one can build up a corresponding pressure on tax havens. [[Congratulation with the Greens]] What is being delivered here from Austria is embarrassing, harmful, hypocritical, and that must be fought. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] The most important points in Cyprus. It is positive that for the first time we have gone back to the banking sector, which exists there in an outstandingly oversized way in an economy. There are different ways to do this. All of this was a bit of a round-by-side hope and devoured, one has then decided on a path where a few good elements are inside, namely a bank – the previous speaker has said it – and, despite the bank's being settled, to secure deposits below €100 000 in a certain way. You just have to recognize that. And with the second big bank or even the largest one, where these deposits are then simply transferred, something else has been done that could be exemplary from our point of view – Mr Rossmann will go even closer to it – that, in such situations, one, if one wants to, must convert large account holders into capital owners, which are then connected with the fate of the bank – according to how it develops, quite logically. This is indeed a new way in this whole European so-called rescue sequence, which is a good thing. Before I come to another problem, I would like to add something positive, namely that one has also done so in this way, just as described, to the extent that the rich are involved. This has so far been completely missing, and this will have to play a much stronger role in the future. It is not possible to save the whole thing without the contribution of the rich, in the sense of what it is always called and how you plan it, because the social outrages then continue to increase. Not that this would not be done from the financial dimension! It's not a big thing for the whole ESM, as always suggested by the right. The Cyprus package is nothing at all in terms of European economic power! You just have to see that. We make decisions here every day, so to speak, that have more financial weight than what is going on here. But it will be no different in the long run than to take greater part in the wealth. This has been achieved to a small extent, but not in another, because one has come from the in itself not inaccurate idea of attracting deposit owners over €100 000. This does not apply to all other banks in this way. Now you could say they're not at risk, why do you do that there? In reality, however, a good idea has been buried with it, namely that the participation of the wealth is generally taken up there. – By the way, that wouldn’t happen exactly to the wrong ones. First of all, this would only start with deposits of over €100 000, and secondly, you have to see the many black money that lies there, and the high interest rates that have always been paid there. This must be borne in mind: They have now collected three to five times as high interest rates as in Austria throughout the years. It is also necessary to see that the high assets that have been bunked there may be black money. - That's what you've gotten rid of now. And if we read in the media that this support package should use €2.5 billion to recapitalise the banks, then that may not be so much, but from the principle it is wrong, from our point of view. If you had already started the way, you could have continued it too, and that is now more than a wormhead drop, because it is precisely the case now, and without need – we would otherwise easily have set up the 2.5 billion, but with certainty! – that, in this way, the “own capital ratio” – under quotation marks – of these banks is now being lifted through detours, so to speak, the other. So far, so good, but then you could have gone another way here as well. The participation of the asset is now again in the background and remains only more with two banks as a single measure. All in all, you wonder how this is going to happen. The ESM Treaty is a rather smart thing. He's not the best instrument, we've always said that, but he's a proficient tool, a bridging action, no more, but no less, a liability shield. The greatest advantage of this is that the donor community still receives great interest in relation to the countries at risk. That's the whole principle. And with ten base points extra, 0.1 percent, these loans, if you want to, will be passed on. The question is always what you do with it. This principle is a good thing at the moment, but now you could have gotten out much more on this basis. And there are two questions from the ESM Treaty: What about system relevance, and how about debt? Without debt, nothing should happen at all. Bruno Rossmann will then get even closer to it. Only one question I have to ask myself is how this should be done if, on a certain day, a Cyprus own contribution of almost 6 billion is recognized as correct and 13 billion are the right thing overnight. Somebody's supposed to tell me that. In any case, this has not been achieved in the Committee. Perhaps the Minister will succeed here and now, because that would otherwise contradict the principle of the ESM itself. I can already write, they have to raise 13 billion themselves, maybe 26, but: Where does that come from? So the path of consolidation is actually the Krux, and there the different economic policy philosophies come to bear. As a result of the so-called rescue measures, the invading countries continue to slumber even more into recession than it threatens and happens, at least in the first few years. By the way, Cyprus also adds that, of course, the so-called business model will essentially come to an end, that is, the whole capital import, whatever sources and rulers, will no longer play, which means that the economy will shrink – and perhaps even worsen even because of the package you are making here. And there's one to explain to me how this path goes, where there's nothing like this, nothing to you overnight from 6 to 13 billion. At 18 billion you can calculate how much that is. I'm sure I'll have a little bit of a big share of my own economic performance. With regard to the financial transaction tax, I do not understand the Austrian attitude, why we do not demand it more strongly, and that is one of our main reasons why we are very skeptical here and reject it. Of course, some euro countries will be opposed to negotiating this in such a package because they are against the tax themselves, but I have not recognized any effort by Germany or France or Austria – it has not even been claimed – to implement this financial transaction tax in those countries, since Ireland is also part of it, on the one hand, which is under the umbrella of liability and on the other hand has low corporate taxes that dump the other countries – and then it will be held there. In Ireland, by the way, this is the even greater problem. And we do not see this in the long run, because, in fact, corporate taxes have to be harmonised or at least come into a range. And if I already make such a great and so powerful edition, it is striking where the troika is attacking and where not. That is why it is good to be able to express our opinion here at least and vote against it for these reasons, also because of the asymmetry of these measures. It is not only unfair, but also economically smart, if, for example, privatisation pressure is increased. They are expected to sell in the next one, two, a maximum of three years an entire list of assets in state ownership. There may already be something that the state does not need, but vice versa, when it comes to monopoly, simply privatizing it under time pressure, what should that bring about? To push electricity companies at very high speed over the Budl, where any investors stand and go for a snap hunt, what is that supposed to bring? Nothing's won! It is precisely the electricity industry that is a monopoly, where one cannot do much wrong, that can continue to have the state for a while. Under this title, it is almost a damage to the economy there, if I say that they have to knock it out as cheaply as possible, only to give the impression that there are still a few million or in this case – that is claimed, but that will not come back at all – 1.5 billion €. These are all reasons for this rejection by the Greens. [[Abg. Dr. Bartenstein: Why did the German Greens then agree?]] And now for the second part. We are going to put in place a motion for a resolution on the role of Austria in favour of tax havens and in blocking tax fraud. It really is no longer to be seen that you, Mrs Finanzminister, continue to maintain this spectacle here, which will never go through at the end. Austria will either have to keep what we have in the interest rate directive, tag banking secrecy, which is a similar topic, or we will have to opt into it what data exchange means. There's only that. And you're always suggesting that you could negotiate something around there or there. There's no such thing as that! And the famous “Oma-Sparbook” you are constantly talking about is most at risk. And that's why it's really a reprehensible and pathetic spectacle that's being offered here, that only leads people astray and, in the end, does nothing in truth bring to Austria. We are isolated there in a way that it is no longer acceptable. But this will be resolved by itself, it will be resolved in a reasonable way at the latest at the May summit, but it must be hoped – but not because you are perceptive, but because the forces that work here are too strong. But much more dramatic is – and this must finally stop – that Austria is blocking the extension of the interest rate directive, that capital income can be taxed much greater. It must finally be possible to negotiate with the tax havens of the Union that other directives should apply here! That is why we make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] This is a command of reason, justice, and honesty. Leave your way in favor of Austria!
ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00198_d7e4374	The motion for a resolution which has just been tabled is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00198_d7e4433	Mr Klubobmann Dr. Cap is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00198_d7e4472	Madam President. High house! That is also my question, which Mr Bartenstein has just referred to in an interlocutory call. I do share Mr Kogler's opinion on certain points, but I would have expected an analysis of the differences between the German and Austrian positions of the Greens. What motivates the powerful Group of the German Greens to agree and what motivates the Austrian Greens not to agree? [[Congratulation of the Abg. Dr. Bartenstein.]] I would be interested in that, but we may be able to work this out in the course of the debate. I agree with him that this is very, very positive, how the Austrian Parliament has regulated participation and transparency in this matter, that there is an ESM subcommittee, where one can find it, and that there is a plenary session where it will be decided. That, I think, is an example, but other parliaments in Europe do not. I think this is very, very positive. But first of all, we have to watch out for the word we have in part, because these are often words of concealment. There needs to be ‘recapitalised’, as it needs to be ‘stabilised’ and so on. In reality, it is about maintaining this economic system. This economic system is, in principle, that in which we live, but it tends to balance crisis with neoliberal components in such a way that those who already have enough, those who are already rich, those who are already wealthy, those who are already wealthy, become even richer and even richer, and those who have had a difficult social situation and a difficult situation in the working world so far, are also with and still with financing. [[Abg. Strache: But the system supports it!]] [[Abg. Strache: But that supports you!]] That is why, I think, it is good if, when there are developments and measures, you look very closely and precisely: to whose advantage and to whose disadvantage? That is why it is also so valuable that there is a debate in this context about the many tax havens and tax sinners. Cyprus was in itself an offer for tax evasions, for tax evaders, for money-laundering agents. [[Abg. Strache: The Meischbergers and Grassers have a joy! Help them!]] There are many prominent Austrian names that have been repeatedly mentioned in this context. This business model in Cyprus has now been destroyed. This is very, very positive and has also initiated a discussion about other so-called tax havens. There are called countless places and islands, what I know, Andorra, Gibraltar, Monaco, the Channel Islands, Cayman Islands, this list could be continued endlessly, where – you can also filter out very carefully from reports in the economic newspapers – trillions of dollars are stored. Billions of dollars! That is why I think it is very good if there are these initiatives to get a little closer to them. There is also a point in the debate on the question of banking secrecy. Of course, it is clear that the national population should not be affected, but the foreigners who have parked money here must, of course, be involved. [[Abg. Strache: An interesting differentiation!]] Of course, there is interest in the countries concerned, for example in Germany. Moreover, what is also an important point is the “handelsblatt” on 12, 13, 14. April under the title: Fighting tax sinners – in itself the economic newspaper in Germany, which provides a lot of analyses – is so beautifully written: “The EU Directive on interest rate taxation does not cover many capital gains.” The paper mentions exactly a topic that is very, very important. It is not only about the question of interest income – because we always cut down on what lies on the savings books, because the semi-trailer has long been away from there and has sought other forms of investment in order to reach capital income that he does not need to tax – but it is crucial that, if you discuss how to approach those who simply do not want to make a contribution, even though they have to make it, you should consider exactly what the German “travel leaf” interestingly recommends, even with the quite emotionalizing title “Fall damage to the Grand Duke” which was just in Vienna. I believe that this is an aspect that should be taken into account if this debate is to be held. That's about trust register. This did not happen to Cyprus either, it did not have a trust register. So this is in itself a business model, in view of which my compassion is more than limited. Therefore, it is also good if the tax payer is not used primarily for the solution, but those with over €100 000 deposits. Those who have really spent a lot of money there now come to it, to a high degree. The Laiki Bank, which, as it is so beautifully called, is being “handled” is actually locked up, and the large investors there are affected by 100 percent. That, I think, is right because they have received 5 percent interest for their deposits so far. An average saver in Austria can only dream of what they have got in Cyprus. That's why they're supposed to pay now. That, I think, is absolutely fair. The deposits that do not exceed 100 000 €, i.e. those of the small savers, are – as it is always called here in the debate – to be secured, that is clear, but the big ones must come along. This is, I believe, an aspect that should be put out as positive in this context. What is also important is the question, and that is the most important question: What is the use of Austria? What is the benefit of the Austrians? – If the question is answered in such a way that we say that the euro zone benefits the Austrian economy, the Austrian workers, we have growth and employment, and thus also the state revenue, which ensures that this social system, the health system, the pension system, that this system of economic promotion, whatever, can develop in Austria, and if one says that over half a million workers have their jobs over the euro zone, because the import, export jobs are, then I can only say that it is worth doing everything for this euro zone to continue to work and remain stable. And Cyprus is certainly an aspect that plays an important role in this context. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] But it cannot be said that the argument “stabilising the euro zone” is a reduction in the social state, a reduction in wages. If there is something to pay, it should be paid to workers, pensioners and pensioners. - That's not a model for us. This is why we will look very closely at whenever this principle debate is to be held again and again. What is particularly questionable about me is what nonchalance the clubman of the liberals is discussing about currency systems. This is not about any July pearls on the nasal market, but about having any monetary system that is crucial to the foundation of the economy, production, consumption. [[call to the FPÖ.]] We've been discussing this a few times. [[Further calls at the FPÖ.]] – You shouldn't cry yourself down now, but listen! The Schilling, which Mr. Klubobmann Strache referred to, was always linked to the D-Mark, even then, even when he was in the final phase, without the Deutsche Mark there would not have been the Schilling at all. It may seem kind if we tie up a little bit to Germany, which at least was so. So you can't present yourself here, especially since we're trying not to be any more speculation object of any currency speculators, especially since we're trying to be competitive on a global scale with the very, very low wages there are in Asia that exist in many other parts of the world, with the handicaps in terms of export for other producing countries, protectionism and so on. [[Abg. Strache: But with your global industry you support this exactly!]] We must exist, and we can only exist if we really succeed in holding up this competition with a large economic area and a functioning currency. One has to take up the competition, it is a fact, and therefore, I believe, it is very important that one prepares for it, adjusts to it, and does not go into any currency philosophy, which is the bar of any realistic implementation perspective. If you believe that this is realistic, Mr. Klubobmann, then imagine yourself here and tell us really exactly, precisely: How and when do you want to introduce it? With what goal? What are the consequences? How do you think a country with 8 million inhabitants with its own currency should exist in the large euro area? [[Abg. Slight: See Denmark, see Sweden, other economies that have economic growth in contrast to us!]] You have to show it all once. They only spread – the countries are not comparable. [[Abg. Street: The Danes and the Sweden show it to you!]] We are, as you know, highly linked to the German economy and also to other European countries, such as Italy, and it is therefore important that you deal with it objectively and that you do not create confusion in such crucial, important questions, because this does not do anything in the final effect. So it is crucial – and this is the last point – if there are the rules on the financial economy, that no models in which the financial economy is the decisive one at the expense of the real economy can be supported. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Street@item incidence access is by owner only]] Cyprus, where it has been reduced and brought down, is an example of this, and London and the UK and other comparable countries will not be around it. They must also look – in turn to the second point – that they are getting under control of the tax havens close to them, including in favour of a functioning European real economy. This depends on jobs, social systems and societies, and that is the decisive thing. I would like to say that we have been able to discuss this today, but it is important that this decision is taken once and that we really have the perspective: What benefits does Austria benefit, what benefits workers, what benefits the economy, and how can we continue to act modelically with our social, social and economic system? You all know this when you look at the statistics: that we are exemplary and modelled in European comparison with regard to employment, low unemployment, youth employment, education, the level of the social state. [[Abg. Strache: Unfortunately not with the property values! That is exactly the opposite!]] It is important to defend and expand it, and there are not any non-chalant philosophies, but only that we truly represent the interests of Austria consistently. That's the goal.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00198_d7e4643	Mr Klubobmann Bucher is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00198_d7e4664	Madam President. High house! I have now heard from Mr Cap very interesting arguments, which are probably not new to many thematically interested observers. We have already heard the same arguments, Mr Cap, when we were dealing with Greece here. Once again there were the same arguments. [[Abg. Dolinschek: Same speech!]] At the end of your remarks, you have recently stressed one point, namely that you think that there is no alternative to the euro. – This appears to many Austrians affected, as if we had all lived on the trees before the introduction of the euro. In reality, Mr Cap, since we have the euro, everything has become more expensive, everything has become worse. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Krainer.]] Unemployment has increased, the displeasure of the population is growing from month to month, the economy is in a situation of displacement as never before in the history of the Second Republic. The focus on an economy in which only corporations will survive in the future, in which the small, medium-sized economy, the small farmers no longer have a chance of survival, is Europe's policy, and we reject it, ladies and gentlemen, that is not a perspective! [[BZÖ and FPÖ are welcome.]] This, Mr Cap, does not benefit Austria either. You asked three times: What is the use of Austria? Ask yourself what the Austrians are actually doing to be a member of the euro zone! A critical consideration, a critical consideration must be allowed. There must be room here in Parliament to discuss this, not every time red and black pass over it, as if there were no yesterday, as if no matter what taxpayers in our Republic think about it. We are opposed to this, because this release for debt and for destruction at European level continues with today's decision-making of Red and Black Coins. This release does not solve any problems! Mr President, you have said something that has surprised me very much with you, because I appreciate you as one of the few experts in the ÖVP. Let us remember the year 2008, Lehman's plea, the pleite of a system-relevant bank, which has also thrown Europe's entire financial sector into the abyss! What bank is there in Cyprus that has system relevance? – There are banks that do not even have the size of a regional bank in the suburb of Vienna or in Lower Austria. These are relatively small banks, and there is nothing to see from system relevance. Where is the economic relevance of Cyprus an argument for the economic structure within the euro area? – Everything is not true, ladies and gentlemen! The sand will be scattered into our eyes and the untruth will tell us. This, ladies and gentlemen, is in no way a justification for the use of many billions that have been parked in the European Stability Mechanism. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] What did we hear from you about the decision-making of the ESM? – Only Pleitelands are financed. This is also the case in the ESM's constitutional text. And where do all these money land? – If we look closely at the flow of funds, we see that these funds land with the banks. How many times have we heard from the Red and Black representatives, this is an active contribution to saving the euro zone, stabilising the euro and thus giving solidarity to the countries? – The only solidarity that will be decided here today is solidarity with the banks, nothing else! It's not the countries, it's not the people who live in these countries, my dear ladies and gentlemen of Red and Black – I also address the good people in the left half of the empire – you don't care about the people, even the people in Cyprus don't care, because with this rescue action you will once again support the survival of the banks in Cyprus! No Cypriot has any of these aid measures. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] [[Abg. Dolinschek: That's the way it is!]] You can remember that we made the issue of Cyprus one month ago the subject of a urgent question to the Minister for Finance. At that time it was a question of how to help Cyprus. The first decision by Mr Dysselbloom was: We'll access the savings deposits. This led to an enormous uncertainty, and it was also feared in Austria that this example would make school and that the Austrian savings deposits would not be safe. At the time, a month ago, we warned and said that it could not be, it is not crisis management at European level, but it is pure diletantism, which is taking place here by uncertain the savers throughout the euro area with such a measure that is to be rejected. Only then have we been connected to our arguments – to read in the protocol on this urgent request a month ago. I have said that the cause of this whole malaise in Cyprus is the banks, the bank shareholders and, above all, those who bought bank bonds. They should be introduced and funding should be sought, but not with the small savers and pensioners who have put something on the side, ladies and gentlemen! This has not yet happened. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Bartenstein.]] Mr Bartenstein, believe You really think a Russian oligarch has his billions on a savings book in Cyprus? [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Wait for it, till!]] Do you think there are savings books on which a few hundred million euros lie? – I think such naïve views should have no place in our house. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] I warned about it back then. Mrs Finanzminister, has this been a form of strategy? I acknowledge to you that you have the same interest in the matter as I am; I am going to put it to you now. But the long wait for a solution for Cyprus has led, first and foremost, to the oligarchs and billionaires having enough time to move across all the mountains, away from Cyprus to transfer the money to safe tax havens. Come now All of a sudden, now you want to get to the money of these oligarchs – and there's nothing left. The money that's still there is so hidden in any trusts and company portfolios that the money doesn't come. They have left all these billionaires enough time to be able to carry out these transactions. And that's where I ask you: Was that from the beginning the plan: so long to hesitate to push the whole thing out until the whole money can be put into safe filtering? – I would have liked to answer this question from you, which you did not answer at the last committee meeting. We always hear of the special case of Greece, special case Spain, special case Portugal – a case of speciality – and, of course, Cyprus is also a special case. And with all the rescue measures that have been put in place, Mrs. Finanzminister – once it has been said that Cyprus itself must spend €5 billion, then it was €10 billion, now it is €13 billion –: Are you convinced that this money will be rich, that the money of the ESM will also be rich? – That’s another question. [[Call the BZÖ:No!]] Another question: Do you think that Cyprus can survive by reducing wages, pensions, spending? This means that the economy will decline, that the economy will suffer from an increase in unemployment and revenue, tax revenue. – Under all these conditions, Mrs Finanzminister, it is a thing of the impossibility of rehabilitating Cyprus. Cyprus remains a pleite case for the next few years and is simply not resuscisable in this way. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Another edition of Cyprus – I think the Cypriots should already lead you: Now they have to put in place privatisation measures, sell electricity companies, sell raw materials, pledge gas to foreign companies that are already waiting to pick out the raisins of Cyprus. – Yes, Mrs Finanzminister, is this fair: to allow a country to be bleeding out so and to leave behind the poverty population that cannot resist, which is not even put before a election and must in the future stay in a country that has no perspective? – Mrs Finanzminister, that is not solidarity, as one measures it according to human criteria, that is pure colonialism, which is taking place here in the example of Cyprus, and that would have to lead the Cypriots. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Since there is no system-related bank in Cyprus or is concerned, the honest way would have been to let these banks go into bankruptcy. Many experts will now apply: There is no bankruptcy right, on which legal basis should we proceed? . I now propose to all those who have to make decisions in Brussels that they do not want to have a bank bankruptcy right at all, that is not interested in anyone. If we had a bank bankruptcy right, then we would have to deal with bankruptcy. – But this is not what we want because, in the background of all these political actors, the actual decision-makers have long been bankers who have no interest in sending a bank into bankruptcy, but they are now conducting politics, they are making politics, they have become the bankruptcy managers of pleite states. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] This is the reality before which we stand, and I warn against it, my dear Ladies and gentlemen of Red and Black, to give your consent to this banking union. This banking union is designed in such a way that all banks within the euro area join a Union. That is to say, all the bank deposits, all the savings deposits of the Austrians, are also paid into this pot and we come into a debt association to take all the banks – no matter what bank it is about, in Cyprus, Portugal, Spain, Greece – and donate the Austrian savers to join for these banks. I'm warning you! If you do this and if you believe that you can solve the problem through a banking union, at least be so decent that you make a popular survey, make a referendum, but without popular vote never give your consent to a banking union! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Before you do this, think about the debt of the banks within the euro zone! The banks within the euro zone, all in common, have a debt of €33 trillion. 33 trillion € Debt! Therefore: We do not want these banks, which are on weak feet, this banking union. I can only warn you about that. I don't want this, and the BZÖ doesn't want it either. We want the savings deposits of the Austrians to be permanently secured and ensure that no one has access and insight into the savings accounts of the Austrians. This is a civil right that we will defend until the end and where we want to fight for the rights of citizens, ladies and gentlemen. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] There is always the question of how to save the banking sector. We have already proposed many years ago to think about the banking system. The banking system, namely to separate the banking sector into the so-called speculation banks and the very conventional commercial banks that we have to deal with in everyday life, would be the most meaningful and best alternative. For these commercial banks, the taxpayer can accept a liability well and gladly, because we need these banks so that the economic system actually works. The banking system is the only alternative, and we don't need a banking union either. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! The crisis has now landed in the middle of Europe. With France, which will also be counted as a country of crisis in the coming years, the heart of Europe has also been hit and wounded. I wonder, Mrs Finanzminister, how long you will be able to afford to feed and finance the peripheral states of Europe if we get serious problems in the core zone of Europe, in the heart of Europe, to secure the economy in some way. It won't succeed, we don't have that much money, so much money can't be removed from the Austrian taxpayer anymore. We've reached the ceiling, we've exceeded performance for a long time. If you were decent, Mrs Finanzminister, then you would have to deal now with the tax reduction at last, so that the wealth, employment and, above all, Austria's economic performance can be re-mounted.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00198_d7e4808	Next speaker: Mrs Tamandl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00198_d7e4830	Madam President. Mrs Finanzminister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Bucher, if you report on a subject such as Europe or solidarity with other EU Member States or other monetary union countries, you might use words like “responsibility” or “solidarity”. [[call to the FPÖ.]] I believe that the Austrians would also expect solidarity if Austria fell asleep in a crisis, Mr Bucher. [[Abg. Grosz: Thanks to the government eh! Thanks to the government, we are just ahead of the crisis.]] [[Further calls to the BZÖ.]] I believe that people must also be told that they are committed to this solidarity and responsibility. If it is said here again and again that it is told to you or people that every country that receives money in the context of the rescue shield is different, then please stick to the truth. They speak of the banks in Cyprus, but do not say, for example, that the financial sector and the banking sector in Cyprus are seven to eight times the total economic performance. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Half as big as!]] This too must be said: If we sent all the banks into bankruptcy there, the whole financial sector, that would mean that all jobs in this sector would be lost and people would be on the streets. We don't want to. We have a responsibility and therefore we are also committed to financial assistance. Of course, you always do this with abdominal pain, because of course you think that people could misunderstand it, even the people in Austria could misunderstand it. I must congratulate Mr Kogler, who is not here at the moment, on this point: I have also seen as a matter of concern in the ESM Committee that Mr Kogler always argues, argues rationally, and always sets out his arguments. I have always heard from you, Mr Bucher, and also from Mr Strache and his group only arguments which were not, in fact, arguments, but where it has always been said: Austria first! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Belakovich-Jenewein.]] It was never a question of responsibility for the whole of Europe. It was never about sense of responsibility and solidarity. Today we were asked what the euro has brought us. – Maybe we can all remember: In 2008, before the crisis broke out and Lehman Brothers was sent into bankruptcy, we had almost full employment in Austria. We have benefited greatly since the introduction of the euro, as regards the working situation in Austria, the activity of the Austrians, our economic growth has benefited greatly, and our prosperity has benefited greatly from it. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Belakovich-Jenewein.]] It is said today that all this salvation serves the euro rescue. – Yes, we acknowledge this because the euro means securing our pensions, safeguarding our jobs and safeguarding our economic location. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Euro secures pensions!Unknown term type: "%s".?]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Fichtenbauer]] [[Further calls to the FPÖ]] We confess to that, and you don't need to deny it. Mr Bucher said something remarkable today. He spoke of the Trusts in Cyprus, but he did not mention a point – and I mean that with dishonesty of opposition on this question: The Federal Minister has done what was her condition in the Committee. It has fought for a trust register to be introduced in Cyprus – and this is likely to continue within the European Union – so that there is more transparency about ownership in companies, just as it is with us. [[Abg. Dr. Belakovich-Jenewein: Probably!]] We have a company book, we have a foundation register, we have association registers that everyone can see and where everyone can then determine how ownership in companies are in foundations. We know who the pens are, we know who the beneficiaries are, we know who is in the board. This is not the case in Cyprus, and the Minister of Foreign Affairs has committed herself to introducing it, as well as ensuring that – an obligation to the Cypriots – she is increasing and increasing her commitment to the fight against money laundering and that she also takes action there. I simply believe that these measures are much more than they are generally discussed – we should not help anyone, we should keep the money in the country. . We are a large part of the European Union, we are familiar with monetary union and we are still committed to it because Austria has simply benefited very much from the euro. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Belakovich-Jenewein.]] Today – and also in the Committee – the following criticisms have been made: In Europe we have a higher rate of corporate tax, and now corporate tax in Cyprus is only increased from 10 to 12.5 percent. – I would like to say that we cannot completely master the economy there, because we want people to have work there too. If we insist that taxes be increased, such as VAT, but of course also a capital income tax, which has been in place in Austria since 1994, we can see the increase in corporate tax as a first positive step by at least 2.5 percentage points. Of course, more and more can be demanded, that is not at all a question, but you yourself say that Cyprus is being overwhelmed. We don't want to overwhelm the Cypriots, we want them to be able to get back on their feet. In conclusion: We politicians often appear in a negative light – that is, we would not bear any responsibility or we would not see the whole thing, but we would always only conduct client policy. I believe that precisely with these measures, especially with the Cyprus aid, especially with the help of other monetary union Member States and with the protection of the euro, we show that we can take responsibility. This also singles out opposition politicians, which Mr Kogler normally shows; that he does not agree today is very bad. Perhaps he will change his mind when the Minister of State puts her arguments on the table. [[Ironic hustle and bustle with the greens.]] In principle, however, I have to say that the opposition could well use a sense of responsibility.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00198_d7e4969	Mr Klubobmann Ing is speaking as the next speaker. Lugar. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00198_d7e4991	Madam President. High house! We have just heard, we are familiar with monetary union and now we need to show solidarity. Now is the question of whether this is really the case. That we have come to know this is a very courageous statement, because I do not know if there has been a referendum on it. I don't know if the Austrians wanted to do that either. - That's the first one. The second is: If we are familiar with this – and this is certainly true for some – then the question is why we should now show solidarity. Why should we do that? Finally, when we have known about it, we have come to know about it under certain rules. There have been convergence criteria, there have been rules of play that we wanted to work together in the euro area. And what about these rules? Did everyone stick to it? – No, not at all; and that is exactly the problem. It's just no one's kept it; Not Greece, not even Germany has adhered to it. And exactly the same thing is to happen again now, the same thing is happening right now. The ESM is now expected to buy Cyprus out of the problems it has indebted itself. The ESM Treaty states that aid will only be granted if a failure of aid would result in a collapse of the euro area. Article 12 makes it quite clear that assistance will only be granted if it is essential for the euro area. – Do you think that is the case with Cyprus? Cyprus has 3 promills of the population of the eurozone. The Eurozone has a population of 333 million, Cyprus has not even a million. [[Interoperability call at the SPÖ]] Let us look at the economic performance: The euro area has 10 000 billion of economic output per year, Cyprus is just 18 billion, which is 0.018 per cent of the eurozone's economic performance. Now I wonder where this system-relevant is. What could happen in the euro area if Cyprus is pleading? Can 0.018 Promille of economic performance really raise a problem here? – There is no expert who would know that. There is not a single expert around the world who would know that. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] Mr Schäuble has responded and said that it is a negative signal effect, which is based on the failure of Cyprus and on this pleite. – If that really is the case, if every state pleite, no matter how small and insignificant the state, would immediately have a negative impact on the euro and eventually break down the euro, then we would not need this rule in the ESM at all. It says that only those who can create problems in the euro area can be helped. That is, if we agree here today – and I think the scope is not known to many at all – then the dam is broken; then there is no longer any possibility of refusing help from another country. It will have to be helped virtually unhindered by any country, because one can no longer argue. If you help a country like Cyprus, which, according to all the rules, not only according to the ESM rules, but also according to the rules we had in the euro, Spain will come, then Portugal will come; and no matter who comes then, we must suddenly help everyone. This is precisely the point: one opens a lock here to initiate a redistribution in the European Union and in the euro area. If you look at how the euro came about, you can see: At the time, there were quite a lot of experts who said: For God's sake, please don't put so different economic nations into a currency area that has never worked in the past! There have been a lot of experts who have resisted with hands and feet. And what did you do? . One has introduced very strict rules: the convergence criteria. Only, the problem was: They didn't stick to it! And as far as Greece is concerned, it has already been known in 2006 that they are lying and cheating, that they are driving us behind the light, that they are looking for their economic data and that they are not reporting their true financial malaise as they should. This was already known by the EU Commission in 2006. And what did you do? - Nothing! And this goes even further: the ECB with the TARGET2 balances. It has been seen that this is completely out of the row, because Greece, Spain and Italy – now also France – are importing too much and exporting too little. What did you do? - Nothing! On the other side of the ECB, the possibility of buying government bonds was given. And that's not enough. They then arrived with the ESM, where they also made rules, as we have just heard, namely Article 12. You don't stick to that either. That means we make contracts, but don't stick to the rules. What can we expect? Do you think we're bringing together a stable currency if we just don't stick to the rules? And if someone says – and I am convinced that Mrs Minister will say so too – we have to show solidarity, we have to help the poor unemployed, then I have to say: That's all right, help is important, but you wouldn't help someone who's pleading because he plays all his money at the casino every day! Would you help that? Is there solidarity? – It may already be that he is doing badly. It may be that he's losing house and farm, but there's something like self-reliance. As is the case with every person's own responsibility, there should also be responsibility for themselves among the states. And that's exactly what we're lifting right now! At this moment, we are raising our own responsibility! The ESM and this consent always have the country's own responsibility. [[Abg. Krainer: Go, please!]] We have to understand that! If you just help everyone, no matter what he does, no matter if it goes by rules, you can't! We must follow our own rules. However, as I have just explained to you, we simply violated some rules, and we did the whole thing under the term “Solidarity”. Where is solidarity? We must also be solid with our taxpayers. I never hear this! [[Call the ÖVP:Values!]] I never hear here that you should be in solidarity with those who pay all this. Who pays for all of this? Who pays for this Cyprus aid? – The taxpayers in the various countries, also here in Austria. Who is in solidarity with these people? They have always had to make savings packages work over them in the past, because the state has to work properly because the state has to have a proper budget. In a way, it has succeeded anyway. The Minister for Finance could, however, improve a lot. But we are better there than other countries. That's a merit! The taxpayers have also contributed to this. And you are now in solidarity with countries that have done this with feet, with countries that have gone to the casino and played the whole money there, like Cyprus, you have to say, too, because Cyprus has done the seeing eye?- Oh, my God! This was not a tsunami, it was not a disaster that broke into Cyprus. They can be said to have watched for decades how their banks have done dubious business, how the banking apparatus has been bloated in an unhealthy way, how the taxes have been held down to attract foreign capital. This whole shabby situation – it's been preached for a decade that it can't go well. And what did they do? – They didn’t do anything about it and just went on like this. And now we can save her. And if we do, then the neighbors will come and say: We also live beautifully in Saus and Braus and then let ourselves be saved! And that's the problem! . I know that these are only 18 billion economic performance, that is a small country that we are saving quickly, that costs us less than half a billion, that is not a problem, because we are spending so much money in all directions anyway. – I can already imagine that such thoughts stand behind it. Only: We're opening a lock that's not going on anymore! I really ask you to take this into account. We can, if we do this now, then no one can refuse any more money. In addition – and I would also like to point out that in Vienna there is very much the involvement of citizens in all possible questions – that no one has ever asked the citizen whether he wants to save this salvation at all, whether he wants to save Greece, whether he wants to save through the ESM Cyprus, whether he wants to participate in this large-scale redistribution, where the prosperity of the Austrians is transferred to those countries where he is apparently needed, namely in Cyprus, Portugal, Spain, Italy or like all the countries. Is that what the citizen wants at all? Have you ever wondered? There you could ask the citizen how he sees it! That would be a good idea! But no, of course you don't. In Vienna, everything is asked, from the subway to all possible things, such as the dog stubble. There is a question of everything possible, but when it comes to really important things that are burdened on people, namely on generations, then of course the citizen is not asked. I also know why. - Because you're scared! You're afraid of what the citizen will say. It will look very closely at that. The citizen will consider whether Cyprus should be saved at all. And if you look closely at that, then you see – and that's what all experts say –: Cyprus does not have to be saved! We don't have to be solid. The euro is certainly not at risk from Cyprus. There have already been quite other things that have threatened the euro. That is why we reject this aid, and I hope that there is a broad majority in favour of rejection here, because in the end it opens a lock that we can never close again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00198_d7e5076	Mrs Fekter has now spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00198_d7e5097	Madam President. Mr. State Secretary! Dear listeners! High house! Because of the problems facing the banking sector, which accounted for 700 percent of the gross domestic product in Cyprus, Cyprus is in a dangerous position. Without external support, a collapse of the financial system would be inevitable, and this would, of course, also have consequences for people and for the economy in Cyprus. Unfortunately, however, the economy in Cyprus is relatively small in relation to the banking sector, and it was not possible for the state, because it was almost in favour of itself, to help save the banks. The Community therefore had to help to avoid infectious effects and to prevent further instability in the euro area. You will now ask yourself: Why is this Austria? – Austria has a specific concern, namely: From Austria there are about 3 billion investments in Cyprus and at the same time assets, not banks, in the amount of a further 3 billion. [[Abg. Who's that? - The municipal credit?]] That is, in sum, we have 6 billion in Cyprus, which in reality will also be saved. This magnitude is something that Austria also benefits when we help. A total of 23 billion is difficult for Cyprus. This is 130 percent of the Cypriot gross domestic product. Of these 23 billion, Cyprus itself has to raise 13 billion, and 10 billion get help. This is divided into: 9 billion is involved in the stability mechanism for which decisions are taken today, and 1 billion is provided by the International Monetary Fund. How does Cyprus’s own performance look? – The banking sector in Cyprus has to raise 10 billion. Additional taxes of 600 million will be abolished. Gold sales of 400 million are planned. Privatizations are expected to bring 1.4 billion. And the loans that Cyprus has with the Russians get more favourable conditions, which is supposed to bring 100 million. You can see that Cyprus itself is making a very, very big contribution. The aid that Cyprus is now receiving from ESM is under very strict conditions. In fact, a programme of its own has been drawn up that will allow Cyprus to cover the re-indebtedness of 3.4 billion. And since, ladies and gentlemen, some previous speakers have not taken the truth. It has been said, both by Mr Strache and by Mr Bucher, that the money would only flow into the banks. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen, we are covering the re-indebtedness of the state! That means: We pay the nurses there, we pay the police there, we pay the state expenditure of Cyprus. That means: We will certainly help the Cypriot people! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] Of course, in the period up to 2016, bonds that Cyprus itself could not school will also mature, so the refinancing will be helped. At the same time, there is also an economic adjustment programme. Cyprus needs to restructure. That's what's contained in the program. For example, strict conditions for combating money laundering have been established on the grounds of Austrian pressures. It will no longer be possible for money laundering, which has so far found a paradise in Cyprus, to continue. However, it is necessary that the anonymous structures established in Cyprus under British law, especially in the trusts, are no longer made anonymous. There will be a trust register where ownership will become known behind these structures, thus removing the money laundering and tax relief from the ground. Austria has no more anonymous structures. Therefore, Austria is not a paradise for money laundering, nor is it a paradise for tax relief. We are a high tax country, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Strache: “gratification” to this statement!]] [[Further calls at the FPÖ.]] It is therefore not justified to compare ourselves with such tax havens. That's what I'm saying here! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! In the past, the trend was as follows: It is true that the economic situation in Cyprus and the financial crisis have been foreseeable for a long time. Cyprus was therefore put under an excessive deficit procedure in 2010. However, it has not put in place any appropriate measures as requested by the EU Commission of Cyprus. The old government has also not submitted a request for aid. Only when the shale became invincible did there come an auxiliary request and the preparation for the program. The new government – the old one has been selected – has then taken rapid steps. However, the election campaign and political instability in Cyprus have led to this delay. The Community has always regretted this, but we no longer had a negotiating partner with whom we could have reached an agreement. Now the program is tied. Cyprus is now ready to carry out restructurings and can therefore now be given assistance from the ESM, provided that there is the consent of Parliaments in Europe. I would therefore ask you, in accordance with the documents we have sent to the House, to give your consent immediately. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00198_d7e5187	Mr Krainer is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00198_d7e5208	Madam President. A number of arguments on Cyprus's aid have been put forward in this debate today, and I will now deal with some of them. First of all, the argument – I think it was from Mr Strache – came: Democracy is the most important thing. That's right! When we discussed Austria's accession to the ESM here and decided, some have said that democracy will be abolished and in the future someone will decide about our money somewhere. [[Abg. You have broken Maastricht law with that!]] We said: No, any aid has to be decided here in Parliament, because as long as Parliament does not give the green light, the Minister of Finance has to say no, and therefore such packages will not come into being or Austria will not participate in it. And what we see today is: (a) there is this debate, and (b) those who have said that democracy is not abolished but is strengthened are right. And that's what we're experiencing and seeing today. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. You broke the Maastricht law! You've committed a breach of justice!]] The argument then came that Cyprus would be so small. So: It's still meaty. I'm sorry you're living in such a small country! [[Abg. Strache: Iceland did it too!]] That's what you have to say: Firstly, there are great links with others in small countries too. We know that the problem that Cyprus has comes from Greece. The initial inflammation of the Cyprus problem is that it has lost a lot of money from the Greek aid and it is a very small country and has not been able to vote for this loss. That's the initial cause of the help. [[Abg. Strache: Why did Iceland do it?]] This can also go in the other direction. And besides, quite honestly: Why should you save only large countries and not small ones? Austria is also not one of the EU's major Member States. And I say quite honestly: Anyone who believes that being bigger than Cyprus, Malta or Luxembourg is not an art, I would like to say: There are much more countries in the European Union than Austria than are smaller. We certainly do not belong to the large EU Member States, but to the average. At any rate, I believe that the principle cannot be: The big countries we save and the little ones we drop! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Now on the argument of Mr Bucher, who said the following – that was an exciting argument; the Minister of Finance has already answered it anyway –: Getting the money, from the middle flow, always the banks! Now only! Quite honestly, my salary also gets the bank, it's not paid me cash either. And if I buy a TV, maybe I'll take the money, which may also be on another bank. So that the middle flow runs over banks – for God’s sake, that is a truly “stressing” knowledge! Of course, the flow of Cyprus aid also runs through banks, but the money comes where it belongs: with teachers, with nurses, with pensioners, with health care et cetera. This money is spent for that! And that's good, and that's why we decide this today. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] Another argument that came was: The countries have had the reins cut. They didn't do their homework. They didn't follow the rules. If we look at all the programme countries now, or the countries in difficulty, we can say: This is certainly true for Greece. Greece has not adhered to anything, but it is also a very special case. But when we look at the other countries that have been added since then: Spain, Ireland and now Cyprus, we can see: The three were after Maastricht, according to the rules, pattern boys. [[Abg. Street: Spain has joined the real estate!]] They did exactly what everyone said and what was right: Get down with the taxes for entrepreneurs, get down with the taxes for rich people! They did not make deficits, but they made surpluses. Their debts were half as high as those in Austria. They did everything right according to the old rules. Those who did not comply with the rules back then were the Germans – those who are today the strongest and the best! So maybe it was up to the rules too! Perhaps it was not just because some adhered to the rules and others did not, perhaps the rules were not good. In fact, I believe that something can't have voted with the rules. Then: Yesterday's pattern boys are the ones who need to be saved, namely those who have not complied with the rules in the past. [[Abg. That's absurd!]] That's the situation! [[Abg. That's so absurd!]] Consider whether or not the rules were partly wrong, because those who have adhered to them are the ones we are saving today. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. May. Stefan: Very far back!]] [[Abg. Strache: Pattern Boy Greece?- Oh, my God!]] [[Abg. Dr. Belakovich-Jenewein: Greece was pattern boy?]] If you listened carefully to me, you know I said: Greece has not adhered to anything at all, that is a special case. [[Abg. Strache: And who is the pattern boy now?]] But if you look at the next states that came, i.e. Spain, Ireland, Cyprus – this is not so difficult intellectually to make this differentiation – then you will see: These three adhered to everything, were pattern boys in all the key figures and were not only better than Austria, but also better than Germany, but are those who now have to be saved from Austria and Germany and others. So I don't know if the self-to-rule hold that's all decisive. And you might want to think about that and not just give it some arguments that might sound good. But why we do this has three reasons: The first is because we ensure stability and security, not only in Cyprus and in the euro area, but of course also in Austria. The second is that we do this out of solidarity, just as we have already benefited from the solidarity of others. And the third is that it is especially in the interest of Austria. Consider the very first aid package after the crisis: What was that help package? – This was the aid package for the Central and Eastern European countries of €50 billion. At the time, the Balance of Payments Stabilisation Act was adopted. This package was quite, very important for Austria, because you know that we also do not have the smallest banks in relation to the economy and that we were all very proud of the expansion of these Austrian banks to Central and Eastern European countries. And when the crisis hit there, the loans were worse served there, and also for the Austrian banks, and thus for Austria, there was a risk that there were problems – remember how suddenly our interest rates were accelerated, how we suddenly had to pay 1.2 percent more interest over the night! – was this package, this very first package, which has been chained, also in the interest of Austria. We should not forget that Austria has already benefited from the very first rescue package decided here after the crisis. In so far as: We ensure stability, we are solidarian and we do it in the interests of Austria. [[Abg. Dr. Belakovich-Jenewein: You don't believe this anymore!]] That's why we decide. That's why everything's fine? - No, it's not all right. The way in which this rescue plan has been implemented has shown fundamental weaknesses in the structure of how the European Union works. We only remember the disaster regarding savings deposits of over €100 000, under € 100 000. [[Abg. Kickl: You've been caught!]] The Minister of Finance did not speak wrong of political failure. Of course, this was a classic example of political failure, especially of structural political failure. That is, we need to work on improving our decision-making structures, and we also have better political results for the first time, and not only after the second, third, great public uproar. We still have the problem that the savings packages are intensifying the crisis. It is sometimes said that Cyprus will be saved and that they need nothing more to do now, there is no responsibility for themselves. Well, then look at what Cyprus has to put in place here as a “voluntary” – under quotation marks – savings package on measures: among other things, shorts of wages, pensions, privatizations et cetera. This is a much higher contribution than the international contribution. The Cypriots must help themselves more than they are helped. The problem, however, is that these recipes, which are behind them, are likely – or it is to be feared – to intensify the crisis, as we have seen in Greece, Portugal and Spain. And we know that the IMF has already drawn real conclusions from this. What did the IMF do? He said: We have always expected that if we save 1% on expenditure, this will have a negative influence of half a percent. – And then they reckoned and saw that the negative influence was one and a half, two and a half percent, i.e. three, four, five times as high as they themselves had assumed. The IMF has reached the right conclusion and said that if theory and practice do not agree, then something can't agree with the theory, so we have to reconsider our theory. Unfortunately, in the European Commission, there are still some who believe that if theory and practice do not agree, then something must not vote in practice, but they adhere to their theory. In so far, I believe, it is still necessary here to ensure a rethinking, because if theory and practice separate, then of course something is always wrong with the theory, because the practice is now the reality, and this one will be hard to shake. A third point that I wanted to address under the motto “not all the best” is the question of banking secrecy and the interest-rate taxation directive. The position that Austria represented in the ECOFIN in this respect is – of course, it has been clear to all parties involved – not always sustainable. Let's remember how this happened: With regard to the interest-rate taxation directive, Austria has committed itself under black and blue, then by Grasser and von Schüssel – I believe, 2003 – to introducing automatic exchange of information when five European and two North American states carry out the exchange of information on request. At that time, the wrong assessment was: These five will never do that, so Switzerland will never make the exchange of information on request. In the meantime, as Austria, we have bilateral agreements with all these five states and of course do so. And the European Commission is now going to the ECOFIN and says that I would like to have the mandate to negotiate these five agreements, and Austria and Luxembourg say no for technical reasons because they do not want automatic information exchange. The problem is of course: Austria has pledged if the five do that, then we make the automatic exchange. And that the other 25 states do not like that one technically blocks a decision where one has already promised politically, that must have been clear to everyone. At the end of the day, this only leads to having the automatic one on the one hand, whether in three or six months or in a year – that might make a difference from a few months until you actually have it – but you also have the political damage. If there is political commitment that we introduce automatic exchange of information, then we cannot technically try to prevent that. I also believe that the issue of trusts is important and other issues are also important. However, the political decision, the commitment of Austria to the automatic exchange of information, was made in 2003, under certain conditions. And now to pretend or technically to pretend as if these conditions were not there, or to block them, that has no future. This is only to the detriment of Austria, and we reject it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00198_d7e5444	Mr Kickl has now come to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00198_d7e5465	Madam President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! My previous speakers from SPÖ and ÖVP, you could make it quite easy by simply being honest once. You could make yourself here and say that you have long lost the overview of the events you are telling us here that you are manufacturing some kind of crisis management to deal with them. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] That is the truth. They remind me of those people who stood in Fukushima and told the astounded public day after day that they had everything under control until it was so far that they could no longer hide the catastrophe. In this way, ladies and gentlemen, act. You have the problem that reality does not adhere to what you give of yourself in your speeches. Let us take a look at this, ladies and gentlemen: If it goes according to your own information, then you have put Ireland back on healthy legs together with an all-knowing, alternative-less European Union. If it goes according to your own information, then you have rehabilitated Portugal in the meantime. If it goes according to your own data, then Greece is now again top fit. And if it goes according to your own particulars, ladies and gentlemen, then now you are coming to save Cyprus. And I tell you, if you have saved Cyprus, then Cyprus will be ready – in the very sense of the word, that nothing goes at all there. It is only once that you need to look at the results of your previous rescue measures. What is it, and what will happen in Cyprus? – In fact, we have an economy that can be called good conscience more than dead than alive. For what is being set up here by you, ladies and gentlemen of SPÖ and ÖVP, is in fact nothing but an attempt to re-establish this economy, which is already paving out of the last hole, in order to further cut off the oxygen supply. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Poverty, unemployment, social misery – these are the consequences, ladies and gentlemen, of your so-called rescue package. And the tokens pay once again the small population, the workers, the pensioners in this country. And they're paying the bill for who? – For a criminal alliance of politicians who have been involved in the financial industry to do their business again, ladies and gentlemen. That will also be the result this time. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] The second result is that the banks are rubbing their hands again. Yes, they have to make a contribution now, but they have their little sheep in the dry, because while Cyprus is still considering whether to accept aid or not, they have already taken everything out of the country and have taken advantage of the big profits, ladies and gentlemen. That's what it looks like. And the third result will be, and this too is nothing new – here we are at Austria –: This will be put on a huge debt pile, which is already beyond all the dimensions that one can even imagine, in one's own country put new debts and new liabilities on it again. This is highly irresponsible, ladies and gentlemen, because you are still doing it for a purpose that does not come out under the rule because you will not help anyone in Cyprus with it, as you falsely say. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Maybe we missed something from the Freedom Party? Maybe this money is somewhere on the high edge, Mrs. Finanzminister? Perhaps, as many Austrians do, you have put aside an emergency groceries somewhere? Perhaps you have something on the high edge, so that you can get good conscience and use some of it to help people? But you don't have it! What you are doing, Mrs. Finanzminister, and with you the Chancellor of the Federal Republic, is to explain to the people that you can take something out of an empty cash register and take it out again and again. This is not a state-man behaviour, it is charlatanry, ladies and gentlemen of the Federal Government! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I'll tell you one thing: It really hurts me when I remember that in a few days, only a few hundred meters away from here. May the Federal Chancellor of this Republic, costumed with a red clove and a red cunt to wake down to an increasingly narrowing audience, will do two things: There, in the Town Hall Square, he will be swadden by justice – as he always swadders of justice, instead of putting it into practice in his own country, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] He will be baffled by justice, and he will conjure up international solidarity in the fight against the international speculant indisposition, just as he always conjures it up when he turns to his own people. What he does not say about it is that, of course, he likes to meet at certain secret meetings, in things that are going on away from the public, with the Bilderbergers, not only with them, but in the middle of these speculators, in the middle of the high-funding and in the middle of the banks, and in truth there collects the orders and gets the order what is to be implemented. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! There is an angry feeling when one looks at this social democracy in 2013, because greater could not be the contradiction between what is being spoken – here inside, on 1st. May and elsewhere at socialist events – and what you do, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] And with the ÖVP you have a faithful ally. It's all about the golden calf profit. This is the summary of the ÖVP's party programme. The Christian values have been extended into the back corner of the party history, then the practice of this dance is a little easier. But for that, you are a party of the world, ladies and gentlemen! I wouldn't be particularly proud of this predicate. I would be more pleased if all of us here, like the Freedom Party, were first and foremost Austrian parties. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! What you, SPÖ and ÖVP, decide, that is not an aid package for Cyprus – it was not an aid package for Greece, it is not an aid package for Cyprus – it is a social and economic torpedo that you fire in Cyprus. And this torpedo is coupled with loud time bombs that bury you in Austria. Because at some point, if you bring all these countries with your actions to the point that they can no longer produce growth, that nothing will be achieved there, and the consequence is logically that there will be no repayments, then these liability, which you claim to be, will be just a piece of paper, even in Austria. [[Abg. May. Gässner: Today he has it with the “fets”!]] This is your responsibility, my Ladies and gentlemen, that is why I am talking about time bombs. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Do you even know what you're doing with it? – The alternative in Cyprus is whether workers will in the best case suffer from decent salary losses or whether they are on the streets in the worse case. And all this just for, ladies and gentlemen, the banks and the speculators and the owners are once again saved from them. Don't say about the SPÖ again, you represent the pensioners, if you know exactly that now the pension funds have to hold for it and that this model does Europe-wide school to save the banks, ladies and gentlemen, and the speculators! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] And don't ever mention that you don't want to allow privatizations if you're pecking a course now where everything in Cyprus, which still has some value, is sold out what you call infrastructure, and the vultures are waiting for them to hit. And behind the vultures are those banks and speculators you supposedly want to fight. They're shooting it in their throats, ladies and gentlemen! That's the truth! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] And what social democracy did on the 1st. May will give of itself, is an expression of white hypocrisy and nothing at all. And something else, Mr Cap: If Cyprus had water resources, as Austria has water resources, you could be sure that access by the European Union would be done exactly to this resource. That is why I am saying this so that the Austrians know what may still happen to them and why you have such a rappel in favour of anchoring the protection of our water in the local constitution. And never take the word “insured deposit” from the SPÖ again! They were there when, at international level, it was decided that it was now up to you to act like a thief and that you go here and take the savers into your pocket! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, that's nothing you can tolerate. This is an attack on the property of the little savers! And you didn't want to prevent that, but you got caught. Since then, you've been rowing back, but you've been in the back of your head. You have this model stored in the case of cases. What kind of credit are these over 100 000 €? – There are also funds from small, medium-sized enterprises that logically have to pay their wages and salaries. This too is now being tapped, and this is now being blamed for the rescue of the banks and the speculators. And social democracy is stamping on it and saying: For good! – It should be socially fair, and in the interests of the working population. Ladies and gentlemen! One thing has shown us this case: Deposit guarantees, as you have given them, Mrs Fekter, which apply in Austria only as long as they are not needed. Then, if we need them, you will sit down with the European Union and take a decision, probably on a weekend that is over with deposit guarantee and that access to our savings books is taking place. You don't need to protect anonymity either, because there's nothing left on these accounts, ladies and gentlemen. This crisis has shown one thing: The political institutions – and I am now counting the institutions of the European Union just as much as this Parliament in the Red and Black groups, which are really only more voting machines, where it is a bank that is all in agreement with, and where we are going through what is in Europe in the backrooms a few undemocratic bodies, Ladies and gentlemen – are managed. It is time for the people who still know how to save, even in bad times, to tell you what to do and what to fail. This model is called direct democracy, and we will not beg of this direct democracy by you, but we will implement it with a German chancellor.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00198_d7e5596	Mr Kickl! You can argue very sharply and still avoid any grip under the belt line. You have done so several times in your speech, and I give you a call for order for the submission of the “sacrifice”. Mr Bartenstein has now come to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00198_d7e5628	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Mr Kickl, you have also called the ÖVP “Party of the World”. – First of all, I do not regard this as a real abuse. That's what we like, a party of the world. You think you're a party of yesterday or actually of eternal yesterday. [[Congratulations on MEPs of the ÖVP.]] That's where I can remind you of the drive of your Linz party friend: At first it was a juvenile sin, but then it reached until 2006. Always the same with you. But with that in Cyprus and on the subject of this special meeting today. – I fully agree with Mr Krainer [[Abg. Dr. Belakovich-Jenewein: That's no surprise anyway!]] [[Abg. Strache: I think you're a good match, the crane and you! The “Marxist Bartenstein”!]] That was a communication disaster that started out there. After all we know, it was not the fault of the European finance ministers, not the IMF, that was already cypriotically homemade. There, for whatever reason, they wanted to ask all savers to cash out. Thank God in the second run has now done much better. I think the package that is on the table is first of all a respectable performance, and second, I think it is extraordinary that we discuss for the first time an activity of the ESM here in the House. That's living democracy! That is the influence and co-determination of the national parliaments, in this case of our Parliament. Savings over €100 000 are value-secured, and between 10 and 13 billion, more than half, Cyprus – that will be difficult enough – has already been mentioned by the Minister of Finance. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Belakovich-Jenewein]] [[Abg. May. Stefan: I haven’t heard “valued” yet! ‘Value-secured’?]] What is very important to me here is the following: For the first time we have in the European Union, in the euro zone we have something like the end of the rope, the rope in a hand where we can now move forward towards an effective banking union, towards an effective settlement of banks, because so far we have not known this. The Americans are far ahead of us: The Americans have now handled over 1,000 banks and savings banks. Here I am also with Krainer, who meant, let's make this speech: “Development” means nothing but “sending into the pleite”, and “restructuring” means nothing but “health shrinking” when you refer to the Bank of Cyprus here. This “too big to fail”, so that the banks can’t happen because they’re system-relevant or whatever – in Austria, there’s so many systems relevant when I think about the south of Austria, and it’s a lot of money – that’s too big to fail – that’s not supposed to apply in Europe either. The Laiki Bank, as always, the Bank of Cyprus, is quite good examples of the fact that the shareholders are also asked to cash out, the creditors and the big savers. I really believe that this is something like a trial run for something that I hope will never happen as rarely as possible or better, namely that other banks in Europe, in the euro zone, will have to be settled. Liability cascade is called the keyword. [[Interference of Federal Minister Dr. Fekter.]] This should be a school from my point of view, because, as a representative of the real economy, ladies and gentlemen, it is really a gruesome thing: If one “fails” in the real economy – the little one, the middle and also the great – then one just pleads. There's a remediation process, a little bit of the Chapter 11 process from the U.S., and if that doesn't work, then the pleite is there. And who's coming to the handcushion in a pleite? – Of course, the creditors, of course the suppliers of this company; the employees are not, because they are secured in Austria by the insolvency fund – but in reality, they also come to the handcushion. All who are involved in this is therefore coming to the handcushion, only with a bank that was not possible so far. Now we need a level playing field, equal rules of play or at least comparable rules for real-economy companies and banks – that is something I find very positive. [[President Neugebauer shall take over the chairmanship.]] And this liability scaffolding is as follows: First of all: A bank is supposed to and can argue if it has to plead, without permanently waving with the negative example of Lehman Brothers, where one knows that this pleite has caused much of the last crisis. The shareholders are here to use, so the owners. Who else?- Oh, my God! Then the creditors are in line – it already makes sense why Austria and Germany are refinancing by 1.52 percent or whatever, but very renowned banking institutions sell subordinated bonds by 4 to 4.5 percent. Then the balances come in excess of € 100 000; below € 100 000, the European deposit guarantee is valid. And, Mr. Kickl, don't spread fear here! It remains; these deposits are secured in Austria and elsewhere. Then the national taxpayer comes to the handcushion, and not the first, just as it has happened in this country in recent months: first of all, the taxpayer, the public hand and thus the taxpayer. And as the last rescue, as a safe haven, then the ESM. So if this liability scandal, consisting of these five elements, can become a principle with which to draw up the resolution and the banking union, then I already like it. Last but not least, ladies and gentlemen, and I am not saying this for the first time at this point, because the opposition in this House has also “excelled” on other occasions – under quotations –: Tell you, won't you be bad at thinking that you're sitting in a boat with the post-communist left in Germany? [[Abg. May. Stefan: The “Alternatives for Germany”, the entire economic professors, who come from the CDU, then do the... Politik?]] Don't you really feel bad about remembering that you're politically on a line with the left? It's true that Cap said: Well, Mr Kogler, it would have been nice if you had worked out why the Greens in Germany – by the way, by the way, with a greater majority, as I know, when the FDP did that – were therefore the Greens in Germany for it, and why the Social Democrats, who are known to be in opposition, with their leave in Germany, are not so optimistic, probably even after the Bundestag elections in autumn – why the SPD is practically closed. So those responsible for social democrats and the Greens in Germany go along. You, who are in opposition in Austria, do not. [[Abg. Bucher: But also the CDU!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Stefan.]] They go with the post-communist left, with the SED successors, with Gysi and Co and vote against this Cyprus rescue. Congratulations! That is really very, very remarkable!
ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00198_d7e5753	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Rossmann. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00198_d7e5774	Mr President. My dear Mrs Finanzminister! Mr State Secretary! High house! Mr Bartenstein! [[Abg. Dr. Bartenstein: Ohe!]] The Greens do not take a common path with the post-communists; the Greens are still going their own way and have their own arguments as to why they will vote against this Cyprus package here and today. [[Call the ÖVP: Sure!]] [[Congratulation with the greens.]] And if the Greens didn't go with the German Greens, there's also good reason. I'm going to look at why this is going to be so. [[Abg. Dr. Bartenstein: Well, because she... as the German Greens!]] If you had followed the debate of the Greens in the German Bundestag, Minister of State, out of service, then you would know that the Greens have asked very critical questions there, quite probably have questioned some things, but on the other hand they have always gone a little different in fiscal matters than the Austrian Greens. [[Call to the ÖVP: Thank God!]] Furthermore, Mr Bartenstein: If you say that that that all savers should have been asked to check out would be cypriotically homemade, then I have to ask: Where are we? ==References== On March, on that memorable day, all the Ministers of the Eurogroup took a decision that all savings deposits, differentiated by amount, should have been interested under and below €100 000. So there can be no talk of “zyprioticly homemade ”! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Brosz.]] ==References== The Ministers of the Eurogroup then rolled back on March, went down one step and remembered the deposit guarantee and the €100 000 limit. – So it was, Mr Bartenstein, and not otherwise. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Brosz.]] I don't want to say that everything was wrong, what's wrong with that 25. In March, the so-called Bail-in-Instrument applied for the first time, i.e. for the first time in the reorganisation of banks, in the resolution of banks also on shareholders, creditors, bond owners and savers with deposits over €100 000. If you, Mr Bartenstein, point out that it is going on in the United States and that banks are being handled, I will answer: This is what the Euro-Finanzministere said on 25 July. The decision is a democratically unauthorized decision of this Eurogroup. At the European level, we simply do not have a bank insolvency right with the liability scandal mentioned by you, and it is a scandal that we have not yet had this kind of four and a half years after the pleite of Lehman Brothers. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: Exactly!]] Please remember, Mr Bartenstein: Just a few weeks ago, the Minister of Finance sent a draft for an Austrian banking insolvency law to assess, as she did not want to know anything about this cascade of liability. Yes, that's not even the subject of this bank insolvency design. And this too is a scandal! And you're making yourself up here and talking about a liability cascade and pretending to be something that has long been decided at European level. [[Federal Minister Dr. Fekter: She's coming! This is from the EU! This is from the EU!]] We need such a thing urgently, and the example of Cyprus shows once again just how urgently necessary this is in reality. But now on the real question, on the core question, to the ESM Treaty: Two conditions must be met in order to obtain assistance under the ESM Treaty, because it is not about Austria. As I listened to this debate, I had the impression that we were discussing Austria. We are discussing Europe here, the future of the euro zone and not Austria! Austria is, in any case, indirectly affected. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Grosz: What does “indirect” mean? Directly!]] The first central condition in Article 12 – listen carefully, Mr. Cot! – it is only possible and possible to grant aid if it is ‘necessary to safeguard the financial stability of the euro area as a whole and its Member States’. – But that means that Cyprus has to face a systemic risk of infection. Yeah, that's what we were told. In the documents submitted, however, this was nowhere plausible. It was claimed that there is a risk of infection from Greece. This gives me further insight because there is a close cooperation between Greek and Cypriot banks, but it is much less clear that there is a systemic risk of infection of countries such as Italy, Spain, Ireland or Portugal. That seems to me to be a little far-reaching! And if a country with a gross domestic product of 0.2 percent of EU GDP is now system-relevant, the question is the opposite: Is there any country in Europe that is not system-relevant? That's the reverse. And it is always pretended as if this rescue were alternativesless, and in return we are required, and that is true, solidarity. I also stand for this, but what I do not stand for and what I already want to criticise – and I am also with the Germans – is that the Troika is a reform programme for the saved states – a so-called reform programme! – imposed that the countries are increasingly leading to the crisis. I'll talk to you later. And by the way: Alternativelessness, what is it at all? There are always alternatives! Maggie Thatcher already wanted to suggest: There is no alternative. – There are always alternatives, but there are, and that is true, no alternative in this past EU policy world as long as the EU's policies remain as they are: a policy of cutback, a policy that is without barriers to strengthening competitiveness – and especially for the states of the South, which means that these internal depreciations, wage cuts, will have to come to devils – and, as a third party, will rely on the so-called structural policy, that is, on labour market policy, on the flexibility of labour markets, the intervention into wage-making and the like more. But this policy of alternative unemployment in Europe must end, it must be ended! We Greens do not stand for this Europe, we Greens represent another Europe. We Greens also stand for a democratic Europe far away from the extortion policy of the Troika, the European Central Bank, yes, and also the Euro Group. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] The second central condition for the granting of financial assistance to the Cypriot is in accordance with Article 13(1). 1: Cyprus's capacity to bear debt must be given. – Let us highlight this aspect a little closer! ==References== March, i.e. the day the Euro-group rolled back, it was called for Cyprus to spend €5.8 billion on its own initiative. – A few days and weeks later, the talk was no longer of 5.8 billion, but of 13 billion euros. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: It's fast! Depending on the poker cubes!]] Ladies and gentlemen! Cyprus has a gross domestic product of 18 billion €. 13 billion € are 70 percent of Cyprus's gross domestic product, and this additional 7.2 billion is 40 percent more of GDP than it was in the 25th century. ==References== Where does that come from? So far, no one has been able to explain to me, and you too, Mrs Finanzminister, why this gap has suddenly become so great overnight. [[Call BZÖ: The Bartenstein knows!]] – The answer can only be: Yes, it has been the collapse of the economy, it has been lower tax revenues. Let us look at what is going to happen – this is clear from the papers on debt sustainability and is also obvious – if the Cypriots are imposed on a reform programme with cuts in expenditure, with wage cuts, with tax increases. Well, what's going to happen? – We know this from Greece. – Then this country will fall into a deep recession. And that is actually the case. In 2013 and 2014, growth will fall by more than 10 percent, and from 2015 and 2016 this will suddenly be different: That's where the economy is supposed to grow again. 2015 is expected to reach the peak of the debt ratio. Yes, please, but what's up to? The reasons for this are the ones that we are talking about, and this is always the talk of the European Union, of the saving of savings policy, of restoring the confidence of investors and consumers. – Yes, what should consumers rely on if pensions are reduced when wages are reduced? What are they supposed to do with additional consumption? – This concept cannot go up! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Head.]] The second speculative element is the occurrence of natural gas. – Yes, that may play a role in the future of Cyprus, but not from 2015. And if, indeed, that is the case, the Cypriots are being removed from the ground under their feet, even if their previous economic model – which I do not support in any way – if they are deprived of viability, how should this economy grow again from 2015, and how should it ensure debt sustainability? – There is no answer, Mrs Finanzminister, even from you. It is here, in this so-called Memorandum of Understanding, a ruinous reduction path without prospects. Where are the growth-enhancing measures for this country? Moreover, I do not hear any criticism from the SPÖs, nor from all these reduction measures, about the interventions in the wage-finding process. These measures will be sought in vain. Therefore, this debt eradication programme, which is presented here, is in no way sustainable. It corresponds to a wishful thinking. I call on you, ladies and gentlemen, from the government and the government parties to end this system of shattering, with this system that does not give Cyprus a chance! If Cyprus is to have a chance, it needs what Peter Bofinger formulated in the “ZiB 2” a few days ago on the verge of the meeting in Washington. He said that Europe has broken down, that consolidation needs more time, and it needs expansive impulses in Europe and no loss of capacity. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00198_d7e5957	President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Arbitrator. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00198_d7e5979	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! If my previous speaker, Mr Rossmann, has just said here, we are talking about Europe, we are not talking about Austria or Cyprus – we are also talking about Austria and Cyprus, but mainly about Europe – then that is true. Only when you think it is about Europe, do I not understand the green position, because in this context exactly, in my view, the green position must be to question the one or the other to criticize, but in the end to say: We are also voting here in Parliament in the end for Europe and not against Europe! [[Abg. May. Kogler: It's much better!]] And when it's argued here: Where's the risk of infection? – In addition to being able to say that Lehman has seen the infection going around the globe within a few hours, we see that in Cyprus, too, because Cyprus has been in difficulty because it was so closely interwoven with the Greek banking sector and has had so many Greek government bonds and has come into disrepute as well – that was not the only point, but for one reason. As in Europe, we see the risk of infection from one country to another, and therefore we have created the ESM: to stop this risk of infection in good time and to see in good time that these negative developments do not spread across the countries to us and to our economies. Therefore, it has failed to help with the ESM right away instead of waiting for the infection to spread to us. That's why I think it's right that we decide on this today. Cyprus has also led us to see how much an oversized banking sector, a financial centre to the extent of seven times the economic performance – 700 percent of GDP is the banking sector – how much such an opaque, hypertrophic financial sector can become a threat to an economy. Therefore, the rescue package and the conditions for Cyprus must also be set up there. It is true that every single measure can be discussed, and I also say quite honestly to you: I would rather have seen Cyprus put on the revenue side on the financial transaction tax and on higher corporate taxes, and not only would have taken this momentous step from 10 to 12.5 percent. Nevertheless: Most, more than half of the total package comes from Cyprus itself, and of the €13 billion that come from Cyprus itself, €10 billion comes from the banking sector. I think this is both right and necessary, because it is with those who have benefited from the tax, corporate and financial oasis of Cyprus over the last few years, so those who have used the high interest rates in connection with the low corporate taxes and letterbox companies. That is why I think it is right that they should also be recruited, with the creditors, shareholders and also with those who have parked their olive oil assets in Cypriot banks and who now also have to make a contribution. This contribution, by the way, is not so great in relation to what they used to raise at excessive interest rates. They have made a beautiful Reibach there in recent years. However, it is also necessary to address the fundamental core in Cyprus: intrusive structures in trusts, the possibility of hiding large assets and directing money flows over Cyprus. Therefore, there is also a trust register, international standards must be introduced in the case of measures against money laundering and all of this must be implemented. This includes, rightly, what is always called a somewhat beautiful settlement of the largest Cypriot banks. In this area too, the necessary consequences must be met and radical measures put in place in the case of two banks. Since Bofinger has been quoted, it is also important to stress that Europe has set far too short deadlines in many areas in the past. Europe grants Cyprus a much longer period of time to recover economically, but economic recovery is, as has been said, at the heart of the financial market itself. We are also on democratic and parliamentary new land. I would like to stress that we have created the ESM instrument to respond quickly to such problems in Europe. There is a tension between the very delicate, confidential decisions and the legitimate parliamentary interest that there must also be a debate in a democracy on the documents, the Memorandum of Understanding and all related issues. There is also a tension between democratic discussions, which sometimes take a long time and take more time than the decisions to be made quickly. But we solved this well in Austria. The information provided by Parliament was in the form of confidential treatment in the Subcommittee of the ESM Committee. We have thus proved that we can discuss intensively and in detail and still do not violate the necessary confidentiality. I am glad that this spatula in Austria has been very successful. In conclusion: There is, of course, a greater question behind this: how we want to deal with the banking sector across Europe. Bank insolvency law and other regulatory measures are still to come. To eliminate misunderstanding: The Austrian draft for a bank insolvency law, which was a special concern to me and which is now also in review, is exactly the Austrian part we are bringing in to this. Name: Banks need to formulate a “testament” at an early stage, which happens when they fall into disrepute. If Cyprus had had the insolvency right that we have now sent to review, some of the problems would have been saved from us, for example those of Laiki Bank. This obstacle must, of course, also create Europe, and I therefore expect the European Commission and the European debate to finally produce and present useful proposals by summer. In the direction of the colleague of the FPÖ, who here in his speech turned up a little and therefore apparently tried to make up for something that has damaged the partial difficulties of the past few weeks: ==References== May is the day on which, by the way, we don't wave with red fetters, but with red flags, and on which we stand for justice. ==References====External links== May. Let that be said! Every day is a day for more justice, and we work on it.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00198_d7e6023	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Muttons. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00198_d7e6045	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr State Secretary! Yes, it is that not everyone understands what solidarity ultimately means. [[Abg. Dr. Belakovich-Jenewein: And you tell us now!]] I would like to stress once again the two key reasons why I consider the support of Cyprus by the ESM to be correct. First: We are preventing the disorderly bankruptcy of Cyprus through the aid package. If Cyprus did not receive any money through the ESM, it would not be possible to pay within a short time, and that would have fatal consequences for the entire Cypriot population. The deposit guarantee, which has already been discussed several times today, would fail in the face of a failure of about €30 billion. In this case, all Cypriot savers would lose much of their savings. And something else has to be clear: A state bankruptcy of Cyprus would not only have serious consequences for the people of Cyprus, it would also have a negative impact on the situation in Greece, Portugal, Spain and Ireland. Both the ECB and the European Commission and the International Monetary Fund have made it clear that Cyprus could have infectious effects that would affect the entire euro area. You can believe that, Mr Rossmann, or not. Skill But if this risk of infection really comes to fruition, do you also assume the responsibility? [[Abg. May. Rossmann: Are you taking responsibility for the failure of this decision?]] It has just succeeded in stabilising the financial situation of some countries with the help of the ESM and the ECB's guarantees, and in particular in ending the hysteria in financial markets. The programmes in Ireland and Portugal are running out, and Spain and Italy are now able to obtain money at reasonable interest rates on the financial market. This can already be described as a great success. The limitation of this hysteria was urgently necessary. What these countries now need and what is important is peace and stability to implement those economic and political reforms that can combat massive unemployment. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The latter, which these countries may need, is a renewed uncertainty of financial markets and an increase in interest rates on their government bonds, as this would possibly rekindle the financial crisis in the euro area. And this, ladies and gentlemen, would not be in the Austrian interest either. We want Portugal, Spain and the other countries to quickly re-establish economically stable steps. Europe must tackle unemployment, the enormous youth unemployment. Only in this way can we ensure that jobs are maintained in Austria in the long term. Thus, with the ESM's aid package, we ultimately protect Austrian workers as well. For the second crucial reason, why I think Cyprus's aid is correct: The aid package means a fundamental and long-overdue paradigm change. The Cyprus package reduces the contribution of taxpayers and requires those who have benefited from the risky business model of Cypriot banks over many years. If you place huge amounts of money in banks that promise high interest rates through risky money transactions, you will also have to assume liability if these banks take care of it. Ladies and gentlemen! This is an important and correct step towards a fair distribution of the cost of the financial crisis. The package also provides for an increase in corporate and capital income tax. In my opinion, one could have continued to think that the corporate tax should have been higher than the very low level of Ireland to which it has now been raised. And the introduction of the financial transaction tax would certainly have been correct and necessary. Perhaps we can still convince Cyprus in this respect. After all: Finally, for the first time at European level, the level of national tax rates is also negotiated. National dumping tax rates may not be taboo in the future. This must come to the table when it comes to building a stable and fair economic and monetary union when negotiating it. As regards money laundering, the package provides for a reasonable regulation and the implementation of these regulations and laws is to be reviewed by the Council of Europe. That too is an important point. All these measures seek a way to help Cyprus out of the crisis and to avoid infections in Europe. I therefore believe that we should agree to this package. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00198_d7e6100	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Widmann. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00198_d7e6122	Mr President. High house! I think that we should not agree to this package and try to explain it. I am already amazed which arguments have been put forward by the SPÖ and the ÖVP Group. They have, essentially, only repeated what we have already heard about Greece's aid from their side, but this, in my opinion, is without any technical basis. Mrs Fekter! You have found one right thing today by saying quite clearly here in the sense of self-addiction: Austria is a high tax country! - You're right! [[Federal Minister Dr. Fekter: No tax haven!]] Minister! In our opinion, the Austrians have already paid enough, and we now have to think about reducing tax revenue instead of paying the money. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] That's exactly what you're doing! They give money: First of all, you did it with Greece, and now Cyprus is on it. They also give money to tax sinners in Liechtenstein and Switzerland; we have already discussed this here. And with that, I'm still at the ÖVP: Mr Bartenstein turned out here and said that the ÖVP was the great Cyprus restoration party, and that would be the case in Germany too. – That’s the way it is! The sizes of the CDU/CSU are against this Cyprus package. I am allowed to quote here from an unknown newspaper, the “German Middle East News”. – This is a newspaper that looks at taxpayers, what ÖVP has not done for a long time. Mr Kopf! I quote the title: ‘Gauweiler: Cyprus-Bailout is a smooth legal break.” – That’s how it looks, ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP! I'm allowed to quote: “ Angela Merkel can continue to rule in the euro rescue only with the help of the opposition.” – I emphasize: Only with the help of the opposition! – “Only 303 members of the government coalition voted in favour of the Cyprus rescue of EUR 10 billion.” That's how it looks! Outside in Germany, the Greens help her. In Austria, the Greens are already a little awake and have said that you can't do everything with the taxpayers' money without being informed. That's my main criticism! What are we voting on today, ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP and of the SPÖ? - I don't know! Do you know why I don't know? And you probably don't know! Because the Committee in which this ESM aid was discussed is secret. There has been a body that cannot speak. But we should give you blank checks so that you can assume liability for Austria outside, Mrs. Minister? Have you already made provisions for these liabilities? - I don't think so! – That’s exactly what we need to discuss! Constitutional lawyers like Mr Murswick in Germany explain to us that Cyprus is illegal because Cyprus is not system-relevant. Only on the suspicion that a small country, a small bank could get into the crisis, has the taxpayer to jump in. That's not how it works! And the taxpayer has to vote blindly, because we in Parliament no longer have the opportunity to examine this and, if necessary, suspend it, because you require a blank support from us. They also claim that the money is coming in Cyprus. This is what we have seen in Greece, how the money has arrived, where people now have to go to the hospital with the plaster, so that they can be taken in there. We have seen this in Spain, where the banks have put residents on the street. So where did the money arrive? – It arrived with the banks, Mrs. Minister! – You have to say that clearly and clearly! In reality, the Cyprus recovery package is on two pillars: The Community should be reformed and banks should be helped. The community becomes common in the truest sense of the word, for it takes man something. Wages and salaries are reduced, pensions are reduced. There will be tax increases. It is sold by Cyprus the gold. It's going to be privatized on devils coming out. So you take something from people. Common – a common being, Mrs. Finanzminister! And the banks are given this money, the banks are given it, and I no longer understand it at all, especially as one knows how aggressive banks are operating foreign interest policy, so that, for example, in Cyprus, banks are loosely receiving 4, 5, 6 percent interest, with which no ordinary bank could operate in Austria. My colleague, Mr Auer, will be right and Mr Ikrath from the Sparkasse. It can't do a proper business bank because it doesn't do business. If the business goes swimming, then the state should be liable for it and ultimately the European Union in the form of the ESM and thus also the Austrians. Then we'll stand there as now! These things will have to be questioned, and they will have to be questioned. And I'll tell you another: Stop trying to save with the ESM Europe or the euro! Stop arguing, it was about the euro! – It just doesn't work! It can't work at all! Mr Matznetter! For the mathematician! The ESM can be a student of 0.5 trillion €. I emphasize: 0.5 trillion! However: The government debt in the eurozone is € 8.7 trillion. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Matznetter.]] Billions, colleague Matznetter! And the debt of the banks in the eurozone, that is, only in the 17 states, amounts to €32.7 trillion. You can divide that! So we have the 60-fold bank debt in the euro area when the ESM could be schooling. This is, therefore, a completely insanity, purely financial. That is, you must rethink Europe, the Eurozone. It must not be for the latter to draw the savings from the banks. They account for around €11 trillion in the eurozone. We don't want to attack them. That is why it is also important to ensure banking secrecy, because Cyprus is really nothing but a test balloon. It's been tried out how it works: First of all, you take advantage of the spasm of Grandma and Grandpa, the middle-sized and middle-sized entrepreneurs, and if that goes well in Cyprus, you do it in other countries too! - Please don't! It didn't go well. Thank God! There have now been restrictions, but they should also be questioned. The aim is to reform the banking sector, to enforce insolvency rights for banks at European level. It is about creating a separation banking system. We have been talking about this for three or four years, Mrs Finanzminister, but you have not done anything about it. We are also talking about the fact that, in the sense of the no-bailout clause, no ESM money can be used to save the euro in the future when it comes to bank rescue. In fact, the ESM is a bank rescue package that does not help countries. These are the things you need to do. And we don't want to have a banking union, Mrs. Finanzminister. It must not be possible for bank deposit holders in Austria to be liable for the debt of banks in Cyprus, Ireland, Portugal and Spain. The Austrians' money must be secure! Therefore, on the part of the BZÖ, we are totally in favour of protecting banking secrecy. This does not mean, by the way, that tax refugees must not be combated, but you do fail to do so. I have already mentioned the example of the agreements with Liechtenstein and Switzerland with which you have actually favoured taxpayers towards those who pay proper taxes here. I have also shown how secret this committee has been to this ESM committee today, where we have been in the silent chamber behind our backs. I cannot tell the participants from Parliament what has been played out there because they are not allowed to say it at all. And then you say we'd vote democratically. Mr Krainer stands out here, including Mr Bartenstein, and both claim that this is true of democracy – and that in view of the fact that we do not know what we are voting on today! – Do you really want that, colleague Bartenstein?- Oh, my God! I don't want that! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Bartenstein.]] In fact, Parliament should first of all have been concerned about what the Cyprus package is all about. There we would have shown you, as I have tried, on the basis of a few points of fact that the nonsense is. - Point one. And point two: Then we would have sent Mrs Minister to the negotiations, and, Mr State Secretary, you would have liked to go along. Then you should have put the outcome of the negotiations on the table, and then we could have voted for the final vote. [[Federal Minister Dr. Fekter: That is why there is also the special meeting!]] – Ms Minister! The special session is your show in which you try with old arguments, with old hats, to explain something that will not take place. – Parliament’s involvement has not taken place! We are voting today on something that no one here knows about. That is, Mrs Minister - I tell you quite honestly - you're selling people for stupid, you want to keep the money of the Austrians out of the window. You know very well that in Austria we have many areas in which we urgently need money. They're squatting around at the housing offensive, they're not gonna do anything, they're suffocating in the government in education and in the sciences, they're squatting around in tax reform. [[Federal Minister Dr. Fekter: We stand there better than everyone else!]] They don't give people pure wine, make promises before the elections, but don't do anything. – We don't need that in Austria, Mrs. Minister!
ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00198_d7e6245	Next speaker: Mr Jakob Auer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00198_d7e6269	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Before the fairy tale that Mr Widmann has told us, I would like to add a few words. In his statement, he said that Chancellor Merkel could only rule with the help of the opposition. – I already know that Gauweiler represents a different thesis many times, but I tell you the voting result of the German Bundestag: Mr Widmann, on the other hand, only the left in the German Bundestag voted against. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Eight votes!]] Of a few other groups – including the CDU/CSU – there were few who voted against. I'll tell you exactly: Eight of the CDU, ten of the SPD, eight of the FDP, and in the Greens there was a renunciation. Ladies and gentlemen, you could almost say: The left was closed against it, a few missed! [[Abg. May. Widmann: FDP and CSU are already left now?]] Ladies and gentlemen, this has nothing to do with left or right. [[Abg. May. Widmann: Yes!]] But I often wonder what the difference between the Austrian opposition and the German one is. [[Between call of the Abg. Ing. Westenthaler.]] Do you have an unevenly better economic competence, an unevenly better financial competence? There's a little graying coming to me, I think if I have to compare it. You will not all seriously believe that in Germany loud dummians sit in the Bundestag, in the various parties that there are no economic experts sitting there, that there are no financial experts there. [[Abg. May. Widmann: If it's about your sister party, then do it!]] So I think that's less. Ladies and gentlemen, this is why we should ask ourselves a few questions. Mr Lugar said today that Cyprus was a small country, meaningless, not system-relevant, and that this bank in Cyprus was not of particular importance. This may already be in the international context, but before the day we say: That's a little country that doesn't matter! I'm afraid. Because one day it might also be called: How big is Austria? Or another country in Europe. Or: How big is Carinthia? Since the banks will always be drugged, I would like to ask: If we had the Austrian banks that did not help Hypo Alpe-Adria, how would Carinthia be there? [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Widmann.]] If we hadn't helped the ÖVAG, we wouldn't have helped the municipal credit, how would we stand? – I do not want to know what a negative economic impact this would have had on Austria! Ladies and gentlemen, why did this economic crisis arise? – Because the American state watched Lehman Brothers and sent them into bankruptcy. If you had been helped there in time, you could have saved yourself a lot in the world. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Since the rhetorical question was asked several times, which would have brought all the EU's accession to Austria, I say quite frankly: He has, after all, brought us a corresponding job, we have the lowest unemployment in Europe, we are among the best countries in Europe. Ladies and gentlemen, this is a merit for the economy, undisputed, but it is also due to the competence of workers. This is what we owe to the economic environment in Austria. However, we also owe this to the timely measures of the Federal Government in the difficult years of the crisis and ultimately to accession to the European Union. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Strache said that Sweden and Denmark would be the model example, so you could stop a little bit. But there is never to say that in Sweden and Denmark you retire with 65 men and women, not just men. Ladies and gentlemen, the Austrian budget would look different. That's where we have surpluses! But I do not want women to be told tomorrow that they have a retirement age of 65, ladies and gentlemen. [[Abg. Binder-Maier: Bravo!]] Ladies and gentlemen, if you listen to the closed opposition opinion here, you have the impression that the professional pessimists have a high economy: It's all bad, everything's wrong, everything's negative, everything's wrong. Ladies and gentlemen, then there are some editors who believe that you still have to multiply it, and write to the point no longer that the euro is a disaster. The fact is, however, that the euro is a stable currency. Finally, the European Central Bank has also acted reasonably. [[The speaker shows a graphic entitled ‘Notes balance sheet’, which shows the development of the balance sheet items, including the Fed, the ECB, the Swiss central bank.]] On this scale, you can see how the central banks have dealt with the loosening of monetary policy, ladies and gentlemen. [[Abg. May. Widmann: Who can see that?]] [[Abg. Petzner: Bad prepared! You can't see that!]] Here you can see that the American Fed, even the Swiss National Bank, did not do more than the ECB in terms of easing monetary policy. You're not going to get around it, that's it. Ladies and gentlemen, the ECB has acted very well here. We should also know that it is important to ensure stability, that it is important to secure the euro, and that the measure for Cyprus is also a measure of solidarity and is in the interests of the common currency, the common Europe and, ultimately, of the common economic area. That's what we're confessing! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] You can still make such critical remarks and here you mean what would be wrong here. The fact is that the budget deficit in Austria is below the Maastricht criteria, ladies and gentlemen. And this is a performance of the Federal Government, in particular the Federal Minister for Employment, and these are also the effects of employment policy in Austria! I was recently in a rather large Austrian work – I do not call it the name. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Porsche!]] I'm not calling the operation. [[Abg. Petzner: Winter tyres!]] No, not raiffeisen. You can also know, ladies and gentlemen, it was the tractor plant Steyr and Case IH in St. Valentin. There the manager told me that he was pleased with the Austrian competence of employees, that he was pleased with the reasonable Austrian wage policy, that he was pleased with Austrian trade union policy, because if he had his work in Italy, he would have to charge twelve strike days per employee, and that would not be in Austria. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] In the end, this reasonable cooperation in the social partners has helped us to make Austria much better. On this point, Mr Lugar from the Stronach team was right when he said Austria would be better there. It is therefore an obligation to stand by and help Cyprus in such difficult days in order to stabilise the single currency.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00198_d7e6462	Next speaker: Mr Hagen. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00198_d7e6483	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen in Parliament! Ladies and gentlemen, tax payers in front of the TV screens! Do you know what happened to me during the discussion today? We have always talked about the big business in Greece's aid, which we have discussed here in Parliament too: The money would come back, and so on and so on. That would be a good business, it's always called. [[Abg. Krainer: Who was that? Who was that?]] Now at Cyprus, I've missed this today. There's no one talking about money coming back sometime, ladies and gentlemen. This is Austrian tax money, deserved by Austrian taxpayers, which is quite clearly to be said. Minister for Finance, giving You will once introduce Austrian pure wine to the Austrians, not this armored Cypriot, this armored Greek, even if you can still sing of it, or this acidic wine of the EU. Ladies and gentlemen, this Cyprus aid is not an aid package for the people there who are hard hit, but for the Cypriot banks, which is simply a fact. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] I might want to say it another way: It is an expropriation of citizens in Europe, in favour of banks. If you follow the euro closely and look closely at it, this is nothing but a redistribution action throughout the European Union, from the richer, more economical countries to those who have sprung the money. That's why we're here today. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I remember, we have already decided on a bank package here. That's been the Austrian bank package a few years ago. It has also told our Members everything about how important it is for taxpayers to get back their money they have on the banks. The deposit guarantee has been forgotten there. Of course, you have to say quite clearly, that has already surprised me a little when we look at the bank managers. Some time ago – it's not long ago – a manager of this Giebelkreuzgesellschaft was in the media, because he graciously did not accept or repay € 2 million in bonuses payments. That's where a little bit of a conscience bothered him. Ladies and gentlemen, I am not sorry about 14 million annual incomes. However, I would like to return to the statements made by Mrs Fekter, the Federal Minister, who said that we are paying these funds to Cyprus so that the police get their salary so that the nurses get their salary. Mrs. Minister! You were once an interior minister, you know exactly that in Austria the police are very badly paid, underpaid that in the budget there is too little money for the police. There you should go! Let's get the money in hand for our police! I think that would be more important, and that would have helped Austrian taxpayers more. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] If you want to make me aware that the 6 billion Austrian assets that are parked in Cyprus are all gone if Cyprus is not helped, then you can tell Santa Claus, but not me, Mrs. Minister, that doesn't bother you. Just put the truth on the table once, be transparent, say the truth once! I would like to bring some facts to the audiences in front of the television screens, which is really behind the ESM. [[Abg. Grosz: Oh, follow-up time with Professor Hagen!]] The basic capital of the ESM can be increased and then raised. – Mrs Minister, I do not know if you are aware of the risk that this leverage effect causes. The ESM members say unconditionally and irrevocably – and this is an important word: irrevocable – to comply with any capital call within seven days of this call. – This word “revocable” means nothing more than that, if there are new elections somewhere, the newly elected Parliament, even if it has a different will, cannot change anything more, can no longer withdraw from this Treaty. [[Abg. Grosz: No one understands that!]] That's a scandal! The Board of Governors may decide on changes in the capital. – In other words, the 700 billion are only the beginning, the ESM can demand or lift at any time. Ladies and gentlemen, you must be aware of this! The capital will be paid down to five years and then hewed. You can actually talk about a lever on another lever before the end of the five years. Then let's keep looking: The ESM now has, interestingly, full legal and business capacity for trying court proceedings. Now let's go on, there's something very interesting. Mrs Minister, there must be You listen carefully: The ESM, the executive bodies, its property, its financial resources, its assets and its actors enjoy extensive judicial immunity. – That means, in turn, that the ESM can complain, but cannot be complained, ladies and gentlemen! This also applies to the acting bodies which are not even elected. This must be said to the rulers out there, so that everyone knows what we've got into with the ESM. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] Then it goes on, and that reinforces the whole thing again: All documents of the ESM remain secret. - You can't look at the cards. Only by knowing what we're talking about here. It is also interesting that the appointment of the Austrian senior staff of the ESM with its main international financial links and solidarity measures, in which Austria participates, has not been advertised. That is to say, it was decided free of charge, and no one will be surprised if the Minister of Finance's press spokesperson is in the position of leadership there. It is strange that a press speaker is qualified for the highest financial performance in Europe. It hurts me! Now let me tell you something, Mrs. Minister: Whoever harms one in order to prove himself generously against others is guilty of the same injustice as the one who uses foreign property for himself. – That does not come from me, that is already over 2,000 years old, that Cicero has said, and it has been known to have lived from 106 to 44 BC, and this is still valid today. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Grosz.]] Mrs. Minister, you should take a look at this! We are happy to help you make a reasonable financial policy for the Austrians, for the taxpayers in this country.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00198_d7e6595	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Lap. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00198_d7e6616	Mr President. Mrs Finanzminister! Mr State Secretary! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! It is almost necessary to thank Mr Hagen that he has made such an intensive effort to give us the To read out conditions that prevail in the ESM. But, Mr Hagen, I think it is important – before you talk about solidarity, responsibility and expropriation of citizens – that you tell your party uncle from Canada that he should pay his taxes in Austria, because Austrian citizens also need taxes. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] The issues of solidarity and responsibility have today been discussed by many political groups and have been discussed from the different viewpoints. The European Union is a very important century, millennium project. As a result of the 2008 crisis, it was necessary to develop measures and instruments to re-create and regulate over-financing financial markets, in particular. Even today's Cyprus package – where it is very important that we have a parliamentary discussion that the closed, padded doors in European bodies have been decided, but that we can discuss this package in national parliaments – is a very important contribution to Europe's development towards a common economic and financial policy and not just towards the provision of services and the free movement of capital. This stability aid for Cyprus is linked to concrete conditions. There is for the first time a fair distribution of the loads. The control of this fair distribution of burdens and control in the financial sector are also given for the first time. The solidarity of the European Union with Cyprus is not only a lip commitment, but also a numerous act. Cyprus has been cut off from the financial markets for more than two years since May 2011 and submitted an application to the European Union in 2012. Why has Cyprus been cut off from the financial markets since 2011? – An overarching financial sector has worked in the direction that money could be washed from all tax evasions, that companies were able to invest very easily and without control and information about money that up to 5 percent interest had been paid, although interest rates in all other countries were already significantly lower. There have also been tax dumping measures so that capital income tax and other taxes were at the lowest level of the European Union. This abolition of tax dumping in the European Union is an important control measure and an important accompanying measure which is being introduced here. From our side, from the Social Democratic side, there could be much higher increases, but since we have a very wide range in Europe, this is the first important step in preventing tax dumping, in particular in order to ensure that the tax rates in the European framework are at a level so that the measures necessary in political life for the citizens of Europe can be financed. [[Complementary of the Abg. May. Muttons.]] Another condition is the participation of the financial sector. It's not like the previous speakers described the money being pushed into the banks, so to speak, and people are looking through their fingers. On the contrary: The financial sector must take important measures. These are the banks, these are the owners, and these are the creditors. Additional measures for creating a Trust Register are on the agenda. The reorganisation of finances cannot go at the expense of small savers, but the large investors must make their contribution because they had pre- great advantages when they received 5 percent interest. These large investors will then have to make a contribution to the good effect of the Cyprus package from € 100 000 deposits according to their share. 13 billion come from its own area, 9 billion from the ESM and 1 billion from the International Monetary Fund. The European Union needs fairness, justice and solidarity. Ladies and gentlemen, if I have previously told you that there are 23 billion in total, I would also like to remind you that the European Union will invest 6 billion in the framework of fairness, solidarity and compensation for young people next year and that investment in economic aid and in economic sectors will amount to 60 billion € in the year. They see solidarity and responsibility not only can they be on one side, but must be borne by both sides. Today's Cyprus package, we've done one side.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00198_d7e6708	Mr Hübner. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00198_d7e6729	Yes, Mrs Lapp, we can, of course, talk about solidarity for a long time. But there is something that the SPÖ should somehow think about. When you always talk about the 2008 economic crisis and about the Lehman problem in September 2008, which has caused everything: Since then, there have been a number of countries worldwide that have become incompetent. These are Greece, Portugal, Spain, Ireland and now Cyprus. What do these states have in common? Eleven question! Mr Bartenstein will certainly know. [[Abg. Dr. Matznetter: Island!]] They have the euro, they're in the euro zone. This is an interesting thing: Why are only countries which are in the euro area unable to pay worldwide? [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Why, of course, does Iceland not become insolvent? [[Abg. Dr. Matznetter: Iceland was the first non-payment!]] [[Abg. Dr. Bartenstein: Argentina, Iceland too!]] – Argentina was unable to pay in the 1990s. The nineties were a little in front of Lehman. [[Abg. Head: Not just!]] Iceland, colleague, is an interesting subject. Why has Iceland not become indebted? Why did Iceland solve its own problems? Did Iceland make an ESM application? I can't remember. [[Federal Minister Dr. Fekter: Because the British bought it!]] Do you know that, has Iceland ESM? [[in the direction of Secretary of State Mag. Arbitrary]] Maybe you can help the other coalition half. I don't know anything about it. [[Abg. Dr. Matznetter: No, UK!]] Interestingly, they have nothing like that. When Argentina comes: Congo was also unable to pay, and South Sudan is unable to pay. That's right, but I'm not talking about that. We are already staying with countries that have a level comparable to us. [[Federal Minister Dr. Fekter: The Sudan has taken away billions, which cost us billions!]] – Yes, yes, Mrs Finanzminister, but we do not want to talk about Sudan now. If I leave the countries outside, not too much remains. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Matznetter.]] – You'll be right there, Mr Matznetter, and you'll explain to me exactly how it was. You may then still say that Rwanda was unable to pay, okay. Now it might even be that Mr Krainer, which is not often the case for me, was right here. He has told us that it is interesting that these countries have fulfilled the Maastricht criteria. Yes, that's right, overfilled, these were pattern boys: Spain, Ireland above all, Portugal, Greece less, but Spain, Ireland, Cyprus were model boys. Nevertheless, they have fallen into inability to pay. Could this perhaps have to do with the fact that the Eurosystem has not been the ideal way out of this crisis? Because the Maastricht criteria alone were not either. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Therefore, it could not even be time to think in principle and not to say again and again: Yes, solidarity and millennia and peace work; our savings and pensions are only secured by the euro; and the European idea; and we are not talking about Austria, Austria is only on the verge, we are talking about Europe, it is about Europe!Unknown term type: "%s".? Could it not even be time to say: Okay, now we're talking plain text: Where are we? We are now facing a new edition, namely the fifth reprint of this debate. This is about dividing another 67 percent of GDP debt, namely 10 billion, to a country that currently has a 92 percent GDP debt. This means bringing this country from 92 to 160 billion GDP debt. But there are 13 billion own benefits, which always come, not at all, that is self-performance. They have – that doesn't replace anything at all. [[Abg. Krainer: That partly replaces old debts!]] If you now spend 10 billion on rehabilitating the banking equipment, and these are foreign funds: nine of us, one of the IMF, then debt in Cyprus increases to about 160 percent. The estimates are between 154 and 161. Here we stand. However, they must provide 13 billion, 70 percent of GDP, their own benefits. That's supposed to be a sustainable story? That's solidaric? This is the classic way to the Greek scenario! At 160 percent, that's exactly where we are in Greece. And where are we in Greece three years after the start of European-led restructuring? How high was the end of the 2012 gross social product? – Mrs. Minister will know because it is a major believer in Austria, directly and indirectly. – The GDP deficit in Greece was 10% in 2012. After three years restructuring 10 percent, about 24 billion € finish! – They said, but it's 10 percent. [[Federal Minister Dr. Fekter: 6 percent! They've turned down to 6 percent!]] You can read the results today, they are about 10 percent. Spain is also 7 percent, after three years of savings programmes. Could there not be other problems than that we might be too little in solidarity? Could there not be a fundamental monetary zone problem? - I already have the feeling. Of course, you can come like the Greens, also the colleague Krainer a little, and talk about saving the hood, they have the problems because they're saving themselves. Now the 7 or 10 percent finish, after three years of restructuring. I don't know where they're gonna break up. Do you want to finish 20 percent? Yeah, then they don't have a savings program, at 20 percent. If you tell us how this is to be balanced, all right. I always hear the Eurobonds, then we pay about the Eurobonds. However, I would also like to make a clear statement, Mr Krainer – if you think that we are saving these countries, or that they are saving themselves – how this is being financed against. If you say 8 or 9 or 10 percent deficit is not enough: Yeah, it's okay! Then we say that if we give Greece once 100 billion – but this is a lost grant – then the country can get on its feet. Is that what you want? If so, please: How is it raised, how is it politically enforced? I don't hear that. Instead, the same phrases and the same phrases come over and over again. But now we are talking a little bit about Austria, but also about Europe. Let's start with Europe. Did it benefit the countries that we have supported here? No, we are holding them in a currency zone from which they obviously cannot create the leap into economic stability on their own. We are forcing them to make an internal shackle of their prosperity and social achievements with excessive exchange rates, which is unprecedented, which is truly unprecedented, in Greece, but above all in Portugal. We are forcing them to do so for purely ideological reasons, because we are running a creed which is apparently dictated by forces behind the scenes, which are certainly not sitting here in this Parliament, but also not in the European Parliament. And that means: The euro area must be preserved at all costs, the European Union must not go back, it must be deepened, the national states must be eliminated because they are a source of uncertainty and the danger to Europe! If we run this creed rather than with logic, with reason and with a view to the facts, then we will not render good service to the citizens. And we in Austria need to make it clear whether we are going to follow, join, continue on the wood road or demand a complete rethinking. This, of course, is also a question of the eurozone, not at all. This is not what we are doing from the FPÖ, because we are eternally or pre-privileged, since hundreds of economists are doing so. If you look at the list of “Alternatives for Germany”: These are not some of the so-called teachers from special schools, which is partly the cream de la cream of economists in that country. These are the questions we do not ask ourselves. And since we do not, we have nothing left but to give the citizens themselves the opportunity to answer them. For we, or the majority in this House, fail, it sets the government, which continues, closes our eyes above all and lets us drive in this blind move without counter-control. That is why there can be only one solution: finally giving back power to the people, direct democracy and coordination on the essential issues of life. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00198_d7e6895	The next speaker is Mr Matznetter. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00198_d7e6916	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! High house! Although the pult is high, the level of argumentation is not always at this level. [[regulate the height of the speaker's desk]] [[Abg. New builder: We've been waiting for you!]] [[Further calls at the FPÖ.]] I win more and more of the thesis that this mixture of half-truths and other things plus populist connections is nothing but diabolic planning to get voters. Then there are also contributions, which I think are no higher planning behind them, you just don't know better. And in the meantime, in the analysis, I vary whether it would be a perfide strategy to make a little simpler to point at the main table or to stay behind the level of the main table. Something of both can be it. It is an interesting kind of argumentation to try to list those states that are in the euro area, and then to say that they have the problem because they are members of the euro area of the European Union, and simply leave all other countries away. You could have taken the initial letters. At the same time, you are addressing things that are, of course, problems of this pan-European Union, but really the whole world economy. What has become visible through this crisis is this type of growth based solely on the financial economy, the opposite of what Mr Bartenstein has known to be a representative of the real economy, and this has a fundamental structural problem: Because it doesn't work. After all, money does not work, money does not increase, but money has a maximum of someone else. And, of course, this bitter knowledge can be seen twice in the case of Cyprus. We have now told ourselves for three decades, we are moving towards the service society. Who meant that the service company consists exclusively of financial products? And at the point, we have gone a long way of the way, which then leads down very steep and apparently leads up very steep with some. And we need to find out. That is why we need, as in the case of Cyprus, especially when it goes down steeply, to prevent an individual from falling down, and not to believe as some have argued that Cyprus is so small, they should do what they want. – Several colleagues have already mentioned the example of Lehman. At the time, I personally experienced the prepotence of Bush administration, which, even after seeing what happened, did not want to be true and to see – its simple argument was, we have to set an example; that this was by chance a certain bank and in the interest of the competitors, is another story – that in a delicate context that we have in a merged world economy, one cannot rule out that a very small stone can have very large consequences. We all felt that. I am glad that such people are not active in health policy. They would also say: There are 60 cases of some bird flu in China. So what? That's about 1.3 trillion. What's that? This can then be calculated because the colleague Kickl The risk of infection is that a follow-up effect may lead to others. [[Calls: Billions]] And precisely these effects have already been experienced in the last four years of crisis. I come back to the root question of Cyprus. With this I am with what the Federal Minister has reported. Cyprus has been the classic tax dumping country for the last two decades. I do not reveal any secret that if one of my clients has come and it was a windy foreign construction, it was certainly a Cypriot Ltd., until a few years ago at 4.75 percent interest, now with 10 percent. It was optimally linked. That was the model that many of my international colleagues have sold with the Austrian possibilities, namely: international box privilege, transformation under the Mother subsidiary directive and tax-free distribution of dividends, a kind of sandwich model, similar to what we know from the big corporations, with Luxembourg, Holland and Bermuda. And there, Mrs. Minister, it is not quite true that we are a high tax country. We have a number of possibilities that make us an ideal country for an intermediary. Whether we want that, we need to discuss it. Cyprus has not done well. Their business model has been built on Russian oligarchs, a few British tax refugees and windshield letterbox companies. Otherwise – I don't know who has already been in Cyprus – not much has happened there economically. This is not a sustainable economy. And the structural outcome is that they have to reinvent themselves. Whether the package is sufficient here alone, the doubts of the opposition are quite appropriate. You'll need more than that, but not less. And say no, that's the wrong answer. I come back to the question: What do they have to do? – You have to confess that they are out of the tax oasis. And that's not where the 12 percent is. But that's not going to happen either. On the ground there are no notes of money when you bring in Russian black money. [[Abg. Kickl: That's not just Russian!]] Therefore, a change there will have to be considered as a matter of principle. I am therefore on a serious issue that we have as a whole on the issue of tax dumping and competition. I think it is a case of sin that we have not forced Ireland to stop being the Gully, in which all American major corporations do not pay taxes on the revenues they make in Europe. And we left the Irish because otherwise they only have cows or for whatever reason, I don't know. Bartenstein said: We in the real economy need uniform conditions for the market economy. Why don't they rule? Why does Apple pay only 1.9 percent of its worldwide profits? Why does Amazon not pay taxes with Sandwich-5 solution, while the accountant is afraid and has to lock down an operating check? – That’s unfair competition! We can only change this – and I try to promote it with the coalition partner – by putting ourselves on the side of those who say that minimum standards must be created. And that means a common corporate tax base and ultimately a minimum tax rate and enforcement abroad. [[Conjugation with the SPÖ and the Abg. Dr. stupid.]] When it's over the oasis, lock up! Capital transfers and imports/exports. And here, ladies and gentlemen, we could be very helpful in Cyprus. We could invite her to join us. Expand your tourism, technologically expand something, make solar energy! There are a number of possibilities. The Troika story. In today's "profile", the opinions of the leaders of the political groups can be found. They really have to leave because some of the colleagues are right, because Greece is responsible for how many years? - Soon four years, at least three years. Result: catastrophic. And that's where the IMF will be right: Austerity policy won't do it. And those who didn't understand this with the caputt saving: Dr. Hübner, if someone threatens to bake in the water, it seems strange that just because he moves the arms and the legs, he stays up, but that's what they call swimming. And this is the same with the economy in the cycle: The more movement, the more growth, and you come up. The more you limit it, the more you suck. The same applies to the economy. It's a cycle. Every euro spent, Schilling or – how does the Stronach say? – Austria-Euro, because it has to be different, does not go from one hand to the next, and that is called economic growth. And in this sense you have to give gas and not slow down when you're too slow. Also a secret that also works when driving and cycling. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00198_d7e6996	Mrs Lichtenecker came to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00198_d7e7020	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! Mr State Secretary! In one point I also have to give you the following: Yes, Cyprus must be helped. It is important to support Cyprus. The question is: Is that the right way now? We believe that the present package and the present template are subject to many shortcomings and at the same time do not include the right measures. I would like to start by saying that, of course, this would have been the opportunity to take the Cypriots into their duty and contribute to the introduction of the financial transaction tax there too. We all know that Cyprus is a tax haven, Cyprus has a superfluous financial system, and that would have been the right means of remedy. And, Mrs. Minister, you spoke today about the economic adjustment programme – sounds fine. The only thing that happened is that you talked about a trust registry being introduced. But what is generally lacking is a strategy, as the Cypriot economy is also being developed. This is about alternatives. These are alternatives to strengthening the economy in Cyprus, but also to strengthening the economy in Europe. This is exactly what it takes, Mrs Minister, when you look at the unemployment rate, where the average European average is over 10 per cent. In Cyprus, it is 15 percent, youth unemployment is now 30 percent, and it looks similar and partly more dramatic in the crisis countries Spain, Greece, Portugal. These are all proofs that consolidation courses have failed in this form. Mr Matznetter speaks of upward trends, upward spirals. But these are the spirals that go down. And even a number of very conservative experts prove that this has failed in this form and that it finally needs a counter-pollution to these dramatic developments, that it needs measures that weaken this in this form and, on the contrary, strengthen the economy, create jobs. It is precisely this unemployment that continues to grow, and we will experience it dramatically in Cyprus. The forecasts are in the double-digit range, but not in the plus, but in the negative range, and this is a deep recession. And what do the package of measures include? – These package of measures include something that we have now also available, namely falling wages, falling real pensions, an increase in fees and much more. This is exactly the wrong direction, not the one that needs it, not only in Cyprus, but in general in Europe. Mrs. Minister! Mr State Secretary! Yes, we need a strategy to develop, to strengthen competitiveness. But where is she? There are several important objectives in Europe that are in the social field: social inclusion, poverty reduction. There are important environmental objectives: climate protection, environmental protection. These are the areas where the focus of investment needs to be laid. Of course, there is a need for sustainable investment, but we do not see it either. Or how will SMEs and the real economy be strengthened in this way? It is also, of course, about strengthening innovation in the future. Cyprus has an advance rate of 0.4 percent. In this respect, we are unfortunately in Austria, to my great regret, with God not a leader, Austria has 2.81 percent. This is all far away from the conditions under which a great step can actually succeed. When it comes to Europe, we are not about to talk about the EU financial framework 2014 – 2020. There is also a budget that is not committed to invigorating the economy, strengthening innovation, reducing unemployment and giving the right impetus for the whole of Europe and for the individual countries. It has long been time to develop the alternatives now, to ensure development now and to strengthen the future of citizens in Europe – and this is exactly what it is all about. This package of measures does not serve this purpose.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00198_d7e7078	Mr Ing. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party to the European People's - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00198_d7e7099	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! Mr State Secretary! Mr Matznetter took the comparison with swimming, he spoke of countries swimming. [[Abg. Grosz: It's gone anyway!]] This is, of course, true at the point – unfortunately, he is no longer here now – because it really swims there, it is nothing more stable. He's seen this more than stability. I now believe that we still have to start from the system question, and that this fits very well with swimming, because the actual mistake – and it is all due to that – is that a few years ago some state-runners, who want to write in the history books, made a system mistake by setting a monetary union at the beginning of a development, without the individual economies being brought together almost together. This is the historic mistake committed around the euro. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] That's why swimming – rather solid ground under the feet, and that would have been like this: First of all, the adjustments, harmonisations, first of all, we see that the countries in the south, as far as the economies are concerned, are leading halfway to the status of the Central or Northern European countries, and, as a summit, as a coronation, as the last development, there should have been this single currency. That would have been a right way for monetary union. And now we are in the dilemma that all those who warned about it back then got right because we see more and more that the individual economies, especially those of the southern countries, cannot lift up and were not ready for it. What we are experiencing today, Mrs Minister, is nothing but the permanent crisis of confidence of this European Union, this monetary union. From the beginning, since the Maastricht Treaty, we have been told that no country will be liable for the debts of other countries – now it happens: Break of trust and break of contract! And, of course, it is also a new breach of the Treaty as far as the ESM is concerned, when it says that aid should only be made available if it is system-relevant and if it actually poses a threatening situation for the entire euro area. But that was certainly not Cyprus. Cyprus is not a threat to the whole euro area, because if it were, then it would have been badly ordered by this euro anyway, Mrs Minister, then it is very badly ordered! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Next break of trust, another break: The European Union is in permanence with its own treaties on the foot of war, we must see that. And then, in a night and fog action – the next break of trust – they approach the savings accounts of people in a kind of political robbery and begin to cut all savings, take away money from people and use it for rehabilitation. You still braked and said no, from € 100,000, and then you kept saying it was a special case. That's what we hear every time. Greece one: Special case. Greece two: Special case. In Greece three you said, well, it's already a bad situation, but that's mainly about Greece, including these subsidies and support. Come now They therefore say that Cyprus is a special case. But suddenly, within a month, the need for renovation goes from € 17 billion to € 23 billion. Hollodaro, this increases by €6 billion in four weeks! Who will tell us that we will not meet again in a few weeks and that we will receive the next special cases, namely Cyprus two and three, with financing packages? This is not a congruent policy! This is all politics from hand to mouth, from day to day, Mrs. Minister! This is a permanent breach of trust and contract. That's it. Then, after the special case, the state-runners from Germany first come over France and so on and say: Only more than €100 000 will be taxed in the future, but key words special case. - Nothing special! Of course, the same model may be used in other countries. And now the question comes, Mrs. Minister: Faith Do you really think that there are many people or institutions who still have accounts and savings account accounts on any bank for over €100 000, since this indirect warning that has come? This was a warning to all the wealthy, to all the rich, and to all who can afford it: Please see that you only have €100 000 on savings accounts and savings books, because everything is taxed on them. This too is not a policy that can be taken seriously, that is dilettantism in pure culture! Then you come back to Austria and tell the people: We have no money for a tax reform, we have no money for care – today in the “Kurier”, colleague Grosz will go into it – we have no money in Austria. But we have it for Cyprus, we have it for Greece, we send it, we give it; but for our own people we have nothing. And that is what we are criticizing, Mrs. Minister! That's not going to happen! [[In the case of the BZÖ, and the members of the FPÖ.]] Whatever you do, you are always trying to give the patients EU and European Medicine Medicine, but then the medicine you give is worse than the disease itself. And it's still planting. We will still stand here and perhaps discuss Portugal and Spain, what I know, what is happening to us, the Neverending Story of the Treaty and Trust Break of the European Union; instead of finally making nails with heads, I understand that this monetary union has failed, rather than burdening countries that do not “absorb” it with new debt, but rather release it from monetary union and finally make an inner European central union zone and there a proper policy. That would be the solution we repeatedly propose. That is why we also have a motion for a resolution which we are tabling here. You think about how you save the banks and protect the banks, but we make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] They are still well served with 7 percent, while all other companies have to pay 25 percent. We don't want that! These are the points for the protection of citizens, these are the points that help people, and not Your bank rescue package and not your wrong euro policy that you continue to pursue, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] At the end, because it was annoyed by me: Mrs. Tamandl, one of the 'Europhorics' in this House, who, as it were, sees the euro as a prayer statue in front of him, who is worshipping the euro, said the following sentence – only that all of them know that the ears are tipping, I quote it literally –: [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Belakovich-Jenewein]] The euro secures pensions. - Quote. So I've never heard such a displeasure at all, ladies and gentlemen. Do you know who secures pensions in Austria? – The Austrian workers who have been paying into the system for decades and then also have a right to receive a decent pension – and not your failed euro!
ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00198_d7e7199	The motion for a resolution tabled is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00198_d7e7290	Mr Podgorschek. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00198_d7e7312	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! If I let this go through my head today, I feel like in the movie “And daily the Murmeltier greets. ” In the morning I wake up – and again and again the same events. The only difference is that each time a different country is on it. [[Interference of Federal Minister Dr. Fekter.]] We have Greece, we have Portugal, we have Ireland, and now we have Cyprus. But at the end of the day, the same arguments always come to pass. Here are the arguments from one side: 500 000 jobs are lost if we do not agree now. From the other side comes: There are no alternatives, we are alternatives, we have to agree, otherwise the whole world system will collapse. [[Abg. Krainer: somewhere in between!]] But there are alternatives. There have always been alternatives. We have experienced one of them not too long ago, namely the example of Iceland. The Icelandic Minister of Economic Affairs has clearly told the Cypriots about the media: Step out of the euro! – [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Federal Minister Dr. Fekter: Iceland was!]] But it's not been a long time, Mrs. Federal Minister! The restrictions that are now being imposed on the Cypriots are, in fact, harmful to the domestic economy – and the Icelandic Minister of Economic Affairs says so clearly. They won't get on their feet anymore. The whole thing is planless and only improvising. One thing is quite obvious and concerns not only Cyprus, but also all the other countries that are now in crisis: They cannot devalue with the euro. They cannot boost their tourism, because it affects all southern countries, and they cannot make exports, in particular. The states are now all at the end of the European Union's drop and have become bitters, basically social beneficiaries. If that's what you want, please. It was very easy in Iceland. Iceland admittedly pleaded more or less in 2008, but in 2011, Iceland has already generated a budget surplus and achieved economic growth. And here, even with the credit rating agencies, Iceland is in demand again. That means there's another way too. Only: In your Euro ideology you wall against any economic reason. They do not regard the euro as an economic instrument, but now only as a religious dogma. Apparently, the ÖVP has nothing else. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] If you consistently think it through, a single currency only has a meaning if I also create a single state. And this single state then means, at the end of Brussels, centralism. If that's what you want, tell the people, you'll say it honestly! Then we lose our autonomy and then it is over with Austria; because it only has a sense to introduce a single currency, if I also have the possibilities of the design and steering instruments. For this reason, in order to ask the people, I would like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] One thing I would like to say to you: Learn history! No monetary union has existed longer in history, everyone has collapsed.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00198_d7e7423	The application submitted is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00198_d7e7484	Mr Huber came to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00198_d7e7505	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! Confucius said: Man has three ways to act wisely: by thinking, that is the most noble, by imitating, that is the simplest, by experience, that is the most bitter. Mrs. Finanzminister, do you have any experience with the Greek packages?- Oh, my God! Is it really true that these freely elected mandates here in the National Council are only more voting in favour of a European policy without knowing which thing they agree to? Ladies and gentlemen of all political groups, consider this well. No one of you knows what thing he agrees with. This ECOFIN Council is a secret mission, and I don't think that's responsible. Ladies and gentlemen, we should really consider that! Have you really been eroded by the force of clubs? Are you really just more there to hold as a voice?- Oh, my God! [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] A lot has already been said today. If my colleague stupidly says that the Cypriots have caused all of this themselves, I would like to say: Mr President, I think we must say goodbye to this policy, because the Cypriot banks have caused it all, but certainly not the population. We must finally say goodbye to the policy that we are being directed by the banks, by the corporations, that we are only voting more than the banks and the corporations want. I think we need to think about it. Man must finally come to the centre of our political actions. But very briefly: What is the role of Austria? – Instead of making a policy for the citizens, for the companies, for the whole of SMEs, we go here and make policy for the banks only. The people can no longer afford daily life, our people can no longer afford to live, but you are going here today and again Lapidar agrees to these €10 billion for the banks. But for your own people you have no money at all, for your own people you do not take any consideration. Mrs Finanzminister, were Greece one and Greece two for you not any experience? I can remember when Mr Pröll sitting up here, laughing and talking about the big business, as colleague Bucher and the entire BZÖ were smiled by you and pushed into the background. But everything we said back then unfortunately occurred. It cannot be that we do not differ from this policy. We must finally make politics for the people! Let's reduce the cost of living and fuel! Let's see that we make daily life affordable to people, and let's stop putting the billions in the back and front of the banks! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] When Mr Cap speaks of the big competition, I ask myself: What kind of competition is this when we put the money in the back of the marod banks and watch how the citizen stays on the track? That, I think, is the wrong way. What is the whole perspective of this ‘EUSR’? – We destroy our small-scale farmers, we destroy SMEs. We get people out of existence through the conditions and go here and strangle the money billions of the banks in the throat. The €10 billion for Cyprus is a single lie. No Cypriot will receive a euro, these €10 billion will only go to the banks alone. Minister for Finance: The culprit would have to pay! The contaminants have to hold there once, and the experimenter is the banks! We go here and send the billions to the banks instead of talking about how we can bring a bank bankruptcy right instead of making policy for our workers, for the provider, for the farmer. This is a policy that can no longer be approved. How was the reaction in Cyprus? Mrs Finanzminister, this ECOFIN Council, what have you done? You've been left for so long that all the Russian oligarchs over London could still deduct their money. That was the “right” policy. Now you are making yourself here and think that the Cypriots can return these billions in view of the wage cuts, the massive savings and the decline in the economy? – Believe that You don't think you're yourself! What is this solidarity? This solidarity is only colonialism – the new type of colonialism! Think carefully about whether you agree! Practice should be the result of reflection. I'll invite you all: Think and don't agree!
ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00198_d7e7582	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Haider. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00198_d7e7603	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! High house! It did not work in Ireland, Greece, Spain and Portugal. It is now in Cyprus, and it will not work again in Cyprus. Neither Greece nor Ireland nor Portugal have achieved the stated savings targets in the past. Every few months they have been increased, and every few months the help has also been increased. In conjunction with your colleagues at the Euro-Saviour level, you, Mrs Finanzminister, have not only shaken the confidence of European savers in deposit security, but have destroyed it permanently. In addition, you also continuously break your own rules. It can't be said otherwise: What the European Union and the European Central Bank are doing here is a collective breach of justice. You yourself have the previous Year decided that a country in difficulty can only be saved if it is relevant to the financial stability of the euro area as a whole. – No one who is very consoling will really be able to claim that half an island where the largest bank is not larger than the Raiffeisen Landesbank Upper Austria, is system-relevant for the entire euro area! It is absurd to take such measures! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Cyprus needs €23 billion. €13 billion will be spent, and €10 billion will come from the European Union – €9 billion from the ESM and €1 billion from the ECB. The economic performance of all Cyprus is €17 billion. How are they supposed to raise their own €13 billion, and how is Cyprus supposed to be able to repay this €10 billion loan? I can't do that, that's impossible! You are already in violation of your own rules, which you decided last year when the ESM was founded. The ESM can only lend a country – I quote – if it can bear its debt in the long term, i.e. interest and repayment. Cyprus has an economic performance of €17 billion, which will fall to €15 billion by your forced measures. The total debt will be €25 billion. – This is 160 percent of Cyprus’s gross domestic product. This will never be possible for Cyprus! Never! No chance of repayment, and that's what you decide here and today. That’s where I “gratulate” warmly. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] The German professor of economics, Dr. Hankel, told you quite clearly and clearly. For him, there is only one question, namely the question of what is more shocking: whether, on the one hand, carelessness is more shocking, with which Europe's top politicians a small, but yet – if you think of the gas supply of Europe – important country is falling into chaos and misery, or whether on the other hand, there is more shock in the unscrupulousness, with which you stand by the fundamental rights of money ownership guaranteed in all European constitutions – from pacta sunt servanda to serve even the lawyers, to the protection of savers and to the security of deposit. You break all these principles. Now I quote Professor Hankel, Federal Minister: “With their punch, the pan helpers exceed the original damage by tens of feet.” What would have happened if Cyprus had been released from the Euro prison? – Nothing would have happened! Mr Podgorschek said: They could have devalued their economy, their tourism, and nothing would have happened to the euro and the eurozone at all. But in reality, something else is behind this rescue hysteria. They are actually concerned with the introduction and extension of the euro area. Your ‘end-station longing’, Mr Matznetter, is the European superstate, and you do not care whether this European superstate is compatible with democracy, the market economy, the world economy or even with laws applicable in the Member States. You don't care. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] That is why, in March of this year, you have decided completely unnoticed by the public a shadow ESM with which you want to save Marode EU countries that are not even members of the euro system. That's what you do! This is the “EUSR” at all costs – but not with us!
ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00198_d7e7669	Next speaker: Deputy Grazauer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00198_d7e7693	Mr President. High house! We can talk about the opposition here, I think. SPÖ and ÖVP will agree to this Cyprus rescue, no matter what happens. It seems to me like the story “The Train of Lemmings”. - You know what happened. I'm a merchant and I'm analyzing due to facts. These look as follows: The euro is, that must be known to everyone here in the house, a misconstruction. How else are these rescue measures at all necessary? If someone's so well positioned, you don't need to save him. Ireland, Greece, Spain, Portugal and now Cyprus and probably Slovenia will soon have to be saved. EU policy is responsible for 26 million unemployed in Europe, of which 9 million are unemployed in youth. In Austria too, we currently have 410 000 unemployed, the highest level since 1948 – due to the European Union and to the euro policy. The euro states are not indebted for a long time, on average to 85 percent of GDP in each euro area. If you look at Greece today: Greece's debt is higher than in its most difficult time – 350 billion euros of debt have rebuilt there. Why are the non-euro countries – Sweden, Denmark, Poland and above all Switzerland – much better on the road than the euro countries I have already mentioned? Last year, Switzerland made a surplus of CHF 2 billion in the budget, and I can remind you that Austria has a deficit of € 6.7 billion. Europeans have lost faith in and confidence in the European Union and the euro. This EU is not the Europe of citizens, but the Europe of banks and large corporations, which are led by the USA on the tape. Europe's economic location has also lost. The economy is zero. After all, the US has an economic growth of 3 percent, China of 8 percent. The EU is constantly breaking its own contracts. All of this would actually have to be known by the Members of this House. The European Union's crisis management is striking in the field of Cyprus's problem – disaster! The EU is looking at how the Cypriot government is preparing a bank robbery and finally allowing this robbery to happen to the savers. The savers are forced to take advantage of them. For this policy you cannot have the Freedom Party. We are voting against it.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00198_d7e7739	Next speaker: Mr Linder. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00198_d7e7760	Mr President. Minister! Mr State Secretary! Appreciate High House! Today, we have repeatedly been told by the government parties on the issue of Cyprus's aid to Cyprus, so that we can save the euro and thus protect our jobs in Austria and promote economic growth. But if we go a little deeper, then we see that the EU economy is really the worry child of the world economy and that the euro countries are much worse than the European countries without euro, for example Sweden or the Czech Republic. If we still have to listen to all the floods of Mr Stumpfully that he cares about the Cypriots because they get a big load package, I have to say: I care about the Austrian taxpayers! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Many of these pleite states, which we have now promoted and which still need to be saved in the future, have in principle a much lower tax burden and higher interest rates for savings than we have in Austria – and we are burdening our citizens and our taxpayers so that we can help these countries! There is my solidarity on the part of the Austrians and not on that of the other European countries! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, today I have firmly confirmed my remarks by saying that the problem of monetary union is that these countries are letting the reins be cut. We see in Cyprus, in particular, that it is now still permitted to make large billions of money out of the country in order to remove them from the tax package! That is why I believe that it is high time that we in these countries put an end to horror, as if we were to continue to look at the horror without ending. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Mr President, Mr Stumpfully said again in the committee and today that the ÖVP itself is no longer pleased that it is necessary to help constantly and constantly with rescue packages. That is why I am surprised that more and more information about this so-called shadow ESM has recently been available to the public, which has already grown to a great extent under obviously greatest secrecy, so that it is also necessary to lift a rescue shield for those countries that do not belong to the euro zone. The development of this shadow ESM is similar to that of the ESM itself: The ESM started with €80 billion, now it's €700 billion, and we know it won't last. With this shadow ESM it was exactly the same: Originally, one has spoken of €12 billion, then of €25 billion, now we are at €50 billion, and one is already talking about €60 billion and more. This is a shadow ESM that is financed from the EU budget framework. This money will be missing from many other support measures and from many other points of the EU budget: Support under rural development will be shortened, the agricultural support programme will be shortened and we will see how the next rescue shield will be stretched up. Madam Minister, I ask you: Tell Parliament, inform the citizens and prevent another rescue shield from being stretched up in this way, because we have heard today in impressive speeches that these rescue shields are harmful to Austria!
ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00198_d7e7827	Next speaker: Mr Venier. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00198_d7e7848	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! What has been started in Greece will continue. Without prejudice to the ‘no-bail-out’ clause, the original liberal economic constitution is undermined. But without really ensuring stability, this collective breach of justice in our eyes only creates false hopes for the population, the taxpayers and the savers. This will be maintained at least until the next German Bundestag election, because I am firmly convinced that the truth will then come to the table very quickly, namely that under the intentional deception of the taxpayers – the voters in this case – one has returned to the switching levers of power. We can now burn a lot of money – we can burn as much money as we want, there will be no way by the insolvency of the southern euro participants. All the experts have now seen this. We from the liberals wanted to go the way to release these states from the euro or to lead them specifically into insolvency earlier. The damage would certainly have been a lower one. We still insist that this would have been the more honest, the simpler, and definitely the cheaper way. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] We have enough problems in our own country to solve them. I can bring Tyrol as an example. We have to fight in Tyrol alone because of the crisis with a budget failure of around €200 million. No one can help us either. We also need to regulate this ourselves, so that we ourselves have to get done. Ladies and gentlemen, in 1997, the FPÖ has already promulgated precisely these points, which we are discussing today: The euro comes too early, the euro is poorly prepared, the euro is at risk of jobs, the euro leads to wage and pension cuts and devalues savings. [[Abg. Petzner: That's what Herbert Scheibnernoch said!]] These are exactly the points we are discussing today. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] All of it has arrived, each one of these points. You can't disprove that, you won't. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen, the way in this spiral leads down, and at the end of the day, I am sure that a European plan economy will lose freedom and sovereignty. We will not continue this way, we will fight this path by the FPÖ. - Not with us!
ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00198_d7e7900	Next speaker: Mr Grosz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00198_d7e7921	High house! It is nice that, in old tradition, Mr. Venier can again need the argumentation cards of Herbert Scheibner from 1997. There you can see how far-sighted Herbert Scheibnerbereid was in 1997 with regard to the euro. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] [[Abg. Strache: Where was he at the introduction?]] Today's discussion shows that the inability to act in the Austrian domestic policy has been raised as a principle. The government bank's foreign exchange rate is as follows: React instead of acting! And you tumble from a crisis to the next, dear ladies and gentlemen of the Austrian Federal Government! But what is lost is the belief of people in the institutions. Especially in a situation of crisis, as we have experienced here in Austria since 2008, it is necessary that the citizens still have a residual belief in politics. As you stand, ladies and gentlemen of the Austrian Federal Government, this rest belief is undermined, and this is more than adversarial to the reputation of politics. Ladies and gentlemen, you are now wreaking €250 million in Cyprus, and at the same time the daily “Kurier”: ‘Inspected: Fresh money for care’. In the years 2005 to 2013, the need for care increased by €180 million. You do not know, ladies and gentlemen of red and black, how to ensure high quality care in this country. That is why it is not populist, as the honourable Member says, if I say here today: Before we sink €250 million in the Cypriot swamp and swamp of the EU banks, we should use this €250 million to finally eliminate the care chaos in Austria after 2008 and to ensure sustainable care, ladies and gentlemen! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] This has nothing to do with populism, but with sense of responsibility and logical sense in connection with the problems of the Austrians. I therefore say that it is necessary to use this hard-working tax money from Austrian workers, the small and medium-sized economy here in this country to correct and deal with our own problems before we move it into the debt tower, in the speculation tower vulgo Greece, vulgo Cyprus – and in the future will follow Portugal and Italy – and then finally find ourselves in the middle of this pleite. This is not a responsible policy as we wish, and we therefore reject today's Cyprus aid.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00198_d7e7976	No one is reported in the word anymore. I therefore conclude the debate. We shall vote on the request of the Standing Subcommittee in ESMA, the authorisation attached to the committee report 2272 of the Supplements in accordance with § 74d para. 1 C 1 of the Rules of Procedure. I would ask those Members who are in favour of this to be a sign of approval. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution by Members. Kogler, ladies and gentlemen, on the termination of the blockade policy of Minister of Finance Fekter. Whoever is in favour of this request, I ask him for a sign of approval. – This is rejected. We shall vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Members of Parliament, Mr Bucher, Mr Colleagues, on the protection of citizens from the consequences of bank rescue. If you support this motion for a resolution, I would ask for a sign. – This is rejected. President. — The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: If you're for that, I'll ask you for a sign. – The request is rejected. The agenda is exhausted. Reading of a part of the Official Protocol
ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00198_d7e8052	The written request of 20 Members is to read the proposed version of the official minutes of this meeting of the National Council as regards the report of the Standing Subcommittee on ESM matters, so that this part is deemed approved at the end of the meeting. I now read the corresponding part of the official protocol: ‘TO point: Report of the Standing Subcommittee on the Government Template (2265 of the Supplements): Request by the Federal Government for the authorisation of the Austrian representative or representative of the European Stability Mechanism (ESM) in accordance with Art. 50b Z 1 B-VG (2272 of the supplements) Deputies Mag. Kogler, ladies and gentlemen, put to the motion for a resolution Supplement 1/1 EA. Mr Bucher, fellow Members, tabled the motion for a resolution (Annex 1/2 EA). Mr Strache, fellow Members, tabled the motion for a resolution (Annex 1/3 EA). The vote will take place at The authorisation attached to the Committee's report 2272 of the Supplements, in accordance with: § 74d para. 1 Z 1 GOG-NR is granted by majority (for which S, V). The motion for a resolution Supplement 1/1 EA is rejected (for that reason G). The motion for a resolution Supplement 1/2 EA is rejected (F.B.). The motion for a resolution Supplement 1/3 EA is rejected (F, B). There is a desire according to § 51 para. 6 GOG by 20 Members to read the Official Protocol on the report of the Standing Subcommittee on ESM matters (2272 of Supplements) (Annex I/1).’ Are there any objections to the version or content of this part of the Official Protocol? - That's not the case. The corresponding part of the Official Protocol is therefore applicable in accordance with section 51 para. 6 GMOs as approved by the end of this meeting. [[14:01:54]] Inflow
ParlaMint-AT_2013-04-22-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00198_d7e8125	I announce that in today's session, the self-employed have received applications 2251/A(E) to 2256/A(E). Question No 14462/J to 14491/J has also been received. The next meeting of the National Council is scheduled for Thursday, 25. April 2013, 9 a.m. The agenda will be delivered by the clubs. This meeting is closed.
