ParlaMint-AT_2013-03-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00193_d7e4915	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen! I'll open the 193. Meeting of the National Council. The official protocols of the 191. Meeting of 27 and 28. ==References== Meeting of 28. In February 2013, the Parliament's Directorate remained unanswered and undisputed. Deputies Josef Auer, Donabauer, Obernosterer, Dr. Glawischnig-Piesczek and Schenk are reported as prevented. Representation of members of the Federal Government
ParlaMint-AT_2013-03-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00193_d7e4946	For this meeting, the Federal Chancellery on the representation of members of the Federal Government made the following statement: The Federal Minister for Education, Arts and Culture Dr. Claudia Schmied is represented by the Federal Minister for Women and Public Service Gabriele Heinisch-Hosek. I also announce the representation of members of the Federal Government who are present in another Member State of the European Union as follows: The Federal Minister for Agriculture, Forestry, Environment and Water Management Dipl.-Ing. Nikolaus Berlakovich will be appointed by the Federal Minister of the Interior until noon. Johanna Mikl- Leitner. [[09:09:22]] Angelobung
ParlaMint-AT_2013-03-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00193_d7e5000	The Federal Electoral Authority has received the notification that Mr. Federal Minister is out of service. Norbert Darabos was re-appointed on the occasion of his appointment as a member of the Federal Government. That's a deputies' power. Johann Maier retired from the National Council. Since the election permit is already in place and the person mentioned is present in the house, I will immediately make his fishing observation. After reading the vow formula by writing, the representative will have to do his fishing with the words “I promise”. I'm looking for the writer, Mrs Mag. Lohfeyer, to read the vow formula. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-03-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00193_d7e5045	“They will be vowed unbreakable fidelity of the Republic of Austria, constant and full observation of the constitutional laws and all other laws and conscientious fulfilment of your obligations.” w
ParlaMint-AT_2013-03-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00193_d7e5070	I promise.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-03-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00193_d7e5085	I can welcome you again very warmly in our midst. [[General condolences.]] [[09:10:49]] Inflow
ParlaMint-AT_2013-03-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00193_d7e5114	The Federal Chancellor has received the following letter: 'Dear Madam President! I have the honour to say that the President of the Federal Republic of Germany, with his resolution of 11. ==References====External links== 74 para. 3 B-VG Mr Mag. Norbert Darabosvom has removed office. At the same time, the President of the Federal Republic of Germany, on my proposal in accordance with the manner. In paragraph 70, point (b) is replaced by the following: 1 B-VG Mr Mag. Gerald Klugzum Federal Minister of State Defense and Sport appointed.” I should like to congratulate the new Minister, whom we may welcome later here on the Government Bank. [[09:11:35]] Mr Klubobmann Bucher spoke on business treatment. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-03-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00193_d7e5160	Madam President. High house! Following the events in Salzburg, politics in Austria has responded very offensively and has demanded that speculations with taxpayers be undermined. For many months, negotiations have been under way in the House, and all parties are involved in these negotiations. But there is no attempt at concluding these negotiations on the part of the two government parties. Nor can we find a explanation of what it is all about now, because the negotiations have been very positive and there is a great sense that we in Austria need a constitutional command to ban speculation with taxpayers once and for all. Therefore, I request from the BZÖ Club that we put the law on speculating with taxpayers' money on the agenda. Finally, the taxpayer, who ultimately has everything to do with it, has a right to know what positions the individual parties take and what it eventually fails to take. We're always talking so big.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-03-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00193_d7e5190	Mr President, please do not make a speech, but it is a statement on the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-03-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00193_d7e5205	That is the request I make. I would add, as a suggestion, that the Minister of Finance also explains to us what she intended to do in the course of the Cyprus aid, instead of starting today a discussion about a minister of defence who will basically no longer exercise his office.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-03-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00193_d7e5233	Further reporting on business treatment: Mr Mag. Kogler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-03-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00193_d7e5254	Thank you, Madam President. Very soon: The budget committee of this House has adopted a provisional package to ensure that a majority of the constitutions are in place. Please. That is why this draft is not yet ripe, because it does not represent a two-thirds majority, because it is difficult to improve. For this reason, however, it is urgent that the first thing be dealt with here in order to be able to at least refer back to the fact that a better proposal is being negotiated in the Committee. Moreover, even if there is no majority in this House, the public – to which Parliament is public – has the right to know what the Constitutional Legislator thinks, what the individual political groups think, and why, in the end, the national leaders are not willing to join a genuine ban on speculation, at least to the extent that a two-thirds majority is guaranteed here. That's what we want to work on. A necessary and correct step is that this is debated once in a plenary session. By the way, we would no longer be able to get this back to committee.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-03-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00193_d7e5293	For business treatment: Mr. Klubobmann Strache. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-03-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00193_d7e5315	Madam President. We support from the opposition, which concludes that today this item is also put on the agenda so that it can be treated and referred back to the committee because it is necessary to negotiate a genuine ban on speculation. [[Call the ÖVP:FPK!]] This has not yet been given. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Head.]] If you don't want to, you say you don't want it. Because if you prevent it from coming to a good law, which can also find a corresponding broad support here, then you will reveal that it is not serious to you. It doesn't matter to work with Kan-Determination where it needs to be determined. It is no good to leave certain areas in 15a negotiations, because we have seen what this means by preventing the protection of young people for years over a 15a agreement between national leaders. We need a ban on speculation, which must be implemented in a sustainable and immediate manner, without back doors for the countries where then the national leaders will again define what speculation is and what is not. We have the responsibility here to ensure a proper law. And I say clearly and clearly that it also needs the protection of the water as the property of the Austrians in the Constitution. Finally, be ready to make sure today! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] It also needs the security
ParlaMint-AT_2013-03-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00193_d7e5353	Mr Klubobmann, we are currently dealing with the agenda. It should and should not be a speech contribution. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-03-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00193_d7e5369	Final sentence on the agenda and the debate on the request: Of course, there is also a need for a commitment to the development of housing. All of these things you're gonna take care of – we're not! And this is our responsibility to the citizens.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-03-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00193_d7e5401	I would point out once again that we are talking about the agenda, and it cannot and cannot be speeches. For business treatment: Mr. Klubobmann Dr. Cap. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-03-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00193_d7e5425	To be honest, I do not understand these words at all now, because there is only one point in putting a matter on the agenda if a two-thirds majority of them are also in favour of their decision-making. Last time I called in the plenary session to make a decision. [[Interim calls at the FPÖ]] There was a willingness on the part of the liberals to do so. One or two days ago, your negotiator and interlocutor says he recommends to the club that you accept and decide. And now, Mr Klubobmann, you are giving a talk as if you were just at the beginning of the negotiations. So that's pointless. And the Austrian population has not deserved that either. This wants us to quickly decide on an anti-spepulation solution, an anti-spepulation law, and out, basta. [[Further calls at the FPÖ.]] And by the way, everyone is one for the protection of Austrian waters by the Socialist Group. And don't pretend you're the only water drinker in there!
ParlaMint-AT_2013-03-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00193_d7e5471	For business treatment: Mr. Klubobmann's head. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-03-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00193_d7e5492	Madam President. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) There can be no doubt about it – and there is no one between the Federal Government, countries and communities – that things, as they happened in Salzburg, will no longer be allowed to happen in the future, and that legal provisions must therefore also be taken to prevent such things from happening in the future. [[Interim calls at the FPÖ]] There has been an agreement since last Saturday between SPÖ, ÖVP and the negotiators of the liberals who have been delegated to this end. [[Abg. That's wrong!]] The Court of Auditors welcomes this outcome of the negotiations and says that this is a suitable way to prevent speculation in the future and, on the other hand, to establish uniformity and comparability between the budgets of the countries and the municipalities. There was the clear yes of the FPÖ negotiators on Saturday to decide today with two-thirds majority. I don't know what happened since Saturday. The fact is, the FPÖ is verbatim, the FPÖ does not keep its promise. [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] And now according to the motto
ParlaMint-AT_2013-03-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00193_d7e5534	Mr Klubobmann, the same applies to you: We are talking about the agenda.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-03-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00193_d7e5549	Madam President, I have to explain why it is not on the agenda. After the FPÖ has broken its word and will not now give its assent, it makes no sense to put this item on the agenda today. There's really no state to do with you.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-03-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00193_d7e5587	Mr Klubobmann Ing. Lugar for business treatment. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-03-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00193_d7e5616	Madam President. High house! I consider it very, very worrying, very democratic, what is happening here today. We have heard today from the government parties that only then will a very, very important item be put on the agenda if it is already clear in advance that it will be voted on here and, above all, it will be voted positively. And that is exactly the opposite of parliamentarianism, the very opposite! It would normally have to be that a proposal is coming, this proposal is being discussed here in Parliament, that it is balanced and looked at whether it is good for the country, and that it will then be decided unanimously or by a majority, and not that it will be packed in advance, that certain things will be discussed by Parliament and then misused by Parliament as a voting machine. That is why this item belongs to the agenda. If you have no strong arguments – I am convinced that the arguments to put this into practice here in the House are not too strong – then we have at least talked about it, and that is exactly what a Parliament is saying. The meaning of a Parliament, and in my view it has been a very strong step in recent times, is that we debate the subject matter of negotiations and then find a good solution – and that as much as possible in common. And that's exactly what's going on here with feet. That is why we absolutely agree that an objection debate is being made to discuss this again, because, as I said, it is not worthy of a House that it is packed in advance and then only voted here and not discussed any more. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-03-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00193_d7e5652	The objections to the agenda presented by Mr Klubobmann Bucher are also available in writing. For the purposes of § 50 of the Rules of Procedure, Mr Bucher has just raised written objections to the agenda for today's sitting. The amendments concern the addition of the agenda to the draft budget for the ban on speculation 2183, 2184, 2185, 2186 and 2187 of the Supplements. I am not in favour of these objections, which is why the National Council has to decide. A debate is required in accordance with Rule 50 of the Rules of Procedure. In this debate, I limit speaking time to 5 minutes per speaker and to three speakers per club. The debate will be held after the current hour. I still announce that this meeting will be broadcast live from ORF 2 to 1 p.m. and from ORF III in full length. [[09:22:19]] Current hour
ParlaMint-AT_2013-03-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00193_d7e5689	That's how we get to the current hour. The current hour is under the theme: ‘Equation: Achievements. Perspectives. measures.’; The first is Mrs Mag. Worm to speak. It has a speaking time of 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-03-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00193_d7e5722	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Good morning, ladies and gentlemen! I wish you all a beautiful spring start. The month of March is marked by the women's day. We celebrated this year on the 8th. ==References== Let's have the International Women's Day. International Women's Day is always an interface of women moved in the year. That day we think about what we have succeeded and what we still have to do. And if we – and so we have also mentioned our Question Time today – talk about equality policy when we talk about success when we talk about measures when we talk about perspectives, then I would like to point out and also refer to the fact that this legislative period is already ending in the autumn of this year, and give an overview of what we have achieved where we have achieved. And I thought of a subject, and this concerns a lot of women very massively: What is it like on the labour market? What about the merit of women? Did something go on there? – I recall the income transparency package that we have decided here in Parliament – there have been final talks with Mr Schittenhelm, the presentation has been made by the Minister. This has made a lot of success! That there is still much to do here and that there is still to be sharpened here, we know, but fact is that the income shears are pretty slow, I say now, together. What has this income transparency package done? – For the first time, the farms have to indicate in their placements how much you can earn there. It is also necessary to specify whether there is an overpayment, i.e. whether more is paid than the collective agreement. This is also a very important measure: that women know what they can demand in their area, where they work, in the sector where they work. In this respect, the pay calculator of the Minister for Women was also an important additional measure. There have already been over a million visits – women who have looked up: What can I earn in my industry? What does it really look like? How does it look with collective agreements, with the classification et cetera? – This too is a very, very important measure. Larger enterprises – the number of employees is getting smaller and smaller – have to produce income reports so that there is a comparability in order to have a comparison of the management of the enterprise, of the works councils, of the employees, and so that one can also find a trace of that, where there are the cases where there are wage differences where there are discrimination statements. This has been an important and necessary package that we have decided here in Parliament. And then the trade union – the trade union of private workers in this case – entered the debate and said: We as the social partners also need to think about how we employ collective contract wages where women work, where women's work is assessed can be raised. Perhaps there should be separate collective treaty rounds in this regard. – My colleague Wolfgang Katzian will certainly refer to this, namely that minimum wages are paid in the various sectors. I therefore come to a very important point, which is very important to me, ladies and gentlemen: We must also come to a re-evaluation of the work! It is totally incomprehensible to me that the woman who works in the care of the elderly, for example, that the kindergarten teacher, who has such a valuable job to do, namely to prepare our little ones for school, that the folk school teacher has to care for the children – where it matters very much about how much further school success is whether the child likes to go to school, whether it is made curious about the various tasks that come to it – is valued so little. There the pay gap to change, there to pay more, I think, is the commandment of the hour. [[Consistency with the SPÖ and the Abg. Ursula Haubner.]] It is not clear to me that the technician who works on the machine deserves so much more, the manager who moves in the bank deserves so much more than the kindergarten teacher, than the nurse, than the folk school teacher or even the old nurse. – Dear ladies and gentlemen, here we have to do! Here we have a lot to do! What else is interested in women in our country? – Of course, the compatibility of work and family. In every person's life, every woman's decision comes between 20, 30, 35: If I decide for a child, can I ‘take it’ – under quotation marks? Many women ask themselves the question: Is there a corresponding kindergarten in my area? Is there the framework conditions in my area that I come to the workplace accordingly? Do I have mobility? There's something going on. In this respect – at the beginning of the debate today, the Treaties with the countries issue – were concluded Article 15a agreements in order to improve the framework conditions for women, in order to ensure that childcare facilities are provided accordingly in the various regions in the country and that the closing days are not such that no occupation can be exercised – keyword: July/August. It is therefore important and necessary for women, for families, that, if they want to say yes to the child, the appropriate framework conditions prevail. The federal government has therefore improved, although it does not have the competences, because the competences for kindergartens have the countries. But this is the population, which is most likely not so important to you at home. They want politics to work there, and here we have improved as a union. We have created more than 5 000 jobs – once for women, good conditions for kindergarten children, who can and should enjoy kindergartens as the first time of education. So that's the first educational institution. – Ladies and gentlemen, we have managed a lot here. Nevertheless, much remains to be done on this question: We must ensure that not 50 times a year close days are found by the mothers, by the parents, but that there are less closing days. That's a point. Another point, of course, is that we must ensure that women, if they have stayed at home for a certain period of time with their children, also have the opportunity to return to their workplace as a full-time job. This is what many women wish for, but it is not possible for many. And the Austrians can do it, we can't afford it on this The potential to fail that women who have a lot of know-how, who have brought a lot into their company, who have stayed at home for a certain period of time with their child, will then no longer be able to recruit and not use their knowledge accordingly for our society, for the economy. Furthermore, ladies and gentlemen, we have succeeded in closing the sheath in the field of education and education: There are more maturants, there are a lot of women at the universities that complete – there too we have more or less equality. Only then is it missing, then we have a big gap, namely, when it comes to the fact that this knowledge can also be used accordingly in the enterprises. There too we have to intensify, we also have to talk to the companies and promote that there is more flexibility that companies understand when a child becomes ill and the mother or father takes care of it. There is also a need for more flexibility on the part of companies! And that some kind of business kindergarten is opened up is also an important and necessary matter that helps families where there are small children. Something very central is important to me, but it is also very important to many fathers, many young families today, namely that the men can also take care of the child, the responsibility for the child more fully – keyword: Dad-month. This Papa-month works wonderfully in the public sector, but we still need to see that the private sector also assumes responsibility in this regard. [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign]] My credo on this woman's day, and I repeat it here, said: Half the world for women, half the family for men.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-03-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00193_d7e5822	Mrs Heinisch-Hosek spoke on a preliminary statement. The speaking time should not exceed 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-03-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00193_d7e5844	Madam President. High house! Ladies and gentlemen! I am very pleased that we are talking about equality today in the current hour, because it is important to say that the more equality happens in one country, the more successful this country – whether on economic issues or in all other social policy areas. And I can say today that we are on a good path in this respect, although I would like to do what is still to be done so that we are really very successful in Austria. On the one hand, it is about highlighting equality between women and men in the labour market. What's it look like? Do all the jobs they have introduced? Can all women choose what profession they want to take, or can there be some regulations that make it a bit difficult to reconcile work and private life, work and family – whether it be because of the question of how to get to a job, whether it be because of the question of how many hours can be offered, whether it is because of the question of how many hours you can work so that you can live compatibility. – So all of these issues of the labour market are very essential and important so that women can also live an independent, financially independent life. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Of course, it is also about equality outside the workplace. How much time does someone have for himself? - Whether women or men. How much time does someone have? How much time does someone have to engage in clubs in organizations? How much time does someone have for family work? – I am particularly speaking to the male part of the population, because there are very, very many when you ask: I would like to spend more time with the family, but it is so that I have to do overtime to make money and I actually have too little time for the family! – Many men would like to reduce their overtime so that more time is available for the family. And it is also – and I will come back to it – about the equality of various life designs that people want to live in our country, because women who want to live with women, men who want to live with men, so-called rainbow families, i.e., same-sex couples with children, want to find the same conditions as other couples, and so on and so on. After all, this is also a non-indisputable share of the population. Why should we want to dictate on politics a person who is not allowed to live or how he has to live? – I think that we should all take a little more together and set aside a few more measures of equality. Let me say how many women it is, ladies and gentlemen: In Austria, 4.3 million women live, which is 51.2% of the population. Not every woman – and I mentioned this at the outset – can shape her life in the way she would like it to, and therefore it needs appropriate framework conditions. The balance sheet to be drawn up after almost 5 years in this legislative period can all be seen – something has already been mentioned by Mrs Wurm. If we are already talking about transparency, transparency, how much men and how much women deserve in our country, we must ask the question: How can we look at this, because if there are pay differences – and there are differences in salary – in Austria, because we are at the forefront of wage shears within the European Union – then we have to take action against it? The measures we have taken are starting to take very slowly. We improved by a few percent. This is not enough yet, but in a farm to see who deserves how much, and these differences, which one cannot explain, can perhaps eliminate, have all succeeded together with the social partners – and that will continue. In this respect, I would like to take another step in the spring. I invite the presidents of the social partners again, and we will together take a closer look at the success of this issue with the income reports, because perhaps we will have to improve it. This is precisely the question: Are we good enough, or should we, do we have to do some improvement work for women in this country? – And I believe that this is necessary if I look at the income reports we are collecting with the help of trade unionists who are raising, how the companies are dealing with them. There are still some suggestions for improvement, I can assure you! I would also like to mention that of the 4.3 million women, almost 2 million are in employment. This is a really high percentage, and we can also be very proud of how many women in our country have found a good place in professional life, but I must also mention that there are over 800 000 women who are in part-time employment, which they do not always fill. For a time this may be a good alternative, but if it takes too long, then it may later have a very negative effect on the pension calculation. And here, too, politics, I think, together with the economy can and must create framework conditions that can also be accepted as a full-time workplace, which will be informed if such a one is appropriate, that all conditions are appropriate outside of working life so that you can work full-time. That's why it's really happening! I also do not want to mention that nearly 100 000 women are precariously busy in our country. In other words, these are “workplaces”, if I may say so, of which one cannot live, and we know that women often have to accept two or three of these “workplaces” so that a job can come out as far as income is concerned. This stress and this multiple load can be imagined: You work three hours in the morning, then you provide the children, you work three hours in the afternoon, and maybe at night too. There is also a need for policy, because we must try to ensure that women in precarious employment conditions, if they have to work for some time, at least in such a way that all really have a social security protection. Even better, of course, no one would be precariously busy. Three more points on this issue: Firstly, as already mentioned, we want to increase the transparency of the incomes of women and men. Public service has always had this transparency, and the income differences in the public service, which can be explained to a large extent, are much lower than in the private sector. Secondly, of course, we also need measures to make it easier to reconcile work and private life. We can proudly say that 7 000 places have been created in childcare facilities in recent years – well over 20 000 in total. This also created 10 000 jobs, which mainly led to the creation of a new job for women. However, we have not yet achieved the goal of offering each third infant a care place; we still have to work on it. On the subject of compatibility – and this has already been mentioned by Mrs. Col. Wurm – we should not put the father's desire for father's karenz in a small way, but we should help the fathers to go to Karenz. I see the papal month in public service as a good entry into the father's care. 452 fathers in the public service use the papal month, and I would like to discuss this now also for the private sector in spring. It doesn't cost anymore. We can finance the papal month in the private sector through the childcare allowance through some kind of early leave for fathers. We must help companies, especially small and medium-sized enterprises, to compensate for the lack of men for four weeks immediately after the birth of their child by internal measures. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Fürntrath-Moretti.]] If an employee takes a training measure or needs to take up a disability that lasts longer, this employee is missing as well. So why should we not offer the fathers this opportunity? [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Thirdly, I believe that I am proud to say that, in recent years, we have taken a big step forward with the law of the registered partnership and partnership in terms of the life-designs of people and the equality of different forms of life, of different forms of family life. We have created the possibility that equal-sex couples will partner, and we will soon be able to have children in a relationship with them. may also be adopted by the partner or the partner. This is something that the European Court of Human Rights has to be repaired, and that will be done shortly so that we can say before the summer that at least the step-child adoption for rainbow families is ensured. My wish is, of course, total equality, because I said at the outset: Why should we require people to live from politics? - We don't want to. We should allow all people to live their life designs the way they want. We can certainly take one, two, three steps towards equality. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I come to the conclusion: All in all, ladies and gentlemen, this was just a small extract from the – and I do not think that this is small – which has continued in the last five years for women and for people who want to live different forms of life. I could only mention a few things, but thank all those who helped bring Austria a lot more towards equality.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-03-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00193_d7e5974	I would draw attention to the fact that the speaking time of Members who are now speaking in the current hour should not be more than 5 minutes. Next, Mr Katzian. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-03-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00193_d7e5998	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen! I believe that it has already become clear from what has been said so far that there are, of course, several levels in the issue of equality. You will not be surprised if I am particularly concerned about the income situation of women, i.e. the personal level that I believe is the priority of all the debates on equality. Personally, that means professional recognition and career, but that also means that something must happen at the level of income, if we know that in Austria we still have the second biggest gap in the European Union in income. That is why we considered a year and a half ago – this has already been addressed today –: What can happen, what can be done so that you can get out of the speech and out of the decision of beautiful texts. We have made the proposal to carry out special wage rounds for women with the aim of taking an effective step towards the closure of income shears. At that time there was a huge uproar, everyone said! Please, that's not at all! and it's been spoken of by Hasherln, who somehow can't judge that. President Leitel then said: What special wage rounds mean, this should be taken into account in each wage round! We said, okay, we took it on the floor, and then we started to introduce equality negotiations in all the collective treaty negotiations last year – and now in the current year we have continued to do so – in particular with regard to the question of the accounting of periods of leave. I believe that this was an important step because we succeeded in concluding new collective agreements in 75 sectors, in which for the first time comprehensive accounting procedures have been carried out. In many and very large areas, not only general accounting rules but also, in particular, those for wage and salary development have been established. This means that, through these collective agreements, around 800,000 people for whom this has not previously been done are now entering into this scheme. I think that's something you can be proud of, and you can really be happy about it because it was an important step in the right direction. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the Greens.]] Another level is the business economy. McKinsey, an international consulting company, says that companies with a minimum percentage of women in top positions are more successful than others, measured in terms of business criteria and financial performance. I therefore believe that it is important that we also take further steps in terms of the level of business economy so that there are more women in leadership positions. My confidence in this voluntary will is ending. That is why I would like to say quite clearly once again: We also need the enforcement of legal women's quotas here, and I very much hope that this will again be a matter of discussion in the near future. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The third level is the economic factor. Integration of women in the labour market, ladies and gentlemen, is an essential contribution to stabilising and safeguarding our social security systems. Equality increases economic growth and competitiveness. The OECD says that a quarter of the European Union's growth is down to rising rates of women's employment, and that is why it is quite clear that we need further steps. A national economic simulation bill carried out indicates that equality in the labour market would increase GDP from 14 to 45 percent – in Austria it is 32 percent – and that this could generate an increase of 0.6 percent. The crucial thing – and I want to close the circle to what I said at the outset – is the operational level. We have created a framework with the collective agreements. However, we now need implementation and further deepening at the operational level. The income reports have already been addressed. I mean, that's a good base. It is expandable, but we have taken important first steps. The question is: What happens to these income reports in the future and how do we achieve corresponding progress at the operational level? We are of the opinion that we should start a discussion on whether it makes sense to create a legal obligation that there be regular occupational equality negotiations, on the basis of the income reports made in the establishments. This, in combination with measures for real overtime payment, is what I consider to be the very essential things that we must address in the next few days. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-03-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00193_d7e6069	Mrs Schittenhelm is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-03-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00193_d7e6090	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen! High house! The equal treatment law has been applicable in Austria since 1979. Since 1993, there has also been a Federal Equal Treatment Act for the Federal Service. Both laws added the State of Discrimination in 2004 so that there may be no discriminatory measures, neither in relation to sex, nor age, ethnicity, religion or belief, sexual orientation or disability. – There must be no disadvantages. – And yet there are them – even today, on the 20th. March 2013! I would have liked to be able to celebrate a little celebration after 20 years of equal treatment law, to say: Yes, there is equal pay for our women in the event of equal training and in the event of equivalent work! - But we can't say that today. I wish we could say: Women who are responsible for having children do not experience any disadvantage in terms of age benefit! - No, we can't say that today either. And that continues in many, many areas. The Federal Minister has already mentioned this. But many things have happened in these years. We have put in place many measures to improve the environment and the conditions for women and their families. That's what I'm going to get to the Gender Mainstreaming. We know that this is a concept that aims to achieve equality between women and men at all levels of society. We just need this balance, we need this balance. That is why our Minister of Finance has also realized the gender budgeting, which we have decided in this House on the reform of the budget law. This means that, in all sectors, of the five impact targets required, a gender budgeting goal must be a gender budgeting objective, that is, an objective that concerns equality between women and that there should not be any negative impact on women in this area. However, we have heard it today, and we know it from the income report of the Court of Auditors, which was presented last November, unfortunately, when it comes to the incomes of women, we are still behind men 20 to 25 percent. The qualification is always required. – We're not talking about that anymore! We have highly trained girls and young women. This is also evident in the school career and in the training phase: There are men and women alike, up to completion of studies. Today, more women are graduates of universities, more women graduates of colleges or colleges, and they also enter the profession much earlier. But with the foundation of the family – and women want children, that is also good; Women and men, girls and boys want family – actually the disadvantage of women begins. That is why we have a lot to do. We have not yet reached the end of the road, so that the motherhood and the responsibility one has to bear as a mother is also reflected in safety, both in age and in income. That's where we have to go. We must not let it happen that we say that the women or the girls are supposed to make another choice, no, we need – and here I am with Mrs. Wolf – to look at the situation in the various professional sectors in particular. It is necessary to increase salaries in collective agreements for service professions, such as in the field of care. Why are these professions less well valued than other comparable professions? There's a need for rethinking! However, it is equally important to respond to the wishes and talents of children and young people. I would like to refer to Lower Austria in this regard. The President of the Chamber of Economics, Zwazl, has introduced a gift compass to test the talents, potentials and talents of the children from the third grade onwards and to discuss with the parents, which is already being trained in the right direction. That's important! That is what we need and what we have to do if we take our task seriously. We must also say the following, ladies and gentlemen: We prescribe a quota for close-to-state operations. By 2018, this is supposed to be 35 percent for the management sets. However, we in the House, in Parliament, have a lower rate of women: Of 183 delegates, only 53 are women. [[Abg. Dr. Moser: In Indonesia, it is 30 percent mandatory for every group!]] I am already very excited about what it will look like after the election in September. So we'd have it in our hands. We have complete freedom of action in drawing up electoral lists for the Land Days and for the National Council. It looks rather sad. I am deeply convinced, ladies and gentlemen: If we allow women and men to move in the form of a zipper system in Parliament, then the point of view will also change in one chapter or another – for the benefit of women and for the benefit of families! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-03-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00193_d7e6167	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Unspoiled. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-03-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00193_d7e6188	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! In fact, we have more problems at present than just talking about equality between men and women and making this the subject of an hour of the moment. The financial markets are collapsing, but please, if the Social Democrats wish, I will be here at the speaker's desk – well, what is happening in Cyprus has obviously passed by you. [[Abg. Dr. Bartenstein: The financial markets do not collapse...!]] [[Abg. Dr. Rosenkranz: The women's ratio in the snake at the Cypriot banknote!]] But please, I want to show you what's been going on for years here at the speaker's desk. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] The political goal of enabling women in our society to live a more fulfilled and satisfied life cannot be achieved with left-wing theories. The idea that disadvantages that women still grow up to meet with the gender will has completely failed. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] This so-called gender teaching claims that man and woman are first made into man and woman, so that all differences arise only through a social embossing. Mrs. Minister, this radical theory of equality, that men and women are equal, we have been able to study in the former Eastern bloc for decades. There it was practiced, and as we all know, it has failed. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Mrs. Minister, women and men are not equal, they are equal. Some European countries have long turned away from these gender theories, and there are no subsidies for gender research. Mrs. Minister, accept the reality that is far from the left-wing social policy! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] 55 percent of the 14 to 24-year-old girls, according to a survey conducted by the family ministry, expressed a desire to be a housewife and to be there for the children themselves, especially in the important time when the children are small. Of course, women need a well-founded education, but politics should also encourage them to be able to live up to their desire for children. These designs of life do not fit in with the Social Democrats. If it goes to the Minister Heinisch-Hosek, then children belong to the custody of the state. Children are supposed to be the property of the state. Mrs. Minister, you're making a family weaning program here. Their actions do not take into account the individual designs of life of many women and men, as you always claim. Instead of developing opportunities to eliminate financial disadvantages, if you care for the children for a few years or longer, there is only one view from your side, namely: They're supposed to force women to full-time for life. But one forgets that they already practice a profession. This punishes women who choose to want to be mothers or to be mothers. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Just no freedom of choice, instead of compulsion and forethought! There is no financial recognition of the educational performance. Support or accompany families more individually or sustainablely so that they can also address the children – and that is especially important! – this does not matter in the considerations of the Social Democrats at all. I've never heard, Mrs. Minister, that you'd have thought about how little children are going to be put into cribs right away. I would like to address a subject that is particularly important to me – my previous speakers have already talked about it – namely the lower incomes of women. In some professions, you just deserve more. Mr Katzian, you will not be able to dispute this. It will just hold a steel worker to earn more than a hairdresser, and it will continue to be so that in some professions fewer women can be found. But apart from these differences, which are now based on different tendencies, interests and physical fitness, there really is a real injustice, when you measure salary increases exclusively on how long a woman is working in her profession. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Every woman who now decides to stay with her children for some time is disadvantaged. As long as wage increases are not due to additional performance or higher responsibility, the life of a woman in financial terms will always have to be adversely affected. The important task of being there for children and old people must be rewarded in the future in our society. We liberals demand a society in which cohesion is not threatened, in which the interaction of men and women is promoted without equality. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] In particular, women must not be overemphasized. [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign.]] They should always do everything at the same time, and that is not possible! [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign again.]] And children and old people should not be forced into care facilities. We want a society that honours these values.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-03-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00193_d7e6309	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Schwentner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-03-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00193_d7e6333	Madam President. Mrs. Minister! High house! On the one hand, I would like to interrupt the celebration of the SPÖ a little, which has already been interrupted by the colleague Unterlander. I also had the intention to discuss with you in the current hour until last night, what successes – or not always just successes – have brought you in the last four years. There is a lot to discuss and criticize. I'm going to do this elsewhere on my current occasion, or I'm going to do it again and again. This concerns the income reports, which concerns the famous salary calculator, but also the Papa month or the childcare facilities that we lack. On the current occasion – and it was an article that appeared yesterday evening – I would like to address a very important topic that all of us have been working on here for months. They know the incitement of sexual harassment and sexual violence against women who have gone through the social media. A case of such a call has now arrived in Parliament, and I think it is time for us to use this hour now to talk about it. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] What's this about? – I would like to sum up once again what it is about: Yesterday in the evening or today in the morning, an article on conditions was published at the Josefstadt Justice Centre. This concerns, in particular, a Member with regard to sexual harassment, namely Mr Lausch von der FPÖ. What's going to blame him? [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Rosenkranz.]] [[Further calls at the FPÖ.]] What's going to blame him? – I gather what he is accused of: He is accused of being sent to fellow pornographic images that they do not want to see. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Bitch.]] He will be accused of pressured to go with him to the Swinger Club; I would like to spare you with what words, you can read this in the "Falter"! – I say what is being accused of him, and this has led to a disciplinary procedure! [[Abg. Strache: It is inconceivable what you do best under the protection of immunity!]] [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. That's what's set!]] [[Further calls at the FPÖ.]] That was not set or it was set because it was towed because it was delayed. [[Abg. Strache: It turned out that it was diffamation, so it was stopped!]] – Is that all you think about saying that the old coffee that was set? Is that all you have to say about these serious accusations made by the honourable Members against the colleagues? Is that all you think of it? [[Abg. Strache: These denunciations have been exposed, and the procedure in question has been terminated!]] [[Further calls at the FPÖ.]] These are not denunciations, these are statements made by women, by officials of the judiciary! This is very serious to take! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I think it's more than worrying that you're just saying that this is delayed and old coffee! Don't you mind? Are you not aware of what happens to women in our society? This is a theme that is present in the middle of our society every day! – I understand [[Abg. Strache: There is an appropriate procedure! Take note of the rule of law!]] Unfortunately, my colleague, you are not. But you can come out! I invite you to come out and get a position on this! It would be very important for you to express your views on this! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Gartelgruber.]] You, Mrs Gartelgruber, said recently, when it came to sexual harassment in our society: “It must not be that women in Austria are in the 21st century. The victims of sexual harassment and the perpetrator are completely unpunished." “Invasions on women should not remain unpunished, no matter what cultural background the perpetrators have.” In this case, there are accusations against a Member in our House, and we should talk about these accusations here. These are serious accusations, and I am really amazed that you are not able to take a position! [[Abg. Dr. Rosenkranz: You must not confuse the “falter” with a court case!]] Your colleague is ready to resign! I call for your resignation! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Further calls at the FPÖ.]] It is not possible that you do not comment on this topic and say what was going on in these years! This concerns some of the Members of this House in the Josefstadt Justice Centre. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-03-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00193_d7e6521	Mrs Haubner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-03-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00193_d7e6542	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, I think that we should not let the important issue of equality now become a match between Greens and FPÖ. The FPÖ will hopefully comment on this, and I can now refer to the equality policy of recent years. As you know, ladies and gentlemen, an EU-wide gender equality policy has been mandatory for 15 years, taking into account and taking into account the effects of the living conditions of women and men. And it's already been mentioned: We have had a law of equal treatment for 20 years, and, as I believe, we have arrived in the 21st century. ==References====External links==* Official website We no longer have this vehement battle of the sexes, men against women, but there is rather a partnership, which is also important to move forward. Women do not see themselves constantly in the role of victims, but are now very courageous and very self-confident when it comes to defending themselves and showing injustices. Women in politics are no longer Alibi women, but, of course, this is natural now, although it is far too few. Nevertheless, there is still enough to do, and I believe that we must now and today see where the real problems lie. In my view, these are not where there may have been no transparent list of salary data in job descriptions, they are not there that we do not yet have compulsory quotas, nor are they there that we do not yet have mandatory women's promotion plans. . I would now like to take three important points out. A point has already been raised by my previous speakers, namely the current income pressure and labour pressure on the labour market and in the working life, especially women, but also many men who are fully working and unable to live by their incomes. These people have precarious working conditions, often wide-ranging routes are required to leave home for hours in advance in order to reach their workplace in good time, and also to create the mental and physical burden in individual businesses. There have never been as many women in working life as they are now, but in the end there are still very large pay differences. That showed another study yesterday: Between male and female incomes, a gap of 26.7 percent is found, and in recent years it has been reduced by only around 3%. So we are really far from equal pay and payment. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] It is therefore very important, for the BZÖ, that it is finally paid according to benefit, whether it is women or men: Women who provide services must be paid justly, men who provide services must be paid justly. The differences, as mentioned today, are particularly large in the typical women's professions – as we said earlier – in the social sector, in the care, in the pedagogical professions. It is not to be seen, however, that working with and on people is less valuable than working on and using machines! There has already been enough talk about this, and something has to be done here! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] I also believe it is important that there is a tax relief. We need tax relief, especially for the even smaller wages for women. It is necessary to relieve tax, and the BZÖ has good proposals in this context, how to simplify the tax system accordingly. We also need minimum wages. We do not have minimum wages in all collective agreements, and this, in particular, concerns women. If Mr Katzian says that collective treaty negotiations among the social partners are progressing well, especially with regard to the calculation of working hours – if I have heard correctly, it is now contained in 75 collective agreements – and take an absolutely good and positive course, then I welcome that. But when we consider that we have far more than 600 collective agreements, that is still too little. This is just a first step and a first approach. [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign.]] As a second point, I should like to mention equality between work and family work. We are still far from the goal, because family work has not yet been equated with employment. The first steps have been taken, but as far as retirement periods, the calculation of care periods and so on for the protection of men and women are concerned, not enough has yet been done. [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign again]] Mrs. Federal Minister, you said you did a lot, but it's not enough. I also say: We're still far away. It's still a lot to do.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-03-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00193_d7e6627	Mr Markowitz has now come to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-03-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00193_d7e6649	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! As far as equality is concerned, we need to talk about another subject later. We must certainly put the lever on people with disabilities. We've heard a lot of things before. The main problem is certainly the sheer sheer. With regard to income shears between women and men, we are certainly in the final position in Europe. I would ask the Federal Government, that is, red and black, but also to look in its own ranks at the following: With us, men and women deserve as much as they are now speakers or club workers, and I would ask you to make sure that you do so! It is about training, but also about the protection of mothers, and above all it is about the problem that many women have only half-day occupations, and I think that the most important thing to do with this sheer is to start. This is precisely what we are going to be doing. She called on Mrs Minister to do something to ensure that women's businesses return to full-day jobs. But this must be especially “handleable” with the family. I think that is the main problem, why many women have only half-day occupations, because it simply doesn't take time. The next problem we have is, of course, quite clearly with pensions. There is a lack of income and years, and then women who have done a lot of things get a lower pension. In this respect, you have to do something, Mrs Minister, that is quite clear. When it comes to equal opportunities and social justice, it is necessary to put the emphasis on people with disabilities in particular. That is why I would also like to see Mr Sozialminister Hundstorfer sitting up in the back. It has been shown that 40,000 people with disabilities are unemployed. And when I look above all at the period from October 2010 to October 2012, I have to note that the unemployment rate for people with disabilities has increased by 5,900 people at that time. That's really a witness to poverty. I mean, it's about looking at the promotions of people with disabilities, which are already disadvantaged: In the annual comparison of the Federal Social Office funding, it is seen that these fell from 174 million to 149 million euros. In the case of termination protection, there has been a reduction of six months to four months in respect of retention period, and I see that even here people with disabilities are massively disadvantaged. Here you have to put on the lever as it is an important group of people who do not already have good in life. This also concerns the Ministry of Social Affairs, so this is practically an overarching matter. Mrs. Minister! Mr Sozialminister! Please make sure you don't forget these people. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] As far as women's shears are concerned, Mrs Minister, I would like to ask you: What has happened in the last four years? We've seen big campaigns. I think women are doing great work. I would also like to thank my club, the club director and her deputy, Renée Kanitz, for all those who work for us for years and really do great things. Women do really great work, and they also belong to support. And of course I'm the last [[Intrusion of the Abg. Binder-Maier.]] This is a typical SPÖ once again! That's sarcasm! You can come out yourself and praise your own employees! Do it! But I don't hear anything about social democracy! I know you don't. But we do this with great joy, because this is a great job. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] I am really proud of these ladies who work with us and really do a lot. I can't say how great that is often! Mrs. Minister, posters are too little. Campaigns are too few. In the next few months, as long as you are still in office, you will be required to really do something and to ensure that women are more protected and that, above all, the income scarves can be closed not only in public service, but also in private enterprises through incentives. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-03-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00193_d7e6730	Mrs Mag. Kuntzl is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-03-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00193_d7e6751	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! If you're here a few years longer, you can also remember times when women's policy from the government bank sounded quite different than today. At that time, one has tried very hard to conjure up images that have nothing at all to do with life realities, and has tried to turn the wheel of time back. To this end, I would like to point out twice and triple that the balance sheet which the Minister of Women can present today is a balance sheet that draws on a modern women's policy, which includes many important steps and that – and that is so important! – linked to a contemporary women's image. If we have heard from the colleague of the liberals that it is not about equalizing, then I must say to you, honestly: I can't hear that anymore! Who is talking about equalizing? [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Belakovich-Jenewein: We can't hear that either!]] Please understand after the many years in which you too sit here, but also finally that it is not about equalizing! [[Abg. Dr. Belakovich-Jenewein: What else?]] It is about making the opportunities even. It's about women and men having the same chances of life. [[It is in favour of SPÖ and ÖVP, as well as of Green MEPs.]] The opportunities should be made even, yes. The opportunities should be made even. But it is really adventurous, primitive and plump, to stand here today, in 2013, and say that you are against the equinox of women and men. Nobody wants that, no one, no one, no one! [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Stefan.]] On the contrary: It is about enabling something that was not always the case and still is not the way we imagine it, even though essential steps were possible in this direction, namely to enable women to live simply and simply as they imagine it. It is about enabling women to live both parts of life, namely, the private part, but also the profession, as was always a matter of course for men. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Belakovich-Jenewein.]] Women should be able to have children without being forced to make decisions, only to live with a child. Rather, women should be able to live with a child but can also build up a full professional existence. They're supposed to have a job from which they can live. This is a point on which the Minister for Women's Rights is speaking with fug and law, because this is so important: Women should have an income that ensures that “woman” can decide for herself about their lives and say: That's what I want. Until here and no further. Now I stand on my own legs and can stay in a relationship, but I am not dependent on it, can decide freely and can also decide differently. So it is about our having the responsibility, and this is what the Minister of Women has been doing in recent years very well and positively. There are important steps to create the framework conditions in such a way that women can make their decisions as they imagine their reality of life. And there have been important steps, but we all know: We're far from the goal. There are still many points we need and want to address. There has been much further progress in the field of education, which is a basic condition. The income has already been mentioned by Mr Katzian. The compatibility is such an important point in making this juggling between private life and professional life easier for women. The balance sheet, created 7 000 additional childcare places per year since 2009, is truly remarkable and remarkable. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Belakovich-Jenewein: After a dream!]] To the Papa Moon: We took the first step in the public service. We hope that the next step will come as soon as possible, Papa-Month also in the private sector. We hope that the Minister of the Family will soon be able to support us, which we need in order to be able to take appropriate steps. Many different models of child benefit have been created, the income-dependent child's allowance, in order to be able to correspond to the diversity of life's designs. There are many offers that we have to support, such as the childcare allowance. The motto set by the Minister for Women is: Let us make it possible and support women to live life the way they want it to. It is an important motto, Mrs Federal Minister, and we will continue to support you.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-03-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00193_d7e6849	Next speaker: Mrs Marek. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-03-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00193_d7e6870	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to follow on from what Mr Kuntzl said about Mrs Unterlander's speech. Equal opportunities policy means equal opportunities; it is not a matter of anything else. Mrs Colleague, we are dealing with all the vehemence and sustainable the key challenges that we, of course, have to face at European level. That is why we must not throw everything overboard, which is sustainablely important in political projects. Equal opportunities policy is a long-term project that we must devote to for decades, which we do indeed. Ladies and gentlemen, we continue to have key challenges in the field of income shears. That has already been said several times. Yesterday, the current figures came from the EU. 23 percent is the income shear between men and women in Austria. But I'd like to stress something: I don't want to take this as black-and-white as we are in the last place, because you already have to look at yourself – for example, Malta, for example with Italy – how high is the employment rate of women? – It makes a difference whether almost 70 percent of women in a country are employed as in Austria, or as in Other countries are only 45 percent – because only the top-qualified women who, of course, earn more are in employment. I think it must be taken into account when looking at these figures. The fact is, we need action in the non-explainable area of income differences, at 23 percent. You probably know the 2005 WU Vienna twin study, where without explainable backgrounds, without a baby break or similar, women still deserve far less than men. The causes have already been addressed in many speeches by my previous speakers. Baby break and child rearing are, of course, a subject. It's still female. But it can't be, Mrs. Unterlander, that they say that all the unpaid work should be left to women, as you said in your speech. Care and all this is automatically given to women and only the women have to do it. It is the fathers who did not even happen to men in your speech, which I very much regret, because women's policy must not exclude men! [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Unspoiled.]] Ladies and gentlemen, we need to develop society together and achieve greater equality. We have achieved essentials in the framework conditions, especially in terms of compatibility. Mr Markowitz, I do not want to accept that either, to say that nothing has happened in recent years. The income-dependent childcare allowance, the introduction of the short variants has brought essential things, especially in the sense of the father's participation. We are here with a third of the fathers who are now in Karenz, and that is also good. But the companies are also required. Mr Katzian has addressed a study, McKinsey, which says that it is simply paying off to create conditions for women, to also lead women. Ladies and gentlemen, it is a question of economic reason and not of social responsibility to have men and women in top positions, because how can anyone believe to be successful if you do not have 50 percent of the talents. All studies prove quite clearly that it pays off, as well as family kindness, family and work compatibility. But we will not achieve this objective alone by means of legal measures. I believe that excessive legal constraints are often also counterproductive and produce circumvention reflections. In Austria, we have a very good, very well-founded – pre-voicers, especially Mrs Schittenhelm, have implemented it – equal treatment law. A great deal has also been done in the collective agreements, even though we need to do more in parenting. But I see a superfluous right of equal treatment, which then even intervenes in property rights, ladies and gentlemen, quite critically. We must also ensure and work to ensure that women also take advantage of opportunities. The fact is, you often have to ask a woman a lot until she actually commits herself to a top job. The choice of profession is, of course, an essential issue. It also needs initiatives that we need to promote, such as girls in technology and many others. This is laborious, it improves something in small, slow steps, but it pays off. Ladies and gentlemen, in particular equal treatment and equal opportunities are happening in the minds. We must see that the good, well-founded, legal regulations that we have are also reflected in the minds, and that will be an essential challenge.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-03-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00193_d7e6939	Next speaker: Mrs Gartelgruber. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-03-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00193_d7e6961	Madam President. Minister! High house! We have today experienced a low point of parliamentaryism in this debate. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Mrs Schwentner, if you come down here today and discuss denunciations and untruths from the speaker's mouth, quote the 'Falter', I would like to point out to you here: [[Abg. May. Schwentner: I quoted an article that appeared early today!]] The “Falter” is not a court case. You must also note that it does not have a legal quality. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] And after you've publicly documented today that the Greens have absolutely signed out for women's politics, because they don't have another topic anymore, you obviously need a dirty dome campaign to make yourself popular again. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Actually, I would advise you to take care of a bit of order at your own clientele, because if you know that your sympathizers attack ball visitors, then I would sit there once and try to talk to them a serious word. [[Ironic hustle and bustle with the Greens]] [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Mrs Schwentner, another: I would recommend you not only to widen your sudel campaign here in the protection of immunity, but also outside – and then we will see what comes out of it. Besides, I have to tell you: That's really the worst and worst thing you've done today. I am deeply disappointed by you as a colleague. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Krainer.]] [[Abg. Dr. Pilz: Say something to the accusations!]] On the accusations I would like to say something to you: They're set and rebutted. [[Abg. Dr. Pilz: No! They're not contradicted!]] - Set and disproved! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Pilz: (keeping a document in height) I have the act!]] You come here today and quote a thing that's contradicted. Mr Lausch has been elected by an absolute majority. [[Abg. Street: absolute majority! That doesn't fit you!]] This is a dirty dome campaign that I deeply reject! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I think that's really the lowest level of you. Mr Pilz, you don't have to be so artificial now. That's an insanity what you're doing! [[Abg. Dr. Pilz: (keeping a document in height the next time) Here is the act!]] That's really last-class. That's done for me now. [[New welcome to the FPÖ.]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] I would now like to come back to the women's issues and get away from the dirty campaign of the Greens. [[Abg. May. Schwentner: This is a very important topic for women!]] – It’s an important topic for women, I’ll give you the right one. I am very much in favour of this too, and I also say to you: We are really committed to women, and we also listen, and we do not need to act at such a level as you do! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Pilz: (standing on Abg. That's your level!]] But now back to the actual debate, at the current hour: Equal opportunities for women. Yes, Mrs. Minister, I'm right about you. We took a few small steps, but they really didn't go far enough. I remember when I gave my first speech in the House in 2008 and looked at the government programme: At that time I have already listed some points where I knew they should be asked. And I think I have not really seen many measures from you, especially in the case of women in the agricultural sector. [[Abg. May. Schwentner: Who has not signed the request for women in rural areas?- Oh, my God!]] We are always talking about promoting women, but we also guarantee freedom of choice. I really have to say what I particularly like is the prelude of a mayor in Salzburg, the Berndorf model, who has had the courage to actually take a step to value inner family childcare, also to appreciate monetary value. This is a very big and important step that I personally like very well. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] But we have also made a lot of proposals here in the House, which are intended to and can be a real improvement for women in Austria. Unfortunately, all of them have not been accepted so far – my colleagues have already pointed this out in advance. We introduced an eight-point program in September 2011, which unfortunately is still in the drawer with you. I would be very pleased if we could seriously discuss this again. We should not only talk about pay calculators and pay transparency, but also about the values and importance of the work women do in Austria, not only in childcare and care, but also in many other areas. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-03-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00193_d7e7200	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Steinhauser. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-03-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00193_d7e7222	Ladies and gentlemen! The spokesperson of the FPÖ, Mr Gartelgruber, asked us to have the files spoken in the case of harassment. Then let's talk the files. There a person concerned has said, under the duty of truth: "After a major negotiation, Lauch took a massive hold on my butt and just replied that he would have needed it now." Furthermore, one of the victims says: “At the guard room he said ‘Good day, Puppi’ and lasted on my butt.’ Furthermore, in this act various emails are documented to those affected with pornographic content or the call to go to the Swinger Club. Ladies and gentlemen, this is sexual harassment, it is unworthy of a Member of this House. Deputies Lausch, step back! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Strache: it is true and not false! You quote!]] Ladies and gentlemen, what does Mr Lausch say about these accusations? There are e-mails that clearly document them. Parliamentary Lausch says they're falsified. – So: If someone fakes e-mails from me with such content and sends them to a affected person, with such serious accusations, what would I do? - I'd complain. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Stefan.]] Several criminal offences have been fulfilled: bad remorse, forgery of evidence. What did my colleague Lausch do? – He didn’t complain, and he knew why he didn’t complain: because he knows he won’t win this process. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Strache: Of course he complained!]] Ladies and gentlemen, we will see if Mr Lausch is complaining about the “Falter”. He's got another possibility. But you know what Mr Lausch says: There's nothing coming out! And that says a member of a party who doesn't give up the opportunity to complain to journalists or critics when they say anything that might be deplorable. [[New call for tender of the Abg. May. Stefan.]] They also buy defeats for it. They're complaining. No, they did not complain only of this one point, and the honourable Member Lausch knows why he did not complain. [[Abg. Strache: Set for seven years because it!]] [[Abg. May. Stefan: Something is incredible!]] But it's still going on. Lauss said: “The allegations come only from malicious women who want to make what a career.” – That was an original quote, not my grammar error. That, ladies and gentlemen, is the classic victim-cult-return, as we know it from various procedures for sexual harassment. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Now the spokesperson of the FPÖ represents the position here that this procedure would be terminated and that all accusations have been rejected. Ladies and gentlemen, this is, if anything, only half the truth. [[Abg. May. Stefan: Did you have one? Inquisition of the Greens!]] Adjusted is correct, but not because anything has been rebutted, no, had to be stopped because this disciplinary procedure has been delayed, and is being delayed in an orange-blue justice ministry, where the blue staff representatives have pulled the strips so that this disciplinary procedure remains. [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, 17 ==References====External links==* Official website ==References== The limitation period came on December 2005. [[Abg. Dr. Rosenkranz: That's what's up-to-date?]] Nothing happened. It is likely that four months later Parliament was notified to Mr Lausch of the decision on the initiation of the procedure so that the procedure was delayed and not continued. Nothing has been contradicted either. [[Abg. May. Stefan: Where were those blues? No Minister of Justice!]] Ladies and gentlemen, what was the FPÖ's reaction? - These are old hats. I know about this incident since yesterday. It's obviously an old hat for you. – Mr Partyobmann Strache, the question arises as to how long you have known about these incidents, what you have done to clarify these incidents, and why you still cover honourable Member Lausch, even though you have known about these incidents for so long. [[Abg. Street: there was no FPÖ Justice Minister in 2005!]] [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Ladies and gentlemen, we know the FPÖ from these debates here. It is not too severe for her, it is not too hard for her to judge. Only when it comes to your own people will it be mild and then the coat of silence will be spread over the Members. [[Abg. May. Stefan: Not at all! There is a proper procedure first!]] Mr. Partyobmann Strache, your party suffers from a lack of leadership, which is now visible with a free eye. You've been able to get rid of the case of Count. You have another case of Dobernig, you have a case of Dörfler. Now you also have a case of noise. We shall observe whether you are at least still in your own club, are persuasive, are following the accusations and are demanding consequences, and will bring back Mr Lausch. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to conclude with the spokesperson of the FPÖ. She said: “Opportunities on women should not remain unpunished, no matter what cultural background the perpetrators have. ” That's a quote that's been behind for a long time. We can close this today. This obviously does not apply to a cultural background, and that is the freedom of movement. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-03-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00193_d7e7440	Next speaker: Mr Dolinschek. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-03-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00193_d7e7461	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Back to the subject. Mr President, I think you have missed the subject now, because it is about equality, it is about the current hour – it is not about sexual harassment, it is about equality, success, prospects and measures in Austria for men and women. [[Call to the Greens: It's about sexual harassment!]] And women are disadvantaged, but you have clearly missed the subject here. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Equal pay for equal work: There's still a lot to do. Mrs Wurm, you said there was a lot of success, but you also said it was still a lot to do. I am of your opinion that there is still a lot to do. They have made comparisons with kindergarten teachers, folk school teachers compared to bank managers or managers in the economy at all, the difference in income in these areas. Mrs Colleague, you have forgotten that there are also modest incomes of women working in sectors where there is often no collective agreement. It is true, however, that in these sectors it is well deserved. This applies to notaries, lawyers and doctors where women work as doctors. You forgot about that, and there's still a lot to do. We have often pointed out that there must also be a minimum wage for those who do not have a collective agreement. The fact that there is no collective agreement is that the social partners are responsible, there are also a lot of things to do with it. To the income sheath: Who's negotiating the wages? This is what the social partners, workers' representatives and employers' representatives do, and it is the trade union that negotiates wages. And if Mr. Katzian says from the speaker's desk today: Well, we have to put several women in leadership positions!, I ask you: Why is there no president at the Austrian Trade Union Confederation yet? [[Aufgaben bei BZÖ und der Abg. May. Honey.]] Now there is a new president at the Chamber of Workers in Vienna. It hasn't become a woman. Why? – Mr Commissioner, come to your own door, don’t ask for something from others and don’t put it into practice! [[Phone call at the SPÖ.]] That's one thing. [[Further calls to the SPÖ.]] Women also earn a quarter less. [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Krainer, Dr. Matznetter and Mr Ursula Haubner.]] They always put their shoulders on the fact that social democracy over trade unions is committed to a better income. – Then finally do something! Then do something! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] So it is, because in training, ladies and gentlemen, the women are not behind men! We have more maturants than maturants, as far as the academic ratio is concerned, we do not go backwards. – If they are so well trained, why do women deserve less? I'll ask you that. One thing has to be asked, there is full-time and part-time work on the one hand; that is one. There are more women working part-time, but this is one thing in the partnership: One is full-time, the other part-time. As long as both of them live in the common budget, this is no problem at all, only when the relationship breaks down and separate households are created and the cost of living becomes more expensive, then there is also financial problems. The Federal Minister has said that there must be several possibilities: same-sex marriages, rainbow families. – Yes, who is the cost of it? If they stand up for it themselves, it's all right, but if the generality has to pay the costs for it, it'll be a little heavy. [[Abg. Riepl: Nice speech, Sigisbert! Nice talk!]] We must create different conditions. Mrs Bundesminister, there are serious differences between public service and private sector. The Papa month is not at all a problem in the public service, but a major question mark in the private sector. In order to be able to better reconcile work and private life or family life, it will be necessary to create the environment for full employment, as I am entirely of your opinion, Mrs Bundesminister. First of all, we have to create these conditions: that child care is all day long, that schooling is all day; there is one or another thing to do. But what is also important is that one finally removes the labour force and comes to a value added. That's important, because otherwise it doesn't function. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Today you can have a boss or a boss. The boss does nothing but the boss; if young women who have a good education apply, they are always paid worse than a man. [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign.]] But I don't understand the following: Women who have already completed family planning, who grow up and no longer need so much time for the family deserve less. These women need to be looked at, because everything you do not acquire in the labour market is also less in the pension. [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign again.]] This should be looked at, and that should be taken into account in this area too!
ParlaMint-AT_2013-03-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00193_d7e7563	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. [[10:43:52]] Objections against the agenda in accordance with § 50 GOG
ParlaMint-AT_2013-03-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00193_d7e7584	We are now going into the debate on the objections to the Bucher agenda. I would draw attention to the fact that the speaking time of the speakers is 5 minutes. Mr Klubobmann Bucher is the first to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-03-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00193_d7e7609	Madam President. We have requested this debate in order to also give the public the opportunity to take a closer look at it. to monitor how the negotiating positions of each party are actually with regard to the prohibition of speculation. I think the public has a right to it. Not behind closed doors should be negotiated, but here in the House, where everyone can also follow the positions. We from BZÖ have very clear positions regarding the ban on speculation. In future, we want the money of taxpayers who have been hard-yielded to be no longer speculated. Neither federal nor state nor cities and municipalities should be allowed to speculate on the tax money in the future. This is clear and clear, and there should also be a constitutional regulation. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Therefore, ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ and of the ÖVP, it is not understandable to me why it has not been possible to bring about this law to this day, especially since the beginning of this miscarriage in Salzburg we have been basically of an opinion and have all said: It must not go on, we also need a barrier for countries so that tax money is not handled carelessly and a clear directive on this too. All the political groups in the House agreed on this, and it is also perfectly logical and comprehensible that we should take action there. For me, it is also incomprehensible why the FPÖ jumped off at the last moment, because there was also a very positive and very constructive negotiation practice. I would just like to remind you that you are also here today to make it clear why there is suddenly this rejection of the ban on speculation. You also have the opportunity to comment on this today. I also give consideration to Ladies and gentlemen of the FPÖ, that with this attitude you are taking here today, you are basically going to glue the SPÖ and the ÖVP, because both parties do not want to prohibit this speculation, and here you are the ones who serve as a riser to prevent this speculation ban. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Ladies and gentlemen! We basically need this speculation ban for five years, since the financial crisis is driving its inconsistencies. We can now see the consequences in Cyprus. In Cyprus, banks generally rule, as in the whole of the European Union, the banking experts and bank lobbyists have the scepter in hand and not the government politicians. There you can also see that the decisions in favour of the banks always go out. It is not understandable how a German chancellor Faymann or also a Finance Minister Fekter repeatedly kneel in front of the big banking groups who always put their own interests before the interests of the people and the countries, ladies and gentlemen. It is not about what people have in money and possess or save themselves, but it is about profit, it is about the greed of the bankers, they are at the forefront of European policy. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Bankers have become the dark side of power in the European Union. We have seen this in the rescue packages, one after the other, we have seen it in the European Central Bank's cheap monetary policy, where each bank can borrow by 1 percent. Look at your credit frame, which interest rates you have to pay! The difference is collected by the bank. I say consciously that it is the big banks, not the small regional banks that we often have to deal with, which I deliberately exclude here, because they can't do anything for this banking crisis. In fact, however, it has been in recent years It has not succeeded in developing clear rules at European level so that the money can no longer be speculated and no access to the savings of the savers can be made. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, this is a perfect statement by the European politicians, when they say that deposit guarantee continues to exist at €100 000. – If no bank can go into bankruptcy and go into bankruptcy, the deposit guarantee with the €100 000 will never fail. This is because what now threatens to happen in Cyprus is to access the savings deposits of the savers. [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign]] – And we don't want to! That is why we want to see the savings deposits in Austria, the savings of the savers protected by constitutional law!
ParlaMint-AT_2013-03-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00193_d7e7696	Next speaker: Mr Krainer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-03-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00193_d7e7717	Madam President. The reason for the debate on the ban on speculation was the speculation of the country of Salzburg. Salzburg was not the first local authority to carry out risky speculation business, but has been classified in an unsavoryly long series of speculations of the public hand, whether this is Carinthia with the hypo, or Tyrol, Lower Austria, or also at the federal level with the OeBFA, with the speculation losses at the federal level; there is an unmistakable series. [[Abg. Ursula Haubner: Linz, for example! Linz! Linz!]] [[Call the ÖVP:Vienna! The city of Vienna!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hörl]] But there are three main differences between Salzburg and, for example, Lower Austria or the other mentioned ones. The first one is: There have been political consequences, the competent Council of State has resigned. – First difference. Second difference: There is perfect transparency and enlightenment. It has been put on the table exactly – quite precisely – which business there is, when they have been completed, the risk behind it, and so on. [[Abg. Dr. Moser: You don't know it yet!]] That means, second big difference: Transparency and Enlightenment. The third big difference is: Under the rule, no losses have yet occurred in Salzburg – to this day; nothing can be said about the future. But this is also a difference, because in Lower Austria and so on, some billions of losses have been realized. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hörl.]] So there are three major differences between Salzburg and the other speculation scandals. Unfortunately, the fourth big difference still does not apply today, namely that as a result of which there is a ban on speculation in the Constitution. The SPÖ called for this for the first time in 2009 or 2010. Due to the OeBFA loss, we already made this proposal at the time, unfortunately, all the other parties did not see it that way. In the meantime, it is true that, at least as far as the speculation part is concerned, there is simplicity here in the house, that a speculation ban is part of the Constitution, and I know that we – almost all political groups – agree on content as it should be. The difference still exists is not the question of speculation, but the question of accounting rules which we are now discussing at the same time. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Moser.]] [[Abg. May. Rossmann: Also the speculation!]] These are, of course, important, so we are discussing them too, but there are still differences there. This must also be seen pragmatically: Firstly, we will not write the accounting rules into the Constitution, and secondly, we will not put the entire accounting rules into a law for all local authorities in four weeks. We have redesigned the accounting rules at federal level, we have needed two novels, a total of more than ten years to implement this. You can certainly do this a little faster than we did at the federal level, but that's not something you break over your knees. What I'm sorry about is: We were really very close at the last session. I've had the impression that this time we're even closer. I am not going to do what some have done the last time and today in the early days, namely to show with your finger who is to blame. The only thing I can say is: We Socialists are not in the way of any solution, neither at the last session nor today, and we will not stand in the way of a reasonable solution in the future, either, because it is essential for us first to prohibit speculation, public-hand speculation, and secondly, that we have uniform common accounting rules for all local authorities. That's why we're working constructively with this. It is not a reputation, one must say, for politics as a whole, for all of us here in the House, that we cannot decide this at the second session yet with the necessary two-thirds majority, but I am very confident that we will do this at the next session, because it is necessary to do so. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Kogler.]] I would ask all the political groups, who continue to cooperate constructively, not to point their fingers at each other, because we agree on 95 percent. We simply need to work on creating this last step, so that we can adopt, at the latest at the next session, a reasonable law, the ban on speculation and the uniform accounting rules.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-03-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00193_d7e7821	The next speaker was Mr Klubobmann Strache. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-03-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00193_d7e7842	Madam President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Admissions, before I come to the subject, still replicating the greens: If Mr Steinhauser or Mrs Schwentner stand out today and then throw themselves around here with dirt and denunciation, I would like to make a few things clear. [[Call the Greens.]] Against a successful liberal representative of the judiciary, the operation was carried out with immense accusations and denunciations. Since 2003, these immense and false accusations have been raised to eliminate him as a successful staff representative. In 2006, the rule of law rejected all these false denunciations and terminated the proceedings. [[Abg. Brosz: respond to the arguments!]] [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] And in the rule of law, the Greens won't let you play judges, police, prosecutors, executives, as you do over and over again. They either have to stand on the ground of the rule of law or not. You say here today, under the protection of immunity, behind this pult, and you should be ashamed of that! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Brosz]] Tell it to the public, then stand in court and be condemned for it! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[New call for tender of the Abg. Brosz.]] What was the response of the representatives of the Justice Department in the Josefstadt? – That in 2009, due to these enormous denunciations by staff representatives Christian Lausch received the absolute majority! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] This is the democratic response to such immense, dirty and obscene denunciations that you try to reinvent again and again in conjunction with the green “falter”, although it has been clarified by the rule of law. [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Krainer and Dr. Matznetter.]] [[Call the Greens: Everything in Butter!]] I come to the subject: What has been said today on the subject of the debate is correct in many parts. Why is this government opposed to putting this item on the agenda today? That would be reasonable to refer him back to committee to discuss with constitutional experts exactly the criticisms we have and to ensure that there is this legal certainty. I do not want to say that the constitutional areas that have been negotiated are in many parts good and correct. However, there is also a motion for a resolution to be put into effect only after the next National Council election: when the election is over and a new government is in office. We have already experienced many similar developments and know what this means, namely, a funeral of the first class. There are not exactly defined can and must provisions – all on “can” and nothing on “must” –, Article 15a agreements are kept open, giving the national leaders the opportunity to finally block how we have experienced this in the field of youth protection when a federal country comes and says: No, we don't like that. These are not the sustainable speculation laws that we want, where then essential areas are missing. And if Mr. Kopf says from this pult that the promise of the FPÖ has given it, I say: Mr. Kopf, it's insanity when you say the untruth here! If there had been a commitment, there would have been a decision in the Presidency to put the item on the agenda today. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hoefinger.]] You know what the use of Parliament is: If there is a commitment by the political groups, then we shall be in the presidency, and then the agenda will be adopted on the basis of the majority. [[Abg. Head: Painful! Painful!]] If it had been given this commitment by the Freedom Party, you did not find it worth the effort until yesterday to contact me as a clubman and to negotiate with me. [[Abg. Head: Volume does not replace the truth!]] If you notice that you don't hop because the ÖVP simply pretends what has to happen, then suddenly the phone calls come. I tell you clearly and clearly: They are primarily responsible for ensuring that water cannot be speculated so that privatisation with Austrian water is not allowed to take place. [[Admissibility at the FPÖ]] [[Abg. Amon: applause!]] That's exactly what you're blocking. We call for this in the Constitution to be finally guaranteed as the right and protection of the property of the Austrian population, and you refuse to do so. The SPÖ has signalled that it will be available for such a constitutional law and a guarantee. You have to stick to the truth. Of course, it would also be important to take in the commitment of the housing funds immediately, but I understand that you may not be interested in it. [[Admissibility at the FPÖ]] But it is about sustainability, and we want a speculation ban law that is sustainable and not a free ticket that the national leaders of Häupl can define again over Pröll to Burgstaller, which is speculation and which is not. - No, that's all turned off! There must be no rear doors and no main towers to continue, as is the case in some areas in Vienna, with the sewerization, even with water. The city of Vienna, in the wild Alps, very well leases the water sources and does a business with which one has to show. [[He-Rufe at the FPÖ]] [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign.]] Such things belong to decommissioned, but you obviously have no sustainable interest in that, otherwise you would take the item on the agenda today, refer to the committee, renegotiate there with constitutional experts, and see that the law enters into force immediately – not after the next election.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-03-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00193_d7e8017	Mr Klubobmann's head is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-03-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00193_d7e8038	Madam President. Mr State Secretary! Dear ladies and gentlemen! Mr. Klubobmann Strache, you can lose elections – that's fucking unpleasant, but it's all happened that when you're elected, it doesn't come out what you wanted; in Carinthia it was particularly painful for you, I understand – but do you know what's much worse in the democratic debate? – Not to lose choice, but to lose face! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The worst thing for a party is if it loses confidence when it sits down, negotiates, a result is achieved as it did last Saturday – and that is the untruth that you said earlier; last Saturday your budget spokesman agreed to the negotiation result, also reaffirms that this finds the party's approval – and then the whole thing – as yesterday – for some tactical reasons! [[Abg. That's not right!]] [[Abg. Strache: This is not true what you claim here! A club has to decide!]] Do you know what you criticized here? – You have criticized your own budget speaker, not us. This was a massive criticism of your own budget speaker, who agreed to this solution. They are now criticizing the solution he has negotiated with us. So this is a massive criticism of your own club member. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. You know that? – A club agrees!]] But we note that it is not possible to rely on the liberals, that you can't really do anything with the liberals, because it doesn't even last a few hours. Unfortunately, we have to take note of that. [[New congratulations to the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! There is a consensus between the federal, state and local authorities that first speculations and losses of speculations, as they are recorded in Salzburg, must never happen again. This means that these speculations are also prohibited by constitutional law. There is also agreement between all levels that we want to have budgetary rights in the future, also for the countries, including the municipalities, which make the estimates that the annual accounts, that the invoices of countries will be really comparable, that the invoices of communities will also be comparable. [[President Neugebauer shall take over the chairmanship.]] That's what the municipal government, the town government wants, that's what the countries want, and we want it. But, Mr Kogler, in the discussions, we also agreed that the budgetary law of the federal government – which I mean is a good thing, but we have negotiated it for several years – can not 1 : 1 to the countries and not even to the municipalities or smaller communities, but that it needs graduated regulations so that one does not overbureaucratize. That is, we are now writing in the Constitution, according to this agreement we have reached, the principle that by the year 2018 all the uniform rules and budgets and budgets must have, but it is still necessary to define in what detail that is actually taking place at national level, at local level. But there has been broad consensus that it is neither possible nor useful to want to define it now. We need further talks to do this. What is on the table here as a negotiating result, and which you are surprisingly unwilling to agree to in spite of your commitment, is precisely taken into account: that this is now recorded in the Constitution – then there will be no return later – and that you will, of course, set the details with the countries and communities until the summer of next year and then also implement them together by 2018. [[Abg. Strache: Until the Sankt-Nimmerleins Day with the 15a story!]] This is a clean way without any back door. The countries are confessing themselves, the communities are confessing themselves to it, the federal government is confessing that only the FPÖ, which has initially promised, is now overthrowing and says no at the last moment. [[Abg. New builder: nonsense!]] Mr. Strache, you will have to live with the fact that once again you have lost your face!
ParlaMint-AT_2013-03-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00193_d7e8165	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Kogler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-03-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00193_d7e8187	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! The clubman of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats has replicated once again to the present hour, because no more liberal speaker had the opportunity to speak. – So far, so good, so bad in the argument. I just want to hold on to the following: In fact, in the case mentioned earlier, Lausch did not have any judicial proceedings, not even appropriate proceedings at the Disciplinary Commission, only: In reality – and that is what I believe will be up-to-date – all this is even more tragic, because in this case and in this dimension it is also a scandal of justice, because there are very far-reaching suspicions that things have been deliberately abandoned and have not been persecuted. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] This is the even greater problem in justice. That's why you can also argue as you argue, that's not quite wrong. [[Abg. Strache: This is an absolute nonsense!]] That's why it's about rolling the case up again as a whole. If you constantly mount this – it is free to you. It might even be helpful and useful not only to ‘hash’ Members here, but to complain to those who make such claims in the public. At least that's going to put something in motion there. But now for the real thing: The Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats is in any case experiencing my support or defence, because it cannot be, Mr Cubobmen Head and Mr Cap, that a group cannot consult itself and cannot take account of these difficult negotiations. That's the way it is. I should also like to remind you, Mr President, that we have been much further in the proposals – that is, we are already part of the problems – and that, in fact, we have more stringent provisions, on the basis of Fekter, Schieder, I believe, and Kogler, that these more stringent proposals have been taken back, because: Your group here in Parliament – because the Heads of State have a corresponding influence on the Members here, as they are sitting there – has obviously been withdrawn. But it must be accepted in democracy, it is. You wonder why this kind of federalism must take such an exuberant place with us, but it is so. [[Congratulation with Greens and BZÖ.]] I cannot agree with you, so let the liberals also consult themselves. From my point of view, they have been involved over long distances. These are difficult questions of consideration. But perhaps the better as an interim remark: I wouldn't give up all this. We do not even need to talk about a resumption of the negotiations, because there is a lot to be done. This applies now to both parts, to the ban on speculation and also to budgetary law. The so-called ban on speculation in the narrow sense is a somewhat euphemistic term, because there are still enough gaps open. That makes it so difficult for us to argue publicly. You have the advantage that you just call the ban on speculation. We see some speculation holes, which, as I mean, are deliberately kept open. Therefore, this is a speculation hole and a speculation free letter at certain places. That is why we are opposed, not for tactical reasons, but because we are convinced that we can achieve much, much more. We'll need you to do that. [[towards ÖVP]] There have been a lot of reasonable two-thirds lab moods in the last two years, but it was mostly so that it always came to pass when the government fractions joined an improved, stricter opposition proposal. That would be nice if that could work again this time. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] For this very purpose, that is to say, to the positive, I would actually and seriously mean the invitation to discuss this matter with country representatives, also with the head of state of Vorarlberg, with Mr Wallner, who is a serious person, there is nothing to do with it, and to consider where the fears are. I still have the impression that there are even a number of misunderstandings. But one thing has to be clear to the Constitutional Legislator, and that now applies – I have to shorten it – both to the so-called ban on speculation, which is far from yet another, as well as to the budgetary law which was not quite wrongfully negotiated at the same time – which is a step forward, no one would have believed it half a year ago; this is also due to Mrs Finanzminister Fekter, although at first she would not have trusted it, and only because we have all put ourselves on the back feet, that has happened. Only one thing has to happen now: In the financial constitution, both in terms of budgetary law and the ban on speculation, we must avoid making letters, paragraphs and articles that always refer only to the next! We have a federal constitution that creates a federal law that needs and creates a 15a agreement, which will then change the country constitutions, as in Salzburg, and then a state law will be created again with regulations and directives. [[President Neugebauer gives the bell sign]] That doesn't lead to anything! There are only timetables and hardly any content. We need content, it means financial constitution and not timetable constitution. Therefore, the most important content must be recorded, then everything around this pan, the You have produced in the Article 15a Treaties, completely irrelevant, because then in the Constitution we have the right principles of a ban on speculation: Close gaps, fight speculation, say goodbye to constitution!
ParlaMint-AT_2013-03-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00193_d7e8259	Next speaker: Mrs Silhavy. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-03-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00193_d7e8281	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Mr Kogler, obviously forgotten They're all the experiences we've made in this house. If I can remind you of the advances that the new federal budget law has needed here, I am very surprised by your statements. [[Abg. Brosz: Which one?]] But, ladies and gentlemen, what is the point of this objection debate that was called for by the BZÖ? [[Abg. May. Rossmann: By 2017 are three and a half years!]] It is alleged that the agenda should be supplemented by an important legislative matter, which is a comprehensive constitutional ban on speculation with public funds, including for countries and communities. – A scheme whose implementation from the understanding of the SPÖ must be of interest to all responsible forces. Now it turns out, however, that at least in some opposition parties a shift towards the next elections is already more important than a constitutional anchoring of the ban on speculation. [[Abg. May. Kogler: But there's nothing inside, read it through!]] Especially treacherous, Mr Kogler, from this point of view is that the BZÖ clubman, that is, the one who asked for the objection debate today, was already on Thursday, the 14. March, i.e. last week, announced actions for this week. [[Abg. May. Kogler: He is right!]] On “orf.at” you could read the following: "The oranges require the government to take the ban on speculation on the agenda of the National Council meeting next week, otherwise protest actions will be put." [[Inter-calls at the BZÖ.]] [[Abg. Strache: Yes, that’s g’scheit!]] That's your right, but why do you get upset when you make it clear why you do that? [[Subsequent calls to the BZÖ.]] The explanatory statement gives Mr Bucher in the next sentence. “For example, the presentation of the new Minister of Defense Gerald Klug (SPÖ) is to be delayed by a debate on objections, said BZÖ Chief Josef Bucher today to the APA.” That's what you recognize your intention to do, and I think that's a little sad. Mr Bucher, you are not concerned about the content, because you have already announced this action, regardless of concrete formulations in matter that have been renegotiated on the weekend, as you know, last week. [[Abg. May. Rossmann: Where are the contents, Mrs. Colleague?]] Thank you You yourself open up the intention of this transparent maneuver. It seems to be more of a desperation act of a party that constantly leaves Members to be mentioned in a few lines in the media. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. May. Kogler: What is against a debate?]] [[Abg. Scheibner: Read something else!]] Mr Scheibner, at the Budget Committee meeting, you attacked the Stronach team that it would not have been in the negotiations. You can read this. I think you yourself have taken a completely different position at the time, and you have not yet expressed yourself in concrete terms how you actually stand on matter. [[Abg. Scheibner: I'm still on it!]] What does BZÖ actually stand for matter? This has not been the case, either, of the comments made by Mr Bucher. In this respect, you will be covered like the famous fig leaf. That's what I think is interesting. [[Abg. May. Widmann: We've been negotiating!]] Yes, I can also tell you that in the budget committee debates, you have actually unisonoly praised by the opposition parties how well the government has met with you, how close an agreement is actually to be reached. You all said that unisono. I could now quote Mr Podgorschek from the FPÖ, who stressed this, the BZÖ, but also the Greens, all have carried out how much the government had already met the opposition parties. Today, all this is completely different. I am very surprised about that, and I think that will have other reasons than purely material reasons. At that time, only Mr Kogler – and the Greens have already called for a debate on objections at a plenary session in February – took the same position as today. The Greens say it's all too little. This is actually the point to which you could reduce your argumentation. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Brosz.]] I am very sorry that, in the knowledge of the state structure, you are constantly taking up this fundamental opposition policy and not thinking of the whole, even though you yourself admit that progress has been made. [[Abg. May. Kogler: Yeah, but it's much more inside!]] [[Abg. May. Rossmann: The glass is getting full, but now it has become empty again!]] Mr Hagen said exactly the opposite at this meeting at the time, as Mr Lugar did today. He called for the negotiations to continue. I think, Mr Lugar, it is very worrying if you call negotiations with the national leaders “passing past Parliament” in a federalist state structure. I deeply regret that the opposition parties today have not been able to give a commitment to the necessary consent to matter. That is why, unfortunately, the treatment of this matter is not enough here in plenary today. As I hope, we will find a time when we can also convince the opposition of the importance of this matter. We Social Democrats are used to acting. I am particularly proud of the Salzburg Government, which has already decided on Monday this week to ban speculation. I can only ask you, on the part of the opposition parties, to take on this responsibility in this House as well and to take this positive path with us for the people and for the state!
ParlaMint-AT_2013-03-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00193_d7e8492	Next speaker: Mr Klubobmann Ing. Lugar. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-03-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00193_d7e8514	Mr President. High house! I think Mrs. Silhavy, you got something wrong. Of course, it is not a question of Parliament wanting to decide something by the countries or otherwise, but rather of a constitutional law, and you know as well as I do that we are constitutional legislators here. That is to say, when it comes to a constitutional law, Parliament should consult and determine on it. What the countries are saying is of course also very interesting, but much more interesting is what the honourable Members are saying about this. That's exactly the problem we have. This is a ban on speculation for the countries. There is no one among us – no one! – who would somehow find this bad. Or do you seriously believe that even a single Member, whether from the government or from the opposition, would be good if the countries speculated with the money of taxpayers or with debt? [[Abg. Strache: Otherwise it wouldn't have happened! There are already a few!]] Do you think there is? Do you think anyone here in this room likes this? Of course, we want to stop that. That's what it's all about. We now have the problem that the government has apparently joined the countries and is trying to achieve a minimum consensus in order to be able to tell the population that there is a ban on speculation while the countries continue as before. That's what we want to prevent! From my point of view, what Mr Kopf has said today has really taken a deep look: We have discussed, and we have not reached agreement. That is why we are not talking about this in Parliament? What kind of parliamentarianism is that? If we are only talking here in Parliament about things that have already been negotiated, then we can save ourselves talking about it. This is about discourse. [[Assured by the honourable Member Mag. Stefan and Strache.]] The issue of living parliamentaryism should be that we are discussing here in this House and finding a solution together. If the government already has preconceived opinions, it should at least listen to our opinion, perhaps it is reasonable. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Matznetter.]] I tell you, there are also reasonable people among the opposition parties, even if the government does not even want to believe it, there are them. A Parliament should not be a voting machine as it has always been in the past, but a Parliament should be a place of discourse. [[Congratulation of the Abg. Hagen.]] That is why your approach is absolutely inconceivable. Even if you do not create a majority in the past, we are talking about it! You can put matter on the agenda, then I would like to see if the opposition dares not to accept a reasonable proposal. If so, then the opposition is in need of argumentation, not the government. In other words, if you have a good proposal, which is also pleasing to the Court of Auditors and which is not just a fig leaf, in order to enable countries to simply continue as before, then no one will trust in the opposition to vote against it. If so, put the item back on the agenda! Then I'll see if they're voting against it. If so, then again! Then the population will see who is constructive here and who is not. This possibility would exist. That would be living parliamentaryism, not this refusal: [[Congratulation of the Abg. Hagen]] If there is not a result in the past, then there will not be any entry into Parliament at all. [[Abg. Silhavy: We are in Parliament!]] What are we here? Do we make our knees every day after prefabricated voting lists in order to simply wink through things that were previously played out in some backrooms? It can't be! We also need transparency in decisions. [[Abg. May. Kogler: Right!]] Why don't we let the citizen watch? Let us see how we work together to find solutions! It would be exciting once, that would interest people outside. Today some watch in front of the television screens, which may even see what Parliamentarism means, what it is and how it works. That would be a good thing. I think it would really be time for us to agree on the points in which we all agree – we all agree that everyone wants the countries for God's sake to stop speculating with sponsored money or with taxpayers' money; that's what everyone wants! – show what Parliament is able to do, what reasonable Members are able to do. I am absolutely grateful that we have this objection debate today, which had to be said once because I believe that Parliament can do more than it is currently showing. [[Abg. May. Kogler: At least that!]] And this is a great opportunity to restore confidence outside the population. In this sense, I hope that we manage to discuss these things together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-03-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00193_d7e8614	Next speaker: Mr Dr. Stummvoll. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-03-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00193_d7e8636	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! I have a bit of an impression in today's debate that it seems here that anyone in this House or the federal states is opposed to a speculation ban. – Ladies and gentlemen, this is all free invention. [[Abg. Strache: Keep everything open with the 15a agreement! Keep everything open with the request!]] It is true, Mr Strache, that the federal states, the local government, were the first to make an Article 15a Treaty together with the Minister of Finance, which lays down the prohibition of speculation in the form of four principles. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Kogler]] The countries immediately anchored this. First: The principle of risk-based financial management. That means avoiding avoidable risks. [[Abg. May. Kogler: Yes, and St. Pölten continues to speculate!]] Secondly, The principle of strategic annual planning in the field of liquidity and debt management. [[Abg. May. Kogler: What about housing promotion?]] Thirdly, Principle of the four-eye principle and the strict separation of treasury and risk management. Fourth: The principle of full transparency, in particular on the transactions carried out. [[Abg. May. Kogler: What about housing promotion?]] That's what the countries signed weeks ago. [[Abg. May. Rossmann: Laws alone are not enough, how often do you have to say that?- Oh, my God!]] And the reason why we need a constitutional provision, you know just as well, Mr Rossmann, do not do that: because we also want to involve the communities. [[Abg. May. Rossmann: Of course! Yes!]] That is the reason for a constitutional provision. We have therefore held very many and very constructive discussions here in this House, and we have made improvements which have already been decided in the Committee on Budgets. But one thing I have to say: The opposition has partly followed an incredible zigzag line. ==References== We had a meeting of the Budget Committee on February. [[Abg. May. Kogler: There has not been debated at all!]] In this, the opposition said: We want to postpone all this! Then we got 27th. A plenary meeting was held on February. Why is that not decided today? Last night, Mr Kogler said again in a press conference that the whole thing should be postponed. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Brosz.]] Today, you say it should be referred back. So what do you want now? [[Abg. May. Kogler: This is the same!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Rossmann.]] We from the government parties are purely solution-oriented. We want solutions, ladies and gentlemen! I have great respect, Mr Strache, for your colleagues in the Financial Committee. Both Mr Alois Gradauerals and Mr Podgorschek and Mr Hofer have negotiated incredibly constructively, and they have negotiated to the best of their knowledge and conscience. [[Abg. But we do not agree with the political groups.]] You told me they assumed that they had the confidence of the club leadership. Then it turned out that they didn't. I'm really sorry, because that's not usual. [[Abg. Strache: That's not right, either, what you're saying now!]] At the end of the day, negotiators do not have the confidence of their club leadership. [[Abg. Strache: That's not right what you're saying!]] But great respect, great appreciation, the colleagues mentioned were always very open, constructive and honest. [[Abg. Strache: It told you yesterday that he did not agree!]] Mr Strache, my first reaction, when I heard that yesterday, was if a partyobmann was a sturgeon in such turbulence, because the events in Carinthia and Lower Austria made his leadership weak clearly visible, then he needed a distraction maneuver, that is perfectly clear! [[Abg. Strache: Didn't Mr Grastaur tell you yesterday that a few points are open?]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] And now you want to demonstrate strength here, but this strength is a weakness. [[Abg. Strache: You'll still be looking at yourself! I'm sure!]] As our clubman said: You're losing your face, Mr. Strache! [[Abg. Strache: Your fig leaf law is not a service to the population!]] I am sorry because they have negotiated honestly and constructively, and the negotiations have not been easy. It is already difficult to agree with a partner, and in this case we had a quadrilateral: Government parties, opposition, Court of Auditors and countries. That wasn't easy, but we came a long way. And if you say today that the content is actually okay anyway and it's only about two, three formulations, then that shows how close together we are. [[Abg. Tight: Yes, that's why you're on the agenda for it to be discussed in the Committee! Bring it to the committee!]] We've gone through Unfortunately, their behaviour lost confidence in the countries again. We have a basic problem, and we cannot discuss it away: There is the prelude of the countries that the covenant passes over them, and on the other hand the prelude of the covenant that the countries block everything. And we've built up incredible trust in the last few days, and then you say, no, that's not going on, and now the countries are asking: [[Abg. May. Rossmann: We have decades of experience in this field!]] Please, what's now? Can you rely on what we packed, yes or no? And I fear that your behaviour today, Mr Klubobmann, will not make things easier. Nevertheless: We are in favour of this being negotiated in Parliament – I agree with all the previous speakers – not at all, but we need negotiating partners, who also have the pouvoir, so that it does not end up saying: [[Abg. May. Kogler: You just sit around somewhere in some backrooms!]] The club tour is different! You have great people, I guess, I say it again, Alois Grabauer, I guess colleagues Podgorschek, colleagues Norbert Hofer, who have been very good at negotiating, but if they, Mr Klubobmann Strache, do not have your confidence, you must honestly consider whether your behavior is not the wrong one! [[Abg. Strache: You have not implemented certain ideas in our sense, that is the point!]]
ParlaMint-AT_2013-03-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00193_d7e8943	Next speaker: Mr Scheibner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-03-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00193_d7e8964	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Now we know who's to blame: the opposition! – Mr President, this is a clear word from you, the opposition is to blame that there is no ban on speculation. [[Abg. Dr. stupid: I've differentiated!]] This has probably been made clear now. And: We must not insure countries now, this is dangerous, because they have had confidence that the opposition is in place. [[Abg. Street: The countries will make this so great! But we don't have the confidence, unlike you!]] – Mr President, what is it really about? – It is about the fact that some countries – I do not want to say everyone – have made speculation transactions with the money of the federal government, the taxpayer, which we all do not want, especially the taxpayers. [[Abg. May. Kogler: They don't want to stop either!]] Are we in agreement, Mr President? Not the federal government has speculated anything, but some federal states have believed that they can make speculation transactions with the money of the taxpayer, who has been awarded to them through the federal government, through the financial compensation, not even on a stock exchange, but on any financial service company. I guess we agree on this. Then it is probably in our responsibility as the federal legislator and as the Federal Constitutional Legislator to protect the taxpayer's money from such speculation in the future. Do we agree, Mr President? [[Abg. Dr. Stummful: All signed!]] We are the Constitutional Legislator! We're the Federal Legislator! We are the ones who have to collect the money via taxes! We are the ones who pass the money on to the federal states! And that is why we have a duty not to take into account any of the concerns of any country's princes, but to prohibit it for the future and to ensure that it can also be controlled, for example by the Court of Auditors. [[BZÖ and Abg. May. Kogler.]] – In this we agree, good, wonderful. But then we also agree – you have said it – that Parliament should continue to negotiate. Yes, please, but Parliament is not meant as a locality, but as a legislator, and where do you want to continue negotiating if there is nothing left in the committee?- Oh, my God! The Committee has made its decision! [[Abg. May. Kogler: That was just a carrier rocket for the plenary, it's almost nothing inside!]] We have a different understanding of parliamentarianism, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen of the government. We do not think that this is normal, as you may be negotiating, namely that outside the committees and outside the parliamentary bodies, there is something out of the question – whether this is in an office here in Parliament or outside Parliament, it is totally irrelevant. We have now seen that we are only negotiating with the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. This cannot be done if Parliamentaryism is taken seriously. The negotiations are to be held where all the parliamentarians are represented, and that is the committee responsible. That is why we want to have this issue on the agenda so that we can discuss it properly, and if there is no majority, it will be referred back to the Committee so that we can negotiate properly again. [[Congratulations on BZÖ and Greens.]] This kind of parliamentaryism is enshrined in our federal constitution and not in the real concept of democracy and parliamentarianism, which is repeatedly expressed in the speeches. Mrs Silhavy, you have referred to me as part of your remarks. But the writer of your speeches should have gotten a little bit confused, because I wasn't in the Committee on Budgets, so I can't have criticized anyone either. [[Abg. May. Kogler: Exactly!]] In contrast to you, however, I was in the negotiations that took place on this matter. I have already said it here in Parliament: We have criticized the basic construction of this ban. We wanted the constitutional provision to be implemented by a federal law, not by an Article-15a agreement. However, we have said that even if we criticize this, we are involved if there are reasonable formulations for the federal constitution. We have also said that we see these reasonable wordings, that we would also agree to these wordings, Mrs Silhavy, if we were to be left alone, if we had a vote here in the House. What I cannot understand, however, Mr President, is that it is so difficult to negotiate with the countries that one finally comes from a bookkeeping of the camera lystics dating from the 17th century. ==References====External links==* Official website That can't be so difficult! This has nothing to do with federalism, but with the concreteity of some of the country's princes. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] In this respect, there have now also been formulations, which the Court of Auditors has also supported. We would also like to discuss this, ladies and gentlemen of the FPÖ. The Stronach team has been able to get out of the negotiations from home, because it has said it wants a debt brake in there somehow and juncture it. The water is also an important question, but I think that one with the other is wrong. If there are open points on matter, then it is good and right and nothing special when a group says we want to negotiate it – perhaps it is not usual in your political groups to put it to the vote. But if that is the case, then it should concern matter itself, it should be discussed in the committee responsible, but it should not be accompanied by things that are also important, but which have nothing to do with matter at all.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-03-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00193_d7e9102	Next speaker: Mr Dr. Matznetter. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-03-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00193_d7e9166	Mr President. High house! The most defiant was Klubobmann Lugar. He spoke here, and the rest of his group was completely absent. There the FPÖ jumped in with applause, and then one came in. But Klubobmann Lugar said a few real things. Of course, the opposition on the question of the two-thirds majority is in charge. And you're right: The fact that there is no ban on speculation – apart from technology – lies in the responsibility of those parliamentary groups that could contribute to the necessary two-thirds majority. The last National Council election has not brought about a two-thirds majority for the government parties, so there is a high responsibility in all these matters for those Members who have been elected on the basis of the lists of opposition parties. And you have to consider whether you really want to get involved in a blockade situation if the result is that there is no regulation and you risk that a national Council election will take place in the meantime and a new legislative period will begin. [[Abg. May. Kogler: An improvement is likely to be brought together!]] No one can take this responsibility, especially the FPÖ! [[Abg. May. Kogler: There you have to make a real ban!]] They'll have to carry you! And if something new happens in the meantime, you will also have to remember it! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Brosz.]] With regard to the question of reliability in connection with negotiations, I allow myself a small, quite friendly side-view of Günter stupidly: Dear Günter, I remember that you have also been more often aware that at the end of the day in your own group, things that you have made up are not in the form to be implemented. [[Call the ÖVP:No! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,]] Such a thing happens, the question is only why it happens. And in the present case, unfortunately, it is visible that purely day-to-day tactics are behind it. You can confess that openly. [[Abg. Brosz: Would Lower Austria be prevented from doing so, yes or no?]] [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Krainer: Yes!]] In any case, with today's non-decision, you have clearly revealed that the tactics are more important to you than fixing them. It's not a problem, we didn't really expect anything else from the FPÖ. The position of social democracy in all these points was We have had much less problems with further regulations, we have been more flexible on this issue for the last time than our government partner – and now there has been a proposal that you can live with. It can have any suggestions for improvement. I remind you: A few weeks ago, the transitional period for 2020 was the big question. [[Abg. May. Kogler: You have never understood that the 15a agreement for speculation is a hole! There's nothing in there!]] - Dear Werner! You may want this state to be a purely central state, it's okay, I accept this opinion, because I too often realize enough that Austrian federalism does not always seem useful to me. [[Abg. May. Kogler: I want a ban on speculation that deserves this name! It can even be useful!]] But as long as we have these, rules that others have to implement will have to talk to those concerned. [[Abg. May. Rossmann: But you can and should even improve it!]] [[Abg. May. Kogler: Yes, thank God!]] It is also parliamentarianism that, if you have the power of the federal legislator, you can ensure that those who then have to implement it can take their position. Klubobmann's head was right: We cannot break down one of our federal budgets. [[Abg. May. Kogler: Yes eh!]] That is why we need a regulation that also takes the time to implement it properly. [[Abg. May. Kogler: There's no one up to that!]] We are all witnesses of time, as was the case with federal budget law. [[Abg. May. Kogler: You have a ban on speculation, which is none!]] How long did we actually need until we agreed? This started when Grasser was still Minister of Finance. [[Abg. Krainer: Not finished until today!]] We took years to reach a settlement in the negotiations. I remember you were the first to say there, we need at least ten years. [[Abg. May. Kogler: This has nothing to do with the ban on speculation!]] We then agreed on a seven-year deadline. Let's hope that all of this will go unchallenged at the federal level. Why don't you also want to give the others this minimum period of time? I think the result of Saturday would be good, and hope for movement here. I mean, of course, in this area we have a work in progress. And, of course, especially when you cross it and say that something is forbidden in the future, there is a danger that things will be done under control. And that's exactly what we have to stop. The belief in being able to regulate everything alone with bans is a mistake. I need a system in which this is carried by those concerned. [[Abg. May. Kogler: You are always talking about the ban on speculation!]] And the question is, and now I come to the Court of Auditors, whether all the Court of Auditors' control is sufficient. As an auditor, I can say quite honestly: I was shocked by this control failure in the area of Salzburg. [[Abg. Dr. Moser: Because it's not true!]] - No, no! A President of the Court of Auditors who tells us here: We didn't even look at the evidence! We haven't made a check elsewhere, we can't. [[Abg. Dr. Moser: Protocols changed!]] Excuse me, Mrs Colleague, no. [[President Neugebauer gives the bell sign.]] What is the cost of our country of the Court of Auditors? We should also consider how we can improve how we get a better Court of Auditors and how these things can be supplemented. I would like to allow this comment to be made at this point, because it is also my tax money that is being managed there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-03-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00193_d7e9432	Next speaker: Mr Podgorschek. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-03-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00193_d7e9469	Mr President. Mr Matznetter! [[Abg. May. Rossmann: (in the direction of Abg. Dr. Matznetter) How should the Court of Auditors examine if there is no orderly accounting? Tell me that, Christoph!]] I think we are very well aware of our responsibility. The ladies and gentlemen, who were present in these rounds of negotiations, know quite well that in part we have even come up too third because we did not want to act because we really wanted to ensure that speculation is no longer possible in the future in Austria. But I understand that the ÖVP is now something - I don't want to say - disappointed; I think it's actually happy because it doesn't have the problems with the national leaders anymore. [[Call to the ÖVP: You have them!]] - We have no problems. [[Abg. The Carinthians!]] Mr. Kopf! My colleague Alois Grastaur and I were still meeting on Saturday, and Mr Grastaur spoke boldly to colleagues and promised him that we would not see any more obstacles. [[Abg. Head: Exactly!]] But I would like to say one thing very clearly: In terms of content, I still see everything absolutely well. Only: Neither Mr Graezeit nor I are constitutional judges, and we have therefore also discussed this. There are some points that are still unclear for us. [[Abg. Rädler: What about the rhinestone?]] And we only ask that we treat the whole thing again in committee so that we can then agree to a calm conscience. In the past, it has always been shown that something has often failed in very small formulations. We had to say again and again that we had been pulled over the table by the two government groups at the end of the day. And right now we want to make this so waterproof that it doesn't happen to us anymore. There is nothing in the way of putting this issue on today's agenda and referring it back to the Committee to discuss it again. We want this legislative period of this motion for a resolution to be no longer a tool, but rather a sustainable one. We mean – and that was a very essential point for us that we have been so involved – that speculation can only be prevented if one has the appropriate transparency and control. Therefore, an essential requirement of us is that we introduce a federal accounting system. And it seems as if this federal accounting system is not possible – understandably there are resistances from the countries, but we ultimately have to do so together. These resistances must be overcome. From our point of view, then, the wording in § 18 is very stretchable if only there is in it that the federal regulations can then enter into force through the covenant. Why doesn't it say it has to be? - Because we know Austrian reality. In the next legislative period, we have a new government – perhaps a new Minister of Finance or a new Minister of Finance – and it no longer feels bound to the regime. The countries then do not want to, and then that becomes more or less dead right. As the ÖVP finally deals with the Constitution, we have to recognize and experience this ourselves when the ÖVP broke the Constitution, when the then Minister of Finance Pröll did not present a budget against the Constitution. And that's why we want to make this waterproof. I appeal again to our negotiating partners in the ÖVP: Back to the committee to formulate the last unclear points! We want speculation no longer possible in the future and a uniform accounting system. Finally, I can say the following: I thank you for the praise of the ÖVP, but one thing is also clear: If you are praised by the ÖVP, you usually have to think about whether you've done something wrong.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-03-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00193_d7e9567	Next speaker: Mr Amon. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-03-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00193_d7e9588	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! First: My colleague Ridi Steibl has drawn my attention to the fact that a group of representatives of municipalities from the Graz-Umgegebung district is in the house today. I can welcome them very warmly and welcome them! [[General condolences.]] In fact, it is not a pleasant day, it is not a pleasant debate. From our point of view, these objections cannot be joined. It is just a shame if there is basically a result that has been negotiated in a very constructive climate, as one hears, with a constitutional two-thirds majority being assured, and then, for whatever reason – I am far away from letting pleasure in the direction of any club, because this is not really what it is all about – it does not happen. [[Abg. May. Kogler: Why do we discuss it then?]] I just don't think one can achieve stability by turning back to the populism rail and believing to be able to divert from internal problems through this action. That is a pity, that is sad, but it is also your responsibility if, today, there is no legal decision in the direction of a speculation ban. [[Abg. May. Kogler: It's not a ban on speculation! It's stupid!]] Mr Kogler, I can tell you one thing, because, in your remarks, you have felt sorry about how tragic it is that the ban on speculation for the federal states – which, from your point of view, is almost devil's witness – is being regulated by means of a 15a agreement. [[Abg. May. Rossmann: never read the article 17 that he himself has presented!]] [[Abg. May. Kogler: No, she's just bad!]] I would like to say one thing very clearly: We do not see the federal states as our opponents or as our enemies. Austria is a state, Mr Kogler. [[Abg. May. Kogler: Have you read this?]] , and the representatives there are also entitled by elections to exercise their interests. [[Abg. May. Kogler: Yes!]] And in this dispute and conflict of interests between the federal government and the countries, it is certainly, I think, understandable that one comes to a solution together with the countries. [[Abg. May. Kogler: Yes!]] Why not also by means of a 15a agreement, Mr Kogler? [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. May. Kogler: Then the 15a agreement must also create a speculation ban and no further speculations with housing funds!]] Mr Kogler, we do not want to lose ourselves completely in detail now, because one thing was simple and simple – and this has also been confirmed by honourable Member Podgorschek – that there has been a agreement, Mr Kogler, on the content of the agreement that the negotiators agreed that the content is in order that it fits in terms of content. And you usually do not assume, when you are in negotiations, that – when the negotiators are finished, stand up, say, the result fits, and say, well, of course, we report to our bodies – history is then failed, Mr Kogler. This is a procedure that is unusual and, in fact, unacceptable. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. May. Kogler: Why?]] I cannot fully share the comments made by Mr Silhavy that we are now proud of what the Salzburg head of state has achieved. Basically, it's a game of mourning, what happened. And what you're doing now, that's a repair. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Silhavy.]] It is good that this happens, but no one – and we agree again – does not want anyone here in the house to be speculated with tax money, ladies and gentlemen. Therefore, the legal regulation is also necessary and therefore the 15a agreement is urgently necessary. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Strache: The hasher wasn't?]] Now to do it as if you had to put it on the agenda today so that you can consult it in committee, so that is a bit of a staircase; you have to say that too. [[Abg. May. Kogler: Has never been debated there!]] The issue was in the Committee, yes, has been decided in committee, although not with the necessary two-thirds majority, that is why they have been further negotiated and have tried to make the proposal plenbar. But now to say, now we are taking it on the agenda so that we cannot decide, so that seems to me to be a little reluctant. But of course we will have to show good will, and all those involved and all concerned will have to try to find a solution here, because we cannot say that we are just going to do so, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-03-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00193_d7e9807	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Rossmann. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-03-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00193_d7e9830	Mr President. Mr Amon, we are putting the ban on speculation on the agenda, because at last we want to discuss it in terms of content. If I remember correctly, we did not have a debate on the subject in the committee, and I can only remember a few of the arguments that I made in a long speech, except for what I said in a long speech. [[Abg. Scheibner: Do not suffer from lack of confidence!]] We have also decided to do so there, but in this House we have not yet debated it. And if we cannot debate this, we cannot refer it back to the Committee, where we should really re-debate on the matter and where we should take up the Green proposal to let experts speak. Mr Amon, another: If you say the € 2 billion in Lower Austria are a detail, I must say that's not a detail – that's what you said: [[Abg. Grossruck: He didn't say that!]] That's a detail! You said – you did not say it literally, but in terms of content, as Mr Kogler said, [[Abg. Großruck: No, he didn't say that!]] [[Abg. Amon: What I meant?- Oh, my God!]] Reference to Lower Austria has made that this is a detail that you do not need to discuss here. [[Abg. Amon: I did not refer to Lower Austria at all!]] But we need to discuss these details here, and that is why we have to discuss a so-called ban on speculation, which has gaps. Moreover, it is not about a speculation ban, but § 17 in the financial constitution, as envisaged, speaks of a risky financial event, but leaves some gaps open there. And these gaps mean that, for example, disposals of assets or disposals of housing loans could continue to be used for speculative purposes. [[Abg. Rädler: Have the Greens voted in Lower Austria!]] This is done by § 17 para. 1, Mr Cot, not excluded. That is, the “Casino Pröll ” is not closed. [[Abg. May. Kogler: Continued speculation!]] And since Mr Pröll is still convinced that what he has done with speculation there is a success, we believe that this regulation, with an Article-15a agreement, is really a smearing because I cannot have confidence in these federal states in the implementation of a risky financial event. [[Congratulation with Greens and FPÖ]] We have therefore always called for: Principles of risky behaviour in the financial constitution and not in an Article 15a agreement! [[Congratulation with the Greens and the Abg. Bitch.]] The same applies, of course, to the question of control. Implementation requires transparency and a new accounting system is needed. Mr Kopf, if you go out to the federal states with half a glass, you will always come back with a reduced glass. You drink a sip on the way, because you probably get thirsty on the way to Vorarlberg, is a further way up there. [[Abg. Rädler: That's a fool!]] But we had on 27 May. ==References====External links== There is a regulation on February which was much sharper than what was available here. [[Abg. Head: Who you did not agree to!]] – Of course it was sharper. This has now been watered down further, that in fact only a timetable is left. What we really need is for the principles to be included in the Constitution, namely the principles for drawing up rules for the adoption of estimates and invoices. It's not about form and structure, it's about content. At the federal level, we showed how. That could and must be the basis. We already had the essential things in it at the novelle of the federal constitution law. We already had an Article 51e, which should include countries and communities. And already at that time the federal states were against, and at the time they did not explain convincing arguments why they do not want to have a modern accounting system à la Bund. [[Abg. Wheeler: For good reason! There is still federalism!]] But if we do not have that, we will not be able to control these things, as always the principles in the financial constitution or in an Article 15a agreement, because the necessary transparency is not present. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] But this means that we have to debate it again. We invite the federal states to participate in this debate. A solution will only be achieved if the federal states finally abandon their blockade. What we need in this country is a federalism new, also and especially for the implementation of a risky financial event. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-03-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00193_d7e10016	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Widmann. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-03-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00193_d7e10038	Mr President. High house! Now on another topic. We had an interesting football game yesterday, the FC National Council played against a selection of the OMV. We, the team, have finished the game 2 : 2. Why? – Because we have joined forces because we have jointly complied with the rules of the game and have created something constructive together. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, this is exactly the content of the debate, what is missing here today. Everyone thinks the same, that is, no speculation with taxpayers, everyone thinks the state should not take credit and go to the casino, but everyone means something else and everyone does something else. And that's what people outside don't understand anymore. In the matter itself, I had the impression that we are actually already in a positive position here, because we from the BZÖ have very intensively presented ourselves with scientific proposals. Mr Scheibner has already mentioned it, Mr Bucher has also carried it out. We have put very clear facts and constructive ideas on the table and were also ready to agree in doubt at the last time, although we believe that the implementation of what has been said here is not the yellow of the egg – ‘Article-15a agreement’. There would have been a federal law that would have failed substantially than to discuss it with the head of state. But it is important to write this into the Constitution: Point 1: a ban on speculation and point 2: a common budgetary law for the Federal Government, countries, municipalities and also for the public sector in order to ensure transparency, control and comparability. But what I heard today from the SPÖ Group – Mr Matznetter is no longer here – is putting the floor out of the barrel. Here the colleague Matznetter makes himself and, in connection with the Salzburg Speculation scandal, underlies the Bundeskontaktionshof's failure of control, underlies him. That's unheard of! And he says that you have to think about how the budget for the Federal Court of Auditors continues. No, on the contrary! Did you know, ladies and gentlemen from the SPÖ that the Federal Court of Auditors has less budget than, for example, the ÖBB has a budget for marketing and advertising? That's cockbucks, in the truest sense of the word! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] And you know why. They know the ad affair, also concerning Chancellor Faymann. That's when you close because you don't want the Court of Auditors to be properly controlled. That's understandable. But I do not want to protect you at all, this also applies to the EIA side here in Parliament. Mr Pröll in Lower Austria has also strongly criticized the Court of Auditors for not knowing it. But I'll tell you one thing: Whoever goes in with 8 billion speculation capital on housing funds and then claims to have made 800 million profits, although he has lost 4 billion of the substance, is a loser. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wheeler.]] And I still believe that the Court of Auditors, rather than your party secretariats or your statements, do not stand up to the facts. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, I do not understand why we do not come to a decision today. At the last National Council meeting, it was true that the SPÖ had put a proposal on the table, which was quite contentious, in any doubt would have been suitable for approval. Then ÖVP said: I can't! Today we know that a proposal is on the table again. It seems that the national leaders have agreed on a softer formulation after the election in Lower Austria. Today, the FPÖ says: Well, we can't allow a constitutional majority now, unfortunately! I'm really sorry about the FPÖ: the Alois Grazauer. I appreciate and know him as a fair negotiator. The Alois Grazauer said on Saturday: Well, you can actually agree with that! And then there are certain things in which, because of everyday policy, one is no longer ready to agree. That's where you're wondering: What happened, Mr. Strache? Why vote You're not gonna shut up now? - I listened. [[Abg. Strache: Didn't you listen today?]] I've listened – and that's the question! – Yes, because you were not involved in the negotiations. [[Abg. Strache: I did not agree!]] Go there yourself! If you go there yourself and say that your Members are not allowed to negotiate anything, that is of no value what they say they do not know themselves. If you have no confidence in the expertise of your Members, say that! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] [[Abg. Strache: We did not agree because we had demands of content that were not fulfilled!]] But that's actually what a daily newspaper has put to the fore today with the statement: The ban on speculation at the FPÖ has failed! And that's what you can shake and there you can figure out as you like: That's a fact! The problem is that we have not only a stable in Austria in many areas, where the people outside are wondering how to deal with taxpayers' money, but also that there is it at European level. [[Abg. Steibl: Mr President, ‘Saustall’ must not be said!]] We are currently experiencing this in Cyprus, as is the case with the hard-save money on the savings book of small businessmen, the olive farmers, those who have set up something for their children and grandchildren. That's just going to be trashed. That's what you've tried to do, my dear. Ladies and gentlemen! [[President Neugebauer gives the bell sign.]] We will continue to discuss this intensively this afternoon, because we believe that the middle class should be protected, that finance ministers who agree to this should be removed, and that we believe that the Austrians will have to protect the savings and the property of the Austrians in the Constitution. That's what we're going to ask for.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-03-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00193_d7e10159	Next speaker: Mr. Dr. Fichtenbauer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-03-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00193_d7e10181	Mr President. High house! Before I got out and listened with some attention to Mr Widmann's remarks, I asked myself, as I say openly: [[Abg. May. Widmann: What does the gratitude say? Let's talk about the gratitude!]] Is he still at the BZÖ or at the Stronach team? But it doesn't matter at all. Unfortunately, the colleague's head is not here. I wanted to congratulate him on his new professional image of ghost hunting. [[Abg. Petzner: Have you already excluded the Dobernig?]] Whether you need to do a lesson, whether you have it in yourself, whether you have to register it in commercial law? It's et cetera, et cetera. Why do I say that? – It's being complained and blasphemy here that the street didn't control the club. [[Abg. Wheeler: That's right!]] Because he doesn't want to agree to a law that's not on the agenda at all?- Oh, my God! Do you know what you're talking for a nonsense all the time?- Oh, my God! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] That is why the whole of the debate is going on, because this point has not been put on the agenda by you. [[Abg. Amon: This is under your dignity now!]] And second, you manage to stage a little, moderate, but a little – yes, it takes the public prosecutorship to counter such insanity and to stand on the side of the citizens. [[Call the ÖVP: Volksanwaltschaft!]] [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Widmann.]] As if the FPÖ were to hinder the law, which is a legal coup of the special class, because it was decided on the basis of the government template in the committee and there on 26 March. A change was tried February, by which Mr State Secretary Arbitrator wrote that this was completely in order, but there is an amendment which has not been negotiated with the FPÖ that a different text should be adopted at second reading. [[Re-enlightenment of the FPÖ]] [[Abg. Rädler: What does Grastaur say?]] And this other amendment text is not on the agenda at all! What are you talking about, then, that we are not in agreement? [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] That is, the simple, serious handiwork has come to you before a loud confusion! A law should not leave the Committee until the majority in plenary is not assured, and there is negotiations to that end. And that also means that the negotiation process is not approaching – not nearly! – has found a serious end. That is why we are in favour of the objections, of the debate on objections, in order to put this item very well on the agenda so that it can be referred back to it so that it can be debated in a serious way. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] That's the whole thing. Those who have not yet understood this should now read it again and be given additional hours in the Rules of Procedure outside the Couloir. Secondly, on the content: It is true that the textual text of the motion for a resolution is largely in order. [[Call the ÖVP:Gradauer!]] But the gentlemen who raise the cry of war here have not yet presented the solution, as it should be achieved, in a clear legitimate chain, starting from the provisions at the federal constitutional level, to carry out, on a footing, in simple law and by means of implementing provisions, the content of the motions for resolutions binding from the Federal Government to the countries and communities. As long as you do not bring this together, stop talking nonsense here – a nonsense that cannot be found in the Rules of Procedure. We say: First work out neatly and then decide here. This is the path to go!
ParlaMint-AT_2013-03-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00193_d7e10330	Next speaker: Mrs. Dr. Gabriela Moser. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-03-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00193_d7e10354	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Welcome to Parliament! They are all witnessing a lively parliamentary debate on content, which is about billions of tax money. We want a public debate on the correct use of taxpayers' money! Unfortunately, this has not been possible on this agenda – that is why the debate on objections – in commercial terms. That is why we must make use of this means. It is about billions of money, especially from housing promotion – an essential point of view, given that many people are currently suffering from expensive housing, expensive renting, expensive construction costs, expensive operating costs. That is why the billions who go to the housing sector are really useful to use. They must be tied back to purpose and must not be subject to speculation. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] What is the cause of today's debate, what is the cause and the background to a constitutional anchoring of the ban on speculation in this Parliament? – The background and cause lie in Lower Austria, in Salzburg, where it was about the speculative use or the misuse of tax money of billions. In Salzburg you have no knowledge of the land day – perhaps even without the knowledge of the responsible country's main woman! – billions borrowed from the federal government. That's incredible! You have to try that privately. As a country of Salzburg, you go to the Federal Finance Agency and say: We urgently need money, we need billions to build more apartments! Agency provides money, and those in charge in Salzburg take 60 percent of it into their hands for housing construction and 40 percent – that is 440 million – they install highly speculatively. You still don't know: Is it still there, is it already gone? One day it's there, the other day it's gone! – These are methods and means with which we need to clean up thoroughly! And this is what serves today's discussion. And this also serves the constitutional anchoring of the ban on speculation. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Amon is right if he thinks we have to make nails with our heads. No question! But it's about the heads, and that means we need a complete ban on speculation. We cannot tolerate that § 17 para. 1 continues to allow the sale proceeds from the sale of residential loans, even if we decide to ban this as a speculation in your version, to be used in accordance with the method of Lower Austria. That's it! Therefore, we want a waterproof constitutional law as a ban on speculation, which prevents the disposal of residential loans and the speculation of these funds by the “Casino Lower Austria”. And that is missing as a clear regulation in this Constitutional Act. We do not want to leave any loopholes for the countries, we do not want to produce an Emmentaler. We really want to make nails with heads! And we want to build a firewall against speculative actions by bodies and institutions. To do this, I am sure that we will need implementing provisions. This is difficult for the countries and also for the municipalities. They need to be adapted. But first of all, these are principles in the Constitution, and these principles must contain clear definitions and must not be a washer, where everything is possible back then. Therefore: Let's pull at a strand – but not with holes, not with cracks, not with pre-programmed breaks! Let's really do a firewall against speculation at the national and local level! At the federal level, we've already done it. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-03-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00193_d7e10433	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. We shall now proceed to the vote. We shall vote on the amendments tabled by Mr Klubobmann Bucher on the addition of the agenda to the draft budget committee on the ban on speculation. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who want to take these objections into account to give a sign of approval. – The application does not find a majority. Rejected. The agenda for today's sitting, which has been communicated in writing, remains valid. [[12:06:12]] Entry and allocations
ParlaMint-AT_2013-03-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00193_d7e10477	As regards the negotiated items and their allocations, I refer to them according to § 23 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure to the communication distributed at the meeting room. The written communication shall contain the following text: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[12:06:25]] Announcement of a urgent request
ParlaMint-AT_2013-03-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00193_d7e10731	In accordance with § 93 para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure called for urgent consideration of the written question 14262/J by Mrs Bucher, colleague and colleagues to the Federal Minister for Finance concerning ‘Mortal attempt at Savephroh – Are the Austrian savings funds still safe?’. Under the Rules of Procedure, the urgent question will be carried out at least 3 hours after receipt of the agenda, i.e. at 3.10 p.m. Agenda
ParlaMint-AT_2013-03-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00193_d7e10754	The debate on points 3 and 4, 7 and 8, 9 to 11 and 12 to 14 of the agenda is proposed. There are no objections to this proposal. That is why we are doing so. Let's go into the agenda. Text-to-Speech Limitation
ParlaMint-AT_2013-03-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00193_d7e10779	A consensus was reached between the members of the presidential conference on the duration of the debates. Accordingly, a day block time of 7.5 “Vienna hours” has been agreed. According to the preliminary redistribution of the speaking time within a “Wien hour”, 7.5 “Vienna hours” are the following times: SPÖ and ÖVP per 105, FPÖ 94, Green 83, BZÖ 71 and Stronach 60 minutes. According to § 57 para. 7 by the GOG, to limit the Members' speaking time to 10 minutes per debate without club membership. We shall now proceed to the vote on the speaking time just presented. I would ask those Members who agree to this proposal to give a sign on this point. – This is unanimously accepted. [[12:08:07]] 1. Point Declarations by the Federal Chancellor and the Deputy Chancellor pursuant to Article 19(2) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Council on the occasion of the appointment of a new member of the Federal Government
ParlaMint-AT_2013-03-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00193_d7e10822	We're coming to the 1st. Agenda item. Following these statements, a debate will be held within the meaning of Article 81 of the Rules of Procedure in accordance with the request made by five Members. I now give the floor to the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany to give the statement. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-03-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00193_d7e10852	Mr President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Members of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen! First of all, I would like to thank the person in charge, who in recent years in the field of you need not be afraid that I would not thank you anyway. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: After just!]] [[Abg. Grosz: A bad start!]] So don't worry, you're not affected! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] First of all, I would like to thank the one who has carried out a lot of reforms in the defence sector – which have invested €500 million in infrastructure and construction measures – and who has also observed the representation at European and international level and has acquired a very respectable reputation there, such as our efforts on the Golan – a current topic just now – and our peace efforts that take great care of the world. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: A “successful” survey!]] Minister Darabos has led a department in which many things have also been changed in the administration and in which another area is located, which also has a number of progresses which are of considerable importance to our country, namely sport, where a focus is sports promotion, where Minister Darabos was particularly concerned with transparency – it is the Sports Promotion Act before Parliament – and where he took a clear stance on doping by putting the fight against doping in the foreground. A warm thank you for these achievements and for his outstanding commitment! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Federal Chancellor, you have forgotten the popular survey!]] Those who have either worked in the Federal Council or have conducted negotiations or discussions with our Chamber of State, the Federal Council, know that one of the political leaders, Mag. Gerald Klug, in this I've feared that you don't know a lot, and I'm afraid that's not all. [[Abg. Grosz: Mr. Federal Chancellor, what is the Federal Council?]] [[Demonstratetive applause with SPÖ]] Mr. Grosz, I'm very worried. [[Abg. Grosz: with the majority of the population! They don't know everything either!]] Someone who has conducted negotiations with the Federal Council and knows those responsible from the respectful discussions with our Chamber of State, of course also has to do with group chairmen, and he knows about the expertise, the skill of negotiation and the consistent way for which Mag. Gerald Kluggrotes It has acquired prestige, but also for recognition across party borders – you have been able to learn this over and over again in the last few days when you have spoken to the other chairmen of the Federal Council – whom he enjoys. He has proved in his professional activity – after he first made the training as a turner and then secondary schooling – always proved negotiating skills, compromise ability and clear attitude. That's why I'm very pleased, Mag. Gerald Klugals Federal Minister of State Defense and Sport. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] The decision of the population to maintain compulsory military service requires a number of reforms, the first steps of which in this legislative period must therefore be noticeable, tangible and comprehensible, because we want to prove to the population that the great participation in this survey, where many have predicted, will not interest anyone, we are obliged to take the results of the same seriously and show the first results of our reform work still in this legislative period. In other words, Gerald Klug has a lot to do with the area of the country defence sector – I am thinking of peacekeeping, disaster protection, disaster response – and improving or changing others. In the field of sport, he also has a good basis for building up due to the preparatory work done by the Sports Promotion Act in many discussions over the last months and years. I wish in our all interest the person responsible for such an important place of business, namely you, dear Mag. Gerald Klug, all that's imaginable good!
ParlaMint-AT_2013-03-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00193_d7e10992	I would like to thank the Chancellor of the Federal Republic for his statement. I now ask Mr Spindelegger to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-03-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00193_d7e11019	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! First of all, I would like to wish the colleague, who has taken a new seat on the government bank, every good thing for his office, for what he does, and also for what concerns us all, namely to have a success in the defence of the state and in sport. We all need that. Once again, everything's good! We give you the hand and look forward to a good cooperation. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I would also like to take this opportunity to address two areas of overlap which are particularly important to me at the moment. One is our concern about the security of our soldiers. The other concerns what we have in common in the coalition after the vote on 20 October. In the future, someone coming to the Federal Army will also find conditions that make it worth getting involved there. I can start with the last point. First discussions have taken place very fruitfully. I am glad that we agree on this. We want to ensure by summer that someone who goes to the Federal Army performs a military service, which he can say: I have done something for Austria in these six months! There are a number of keywords for this. From my point of view, I can explain what I imagine changing. And that's... It must be a military service without emptying. This is, I believe, the most important point where we all agree. Someone who is in the federal army for six months must also be used. For that, depending on what his assignment is, he is with the army, for which he does something for Austria. And we also need to create the framework conditions for this. It must be an experienced service. It should also be a training that is close to life, and it should also be a training that takes particular account of the requirements. Today's requirements are different than in the past. We have to devote ourselves particularly to those areas where soldiers are urgently needed today, whether in the defense of the country or also in the protection of disasters, which is becoming increasingly important, where in the past alone in recent years it has always shown itself, from one commitment to another, how valuable it is that someone is there when there is a man in need and no one else helps. On this occasion I would like to thank once again all the soldiers who have already worked there and have done a lot for Austria and its people. [[It was in favour of ÖVP and SPÖ, as well as of representatives of the FPÖ.]] We also want to ensure that someone who acquires qualifications from the Federal Government can take them along. If someone is in the health service, he should also take this with him in his later work, whether as a volunteer or a professional. This applies equally to other activities acquired, such as driving a vehicle or to the skills achieved in the technology when you are with the federal army. Our joint efforts – as I am sure – will go to ensure that in the future. I would now like to refer to the second intersection, which seems to me very urgent at the moment. We currently have many Austrians in foreign service and look at the foreign intervention that is currently on the verge of life. This is the foreign deployment in Syria, on the Golan, where Austrian soldiers, over 300 in number, have to monitor a demilitarized zone between Israel and Syria, so that there are no attacks from one side to the other. We know that this is dangerous at the moment, after a capture of Philippine UN soldiers and a hostage taken by a party, we know. Nevertheless, I note that our intention as the Austrian Federal Government is to maintain this commitment as long as possible. We do this together with the UN, because it is necessary to deal with parties in a crisis situation, where it is dangerous to deal with UN soldiers on the ground. I am pleased that this is seen by all, namely by both government parties, and that this has fallen to a very fruitful soil in the UN. It told me once again to the UN Secretary-General just a few days ago how important this commitment is. But the Israeli authorities have also told us how necessary it is for the Austrian soldiers to stay there. I am pleased to be able to say on this occasion that the Austrians who are in service there are doing this with all professionalism – to the reputation of our country and this commitment of the UN. That's necessary. I would like to thank them for that. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! But of course we also have to ensure the security of our soldiers. This is necessary, and we must re-evaluate that from day to day. As the Federal Government, we turned to the United Nations Security Council and drew attention to it and urgently asked that the security of the soldiers be re-examined. There has also already been a reaction, in the direction of increased armament and reduced patrol activity. In addition, individual positions, which are particularly vulnerable, are also abandoned. Secondly, we have called for the troops to meet with the Security Council, so that we, not only as Austrians, as those affected by other troops, will focus on this problem, but all of us. This too will take place in the next few days. That is why I am convinced that while we must ensure the security of our soldiers, together with the UN, we must constantly review this, we must also ensure that overall UN operations remain possible. In our world, it is so necessary that, when conflicts exist, dispute parties are also held apart. We will not go into the head because it will be dangerous, but we will ensure the safety of our soldiers very well and put everything to the point that they will also come home safely. That is, I think, our common task. That is how we see it, we are closely aligned here. And I can conclude by saying again that I am looking forward to a good cooperation.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-03-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00193_d7e11112	I would like to thank Mr Vice-Chancellor. President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Smart. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-03-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00193_d7e11138	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! But above all: High house! Last Monday I was praised by our Federal President as the new Federal Minister for Defence and Sport. It is a great honour to me today and also a special pleasure to be able to give my opening speech to you here in the House, ladies and gentlemen. I can assure you that I will carry out this new task responsibly, with great commitment, but also with the necessary humility. As Minister of State, I feel committed to the House as the supreme body of legislation and control. This principle will also be based on my actions. I took over this task in the awareness that the Austrian people had given me a clear mission, namely the reform of the basic defence service. ==References====External links==* Official website Those who have been clearly liked are an unmistakable task that I will be happy to do. Let me therefore say with all clarity: The central project of my term of office is the improvement of the presence service. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] I have only a few months left for these reforms. I'm aware of that. But in the short term of my term of office, from my point of view, there is also the opportunity to focus on this subject with the highest degree of attention, and to devote myself to this subject with undivided commitment. My goal is to design the service in the Austrian federal army in such a way that he can meet the tasks assigned to our army, but also the needs of our young fellows in the best sense. It needs to be more attractive, and there must be less emptying. At the end of their service time, the young boys must be able to say it's a good time, it's a good time, and I took something with me for my further life. [[Congratulation with SPÖ and ÖVP as well as the Abg. Dr. Fichtenbauer.]] The Federal Government has set up a working group for this purpose. We highlight in it all aspects of the basic defence service, from the beginning of the position to the disarmament. We have set an ambitious timetable in this context. At the end of June, an overall package will be available, and part of the reform measures will be effective and noticeable already in autumn. So you see, I don't think of wasting time, I want the around 7,000 basic defenses who come to us in autumn 2013 to benefit from the first reforms. I am optimistic about the first results. I would therefore like to take advantage of today's opportunity to thank our coalition partner for the constructive cooperation on this subject. [[Congratulations to representatives of SPÖ and ÖVP.]] [[Ironic hustle and bustle with representatives of the BZÖ.]] In addition, as one of my first official acts, I have commissioned that, as far as possible, the young fellows who are currently carrying out their basic defence service with us can make their own proposals for attracting the presence service. They are the ones who experience the ground defense right now, experience immediately, experience live, so they know exactly where the shoe is pressing. I will contribute to the results of this survey as a contribution to the complements of work in the reform work group. On the question of the new security strategy for Austria, of course, I call all those involved to a close. It is an important part of the future orientation of security policy. Ladies and gentlemen! Our soldiers as well as all other staff in the Austrian Federal Army are working daily in various functions with a goal of ensuring protection and assistance for the population. They do so domestically, but also beyond our borders, and if it is necessary, they also use their own lives for it. It is important to pay the necessary respect and to express to them the recognition they deserve. As the Federal Minister for Defence and Sport, I will therefore work to ensure that these achievements of the soldiers for the Republic are also performed and given respect for those they actually deserve. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] It is undisputed that in recent years our army has successfully dealt with all domestic tasks, whether border surveillance, disaster protection, security police assistance, with great commitment. In the international environment, we can be proud of the fact that words that are recognized by all parties are expressed for the excellent achievements of our team. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] The Austrian Federal Army is in service with about 1 300 soldiers abroad in 13 different missions. With our participation in the EU training mission for Mali, we return to the African continent these days after Chad's deployment. We help to help ourselves there and do so in close association with our European partners. In view of the size of Austria, our army, our international participations are a top value. This considerable commitment is not only a clear sign of international solidarity for me, but it is also an unmistakable proof of the functioning of the Austrian federal army, which I think the Austrian people can rightly be proud of. In this context, I would also like to address the current developments at the Golan Heights, where we are currently seeing the difficult conditions under which our UN quota will comply with and deal with order performance. Our soldiers have been working there since 1974 and are making an immeasurable contribution to stability in this area. Austria is making an important contribution to peace in this context. So the mission on the Golan Heights is a peace mission in the best sense of word. However, from my point of view, let me make it clear today: In my opinion, there is an aspect that is more important than international reputation and professionalism acquired over the years and the reputation acquired by successful action internationally, namely the security of our soldiers! [[Congratulation with SPÖ and ÖVP as well as the Abg. Bitch.]] That is why I say we are making our international contribution, we are doing more than we can expect from our small country, but we are not doing it at all. In this sense, we observe the situation on the ground closely and are in close coordination with our Federal Chancellor and with our Foreign Minister and with the relevant international and national institutions in order to react quickly. Ladies and gentlemen! The security of Austria is also closely linked to security in the European Union. Although the journey may last even longer, the security train is heading towards Europe. I will therefore continue the process of modernisation and Europeanisation, and I will also develop cooperation with our European partners in the central area of Europe. Ladies and gentlemen! I'm a team player. I am part of our federal government and therefore I feel obliged to agree on agreements made before my term of office. That is why I see myself committed to the agreed budget timetable. We will have to continue to budget our resources strictly. We are currently implementing further implementation measures from the Federal Hero Reform 2010. In the end, these can only be implemented without reservation if evaluations are carried out on a regular basis, in all areas. The procurements focus on the new tasks of the Federal Army and include, in particular, new multi-purpose vehicles, reconnaissance drying systems, modernisation of the helicopter fleet AB 212, procurement in the field of modern logistics, and modernisation of the pioneer team. For this year, € 310 million is earmarked for procurement. Ladies and gentlemen! In my capacity as Minister of Sport, it is, of course, a great concern to me to strengthen Austrian sport as well. My primary goal is to finalise the new sports promotion law. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Oh, you!]] Here good preparatory work has been done, the law is already in your hands. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Very bad! It's bad!]] It was an intensive process that led to this draft. It's clear: If we want to promote 2014 according to this model, we have to come to the house before the summer for a decision. I would therefore like to thank all those actors who have helped to ensure that a sports committee appointment is made for the 18th century. ==References== The cornerstones of this new law stand out for me: There will be more money for professional associations in the future. 50 percent of the special federal sports promotion is used for top sports. There is more transparency and effective control. And it is clear that we are moving away from the promotion of foundry to the actual promotion of projects. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: That is not true at all! It's not in the law! - I don't know!]] For one thing we all must be united: We want to win medals again at the Olympic Games in the future. At this point, however, it is also important to say that I have the highest appreciation for the athletes. As a hobby sportsman, I myself have been able to prepare for a half marathon, so I know in approaches what it means to take on these loads – in approaches. I have a lot of respect. They have many hardships to take on, they give up a lot of leisure time, on a lot of family life. They train hard all their lives, they focus their whole life on sports. And that's why it's clear to me, even if it didn't work perfectly in London: I'm fully behind athletes! [[Congratulation with SPÖ and ÖVP as well as the Abg. Bitch.]] I will support them optimally and individually via the top sports promotion “TEAM ROT-WEISS-ROT” and “Rio 2016”. The Austrian federal army is in fact an important partner. We have a total of 400 army athletes, so we also make a decisive contribution to Austrian excellence. Let me briefly address a topic to sport: the daily gym or the daily sports unit at our schools. I fully support this initiative, I want to make our youth fitter. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Tell the Minister of Education! She's not gonna do this!]] However, I would also like to take structured action in the field of sports sites. I can imagine coming here to a sports venue master plan, of course in close coordination – I come from the Chamber of State – with all the country leaders. High house! Ladies and gentlemen! In my first speech as Minister of State Defense and Sport here in the National Council, I would like to make it clear again and clearly that I will carry out my task with full commitment and go a constructive way with you, honourable Members. I therefore invite you to support myself in my work – in the sense of the population, in the sense of the Austrian federal army and in the sense of Austrian sport. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-03-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00193_d7e11284	I would like to thank the Federal Minister. We are now going into the debate on the statements. Mr Klubobmann is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-03-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00193_d7e11311	Mr President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Ladies and gentlemen! I should also like to welcome you in your capacity as Minister of Defence, Mr Klug. You now have at least a few months, up to the next election, a responsible task that you, as you have held in your speech today, take very seriously. This is to be welcomed; it is also to be taken seriously. There are many, many areas where a lot of things need to be changed through responsible work. I am therefore glad that now the result has finally been drawn that Mr Ex-Development Minister Darabos is no longer in this office. It was high time for this, because in the last six years, unfortunately, God has been doing a lot of negative things. They are in a position of responsibility, where we believe that we have a different position, that it is likely that it will also be necessary quickly to take a concrete act of office, namely to bring back the Austrian Blue Helmet soldiers and the Austrian Blue Helmet quota from Golan to home. That was also the reason why we called the National Security Council. Why? - Because we have a completely changed situation there, Minister of Defence. It is not true that we are now working peaceably within the meaning of the UN, because there is no peace anymore and because this demilitarized zone is no longer guaranteed and maintained by the international state partner Syria. That is to say, we are in a situation in which there is civil war, war between different parties, with heavy weapons of course, which our soldiers do not have in this form and can therefore no longer protect and preserve peace at the moment, but are in the midst of wars of different parties, and therefore there is a danger of even getting under heavy fire, not being able to protect themselves accordingly, because the appropriate armament is missing, which we believe is no longer responsible for the necessary protection and security for our Austrian Blue Helmet soldiers. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] And that's a position where we have a different opinion from you at the moment. I have observed and also taken seriously that you are very likely to take this seriously and perhaps your situation assessment and assessment can become another. We already appreciate this situation today as a given one, which commands it to act here, because there is no longer any reason to observe peace when we really have to deal with a war on the ground. Of course, it is also important to hold here, Minister of Defence, that you are, of course, an interim minister until the next election. We do not know if you will continue to be Minister of Defense afterwards and what the constellations look like afterwards. In these few months, they will not be able to implement the reforms – which is completely out of the question – but it is important that you start to put them into serious action, because they have been sleeping for six years and are trying to lead the German army in a completely different direction, also towards a demoralization and a breakdown. Now you have clearly and clearly and unmistakably stated that you take the outcome of the survey seriously. That's important. This has not been done by your predecessor in this form. It is important that you have done this, because the Austrian people have made a clear decision on values, namely to ensure protection and to ensure the security of our country and national defence, to ensure the concept and value of solidarity – because, of course, general military duty and civil service are always a package and therefore it is also a matter of solidarity and social responsibility – and, of course, the concept of neutrality, which one wants to preserve and maintain as a value. We do not want to give up this neutrality of Austria in order to perhaps end up in a NATO partnership. I have missed this today, this clarification of neutrality, because it was also a part of this decision for military service, because the citizens of the country want to know exactly that. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] To the task ahead: Of course, reforms are now in demand. They will not be able to be enforced from today to tomorrow, but a start is to make and the content is to be defined. Of course we also have a clear position: It takes training centres for basic defence workers to be professionalized. There you have to think about whether you are not creating your own training centres – one per country – and these specialise in weapons holes accordingly. Of course, it is important to improve training and to ensure that there are no senseless emptyings in the ground defense service and, of course, the training also takes place, as Mr Vice-Chancellor has announced today. But it is also important to think about the fact that at least on the basis of the minimum guarantee, a basic defence servant who does something for his home country receives an assessment and payment. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] It will also be necessary to think about ensuring that, on the basis of the minimum security – less the accommodation that is given, and also the food that is provided – appropriate payment of the basic defence servants. Of course, the operational capacity and the material are also to be optimised and improved. The barracks are also located where ground defense workers are accommodated to optimize and improve, and further structural optimizations have to be carried out here. You can start all of this now. I hope so now. I can't make a review now because you are an unwritten sheet for me and for many in the public, but I agree that you deserve it, that you will then assess and evaluate your work. I will therefore not set prejudices or other unreasonable opinions, but simply evaluate and judge your actions and actions, and that is really according to best knowledge and conscience. As I have seen, I really liked your speech today, I admit it openly. You have done this in a very decent and correct way. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I hope that this will continue in your further actions and actions and will be marked by sustainability. I believe that our country and, above all, our soldiers, who do great things, deserve to live in this area at last a consolidation, a sustainability, a capacity for the future, rather than the demorisations that have been so far. I would therefore also like to thank all the soldiers who are there every day in the event of disasters, in the case of civil protection measures that are necessary, and who have also been there for the Austrian population in all the crises of the last decades. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] The Austrian population appreciates this, and the Austrian population also wants to support these soldiers, so that, hopefully, something will never happen in Austria, but if something happens, this life protection insurance will also ensure appropriate training, material will be ensured in order to fulfil its task. That's exactly what we expect from you. I can only wish you all the best, and we will not refuse to do so where we are concerned with the content and subject matter of support that is in the interests of those concerned.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-03-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00193_d7e11433	Mr Klubobmann, Dr. Cap, is next spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-03-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00193_d7e11454	Mr President. High house! Dear Norbert Darabos! You have received the applause for your work as a minister today, and you have also been very warmly re-entered in our group. We are pleased that we can continue to work with you at this level. I have not fully understood the polemics of the previous speaker, the Klubobmann Strache, to Norbert Darabos, in particular where you then say big here how fair you really want to deal with the matter. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: For an opposition politician, it was harmless, what else do you want?- Oh, my God!]] I can remember that there has also been some positive assessment of his work from your side. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Bitch.]] I do not say that we should now use Blue Helmets at the FPK meetings in Klagenfurt. I'm not saying that that would be polemic. I'm not saying you'd rather practice your withdrawal exercises in Lower Austria or in Carinthia. I'm not saying that either. That would be polemic. Well, I'll leave it now. Be successful once in the Lower Austrian FPÖ or at the FPK meetings! Thank God that's not our problem, but it's your problem. On this occasion I would also like to point out that the speech that Mr Klug has given here was really very factual and also pointed to one point: Its activity should be assessed if this reform concept exists. That makes sense. Once you've been a minister for a few days, then, I think, you've served to treat you with fairness at the start, Mr Mister Pilz – with fairness. After you come to see me and look so polemically, I'd rather say it right now. You were not the fungus on the first day either, but you have slowly “pulled yourself ” until you became a fungus. [[Rejoicing with representatives of the ÖVP.]] Therefore, I think, this fairness should apply here as well. I believe that this is a very essential point in this context. What I feel is very, very positive is not only the materiality with which Minister Klug has approached this matter, but also that he has also presented key points of his work and plans. With this he also signaled that he was not an interim minister, but that he was very likely already drawing traces, trying to set processes in motion. Mr. Klug will do that. I know him from his own parliamentary group. He has been a very agile, active, sometimes extremely uncomfortable colleague, but if he wants to achieve it if he has a goal. I am deeply convinced that he will do the same. In this context, not reform pessimism, but reform optimism is appropriate. The only thing that went through my head is the following: After being said again and again, you should or you want to make military service more attractive – I do not want to revive an old debate on the question of professional or not professional army – I thought: What did the Ministers of Defense do before Norbert Darabos? There were at least three parties involved. For example, the ÖVP was involved, the BZÖ was involved, the FPÖ was involved – what did they do? [[Abg. Riepl: The Eurofighters bought them!]] I mean, a biterl is already entitled to this question. This concerns a very long period of time. Perhaps they didn't do anything, and Norbert Darabos just found a situation where the budget also had a bit of a shabby. If I look at the budget commitments for the acquisition of the Eurofighters, the Flyer Force has of course been pleased. They have, of course, said that we are now the focus of funding. But if, as the Klubobmann Strache did before, one gives a talk about the barracks and the equipment and so on, then one must already see that the determinations were in the direction of this highly complicated system of Eurofighters. I have been told this x-fold even more precisely, because we have always had a confrontation on this question. Of course, there is a lot of money in the acquisition – thank God the number could still be reduced – as well as in the current operation. I'm just for fairness that you really see everything as a whole in this context. I also believe that security policy is also a good piece of foreign policy – Mr Foreign Minister has rightly pointed this out – and that the German army will rightly ask the question of how far it can be integrated into a European security system. This is always a mixture of foreign policy and security policy. In this context too, I believe, this is clearly to be seen. If it has been announced here that money is also available for purchases, I believe this is very, very positive and is also considered very positive by the activists, by the ministers present, by those who are professional in the army, and by the militia. Good and important is also sport. As I have read, it will of course also be one of the priorities of Minister Klug to take the necessary steps in the field of sport. My Appeal It would also be a decision under the Sports Promotion Act. We're ready. The date's up. We want to see something going on at last that will be decided. I can't see a casting pot either, but it's trying to promote mass sports, broadband and to strengthen professional associations. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: You have not read a word from the law! It's not all in there!]] This is something I think is very, very positive, and I think there is certainly a contribution. Mr Westenthaler will certainly also be creative. I mean, this will also be expressed in a better health of our population, our youth, and perhaps in some additional medal in the summer sector, in the winter sector. There we are, I believe, very, very positive. That's where we want to make our contribution. If someone in here needs training, I'll be at my disposal. I have a training programme for every Member and every Member of Parliament. Fitness is the top principle. [[Abg. Dr. Rosenkranz: Well, we're all there right now!]] – Parliamentary Rosary is already there; then we can really start completely. You have our full support, Minister! Our full support!
ParlaMint-AT_2013-03-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00193_d7e11545	Next speaker: Mr. Dr. Pilz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-03-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00193_d7e11566	Federal Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen! If there is a change in government, then normally federal chancellors and vice chancellors stop and rather give longer speeches and explain how good and how blessed their work is for this Republic. That was a premiere today. Today this has not happened for the first time – and that, as I believe, for very good reasons. This federal government has not only gone out of the ideas, not only has the money gone out, but it obviously has gone out of incense half a year before the election. That was the first non-smoking presentation of a Federal Minister. Mr Faymann, you're perfectly right, there's nothing to be rejoiced about. There's nothing to rejoice about. We are – and we should never forget that in this Republic – one of the richest and most beautiful countries in the world, with incredibly many talents, with people who work decently and engage in learning, studying, but with a policy that builds up the future for these people and this Republic. [[Call the Stronach team: Ah, ah! Do you know, Mr. Minister?]] Mr Bundeskanzler, there are good reasons why you are not able to report today on a successful fight against speculation and attacks by the international financial markets on currencies and on budgets: because you have not brought anything together, because you are in the grip of international speculators and speculators like Landeskaufmann Pröll – these are just two different types of speculation, either at the expense of taxpayers or at the same time with taxpayers – and that at the government level, because you, as the ÖVP wants, cannot resist it. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Aubauer.]] Let's talk about the future: The topic of education. The Minister of Education is sitting here on the government bank. She could tell authentically why nothing goes, why the future is also installed by the ÖVP in this case, and, and, and. Now we're coming to the Minister of Defence. My warm condolences, Mr Mag. Smart, for the task you have to take over on behalf of your party. That's not an easy task. [[Abg. Hoefinger: That's nothing!]] I suppose you are as well informed about the state of the Austrian federal army as we are here in this House, but I ask one question: If it's true what Chancellor Faymann said that Norbert Darabos was one of the best defense ministers in the Second Republic, why did he have to go now? Why is the poor Austrian army taken away from the excellent defense minister Darabos? Do you want to harm the federal army? Do you want to harm security policy? Why did Darabos have to go? This question was not answered by the SPÖ. A little second was also striking today: The appearance of the chairman of the Free Party. Such praise for a Social Democratic minister, such blue advance lady bears, I have only rarely experienced. My personal impression is: Klubobmann Strache and probably Klubobmann Head is very sure that they can do whatever they want with this Minister of Defense. With the popular survey they have already taken him politically as a hostage and give him a clear mandate: Minister of Defence, you have taken action to implement the security policy of ÖVP and FPÖ. - That's not a serious task. That's an ascent command. This is a political ascension command, Mr. Defence Minister, at the end of which only one stands firm, there is no heaven waiting for you. [[Abg. Tamandl: This was a decision of the people, even the Greens must stick to it!]] Now you have two major political construction sites. The first major political construction site is military duty. I miss your question to the responsible Austrian People's Party: Where is the concept of the People's Party that I should implement? Where is it? [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Where is the concept for the new federal army? Where is the concept for the new military service? Now a SPÖ defence minister is to make ÖVP policy without the ÖVP telling him how the EDP policy looks, because the EDP does not know how the EIA policy looks because it has no concept. – This is the situation in which you can find yourself. This reform cannot succeed because no one in this government is willing to put ideas on the table at all and think about the future of Austrian security policy – and not the future of ÖVP and FPÖ. The second building site is called Eurofighter. You have not lost any word about it. The company EADS has sent Mr. Wolf-Peter Denker as an agent to Vienna to talk to you and some others and make offers. EADS, due to the corruption case in Austria, not only stands the water up to the neck, but far above the head. When the contract with the Republic of Austria is dissolved, EADS and Eurofighter fly from one international market to another. That's EADS clear. But this is obviously not sufficiently clear to the Ministry of Defence. In this situation, EADS sends a consignee to make an offer to you, Mr Minister, and probably has already made it. EADS is ready to buy you the corruption suspicion and evidence of corruption at the Eurofighter buy to buy a few million. I have the great fear that, like your predecessor, you will be able to buy this corruption case cheaply. I will now tell you a specific case and ask you to act in the interest of the Republic. The Court of Auditors has found that at the time of your predecessor Eurofighter in 2008 and 2009, he was unable to deliver, and the Republic of Austria would therefore have granted € 40 million of money for infringements. Your predecessor should have sent only one letter to Germany, we want to pay these 40 million, and EADS should have paid. The Ministry of Defence and your predecessor have renounced these 40 million without being able to explain it. They gave Eurofighter and EADS 40 million € taxpayers lightly and without any reason. I ask, Minister of Defence Mag. It's smart to tell you. There is a political responsibility, and there is the question of how we can get this money back. I don't know if you've had serious information from your officials in the Causa Eurofighter to this day. The system is not operational. I have already publicly corrected; my old accusation has stated: That's flying lubrication money. Since the Court of Auditors report we know: That's non-flight lubricating money. This is the problem with the Eurofighters. Mr. Defence Minister, 180 million euros of lubricating money have flown. We did not find that in the house, the prosecutors in Vienna, Munich and Rome have found that. There have been house searches in Rome, Vienna, Linz, Switzerland, Munich and Hamburg. And what are you doing? – Negotiating a small discount for corruption, signaling the German manufacturer: If you let us know a little bit, we'll look away and then we'll give up the contract resolution. Mr Mag. Clug, Minister of Defense, I ask you not to bring back a few million charges of corruption, but a billion dollars, because this money is for the Republic. A corrupt purchase must not be rewarded by signaling the Germans, the Republic of Austria stands for the treaty and looks away when it comes to corruption. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] You, Mr Mag. Clug, are – but I like to be taught a better one – currently something like the political hostages of FPÖ and ÖVP. They have also sent a signal to Parliament today. You have given the signal, and I quote you, you invite us, the Members of the National Council, not, together with you, to shape the security policy, not to control you, not to make internal policies, but – I quote – your invitation had only one purpose: You have invited us to “support” you, the Minister of Defence. Are you saying, you still don't understand what a parliament is for? Parliament is not here to support you as a minister. Parliament is here to look at you as a minister and tell you what decisions of principle and what laws we, as autonomous Members, decide to comply with as ministers. They still live in a wrong government world. It is not Parliament that has the Minister, but the Minister has to follow Parliament. Learn this very important lesson in parliamentary democracy and then make a new offer to Parliament! Mr. Federal Minister, you have told us that for months you have prepared yourself thoroughly for a half marathon. That's your private business. It would be important to me: Prepare thoroughly for a security policy in which you are no longer hostages of ÖVP and FPÖ! Also prepare thoroughly for the termination of the Eurofighter Treaty because of proven corruption! Mr Minister, you are perfectly right, you do not have the opportunity to change a lot in the German army this half-year. But this half year you have the opportunity to do something very important for the Republic of Austria, namely, in the main corruption case, to make it clear that this Republic and its defence ministers cannot be bought. You can, and I offer you our full support. We have the facts, we have the evidence. We have everything you need. If you are willing to really serve this Republic, you will be preparing, together with us, for the exit from the Eurofighter Treaty before the National Council elections. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-03-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00193_d7e11655	Next speaker: Mr. Klubobmann's head. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-03-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00193_d7e11676	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank, in particular, Mr Minister for Defence! Dear ladies and gentlemen! It is undoubtedly not a daily process that a member of the government resigns six months before a new election, after four and a half years of government activity. It is also not to be discussed that there is also a certain connection with the outcome of the survey. [[President Dr. Graf takes over the chairmanship.]] This can on the one hand be described as politically decent. But you know that we in the People's Party are currently trying very hard to strengthen the instruments of direct democracy in this country. Of course, it cannot be pro futuro that every time someone has a different opinion than the people before a referendum, it must have an impact on the composition of the government. On the contrary: On the subject of direct democracy, I would rather want to see a situation like in Switzerland. There, à la longue is quite normal that the people once express a different opinion from the government. That's why the world doesn't collapse. But it is of course – and that is what we are doing right now – that we have one thing to do with the opinion and decision of the population. Mr. Federal Minister Klug, thank you for this very precise description of your task and the description of how you see the conditions and objectives of your work. This is one thing we have to do with what we expect from the People's Party. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Please do not allow Mr Pilz to hunt into the bockshorn, even if he is trying to put or settle a sentence that you have said on the gold scale and thus construct a conflict between Parliament and the member of the government. In the last few days, in several contacts with you, I have at least learned that you are working with us here in Parliament – and I stress: Cooperation – seriously mean. You have expressed this several times, and you have already provided first evidence of it, for example in our joint working group. I have no reason to doubt that this will continue. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Federal Minister Klug, the expectations we put together for the next few months are relatively clear, you have described it: The security strategy should be implemented as quickly as possible. The military reform as your core project is to be carried out, especially those emergency measures that will be felt by those present as early as autumn when they enter. There are also structural adjustments – derived from the security strategy – that will be implemented on the basis of those tasks that define the security strategy. This is first of all the military defence of the country, with a balance between domestic and national tasks. Foreign tasks. To all those who have a lot of sympathy within the army for stressing foreign tasks more strongly towards domestic tasks in the future, I say quite clearly: We want to maintain or strengthen the balance between these two tasks. Secondly, the issue of disaster aid, the protection of critical infrastructure. All of this is contained in the security strategy or in the draft. One thing, perhaps, Mr Minister of Defence, which in my view has not been done enough in the past, for which, of course, you have nothing to do with it: For the future, I would like to see the government in the person of the Minister for Defence with Parliament more intensively discussed when it comes to establishing derivatives from the security strategy. It cannot be said that Parliament's involvement in the decision of the Security Strategy will end, and that all further distractions that go into detail are in fact only a matter for the Minister and the General Staff. On the contrary: For example, when it comes to situations analysis, which is to be done every few years, or to concepts for the military structure, we must find, as I think, a suitable way of sharing together. Of course, these are very confidential things that cannot be treated in public meetings. However, I am convinced that we will find a way to give these derivatives of the security strategy a democratic and political legitimacy. This legitimacy cannot, as has been said, mean that the General Staff is completely free in its derivations from these provisions. We from the Austrian People's Party, Federal Minister Klug, give you the hand to cooperate. Mr Vice-Chancellor has already expressed this for the Federal Government, for the members of the ÖVP. I'm doing this for my parliamentary club, too. We are really interested in making important, good, serious contributions with you in a very close dialogue to increase and improve security within the meaning of our people. Of course, all of what I have just said applies to your second area of activity, to sport. In this area too, there are already initial contacts. You have already mentioned that the first task lies in the decision of the Sports Promotion Act. In addition, there are of course a number of executive powers of the Ministry of Sport. I trust that there will be a close cooperation similar to that of national defence. But I have no doubt either and no reason to doubt that it will be so. Everything good for your sure not easy task!
ParlaMint-AT_2013-03-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00193_d7e11753	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Widmann. Five minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-03-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00193_d7e11774	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! The debate has so far been more marked by calmness. I'll try to bring in a little more content, more pepper. Colleague Head, one foreclosure: I am pleased if you wanted to involve Parliament more, but you would have had the opportunity to do so today with the ban on speculation. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] [[Abg. List: That's exactly how it looks!]] You should have involved Parliament instead of always asking the other government party what they do not do themselves. Mr. Klug, I am glad that the decision has been made on you. I'm a military officer myself, and I'm glad it hasn't become a civilian servant again. I think that would have been the wrong signal, too, because the boss should have some idea of what's going on at the base of the force, what the needs are there. Mr. Klug! Klüger, however, would have been – this also towards the German Chancellor – not to occupy the post at all, because you know that this post is actually completely unnecessary until the autumn. It's six months. They know that the general competence of the Federal Chancellor would have enabled the work to be done in the ministry. [[Call the ÖVP: Would you like to abolish the Ministry of Defence?]] You also know that the major reforms will no longer take place until autumn. We have already had the situation, as the agents of the sport were also cared for by the Federal Chancellor. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Amon.]] Colleagues from the ÖVP! There is nothing against the fact that the German chancellor has done away with the agendas of the military in the sense of the will for reform and the will for savings for this short time. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Of course, it is easier to assure a party official 16 320 € per month. But that's not your fault, Minister, that's the debt of the members of the government who made this decision. Mr. Klug, you said that the ground defense service must become more attractive. As a military officer, I tell you quite honestly: It is not a question of making basic defence more attractive, because it is often not military at all. It is about ensuring the best possible safety and protection for Austrian citizens. The federal army is not a well-being club. The Federal Army does not serve to allow young people to spend a nice time. The Federal Army serves to train people properly so that they can carry out their tasks for the safety of Austria as best they can. These are the tasks of the Federal Force. This is also to be read in the corresponding Wehrlaws. That means I'm not good things that you can put the announced concept on the table by June. That won't happen. You have said that you will implement a number of things with your colleague Mikl-Leiter as regards system holders as regards military service and sport as far as the relationship to the military is concerned. By the way, the militia has de facto been abolished by Minister Platter from the ÖVP. Her predecessor, Minister Darabos, in fact, was unable to bring the militia back to life. You know the troop exercises are exposed. These are things I'll be waiting for when you say you're going to light up the federal army and light it up, and you're going to make surveys with the basic military officers. This is already the case, that is all already being done. Mr Minister, you have a big problem: You have a requirement from the ÖVP to implement something you do not know what is inside because there is no concept on the part of the ÖVP, as opposed to the BZÖ. With us as the only parliamentary party, former Minister of Defence Herbert Scheibner has developed a very comprehensive concept with experts. That's a good template, and we'll be handing it over to you today. There are some ideas that you can and should implement. I would ask you, however, above all if you are a minister: Give birth to the beginnings, defend populism on the government bank! Mr Kopf said earlier that he was for direct democracy. – That’s right, but only if it serves the ÖVP. You have to say that. [[Call to the ÖVP: But now it will be scurry!]] If it is political opportunism, then the ÖVP is for direct democracy. I am already excited whether the ÖVP will go along when the democratic package is about to enforce the real, pure national legislation from the base. I can certainly promise you that it will not do so, because direct democracy is opportune for the EIA if it brings a political advantage to the EIA, but not for the people. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] On this popular survey there have been populist arguments from the government bank: The Triple A is lost, the Minister of Finance has said, although the Triple A was already gone. The Minister of the Interior has said that the rescue is about 20 minutes too late. We know that's not at all true. It was also true that there was no information. The citizens have not been informed of what they are supposed to vote on. There were no concepts. There were no alternatives. There were only cruel party propaganda, which was disgracefully exploited by the ÖVP. [[Abg. Hoefinger: That's incredible!]] [[Mr Hornek and Mr Rädler.]] These are the things you need to be steadfast in. You must not be tempted to cash 16 000 € gross now and add small amounts to the ÖVP. We have had the reform debate on the German army for 30 years. I know that from painful experience. Nothing has gone on with this ÖVP in the reform of the German army until now. That's the subject. The standstill is ground in stone with you. This is the ÖVP reform. That's how it looks, colleagues from the ÖVP! I have a few concerns about you, Minister. I could still light the era of Darabos, in which he starved the budget, which people surveyed for lack of information. For party-tactical reasons, he has reduced the catchers – under quotation marks – “small scale”. The Court of Auditors has set out what this has brought to the end, almost nothing at all. That too was party-political reasons. This ultimately called into question the operational capacity of the air force. I really ask you to pay attention to some things. First: Get out of the way with party politics and ideology in the defense of the state! It is about the highest good in this country to our safety. Secondly, Foreign operations. I ask you to design foreign operations in such a way that the security of our soldiers is best guaranteed. I would also ask you to give increasing importance to the Federal Government's reputation in the public, including with regard to the provision of financial resources. I have another request to you: Finally, make sure that the defense doctor is implemented! We're actually just messing through. You know that. We need to know what the federal army stands for. The sites must be deduced from the equipment et cetera. I really wish myself a strategic process. I would particularly like to have a discussion with and an involvement of those concerned in any further reforms – whether these are the batches, the sub-officials, the officers, the civil servants or also the present servants. I would also like to have an honest discussion on cooperation at European level. What's it look like? What security systems are there? Or is the neutrality that has been raised today really one of the last lies, because there are already international missions of the German army with NATO? How do you discuss this? We are honest in dealing with the population to give it pure wine? Minister! In that sense, I hope that more remains than a good short-term defense minister, who has brought together only a few papers, and that a few things will be implemented. I wish you all the best. The participation of the BZÖ and also our support you have if you bring something further in the sense of the citizens and in the sense of the federal army.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-03-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00193_d7e11882	The next speaker is Mr Prehauser. 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-03-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00193_d7e11903	Mr President. Estimated members of the Federal Government! High house! At the beginning of my remarks, I would also like to express my thanks to the exodus Minister Darabos and bring out his light under the sheffel. [[Abg. List: Why aren't you a minister?]] The impression has often arisen in this House, in the area of national defence, and nothing has gone on. I would just like to remind you that the Federal Chancellor said at the time that the Minister of Defence has gone a long way. That was ironic. He knew what had happened in the past. However, from my point of view, he has made a lot out of his office; I would also like to add a few points: the effectiveness of the infrastructure due to the proposals of the military commission, the military debate in general; but – and that is crucial – every subject that has been taken up has been rebuffed from the outset and has been criticized. In the end, Darabos succeeded in saving three Eurofighters, which, as we know, saves ten years of population, the state of 1 billion euros. Of course, this as nothing is a little bit tight and bold and just doesn't fit into the concept of describing a person. The Military Power Act took ten years in this House until it was enforced. That's just one word, ladies and gentlemen, but for the soldiers affected, it's a huge life insurance. This has been carried out under Minister Darabos. Ladies and gentlemen! I believe that it is up to a minister to withdraw from the decision by himself, if he thinks he has reached a point where perhaps another could continue to do so for the benefit of the Republic and for the benefit of the defence of the state. That's to be respected. Federal Chancellor, the decision, Mag. To provide Gerald Klug for this office, I think it's a very good one. I can also admit that I was very excited about which person that will be. But I was pleasantly surprised when I heard who liked the choice. I have met Gerald Klug several times in the past, worked with him, and I have been able to see some points on him as particularly outstanding, which will of course also benefit him in this position. Gerald Klug is one who uses words efficiently – we have heard this today also in his statement of entry – which expresss itself briefly, clearly, but, much more importantly, he is one who also stands in his words. If he then asks the political groups to take part, then it is not to expect him to complain, but to bring in ideas that can be processed in general, that is, that a defence policy should be instructed as far as possible by all the parties in this House, for the benefit of our Republic. I believe, ladies and gentlemen, that we should be able to cope with these advances, which it itself distributes to Parliament, through effective cooperation. A minister is not a light-seer. He cannot know what is going on in some minds and what kind of defense is desired if this is not articulated. The offer to take this path together, to reach the political groups, I would ask you to accept, in order to ultimately move something in the field of defence policy, to achieve what you will be able to rely on in the future. It is simply important for us that future soldiers can judge the profession of soldier or soldier. It will be very important for us in the future to send a signal to the public, to show what the Austrian Federal Army stands for and what will be crucial to us in the next few days. Ladies and gentlemen, let me tell you one more thing. It was criticized by Mr Pilz at a meeting a few days ago: Who decides whether soldiers will go to foreign service and when they will be withdrawn? – Ladies and gentlemen! The Lord Pilz has been a little stupid than he is. [[Abg. Grosz: Hello! Here, I found it. He lives in Wannlake.]] We know very well that this is not decided by the Minister, not by the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany, but by Parliament. We decide whether foreign operations will take place and when they will end again. Therefore, you should go to a minister with the highest head, with the best will, and support him in his work, which, as we know, will not be easy. He deserves our joint support. If he succeeds in leading the army into a good future, this is our common work; we should be proud of it. Good luck, Minister of State!
ParlaMint-AT_2013-03-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00193_d7e11956	The next speaker is Mr Hagen. 6 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-03-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00193_d7e11977	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Dear Minister Klug! I too can congratulate you at this point. You got a very heavy backpack that's filled with massive stones. The department of defence was left as a massive construction site. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Lap.]] I cannot join in congratulating the former Minister. It has tried over the last six years, one can say to destroy the federal army systematically. You will not be able to rebuild this in half a year, even if you still make such efforts, Minister. I'm really taking that from you. You're really not envied. Mr Klug, at least you did the ground defense yourself, so I also trust you that you know how to reform the ground defense service and where the cracks lie here. So, unlike your predecessor, I absolutely trust you to do so, Minister. I put great hopes in you that you will deal with this with a different intensity from your predecessor. Mr. Minister, you have been out of your mind that you are a supporter of the professional army. We from the Stronach team are following the voluntary strategy. We are not far apart, but we must take note of the decision by the January and act accordingly. This package of the ÖVP has also been mentioned several times, which does not exist. [[Abg. Clickovits: That's not true! You just don't know!]] I am also curious about how you are going to be doing here, Minister. This safety concept or military reform concept of the ÖVP – I have already taken it a little more precisely into account here in an earlier speech – is very poor. [[Abg. May. Schönegger: That's just as wrong!]] You'll probably bite out your teeth when you go there. My question always concerns the reform of the Federal Government. I have mentioned it again and again, and, interestingly, I have now received support from the military expert, Mr Karner. He clearly asks: What are the future tasks of the Austrian Federal Government? I can only make a reform if I know where to go. That statement you haven't made of my knowledge yet. It is a question of determining how we want the German army to be in the future and what the tasks of the Federal Force should be. This has to be clearly defined. Is it disaster protection? Then I have to move in this direction. Or is it foreign use, EU protection force, whatever? Yes, Minister, you have to put the cards on the table. I'm already excited in what direction this is going. You may also have to consider whether we can continue to afford an all-round federal army, as we used to be. That's half or nothing. I believe that it is also necessary to define clearly which weapons pits are to be forced, which we maintain, which demands on the German army, the federal army of the future. I think there's a lot of work in front of us. If I were in your place, I would first of all have drumged the gentlemen together and commissioned them to tell me within 14 days clearly what makes sense for Austria in the area of the German army, which are the future tasks, the challenges, and then you can think about a concept. So there are questions about questions – but no answer! Maybe this answer is still coming. I expect this from you, Minister. I would also like to offer you an offer to attract the military service. Mr Minister, we have six speakers here in Parliament who would like to work with you, that is, we would like to submit our proposals to you. I can invite you to accept this offer so that we, all the parties here, work for Austria – for the benefit of Austrian citizens, from young to old, that everything will be taken into account, all the needs and demands that will be placed on the Austrian federal army! We should not forget the civil service either, so that we can go in the right direction. So all in all, as I said: There's a lot to do, Minister. I wish you all the best and good luck! I'm sure you'll need that. And if you need us if you need our support in order to enforce reasonable reforms, my offer stands.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-03-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00193_d7e12039	Next speaker: Member of the Commission. - (FR) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin by thanking Mr Maij-Weggen. 5 minutes speaking - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-03-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00193_d7e12060	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen of the Federal Government! Mr Mag, Minister of Defence. Klug, I too can welcome you very warmly and may wish you all the best for your new function immediately. I too can give you the hand to cooperate, which you have already extended. I already see this as very great progress towards the policy we have experienced in the defence. Last Monday, the forced Darabos with the Austrian federal army just ended in the seventh year. Mr. Minister, stay there! [[Cheerfulness and condolences with the ÖVP.]] I cannot agree with the anthems of praise of some previous speakers. But I don't have to repeat that, because from this point of view, we have often criticized what Norbert Darabos might not have done as we would have wished. We too have always extended this hand to cooperation, because the cooperation of all political groups is necessary in the matter of security policy. I am therefore pleased that all previous speakers have now said that we want to work together. Mr Klug, I really wish you all the best! I really think that what you have presented in your speech of entry is smart, and there is hope that whatever happens in connection with the popular survey of the 20th century. January was given as an assignment, and is finally implemented. There are many construction sites that we have to do in the Austrian federal army, which have not only been executed by politics – I say very, very critical of the military – but also by the federal army itself. It is therefore necessary for Parliament's democratic establishment to be much more closely monitored by the processes within the Austrian federal army and to define more clearly the requirements for our soldiers who make their work excellent. This is a failure of the past. But you, Mr. Federal Minister, have your speech of departure hope that it will now be different. Mr Klug, you have mentioned that, as a central issue, we want to carry out the project of improvements in military service. We are already, I believe, in the preparatory groups on a very, very good path. I can assure all those who call for a programme from the Austrian People's Party that our programme is also included in these proposals for improvement with our coalition partner. A number of measures have already been mentioned. And I believe that it is now also time and important that the security strategy, which still stands out, which, as it were, serves as the basis of defence policy, is still being discussed here. There are also, I believe, good joint ideas of the coalition partners, which we should then discuss with the opposition as soon as possible and also want to discuss so that we can hopefully decide together on this security strategy. You have also said, Mr Federal Minister, that you want to involve the force much more. I think that is also a wise proposal. To ensure that you have also announced to the public that you want to give a decent say to Mr. Chief of Staff Entacher, show that you are taking the force seriously that you also appreciate the work that is being done there. I really think this is a great idea, and I can thank you very, very much for doing so. [[Congratulation with ÖVP and SPÖ as well as the Abg. New builder.]] The Chief of General not only stands as a person for his great achievements, but also as a symbol of all the soldiers of the Austrian Federal Army, who are serving as the insurance of the Republic, who also perform their service in foreign countries, as is the case at Golan, despite the war there. That is why, Minister of State, Klug, concludes: I'm welcome to wish you all the best. A happy hand! And as a trade unionist also a lucky up for your work. Live the Austrian army!
ParlaMint-AT_2013-03-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00193_d7e12111	The next item is the speech by Mr Kunasek. 4 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-03-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00193_d7e12132	Mr President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! High house! Yes, my previous speaker has already mentioned a subject on which I too would like to thank, Mr Federal Minister, for showing size and letting the divorced Chief of Staff out of office in a dignified way. I believe that this is a good start, perhaps also for a restart, also in the cooperation between politics and the military leadership. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I believe that this is a clear signal to the servants of the Federal Army, who have been repeatedly mentioned here today from this speaker's desk, but also from you. Mr Federal Minister, I should also like to say that I do not think that your idea here is proper and correct. Much of what you have said here today is, of course, shared by our group. It remains, of course, at the end of the day to hope that it is not, as so often, just headlines in security and defence policy. It has been mentioned several times today, I think the most common word here at this speaker’s desk was “construction site”. There are a lot of construction sites. It is the large building station of the Federal Army, which was left by a minister of defence who never arrived in this office and who is now back where he has always been, namely in a party political system, where he did not focus on the security of Austria, not the well-being of the Federal Army, but on party political considerations. So the question will be, Mr Federal Minister: How much time do you really have? Is it possible to finish all these construction sites? I dare to doubt it. However, I can say here on behalf of my group that, of course, we are prepared to cooperate constructively where the welfare of the federal army is concerned, including the well-being of the soldiers, who also carry out excellent achievements. However, I also note, of course, that where we recognize abuses, where we recognize a standstill, we will recognise a refusal to reform, of course again, as usual, with the pointing finger, in order to show these abuses – possibly also as a marginal opposition. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Mr. Federal Minister Klug, I wish you all the best for your service in the field of defence. As a Member of this House, I would like you to deal with the matter differently from your predecessor. I would like a Minister of Defence to focus on the security of Austria, the well-being of the Republic. I would like to be a professional soldier and a sub-official – I would also like to be allowed here. To say this – a Federal Minister who communicates at the same time with the soldiers – no matter what degrees of service, whether in charge, whether sub-official, whether officer, or of course, whether or not basic military servants, who meets personnel decisions in accordance with the staff representation and does not live, so to speak, the primacy of politics, but also takes new ways in communication, and who – you have said that yourself – expresses to the soldiers the degree of praise you deserve. However, I would also like to be a sports spokesman for my group, Mr Federal Minister – and you have mentioned this briefly today – that your priorities are clear, namely to see national defence as a major construction site and a core task area and not to lose sight of the sport, where we also have construction sites, but perhaps not in this order of size. We have to get a sports promotion law on the way – it is already in Parliament – where we liberals say quite clearly: Yes, we want to have a law where the taxpayer's money in the final effect also comes where it belongs, namely to the sportsman! We want to put it where it really makes sense. We want to support the athletes and not have the money digested – and I say this quite openly here – in the red and black functional apparatus. I think that's very important. Here again, Mr Federal Minister, I can promise you our constructive cooperation. I wish for the few months that remain for us now, a good cooperation – – in the sense of the German army, in the sense of sport and, in the future, also in the sense of the Republic of Austria!
ParlaMint-AT_2013-03-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00193_d7e12202	The next item is the speech by Mr Christ. 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-03-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00193_d7e12223	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Federal Government! High house! Not only in the state defense, but also in sports, of course, we want to get better and better. That is why there is a joint new anti-doping law that we have adopted. That's what we did. We have a new sports promotion law in progress. It's on target. We have the daily movement unit in the kindergarten and in the schools on the agenda and in this respect a great agreement here in the house. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: The Minister for Education does not want to do this!]] We are in this direction in very good discussions with the Ministry of Education. We have a National Action Plan for Movement, which is in the implementation phase. However, we also have to pay attention to the topic of inclusion in sport and to ensure better support for the relevant professional associations. And we finally need – the Minister has already announced it today – a new, modern sports venue concept, which is more than important to my knowledge and, at least, to the entire organized sport in Austria. All these points, ladies and gentlemen, have been started or implemented in the era of Darabos. And that's why I thank Norbert Darabos once again for this work. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] At the same time, however, the following is also a commitment and a contract of work for us and the new Minister of Sport: The roof and specialist associations, our athletes, our athletes and above all the many volunteer officials need safety. You need goals. They need the best possible support. They need the best possible conditions to be successful nationally and internationally. They also need the best possible conditions to be able to work and work successfully in school sports, health sports, leisure sports, wide-ranging sports. Estimated Minister Klug, there's a lot of work waiting for you! We will support you with all our expertise, especially in your work as Minister of Sports, and look forward to the coming weeks and months of joint work and implementation.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-03-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00193_d7e12273	The next item is Mrs Windbüchler-Souschill. 6 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-03-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00193_d7e12294	Mr President. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! Once again, back to the agendas of the Ministry of Defence, back to a word so often used today, that is to say, to the outcome of the popular survey. The Greens have always been committed to the fact that the abolition of the military obligation to abolish military forces is clearly forced. There are clear reasons for this, there are clear lines. Even if I have personally hoped for another outcome of the popular survey – from a youth political point of view, from a peaceful political point of view, but above all from a social point of view – it is of course necessary to take the result seriously and also to take steps in this direction in order to implement this result. But the criticisms, Mr President, which have already been made before the People's Survey, are also based on the popular survey, which is primarily on the subject of forced service, but also on direct democracy. And if Klubobmann is making his head and thinking that direct democracy has been extended and there are already proposals, it should also be mentioned here again that what was proposed for the whole population of Austria in reforms of direct democracy is actually a farce and must not be implemented in any case and should definitely be re-examined. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] This includes, for example, the question to ministers. Ten thousand signatures are required to allow a citizen to make a direct request to a minister and a minister. Most of the municipalities in Austria are smaller and with less than 10,000 inhabitants. And if the Minister or the Minister answers this question directly to Parliament, there is not even the possibility that the person or person who has asked this question can actually comment on it. That is to say, those who have submitted this request to the Minister or the Minister may sit on top of the gallery or watch television, but may not directly take a position. This is not a form of direct democracy and is strictly against it! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] The criticism of the Eurofighter system is sincere and needs to be dealt with, not a question, but also the criticism of the system procurement. The Court of Auditors reports again and again show that in the field of procurement, it is € 310 million in a year. That's not nothing, it's a lot of money. 310 million euros of procurement in the military, which must be monitored in any case, must be followed. And actually, we need to think again about whether these € 310 million are actually justified. especially when it comes to social justice – a very important point – especially when it comes to educational reform; and then drones are to be purchased for the Burgenland border. That must definitely be re-examined! But also the system of foreign representation, which has been quite well served, has been in all mouths and also in criticism. It is also very important to look at the criticism points on the system of women in the Austrian Federal Army. We know that since women have the opportunity to become servants, but not just servants, but soldiers of the Austrian federal army, there are clear problems. Many women leave during the service. Many women simply stop for a variety of reasons. If you ask, it says, it's mainly Mobbing, it's especially sexist accusations. It is actually the task of every Minister of Defence to implement a form of acceptance and respect, so that women in the Austrian Federal Army actually find the place they deserved. So a thank you from our side as from FPÖ and ÖVP is definitely too early, no question, it's far too early. One last word on the outcome of the survey. They said it was an unmistakable task to reform the military obligation. I would like to remind you that the surveys on the survey of the people have clearly shown that 80 percent of those who have made the Kreuzerl in maintaining the military duty, which is why they have done so that civil service is maintained and thus civil service is secured so that the Social service, health care and, of course, health care. In my opinion, all those who seem to be treated in such a priority in military service, but not in civil service, need precisely these reform steps. These include – and I would like to give you these comments – the reduction of civil service to six months, namely civil service equality with basic defence services, the possibility of voluntary extension, the implementation of the paid voluntary year of their partner dog's death – a good, important step towards securing the social service system and the accountability of acquired knowledge – and, most importantly, any foreign services – memorial services, social services and peace services abroad – must finally be safeguarded independently. All of this concerns you as part of the government, but also as Minister of State Defense. Foreign services are an important part of the embassy – Austrian ambassadors and ambassadors – but it is also an important part of the continuation of Austria's peace efforts abroad. That is why it is important to implement all these reforms, not a question. But never forget the civil service, don't forget the true outcome of this popular survey!
ParlaMint-AT_2013-03-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00193_d7e12388	The next item is the speech by Mr Deputies on jewellery miners. 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-03-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00193_d7e12410	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Thank you, Mr. Federal Minister. Smart! Ladies and gentlemen in the High House! If you have spoken about the support you also expect from this House, I would like to give you this support, as a sports speaker on the part of the ÖVP, of course. We are happy about this and we are happy to support you, because we do not see support as an offer, but that together we are making some progress towards sports in Austria and together we are responsible for more sports in Austria. This offer is indeed only acceptable. It has also been discussed about the Federal Sports Promotion Act. This is of course only a part of the sports landscape in Austria. We have made a great deal of progress here, and the interest groups have been involved. But it's not done yet. There are still a few open issues, and we need to explain them together in the parliamentary process in the Sports Committee. A process has already been developed so that we can achieve something here. I believe that this law will be possible before the summer. But sport is a cross-sectional matter. This Federal Sports Promotion Act defines only the promotions in sport directly. I believe that especially in the field of education, health and social matters, we can move a lot for sport. Here, too, colleagues on the government bank are even in your group, which means that contact should be easier. We can make a lot of progress here; the daily movement unit has already been mentioned, but also in the health field, a lot could be done. We know that every euro spent in prevention for sports ultimately saves 3 € in health treatment. These are very important factors which must also be reflected in the budgets of each other. They have already presented plans for the future. The next biggest sport destination for Austria will be the Olympic Games in Rio, especially for summer sports. However, I would also like to draw attention to the fact that, on the one hand, we want to promote and develop talents in Austria, but on the other hand, we often treat talents badly. I would like to address a sportsman as an example: Dinko Jukić, our most successful swimmer in Austria. He is completely cut by his swimming association, whose president is a comrade of yours, the countryman from Vienna's Landtag. Here you don't know what the motivations are. It is not acceptable to tighten this athlete in his activity. This athlete, one of Austria's most important athletes for the Olympic Games in Rio, cannot even train. I think we have to make a lot of progress here. We also have to move a lot when it comes to sports sites, because the sports facilities in Austria are sometimes no longer internationally suitable. Even the Ernst-Happle-Stadion we will have to clean up, otherwise we won't get anything forward. It has also shown the popular survey in Vienna that the rejection of Olympic Games in Vienna does not have anything to do with the fact that the Viennans do not want to have a sport, but that they do not trust their city government to create the appropriate infrastructure. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Moser.]] The Federal Government and the Länder together must work on creating a sports venue plan in Austria and also involve all sports, because that is what we need. Without infrastructure, the other measures ultimately do not help us. I believe that if we want to talk about a season handover in the ministry in the sports sense, we have the problem that the previous Minister shortly after the Unfortunately, start the season lost. But I offer you, we go back together, we pick up the season, we pick up in the international competition, and we start to overtake so that we, the sports country of Austria, can go through the goal again.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-03-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00193_d7e12479	The next item is the list of Members. 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-03-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00193_d7e12500	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Federal Government! High house! [[The speaker presents a brochure entitled “Austria’s Security in a Networked World. Security and defence report’s focus is on the speaker’s seat.]] On behalf of SPÖ, ex-Bundesminister Darabos, with the strong support of the ÖVP, led the Federal Army into the most severe crisis of the present. As a reward, the weakest minister of defence is finally removed from the defence department all the time, and is now ordered to the Red Party headquarters. This withdrawal was long overdue. [[Phone call at the SPÖ.]] At the same time, this SPÖ post-carousel has enough explosives, massive explosives. Darabos has a lost image. This loser should motivate the beaten SPÖ and mobilize its voters. This will become interesting in autumn. It is a risk to the Social Democrats. The failed Darabos leaves his pitiful successor Klug with the federal army a mess. The general state of the Austrian federal army is a disaster. The German army is at the level of the eighties. In this ruin it has led your failed predecessor Darabos. With the help of the ÖVP, Sparbudgets were continually tied up with tolerance and strong help. With the last one, the defense resort lacks € 530 million. The federal army is broken by this failed federal government and practically starved. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] The barracks are no longer used. In his term of office, Darabos almost abolished the German army's willingness to work. Greater disasters such as flood 2002 are no longer to be dealt with. Inspect the force, Mr. Federal Minister, make A situation picture on site, you will need to confirm this catastrophic findings! You will also notice that the motivation of the soldiers is in the basement. There are too many officers in international comparison. The cadre is frustrated and outdated. Here a necessary personnel structural reform is long overdue. Mr Klug, you have to act quickly, and you have to refrain from the 100-day deadline, because perhaps the implementation of the promised reform in the basic defence service as a lean result of the popular survey up to the middle of the year is still possible. Training objectives, e.g. in the areas of physical training, sport, first aid, emergency, specialisation in civil protection tasks, or increasing the attractiveness of the service, can be defined in a few days. It's possible. These problems and shortcomings have long been known in the German army. The implementation of an improved military service for recruits by the team is then immediately possible. However, you, Mr Federal Minister, must streamline the timetable and put pressure on the General Staff, but above all on the ÖVP. This ÖVP will, by all means, try to block any reform in the ground defense service until the election day in September. The blacks will be deliberately dragged back so that defence minister Klug can't prove success. [[Abg. Dr. Bartenstein: That's a nonsense!]] - That's it! In the field of national defence, the ÖVP is also keen to stick to old structures that have been put in place. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Dear ladies and gentlemen! The ÖVP has again played a great chance of reforming the German army and setting up future-oriented in Austria and Europe. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wöger.]] – You are harming Austria from the Austrian People's Party! – On the other hand, we from the BZÖ use Austria and state: The Federal Government of the Future needs more and more professional soldiers. This is an opinion that you, Mr Klug, are also representing. The professionals in the army are immediately available and ready to use. Only professional soldiers, of course, guarantee immediate assistance in any kind of disaster. More and more professionals are also required in other areas, such as foreign employment. This also confirms the current and dangerous use in the Middle East powder barrel, which we have already talked about several times today. [[Call to the ÖVP: Thank God the speaking time is soon to end!]] We from the BZÖ, ladies and gentlemen, have come to the conclusion that the abolition of compulsory military service would be a security gain, no, I emphasize, the abolition of compulsory military service is a security gain for a comprehensive national defence. Accordingly, we have created our program. This also means that we are the only ones – we are really the only ones in this house – who have competent solutions. Our program “Austrian Security in a Networked World” has a future. That is why, Mr Federal Minister, as announced by Klubobmann Josef Bucherer, I am now handing over to you the BZÖ's military and security concept, which is a guide to your further work as a new Minister of Defence. Finally, a good advice from the BZÖ and from me as spokesperson of the BZÖ: Mr. Federal Minister, Mr. Klug, do your name all the honour, be wiser than your predecessor, who has been drawn over the table for six years by this ÖVP!
ParlaMint-AT_2013-03-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00193_d7e12592	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Lap. 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-03-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00193_d7e12614	Mr President. Values Members of the Federal Government! High house! The previous speaker obviously made an opinion on BZÖ's internal position, because the winery he spoke with to the German army is more related to the fact that in the BZÖ the great winery has broken out after another colleague has now gone to the Stronach team. The federal army and the power of the federal army and the efficiency of the federal army have very little to do with their interpretations. Also, that colleague who spoke before, who is from Klosterneuburg and comes by a little bit in Vienna – Klosterneuburg is not so far away from Vienna – should have learned what initiatives the city of Vienna is supporting in the context of sport with the conversion of a swimming centre and a athletic center. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP, to resort only to Vienna or to the SPÖ, I think this is a bit cheap. On the occasion of a transfer to a new Minister of Defence, we should put aside such cheap tricks and shames and turn to the serious things. Reliability, handshake quality, planning safety and design will are the political criteria and structures that need to be taken into account in everyday political life. Minister Norbert Darabos has given clear orders to rework the chapters of National Socialism and has ordered the occurrence of national socialist currents in the Federal Army of Parole. I know that as a reliable partner, Minister Gerald Klug will continue to work in this direction, because the denial of national socialist chapters and the cover-up of such processes must be stopped and fought very intensively. The guarantee of state sovereignty within the framework of general state defence and general security has always been achieved in the context of an economic and financial crisis in the Austrian federal army with very large capabilities and very large improvisation. Ensuring adequate reactability in changing security policy conditions is therefore one of the most important parameters in order to further drive Austrian national defence. The basis for cooperation within the framework of national defence, the key points, ladies and gentlemen, are clear to all of us in the House. In the context of budget consolidation, optimization measures must be launched and efficiency improved. It is essential to maintain the capacity and competence of the Austrian federal army. This joint achievement, as already described in the working groups between the ministers Mikl- Leitner and Klug, shows that partnering and access in the government will lead to a respectful deal with the recruits, that the appreciation of the skills and achievements will be given priority not only to the recruits but also to the employees in the Austrian federal army and those who serve them. Mr. Gerald Klug, lucky for your ministerial activity! I know that you are a very reliable partner with handshake quality and design will, in the workshop on committed employees not only in the state defense, but also in the sports sector, and here in the house you can count on a solidaric handling.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-03-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00193_d7e12662	The next item is the speech by Mr Ing. Lugar. 6 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-03-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00193_d7e12683	Mr President. High house! We're talking about a new Minister of Defence today. If you look at the size of the task that's being done, it's from my point of view a really huge task that you're taking over. On the one hand, it should be cheaper, on the other hand, it should be better, but don't change anything. I think that's how it can be summarized. That was also the reason why Mr. Darabos didn't bring anything together: not because he couldn't or perhaps didn't want to do that – I wouldn't want to agree with him – exactly! [[Abg. Neubauer: Because he was not allowed to!]] I'm convinced that Darabos wanted but was not allowed to. This is exactly the problem we have in many areas: Something is going to change, everything should get better, perhaps even cheaper, but if you want to change something, you'll be pummeled back. We also have the problem with the German army, and that is why the German army is also in the state in which it is. The construction sites – we have heard it today – are huge. There is virtually no area in which there would be no need for action. Now I'm wondering, How is it that a federal army, which has been starved for years, has become less and less operational for years and which has been able to carry out the tasks of which we all expect it to carry out without increasing the financial resources to a satisfactory capacity? And this after we had a population survey, which, in my view, unfortunately turned out to be negative, and therefore we cannot change anything in the area either. We must therefore continue to execute this forced service, and we must continue to invest millions more than millions in a training system that ultimately leads to nothing. What do you need great armies for? - You need them for big battles. Do you seriously believe that we still have a great battle to expect in Austria or at our borders, for which we have to put on the fast 400 000, 500 000 men? And even if that were the case – I once asked – we could equip up to 100 000 men with shoes and clothing. You have to imagine that once! We keep 40 000 people alive each year through this training to have them available later if the emergency occurs, which, as all experts say, is very unlikely. If we needed them, there wouldn't even be enough equipment, there wouldn't even be enough shoes, enough clothing to suit everyone. And yet we are committed to this system! This is just a small area that we need to reform. I know that there has been a popular survey that the government considers binding, and that is also good, and now we have to maintain this compulsory system. But then we also have to say how we want to shape it financially and organizationally, because that is exactly the point. You can't say it's got to stay everything it was, but it's supposed to get cheaper and change nothing. I can't. Mr. Klug, I am quite ready to give you advance locust berries, and I am also convinced that you are addressing the matter with full energy and fullness of action. I'm convinced of that, but you won't be able to change it either. You will also not be able to change that whenever you want to change something, anyone puts in his veto, and there are very, very many. We've all seen that in the past. In principle, then, we have to consider whether it has been possible to exchange a minister, or whether it would not have been very successful to allow the Minister to change something, because it is precisely what Mr Darabos has failed. He failed to change something. And you too will fail to change something if we do not give you the opportunity to do so. There we finally have to discuss – and this is my conviction – in the matter, quite different from the popular survey, where one has told one that, when the military service falls, there is no longer any care for the old people, because then civil service breaks away, there is no more civil protection, and, and, and. This is not an objective discussion. What we need is an objective discussion. I'm not one who says I know what happens when we discuss matters. It is about the discussion, it is about putting on the table, first of all what our federal army should do, second, what our federal army should do in the context of the European states. No one seems to want to talk about it. We are, after all, embedded in a European security architecture, and no human being is thinking about what we want to play a role there. It will depend on how our federal army is to be reformed. If I don't know, how can I reform the federal army? Or by the example of Eurofighter: Now we have expensive war equipment; there's a lot to scramble and muzzle about, but now we have it now and we should use it as well. And there are also huge problems, what you hear. It can't be that we're buying expensive equipment and then we can't even use it because we can't keep it up. All these problems need to be addressed. To conclude, Minister: At the time, there was a particular discrimination against civilians for a particular reason. An expert has been asked and wanted to find out how many months one needs to establish civil service longer than the military duty in order to make it as unattractive as possible. And then you came to nine instead of six months. And that's the point! At the time, it was about making civil service as unattractive as possible, so that as many as possible the military service could help the German army. The question is, do we not want to produce fairness? If a person performs a service in civil service – and this is very important and valuable, as is always said from all sides – then he must not be punished, quite the contrary! If this is an important contribution to our society, it must not be punished. That is, we have to lay down the service time, both six months, and then you can prove that the military service is attractive, so people like to go there. That was always what was assumed to be the desire of young people with great passion for the German army and the obligation to do so and for themselves is only a small motivation support. If you really believe that the military service is attractive and that the federal army is attractive, then compare the service times, and then we'll see at a glance if anyone else can get excited about the military duty and how many that will be. Then the problems will be solved by themselves, because then we have to think about it, because then we need a professional army and have to build it. There are many, many models that work on a voluntary basis and are not based on a forced service. I do not want to warm up this debate again, we already had it all. In my opinion, first of all, consideration is crucial as to what we want, then the necessary measures and only then a minister who is also given the opportunity to change something. And I don't see that yet. I wish you, but I don't see it yet. That is why we are giving you the opportunity to do so and here we decide to give our full support to a meaningful reform. Then you're on the train. Make You're doing this reform! The German army deserved it, the Austrians deserved it, and the forced committers deserved it too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-03-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00193_d7e12724	The next item is Mr Brosz. 4 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-03-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00193_d7e12745	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! If one follows the debates that have to do with sport, and it has been doing this for a while – in my case since 1999 – then one could try to collect the speeches of the last 15 years and submit to “wets that...” to find out what speech was from which year. The problem situation is identical, the executions are identical, the topics are identical. [[Abg. List: The persons not!]] – The people are not identical, that's right. This would probably be most likely to be considered when that was the case. I remember when I came to Parliament in 1999, there was a FPÖ member who called Udo Grollitsch, and at that time he always talked about the daily hour of movement, about the daily movement unit. That was 1999! And there has been this wonderful decision today, which has already turned out again that almost nothing will happen to the implementation. What I want to add is that the problems in Austrian sport have remained similar. You could handle that one once. Perhaps we will come to a common picture where the main problems lie. The key problem is the lack of cooperation between school, schools and organized sport. This has also been the case for decades. We have a sports infrastructure which cannot be used exactly then if the young people actually have the most time, namely in the holiday months, because in the holiday months de facto are all higher schools. There is now the opening of the schools during the school year, there you can rent the sports facilities, during the vacation, so if time is, they are closed. One could calculate what the economic meaning means. It is totally absurd, above all, because this would be an opportunity to use existing infrastructure. What does it fail to do? – The school guard is on holiday, the school is not occupied, so the sports infrastructure units cannot be used either. That's the main argument that's being led. If one were to find a cooperation and say that this is so much worth the sport that one might make available from the sports promotion to enable the use of facilities during the holiday, this would have achieved quite a lot in Austria. One could try to operate it externally, open the schools and make offers there. I remember: There are nine weeks of summer holidays, that would be a lot of time. In the six months of your term of office, you will reach little, I assume. That's not going to be all right. I wonder if at some point we will experience a time when you and the Minister of Education will come together to see that it is really a pity that this opportunity to use this infrastructure in Austria is not being used. This debate has been weighing back and forth for ten years, and the same thing always comes out: The Ministry of Sports is not responsible, the Ministry of Education is not responsible, and cooperation does not take place. Two of the core problems: We have, and I agree with that – which is already a bit different from the FPÖ in the assessment – a wide-ranging sports structure with umbrella associations, which, unlike in the past, have clearly backed back the political background. Many have been in union, in ASKÖ, and if you are doing normal sports there, the phase in which you have to deal directly with politics has certainly been reduced. I agree. What remains the same, however, are the structures behind it, the same persistent structures, which can be difficult to attack even with this sports promotion law. I assume that Mr Westenthaler will then also have to talk about it. If you – and that was the claim of Minister Darabos, who is unfortunately not here now to follow this debate; that would have been quite interesting – pursue the claim that the casting can be removed, then it is apparently a confession that there has been the casting pot in the current system so far, otherwise we do not need to change it. What was the casting pot? Where did the means of sport come from? – On the one hand, into the roof associations, on the other hand into the trade associations, elsewhere the money has hardly flown. The Minister has therefore apparently identified the need for reform. If there is a need for reform, it is said that they have not brought it together so well, it may also need other possibilities. – Hermann Krist is looking at me like that now. – In many areas, he is also okay, we don't need to talk about it. However, if you look at the balance of performance sports – the London keyword – but also if you look at the perspective if we were to discuss two now, where the medal opportunities of Austria would be at the next Summer Olympics, we would have to think for a relatively long time until something comes into our mind where you could say that we would have a chance with a relatively high probability. This is, of course, already due to a sports promotion system which creates a situation in Austria, as it probably does not exist in many other countries. We know that this was the only budget area that has been expanded due to the extremely increased sums of money from the lotto-toto-area over the last few years, but – let us be careful – the successes have not kept pace with this. If you want to analyze this, you have to ask: Why not? – My analysis is that there are associations that have never established that something has been built where there has really been success. I can report this from my own field. In the tennis you can understand this wonderfully: There was the tennis boom around patterns in the mid-1990s with an extremely high number of active children. Puffed! It never happened in Austria that this would have gotten a certain width. Swimming? – For a time a successful association has already been addressed. In the meantime, this is actually a field of ruins on which the conflicts are in the foreground and which is not foreseeable, that there could continue to be successes to the extent. I don't know if you can call me an association that can be said to be a show in the Olympic area where you know where it is going. That is where I have a clear need for reform. It is also supposed to be broadband, it should also be professional associations. But what is not going on is the announcement that one now wants to make a new structure, much more for top sports promotion. There is the so-called Federal Sports Conference when it is implemented as it stands inside. Who is in this Federal Sports Conference? – Three members of the Federal Ministry, who now want to achieve more, and eight members of the sports organisation representing the entire Austrian sport, I therefore assume, the BSO. That is to say, the majority will be relocated to where the problems had to be resolved so far, and they will now decide how to promote them. The fact that this is not necessarily a reform concept could actually be obvious. However, this will be even more fun, because it has also been written in that decisions will be taken by a majority of two-thirds. For safety reasons, the composition has been designed in such a way that the BSO always has the two-thirds majority for eleven members with eight that it has inside. I don't know why the Ministry of Sports is sitting in there at all – perhaps with a consultative voice, no matter what. As a counter-argument, it comes that we do not want state sports. Mr Darabos said that; Mr Wittmann always says that. I don't want that either. – I want a sports promotion structure, with which it is once seriously cleaned up with these old things, where there should be wide-ranging sports, but with which it should also be possible – and this is admitted in the goals also inside – to honour successes, to promote structures in which positive progress is made. However, I dare to doubt whether, in view of the fact that he has put himself through it, this will bring a great deal of change. I wouldn't order that right now. Mr Minister, I would like to give you one last point. I have debated this over years with Mr Darabos, who has just come to the hall. How does it make sense to continue to promote only the construction of infrastructure in the case of sports promotion projects in Austria? Famous example – Mr Fazekas is just outside –: the multiversum in Schwechat. Werner Schlager Academy for Table Tennis is in there. What happened? The establishment has been promoted. We'll talk about the costs another time. The question that has flown in is not the subject, but the establishment of a table tennis center has been promoted. Is the current operation also being promoted? Will the trainers who have been brought there be promoted? That would be one of those demonstration projects. And for years, every time the Minister of Sports answered: No, we don't. I'll tell you: As long as it is that we are building infrastructure, but do not have a sports promotion structure outside the associations, it will remain problematic. That's an important point! In that case, there is a world champion who has put a project on his feet. There is a pattern, there are people from the ski area, there are people who put something on their feet that are not usually prepared to enter the association structures. I expect – if you also want the Greens to agree to this Sports Promotion Act – that an area will help to promote precisely such innovative projects, even if the people who do not want to integrate into the association structures are the ones outside the Federal Sports Organisation. There must also be this open space. Perhaps that would be a promising area where one could try to see if there is no more results.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-03-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00193_d7e12787	The next speaker was Mr Ing. Westenthaler. 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-03-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00193_d7e12810	Mr President. Members of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen! In general, and this has nothing to do with you, Mr Minister, do not take it personally, the learned Austrian must already ask himself the question: Why Minister? Why, six months before the National Council election, do we say, three-and-a-half months before the resolution of the National Council, that a new minister will be appointed at all? Why? In times like these, in which it should be saved, it would have been much more modern, reasonable to say: It can't bring anything together in these few weeks anyway. Mr Klug, I wish you all the best, because if you are seeking reforms on a legal basis, then you will have to give the first laws to the House about mid-April, i.e. in about a month – and I wish you a beautiful Easter too – because only the legislative process in this House is one that takes some time. If we disband the National Council in June, the end of June or early July, then it will not take any more time. And that's why I really wonder why a new minister, why the Chancellor didn't draw the agendas sport and defense. In any case, there is a working group working out the reform. In fact, the reform cannot be implemented anymore. It can be formulated by this group, perhaps presented but no longer implemented. A reasonable way would have been to say as a federal government: Yes, Darabos failed; the people sent the Minister of Defense to the desert with the poll – and until the election we no longer occupy for reasons of economy! – That would have been reasonable. That would have been a way where the population would have gone. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Now, on the statements made by Mr Klug, who has made quite a passable appearance, I am now speaking as chairman of the Sports Committee and sports spokesperson, because of the 15 minutes he has devoted all three to the sport. I hope, Minister, that this is not the division, a fifth, a little sport so side by side as a Minister of Defense, which then goes through the next few weeks. I wouldn't like that if I were. But I didn't like much about the content, but I didn't like your statements in these 3 minutes about sports. I'll tell you why. Because you have come here, this federal sports promotion law, which now exists after a four-year odyssee, has completely uncritically adopted and said: That's what I do, I don't question it at all. – For if you were to question it and take Mr Darabos to your side, you would probably have to insist that it is not his law either – it is actually not a law that is in the interest of Mr Darabos’s Minister of Sport – if you discuss it with him, perhaps in a four-eye discussion. Mr Darabos was on the right track – with many things that could be blamed on him – in defence policy, also in sports policy, too, that it took so long! With his ideas to put sports promotion on a completely new basis, he was on the right path, namely to take the issue out of the hands of the ruling functionary clumps of red and black. This has been the central right way in the promotion of sports! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] But he couldn't get through here. He was born by Wittmann and Co, BSO and as they all are called, at Black it's colleague Haubner and some more, simply put before completed facts: Either everything remains the way it is, or we do not agree to your sports promotion! – Then Darabos had to give in to bad or bad. But you, Mr Minister, now have with the claim as a new one coming here, the sleeves are crawling up and saying that I look at it once, the opportunity to send it back to the sender and say: No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, We do not cement that which red and black officials, who have so far built a lot of crap with this promotion, suddenly want to reintroduce. The crucial moment was the Olympics last year, where we did not make a single medal. A debacle without equal! Then came the trials, and it was also right again from Mr. Darabos, to say: Now is the time for this new sport promotion! Now we get out of Austria's five top sports, where we may have a medal chance in the future, and we specifically support it. This means specific support, i.e. division support, i.e. project support. You said that yourself today, Minister Klug, only: We don't find it in the law! You still have the chance – I don't want to be so strict today – you have the chance to be 18. April – there is the next Sports Committee – to read the law properly. I've already announced it today: I will then ask you in the Sports Committee, Minister, where the law says what you have announced today from the Government Bank. What is the project funding in it? What is the specific support in it? Nowhere, because it's the casting can again! It is again the casting pot, with a big difference: You want to create a huge new bureaucracy, a federal sports conference, a sports fund. There are again posts; there is a managing director, there are representatives, secretary-general, cars, offices, again wonderful pledges for sports officials! The whole cost you 1.5 million € in the year, which is again cut off the sport promotion. Mr Minister, this can not be the future for you as a modern person who does sports and who knows what is necessary in sport! That's all gone, Mr. Minister. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] That cannot be the future, and therefore we will fight this new sports promotion law, which is not new but a cementing of the old functional clique, quite massively. I hope we have you here as a partner, and I hope you don't take it so uncritically and just say: This is already in the house, we will decide, and history is done. – It must not be, Minister! In reality, the chancellor could have taken over the sport if you now say: I swallow the sport promotion one thing, we don't need to do anything anymore, and you don't do anything for the gymnastics, either, but to appeal. I should also like to say to you, Mr Minister, that on 14 December last year, this House decided on a six-party proposal – by the way, the first six-party proposal of the House at all – that calls on the woman sitting behind me and five seats to the right of you to take measures to ensure that this day-to-day turn-hour becomes reality. What has the Minister done so far? - She recommended. She has written a lot of mail to the schools, to the responsible person where you recommend in the sense of this request. Mrs Minister, that was not the intention of the House that you recommend but You have the obligation, on the basis of the motion for a resolution, to submit legal measures to the House in order to make this daily turn-hour a reality! That was the intention of the motion for a resolution, but not recommendations which are sound and smoke and are not implemented. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] So, take note of this too; that still remains this famous sports venue plan. That's the third thing you've been talking about today. I don't know exactly that – we'll see what's coming up with us. He's been in need for a long time because there's a lot of trouble, Minister. It's really incredible what's happening there: Since modern large sports venues in Austria are in front of themselves, there is no doubt that the Gerhard-Hanappi Stadium or this flagship, the sign of a sports venue, the Ernst-Happle Stadium in Prater. Mr Minister, this is one of the most expensive ruins that we currently have in this country. There the castle Finkenstein is a hort of modernity against this stadium. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] The last big event in the stadium – except for the EURO 2008, where we just had to take this stadium – was the Champions League finale in 1995. At that time it was a four-star box, a wonderful, modern stadium. Since then, nothing has happened, today we don't even have a star; I think it's a star we have. We never get another international sporting event for this stadium! That is, what would be necessary is that you sit down with the mayor of Vienna and make it clear to him that the state capital of Vienna finally needs a large modern football stadium, a multi-functional arena, in which sporting events can take place, of course, mainly football, but also others, as is possible in any other country in the capital, not only in Austria. Small sidestep to Vienna: You have a lot to do with this, because in addition to the sporty debacle and also functional debacle Olympia in the previous year, we now have the next functional debacle of Olympia. That's inconceivable, too! Therefore, the mayor of the SPÖ and his comrades in Vienna announces: In Vienna the next Olympiade or one of the next ones takes place, that's all going to be great. Neither the International Olympic Committee nor the Austrian knows about it, no one knows what, but the mayor says: We make an Olympic in Vienna, juchhu, we question the people, and everyone will agree! Then comes the next exit and the next debacle, because because of the poor preparation of the SPÖ Vienna, due to the enormous costs that are being incurred here, suddenly the population says: No, there are no Olympics in Vienna! This makes the Blamage perfect for this city, because everyone across Europe and internationally has already said that Vienna will apply. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] But now Vienna will not apply because the population has taken a line through your account. I am right to say, too, because in such a diletantic preparation you can only be afraid and afraid if you think that your city government has to set up an Olympic. That's the next terrible one! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Mr Klug, I should like to ask you to look at things, especially the Federal Sports Act, and not to say, that is all there is. If you say so, you really have nothing more to do as a sports minister. Then the 3 minutes speaking time of 15 minutes actually corresponds to your schedule of tasks you have given us today. Then you have to do the following – I can tell you that too – if you do not take this seriously: You can still visit four home games of the ÖFB and there in the first row, if there is something for applause. You have the beach volleyball tournament in Carinthia, where you can show yourself in short pants in summer. Then you still have the handover of the master plate to Austria Vienna – you won't like that as a Rapidler either – and also the ice hockey championship. [[Congratulation of the Abg. Wheeler]] If that's your future agenda, then it's sad. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] But I don't believe that. I'm sure we're on the 18th. April this federal sports promotion law will discuss with you under a completely different light, namely that you have already read it and then we believe that it cannot come that way. I hope that you are a reform minister – you have our advance ladyberries – that: They also scramble their sleeves in sport, not talking about the functional economy, but voting against and distributing the promotions within the meaning of sports, project-related and not according to political party book.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-03-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00193_d7e12975	The next speaker was Mr Markowitz. 4 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-03-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00193_d7e12996	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! Mr Minister, we have heard a lot about you today. They were praised, especially as regards the defence of the state, there are a lot of berry advance. But one thing I can tell you from experience: If the ÖVP praises you, then I would say “Hut off”, then you have to be careful, that is already very dangerous. But when I looked at the vice chancellor: He told you how to do things better, he's got a concept in the drawer. He should give it to you; put it one to one, then the ÖVP will be satisfied. I don't know if it's the recruits. I am speaking to you now in your capacity as Minister of Sports and I would very much expect one of you. You don't have much time right now, it's six months. This happens to me almost that way – Mr Westenthaler mentioned it before – as in football, if in the 84. A minute a new player is changed and then, although the team is 2 : 0 behind, everything is still to be picked up. I think that this will be very difficult. [[Abg. Neubauer: There are a maximum of three for exchange!]] That's right. Some have already been exchanged. That's right, yes, you're perfectly right. What you've said in the last few days, I've been listening. It says, of course, that you will also make a contribution so that it will become a nice election result for the SPÖ. Mr Minister, I do not think this is the reason why you have become a minister. I assume you're someone who's really ambitious about sports. You said you were a marathon runner. But for a marathon the time is too short now, you must be a good sprinter now! A Sprinter who tries to implement within a very short time what colleague Darabos – he is not here now – has tried to do in sport. This casting pot system, this promotion jungle, this Union-ASKÖ friendly economy, we have said that we must break this swamp. The funds have to arrive in particular where it is important, in terms of width, in the field of broadband. Of course, the levers must be mounted where it is important. Let's just take the skiing here once. We are the skinnation number one; probably no more soon, because there are only the technicians who get me-dails. We have huge construction sites everywhere, we have a functional jungle, where you also have to put on the lever. This is only about a successful sport promotion – one has to steer it so that certain officials are simply turned off the tap – and of course with the daily turn hour. This should be more than just the first six-party application here in the Republic, it should also be implemented. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] Here you are also asked to find a solution together with the Minister, how the whole thing is feasible, how it is manageable – not that a teacher union will cross itself again, because almost more hours will have to be spent in the Austrian schools. I think you really have a lot of work to do here, Minister. They have now been referred to as Wunderwuzzi, since we will probably win against the Faroe Islands 6 : 0 because you will sit in the first row foot-free. That's what I wish. But on the other hand, Mr Minister, you must also be clear: As you meet us, we will meet you too. We will support you; I can say as a sports speaker, in the sport I give you the hand. But we also need to move on, and we will measure you by your actions. The work is not on the 15th. July pass, but it will be safe until the election. I would like your appearance to be much more than any election campaign pretzel, that you really act in the sense of Austria, in the sense of the young people who are playing sports, in the sense of wide-ranging sports. Then we can really move a lot. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-03-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00193_d7e13039	As the last speaker on this item on the agenda, Mr Fichtenbauer is speaking. 7 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-03-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00193_d7e13060	Mr President. Dear Federal Minister for State Defense! I'm going to let go of the sport, and I'm gonna tell you why. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr. Federal Minister! I always thought it was a real nonsense to introduce a Federal Ministry of Defence and Sport. First of all, it doesn't sound good anyway, from the linguistic aesthetics the Austrian state people are accustomed to the Federal Minister for State Defense. [[Abg. Amon: That's right!]] Secondly, In fact, it is also an organisational burden. This was done by Minister Sinowatz at the time, which was quite okay because he was a minister of education and went on the bike from time to time. For example, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, this could also be done with his commitment to integration. I also refer to the budgetary burden, where we must always make a real effort to divide the two areas: What is the budget approach for the army, what about sports? So my appeal for the next budget design and the design of the new Federal Ministry Act after the forthcoming National Council election was to separate the sporting agendas again first. This has nothing to do with the fact that the individual minister is per sport or sport neutral, which is totally uninteresting. But I can politely remind you that, on the occasion of the provisions of the Federal Ministry Act 2008, I have pointed out that, following the example of Germany, a State Secretariat for Computer Security and Cyberwar Defense, I am now saying, I should create a way of satisfying the modern requirements, which, of course, is a cross-sectional matter between the army, the Ministry of the Interior and, I say now, is another, so that it is not baked in every single baking room. It is a cross-sectional matter, and it is high time that this cross-sectional matter was also organized at government level. Next point: I don't want to talk about advance ladyberries, that's a dry word. But your appearance, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, has been positive, and apart from the dialectical situation of government and opposition, we are never prepared, then, if praise was appropriate, to express praise, and where criticism was appropriate, we are not at fault. It has been made clear that for a short time we would not have needed a minister of our own who, for God's sake, deserves 16 000 S – after what, of course, the budget is a hole in the bag! [[Call the ÖVP:Euro!]] All these people are discovering that the establishment of the Ministry of State Defense, that is, the establishment of the Austrian federal army, whose supreme body is the executive body of the Federal Ministers, is an extremely complex, high-quality instrument which is powerful in the number of equipment and personnel administration, which must not be ‘debtled’ at the head of the section, although I did not diminutate any head of the Republic, but would like to underline the importance of a functioning ministry at whose head is a duly acting Federal Minister for Defence. So far, your appearance and today's declaration are a reason to be confident, and I personally do not want to hesitate to express this confidence. In particular, you are right if you say that the first and most important point is to address the attraction of the ground defense service. I have allowed myself to hand over a small scripture to you, and may announce that in the next few weeks I will publish a much more extensive writing. This can be derived from it or not, but it is also about reporting to this point in political terms. I can remind you that the Freedom Party and my person have taken care of the things of the defence of the country without doubt and with extreme care. In the beautiful piece of music “Der Große Österreichische Zapfenstreich” the piece “The Dream of a Reservist” appears. So the dream of a reservationist would be to achieve a kind of state level, which is quite the case in other countries, clear and clear areas of the state – I am talking about the state defense, and of course foreign policy is part of it – to put extra-party disputes and to provide a cooperative grant, where only on the margins for party-political disputes would place. I assure you that the cooperation of our site will never be lacking. Finally, Mrs Lapp, I am opposed to saying that there are national socialist currents in the Austrian army. This is a hustle and bustle of the Austrian federal army! The fact that 40 000 people come from civil society every year to the army, one or two, I say once again, are troubling at singing or believing a stupid song, so that somehow they can become manifest, has nothing to do with current. In so far as you wanted to boast of the Deputy Minister of Defense Darabos, I would recommend that he be drawn up to clear aside the unprocessed National Socialist spots of the SPÖ. I'm talking about an NS flower judge Chad, who is still famous to you. In seven or eight municipalities of Austria there are Chad-Gassen, Chad-Plots. Chad was a renunciation of death sentences as a naval judge. It's come out late, but it's a shame you haven't done anything in the field yet. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Lap.]] It would be high on time! Darabos is now SPÖ Central Secretary, where he is in the right place to turn to this matter. There are no national socialist currents in the Austrian federal army! I reject this as the army's brigadier! I also made a phone call with the General Staff; it is a matter of whether such a statement is addressed to the head. That's to be rejected! [["Has eight!" call at the ÖVP.]] I say goodbye with the word: Live the Austrian army! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-03-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00193_d7e13137	No one is reporting on this. I therefore conclude the debate. [[14:40:04]] 2. Point Report by the Committee on Internal Affairs on Amendment No 2178/A by Dr Josef Cap, Karlheinz Kopf, colleagues on a Federal Act amending the Federal Law on the Election of the National Council (NRWO) (2213 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2013-03-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00193_d7e13170	We're coming to the 2nd. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. I call Mr Brosz. 6 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-03-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00193_d7e13198	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! What was announced was a major reform of the electoral right in Austria, an integration of the population, more ways of co-determination. But if you look at the process, there has already been a cracking point where you have to ask yourself if this is worthy of a electoral debate. This proposal did not come from the ranks of the National Council, the Parliament, not even from the ranks of the government parties, but – as Josef Cap can confirm – as an outflow of a government clause in which one has considered which projects can still be represented. And then you have a personal right to vote. And the role that Mr. Klubobmann's head and Mr. Klubobmann Cap then had was that they were allowed to bring in the initiative proposal, in which it stood inside, which was announced in the government clause. It seems that the right to vote is already an issue which in Austria is clarified by the governments – in this case by the Federal Chancellor and by the Vice Chancellor – and where parliamentary processes also stand behind. In addition, I find it remarkable that an initiative proposal will be submitted in the course of a electoral debate, without a reasonable discussion with an opposition party. Now the Secretary of State will perhaps repeat his original appearance in front of the Committee on the Interior and explain that he has spoken anyway, by the way also with Mrs Glawischnig – yes, we have also understood this, I will come back to it, but that was a year before this law came into effect. And to reform the electoral system without involving Parliament, I think that it is an affront. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I really think that the House should consider whether this is a worthy way of dealing with the right to vote. Let's get to the content. What does this electoral reform want? The integration of the population, of the changes, is very little left. The only thing that is still inside is a change in the right to vote in favour. And if you look at the formulations more closely, then there is actually no such big changes there. But there is a change that will lead to more preferential voting dates, which is the facilitation of direct mandates at the constituency level, i.e. at the lower level, so to speak, in the regions. These are not districts at the National Council level, but regions where constituencies are grouped in the order of about 80,000 electors. There the obstacle has been lowered. There are new possibilities for the other areas. There the obstacles have sometimes been formally reduced, partly re-introduced: At the national level, the obstacle to absolute votes is higher, at the federal level there is an alignment with the right to vote in Europe, where 7 percent of the votes of a party are to be enough to get ahead and a mandate is given. That is quite original, because that is no longer a fixed number. There you can extract the pen and look at what that would mean during the last elections. I don't know if you're aware of this and if you've taken it back once: If one looks at the outcome of SPÖ at the last National Council election and calculates how much 7 percent of the votes would have been, then it will be assumed that this so much-promised new arrangement to cross federal candidates would have led to a SPÖ candidate – what do you think, how many votes this would have needed the last time, so that he would have been given a premise on how many mandates he would have had to make? – four, more than four mandates would have needed. [[Abg. Rädler: We're not in school!]] [[Abg. Riepl: Say it!]] The SPÖ would not have had 100 000 votes in favour, with a mandate costing about 25 000 votes. [[Abg. Wheeler: Direct mandate!]] And now you come here – that's your problem, a qualified wheeler statement! [[New call for tender of the Abg. Wheeler.]] Hide You'll be right back behind the “Kurier”, you belong anyway, that's the best role you can take! It's not about involving the population, but – it's wonderful that you have a direct mandate, you can also be proud of it, you won't have it for long. [[Abg. Wöginger: You don't have a direct mandate!]] This has also been discounted, because the local skiers are being promoted. – But the possibility that there will also be pre-arranged here at the federal level will not occur in practice. Why? – Because the government parties have no interest in it! It is not about being able to give preferred votes throughout Austria in such a way that they become effective, but that Ortskaisers like Mr Rädler are sitting there. He then makes up with the other local skiers of the ÖVP that he gets the mandate who has more preference votes. This is obviously the meaning of the ÖVP in the whole. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] That's not the sense of co-determination. The Austrian Parliament, Mr Rädler, consists not only of local skiers representing the interests of the municipality of Erlach, but also of those who make politics here that Austria continues and does not play out its own districts against each other. That's exactly what it reflects. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] When we look at what Austrian electoral right brings, for example, in terms of preferred votes – it is good that you report to the House once again, perhaps you can explain this to me. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wheeler.]] Madam President Prammer, who is not here at the moment, is a special friend of a so-called super-election day. - Oh, she just came. – If one now assumes that a super-selection day would also mean that there may be national elections and country elections in a country at the same time, then probably the claim to a preferred vote model could also be that the voters and voters, when they go to the constituency, are quite sure who they have chosen. That might sound trivial, but I'll show you why that's not trivial. Let's say that you have national elections and country elections in Lower Austria at the same time, and you first go in and say, now I'll choose the country election. This time, for example, it would have looked like this: There would have been someone who would have said, okay, I'll pick the greens. [[Abg. Rädler: That was a few!]] – It was more than last time, unlike the ÖVP. – Mr Pröll has made a right of vote where he said that it is possible to make it independent, one can make preferred votes – lie building, Mr Rädler, perhaps there is my first call for order, the lie building of the ÖVP Lower Austria – regardless of the party preference. If you have filled out this constituency so “green” ticked, preferring voice “Pröll”, it was a voice for the ÖVP. [[The speaker holds a panel in the height, in the left column is under ÖVP Pröll; in the right column the Greens are checked]] If that day had been a national election and one would have gone to the constituency, had the ballots been given, this time for the National Council election, the same would have filled out – in that case, by the way, one would have to write it and not check it; in addition, I will come later – if again “green” had been ticked and in this case “spindelegger” wrote, it would have been a voice for the Greens. [[The speaker holds a panel in the height, in the left column is under ÖVP Spindelegger; in the right column the Greens are checked]] Two polls, the same choice – a little big the polls, you can't fold. And now you tell me that the participation of citizens who go to the constituency is going into the same election and are then confronted with such constituencies, where they are not likely to know who they are choosing?- Oh, my God! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] This is the error of voters and not the integration of the population! By the way, we can discuss this even more precisely. Passing – I don’t know if You are all aware of this – that the major parties will have preferred voting mandates at regional level, that is, we will have many more regional mandates belonging to the major parties. This is not the case with the smaller parties, because you only get regional mandates from around 10 to 12 percent in the first place. That is to say, we have a completely shared system in which parties in a scale of, we say once, 20 percent will have direct regional mandates, these are most of the mandates, and the smaller parties above all federal mandates and state mandates, in which the preferred votes will not be effective. By the way, there is a difference: When choosing at regional level, you can cross it, in Lower Austria – by the way also a shame of Pröll – you can check it, because it is much easier. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: This is also true in Burgenland!]] At the other choice, you have to write the name. Do you know what about the difference between writing and checking on the question of how many preferred voices you get? I can give you an example: Madeleine Petrovic joined the national election in 2003 in Lower Austria and in the National Council election as a top candidate. The time was then, I think, five months. As a senior candidate for the National Council election, she had about 1,000 preferred votes, and as a top candidate for the country election she had 29 000 preferred votes. Why? Because it was about crossing once and once for writing. So, what did you do? At the local skiers you can cross, at the state and federal level you have to write the name. – Mr Rädler is pleased that he will receive his preferred votes, all the famous and great Members. You can see who has the direct mandate: Mr Rädler, the well-known ÖVPler, who is sitting here with the direct mandates. The well-known Members, for whom this is not true. What would you have done? A uniformization of the system, for all levels the best equal – I am not yet talking about the municipal council level – because the voters have the right to know what is being chosen and how to choose. Secondly, a harmonisation also goes to say that, okay, we take as an obstacle10 percent, if it is written, this should be a preferred voice. One can talk about the height of the obstacle, but there should be a single obstacle that applies to all. And thirdly, a reasonable brochure, in which all the candidates stand inside, which can also advertise for themselves, so that the voters get information. - That's gonna be funny. If we still have a national level and a federal level, then there are about 150 candidates on the list that you have to read through before you give the preferred voice. If we do this, we can extend our voting times until midnight, because if everyone looks through the list, you don't have to try to get into the constituency. This is not thought out, and Mrs Schwentner will then present you with a proposal that would have been fundamentally intelligent. Because something will happen in addition to the local skiers, namely that women will be even more weakened in this right of vote. Because the wheels you have the cock fights on the district level are basically male, and then even fewer women will come. [[Abg. Oillinger: In principle?]] [[Congratulation with the greens.]] That is why we would have said: two preferred votes, one binding on women. And, Mr Kurz, you don't have to worry about the transgender, as you said in the committee. Because you asked what we're doing with the transgenders if you have to give women preference votes. We will probably be able to resolve this in Austrian electoral law.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-03-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00193_d7e13372	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Gerstl. 4 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-03-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00193_d7e13393	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! Mr Brosz, we have, unfortunately, already experienced today in the early days that a party first claimed and explained something and then took everything back. Unfortunately, this is also true of you, Mr Brosz. Mr Brosz, you said that the Austrian Parliament was not involved in this electoral reform. I quote a protocol of 25. June 2012, sent by Parliament's Directorate, to a meeting entitled "General debate on electoral rights" within the framework of the "Parliamentary reform working group", headed by the President of the National Council. This took place from 10.05 a.m. to 11.41 p.m. On page 4 of the Minutes you will find Mr Brosz's statements. [[Abg. Brosz: When?]] Mr Brosz, did you forget that you were at this Parliament meeting a year ago? [[Abg. Brosz: Where was the bill?]] Mr Brosz, you probably forgot what you said there. They did not want voters to be able to give their preferred votes directly. They want to have more influence on the parties that they can determine how the teams are set up. And you didn't want to tell us now, Mr Brosz. [[Abg. Cite Brosz!]] I understand very well. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Cite Brosz!]] [[Abg. Oils: Reading!]] We are very different from you, Mr Brosz. We are in favour of strengthening the personalisation of the right to vote. They are against strengthening the personalisation of the right to vote. [[Abg. Cite Brosz!]] [[Abg. Oils: Reading!]] By strengthening the personalisation of the right to vote, we are able to draw a third more directly elected Members in this House than in the old system. This is a step in the right direction. I know you see this differently. They want to have the party's sole right of establishment. You have forgotten that you are for basic democracy, although you have repeatedly explained to the people that you are acting for them to be able to vote directly. It is important to you that your party can determine within your basic electoral day, but not the people. It is important for us to be able to determine the people and voters. [[Calls to the Greens.]] And we are clearly doing a lot better with this system: a third more directly elected mandates. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Yes, ladies and gentlemen, I understand perfectly that you first ask why 7 percent, 10 percent and 14 percent. That doesn't sound very clear at the first moment. [[Abg. Oillinger: What about the second?]] In the second moment, it's quite clear: EU MEPs will be sent preferably to the EU Parliament, with 7 percent of the votes cast. That was our clue. And of these 7 percent we went down to the country's constituency and the regional constituency. Why do we have different points? – This is our model, which our Secretary of State presented a year ago – on the one hand, we want to strengthen the directly elected mandates, so that we can get more directly elected mandates to Parliament, and on the other hand we want to strengthen the specialists. We need experts as you said. But you're just putting more people on the job. We rely on professionals and on local communicators. This means that we can now bring together the communicators with the voters here in the House via the national list and the Federal List of Experts and through the Regional Electoral Circle Lists. This good mixture is what it is, I believe, about today: more together between the electorate and Parliament. The closure of the sheath of the political representatives' apartheid and the representatives is particularly important to me. Mr Brosz. I think that's in the sense of everyone. That is why I would like to say that this is still a little too little for us today. We will submit our next proposal in the next period, since, according to the current system, there is not even a direct elected representative in eight constituencies. We want in the future there to be a direct elected representative in each constituency in Austria, because it is completely incomprehensible that there are eight constituencies in Austria, which do not have a representative in Parliament. Every Austrian and every Austrian has the right to have a representative in Parliament. We must ensure that in the future. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Grosz: Any Austrian? That's where we've got 8 million people sitting!]] Ladies and gentlemen, if we want us to go more towards people, it is necessary for us to work together here to have a compromise, Mr Grosz. If you make compromises, we will create an even stronger right of choice of personality, then we will be able to bring together even more experts and representatives here, and the Austrian people will have an even better parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-03-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00193_d7e13562	Next speaker: Mr Ing. Lugar. 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-03-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00193_d7e13584	Mr President. High house! If we are talking about a electoral reform today: Of course, we would also like us to have more direct democracy, in the sense of more influence by the citizen in terms of premise. We too would have liked to have 5 per cent uniformly, for pre-arrangement at all levels, because this would be a first step towards more direct democracy, and above all for greater public influence on who will actually be sent to the National Council. But I'm talking about something else today, because we're talking about voting rights and we just had a choice in Lower Austria. And there's something in the arrogance. There's really something in the arse. We have experienced at first hand what it means to be able to build a country as much as he would have liked, in particular, Mr Pröll, who formed the right to vote there as he would have liked. [[Abg. Rädler: Who wants to buy it, like Stronach!]] There are quite, very remarkable things that have happened. I was at events – and it has also been done to me – when the Lord's Chief of State or his helpers told the local people after they heard that they will not choose him or the ÖVP: That's not a problem, they don't have to choose the ÖVP. You can choose without further SPÖ, or whatever. But please give me a preference voice, as head of state. - And that's exactly the problem. And there was also an advertisement in the paper, which says: I've always chosen SPÖ, I'll never choose anything else. I'll pick SPÖ again. But I give the head of state a preference vote. The whole thing has been made in the knowledge that people can't distinguish. Many have had no idea that in the final effect they do not do with this preferred voice, for which there would be a preferred voice, because a preferred voice is nothing but a premise, so to speak, a preference for a candidate who stands further behind and wants to see further in the front. This does not make sense at all in the case of an acting head of state who is already sacrosanct at number 1. That is, if preferred voices are worked there, this in Lower Austria has only one sense: This is constituency. And I'll tell you what it's like: It's constituency. [[Congratulations on Members of the FPÖ and Greens.]] It is about explaining to the voters that he can choose SPÖ, that is not a problem, but he should give the head of state a favour and honour his achievements, or whatever. And finally, it's an ÖVP vote, and the voters were cheated on it because he didn't want to vote for the ÖVP. He wanted to choose the SPÖ, or another party. [[Subsequent calls to the ÖVP.]] It doesn't matter. It is about not expressing the will of voters. And that's only in Lower Austria. This is a specification that Pröll took out accordingly. You also need to talk about these things. Let's talk about the next things: Let's talk about the handicaps when we try to run new lists. One has to imagine: We live in a democracy where everyone has the right to initiate a list and enter a election. Everyone has the right. There is only the problem, especially in Lower Austria, that one is being disabled, not a little. We have a very long list of specific cases where the stamps have been moved. There come people with statements of support to the parish office, want to sign there, want a stamp, and then the stamps are not found, the community has moved the stamps. Or others come and it says: You know, if you sign for this new list, then you can no longer go to choice, then you are excluded from the choice. They've been told things like that! Or again others did not know that it was at all possible to support a party. All these things have happened in Lower Austria! That's what I'm really asking myself: Is that worthy of democracy? [[President Mag. Prammer shall take over the chairmanship.]] A case is particularly delicate. There was a man who previously wanted a building approved by the ÖVP community to go to the parish office and said he would like to sign a support. Then he was told: So if you do, it doesn't look good with an approval! – These are all documented cases, you have to imagine! [[Intrusions of the Abg. Wheeler.]] That is, we seem to be living in Lower Austria in a shady democracy where Mr Pröll is directing things as he would have liked them. That is what we need to address today. When it comes to more democracy, we need to facilitate the candidateing of new lists. What are we afraid of? What is the fear of the ÖVP? [[Abg. Rädler: You said you were going first!]] That new lists come and apply to the voters? Is that really so terrible? [[Abg. Wöginger: That's constituency! Where's the Frankie?]] That's why: If we are talking today about electoral reform, we are also talking about more citizen participation, about the possibility of being a new party here, and above all about more direct democracy. Because that's exactly the point: We need more direct democracy, and we do not need North Korea stories in Lower Austria, where we really remember a banana republic. [[Abg. Wheeler: Canada! Stronach!]] If you see all these cases – and I've studied them all – then you really think you're not in Lower Austria, but somewhere in North Korea or elsewhere where the power apparatus is used completely carelessly to secure your own power position. This is not worthy of democracy, and we should also talk about it today.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-03-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00193_d7e13677	Mr Klubobmann, Dr. Cap. We've got 8 minutes left until the interruption. At 3.10 p.m., the urgent request will be called. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-03-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00193_d7e13698	The previous speaker is not quite wrong. If you check a party and a preferential vote and then you don't apply it to the party, but to the party of the candidate to which you gave the preference vote – unfortunately, many years ago, at the national level, there was an agreement, but I have to say – then, from democratic policy considerations, this criticism is, in my opinion, a legitimate one. [[Congratulations with SPÖ, FPÖ and greens.]] I also think that we can use the consideration of this item on the agenda to think about the question of democratization. The package we have brought in here, namely Klubobmann Head and I, on behalf of the parliamentary groups, is one that is underestimated in its effectiveness in the event of an item. In my opinion, Mr Brosz has made a bit too funny about it. The opposition parties have to vote in favour of this, because we need other majority groups to do so, because that is what the Rules of Procedure are all about. If as one of these proposals, for example, I have the citizens' request for an analysis, I also have to refer to it electronically, and as a member of the government, where I need more than 10,000 support, this will be dealt with here in the plenary session. The Members can then ask additional questions, that is nothing. And if it's electronically supported, it'll have its effect if it comes into play. I honestly don't understand that. The second is the re-treatment of popular desires, namely that through much more differentiated treatment – first reading – the receivers can talk here, their own committee – a completely different pressure arises in the public. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Parent]] That too, I believe, is a point that should be highlighted positively; and I do not understand why it is not a positive one. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: But don't stand in it now!]] For example, if the opposition is of the opinion that it is a step, but just one step in the right direction, then it can take this one step. [[Abg. Brosz: That's another law that's coming next month!]] – But we should say that already today, because we are discussing all these aspects of democracy right now. I would like to say to the preferred votes: This is expected to be 14 percent at regional constituency level, 7% at national constituency level and 7% at federal constituency level. On the objection: Well, who already has that!, I want to say: When I think of the last European elections, I know that there have been candidates who have been able to vote in favour of the European elections using this order. So this is an Austrian-wide campaign that you have to make on a federal list to get to the appropriate votes, and that is feasible. Secondly, I admit, the 7 percent at national level, that is a reduction. I needed more than my preferred vote campaign back then. At that time I was premised with 62 457, i.e. by, I think, 43. ==References== It's all right. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: It's been a long time!]] At that time, I think, 26 000 or 27 000 voted in favour, and the name had to be written in, and it went. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Brosz.]] That is why I do not understand what concerns there are. This has already proved successful, and at the regional constituency level there is, I believe, Bruckmann of the ÖVP, who once prevailed in a constituency and had the corresponding number, then 16.6 percent. So I think that this is a step forward, that it brings more closeness to the citizen, that includes the elements of the personal right to vote, which are not to be underestimated, and now we will see how this proves in practice. It is always a process of democratisation, which takes place in an interaction between voters and voters. And of course you will see that Parliament is equipped with as many of these elements as possible when it comes to the composition here in the house. Therefore, I think everyone would be well advised to take this more seriously and not to do something like that would be nothing. It is also the introduction of electoral evidence, which is also planned, which is the basis for this electronic support, also a step that would overall improve it. That's why, I mean, you should approach that open heart. It would be completely incomprehensible if there were members of the opposition here who would not agree to this; for I believe that this is a very positive direction and demand that we really agree to it!
ParlaMint-AT_2013-03-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00193_d7e13780	Mrs Mag. Schwentner. I put the clock at 3 minutes, and you can then continue your speech after the urgent inquiry, if you wish. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-03-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00193_d7e13801	Madam President. Mrs. Minister! Mr State Secretary! High house! I do not tell you a secret if I go into this preferred model – we have concluded the issue of “Falter” for today – and tell you that the women’s share in Parliament is left to be desired. [[Call the FPÖ: “Falter”!]] We're about 28 percent, and that's been 10 years, without change. In 2009, due to this last election result, we agreed on a cross-group basis that something needs to be done to raise this proportion of women, namely, in terms of gender equality, in the sense of democracy policy equality. We conducted a survey in October 2009. There were several opinions back then, of all of them. Everyone agreed: It needs more women in politics! - A call sign was behind it. I would like to quote Mr Klubobmann, who said in 2009 that the goal must be to “break through the social hierarchy and reach the 50 percent representation of men and women here in this House”. We agreed that there are similar quotations from Mr Wurm, Mr Schittenhelm, who now does not want to talk about the quota, but about the rice closure system. That is, we all agreed, except a few in the FPÖ, that we must find ways to raise the proportion of women in Parliament. This model of preference will certainly not be the case. This also proves two comments made as a result of the introduction of this proposal, namely the women's ring and university professor Silvia Ulrich from Linz. Both note that this change will not achieve the state objective of equality between men and women in Austria, but, on the contrary, it will be visibly torpedoed in many respects. We know that there is still a lot to be done to ensure that there is real equality between men and women in Austria. We also know that the conditions for women and men to go to politics at all to get a mandate are very, very different – especially in the regions, especially when it comes to regional lists. It is about time resources, it is about financial resources for the election campaign. It's about clubs where women take a lot tougher foot than men, right in the country. It is about the fact that the framework conditions are different, that women still have more to fight with compatibility than men. It is a matter of many, many factors which make it much more difficult for women to take up politics, and this model here is not taking into account.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-03-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00193_d7e13829	Let me now ask you to interrupt the speech and continue after the urgent question has been dealt with. - Thank you. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[15:11:23]] Request for urgent procedure by Mr Josef Bucher, colleague and colleague to the Federal Minister for Finance concerning: Attempts to kill Savephroh – Are the Austrian savings assets still safe? (14262/J)
ParlaMint-AT_2013-03-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00193_d7e13871	We arrive at urgent procedure for the written question 14262/J. As this has now been done to all the Members, there is a lack of reading by the author. The urgent question has the following wording: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2013-03-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00193_d7e14070	I give the floor to Mr Klubobmann Bucher as the first questioner to justify the request. This statement shall not exceed 20 minutes. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: To the Rules of Procedure: Where is Mrs Minister?]] [[Abg. Scheibner: Interruption, please!]] I hope the Minister will arrive immediately. Can we find out? [[Abg. Dr. Moser: Please ask in the cafeteria!]] [[Federal Minister Dr. Fekter then enters the meeting room and takes place at the government bank.]] - She's here. Mr Klubobmann Bucher, you have the floor. 20 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-03-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00193_d7e14135	Madam President. Welcome, Federal Minister for Finance! I start my speech with a quote from Jean-Claude Juncker, who spoke at a Euro crisis meeting in 2011: “If it gets serious, you have to lie.” Mrs Federal Minister, I think you have a very good relationship with Mr Juncker – at least that has been transported through the media then and when – not only in terms of suspicions of diseases, but also in terms of the solution competence or approaches to the euro crisis. One thing has to be resolved in all cases, Mrs Federal Minister, namely: How serious is the Cyprus crisis? That is the question we want to raise today. If Juncker meant: “If it gets serious, you have to lie,” and the serious one in Cyprus is now at the height, so to speak, I ask you: How correct and true are the statements of the responsible politicians at European level? As measured by the lies and misassessments, the situation must at present be extremely serious in Cyprus and, so to speak, in the euro area. It's clear: Five years after the outbreak of the banking and financial market crisis, there is still no concept. There is still complete planlessness. There is still a constant shoot-in of taxpayers' money and a slowing down and delaying with regard to stability development. And there is – and this is to be said to be alarming – one taboo after another. It has started everything to remember, with the Maastricht criteria that have been broken. Then we recall the so-called no-bailout clause, namely the acceptance of liability, which was forbidden and then suddenly no longer the big problem and were thus used. Then came the case that the funds for a rescue shield, ESM, were not paid to the countries, but directly to the banks. This detour, as it were, has not been done at all to give the tax funds first to the countries and then to pass the money on to the banks, but has given the money directly to the banks. Spain has received €55 billion in tax resources. In return, the Spanish banks have put 300,000 tenants on the road. This is the solidarity of the bankers, as we have seen them lately. The last major sin, the last taboo, was the surrender of the budgetary sovereignty of the individual euro countries to Brussels. This, ladies and gentlemen, has only been overcome and exceeded by the taboo which has been carried out in recent days, namely that the savers in the eurozone are partially expropriated. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, if someone would have told me that this is possible in the euroland, I would have been a skeptics who said that there would be no such unfrozenness and coldness at European level to intervene in the deposits of the savers! I never thought of that! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] [[Abg. That's what we've got!]] But this has been a reality for a few days now, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. In the euroland, the savings of citizens are taken into account. This is something that is, of course, uncertain to people, because many Austrians are making vacations in Cyprus, many businesses that are located with us have their offices in Cyprus. I also know some of those who actually have their headquarters in Cyprus, for tax and financial reasons. [[Abg. Hornek: Exactly!]] [[Rejoicing with representatives of the ÖVP.]] In addition, of course, many Austrians are very concerned about what is possible in the euro area, namely that an overarching authority at the Brussels level actually manages to make a decision to access the savings of citizens! And that in a way you can't even imagine it: Before the weekend, before a holiday, where you know that the banks are closed in the next few days, you have taken this step. In order not to allow the savers, bank customers, to withdraw their money in good time, the banks have been locked up to implement this horror scenario at European level. It would have succeeded if the Cypriots had not gone to the streets to convince their own politicians that what is being done here is a very first-kind asset, ladies and gentlemen, who could immediately become reality here with us in Austria or in the surrounding countries. For, ladies and gentlemen, what misevaluations have not all been made in recent months and years?- Oh, my God! Mrs Fekter once said: “As for debt issues, we’re over the mountain.” – You’re on the 10th. - Yes, of this year. ==References== February said: “The euro has been much stronger and much weaker, so the excitement from my point of view is unwarranted for the euro.” My dear, dear Mrs Finanzminister, is it also inappropriate to worry about the savings of the Cypriots? In view of this horror scenario, which you share here, is it not justified to develop – you were not just there, but at the European level, so to speak, in the middle – to worry here in Austria about the money of the savers? Is it justified or unauthorised to make you the accusation that you have prepared this cold expropriation of the savers? – It is entitled! It is just as entitled today to make this request for distrust and to ask you to resign! [[BZÖ and FPÖ are welcome.]] Ladies and gentlemen! A finance minister who deals with such thoughts, plays with such thoughts to access the deposits of the savers, who has played any confidence she has gained in her office. That is why we will also make this motion for a distrust against you today, because you, like your colleagues at European level, have so far completely failed what the euro crisis is about to do. The banks have long taken over the row. That's where the Social Democrats always look at me so suffering. It is the bankers who have long made the requirements for government politicians at European level what they have to do. Yeah, that's been the case already! They no longer have the power to act or the powers of action at European level. This can already be read from many examples. In recent months and years, they have become pure puppets at European level. They no longer have the pure competence to act, and this is also seen in the rescue packages that have been decided on, where only banks have been helped, where an aid action has now been taken at the level of the European Central Bank, so that the bankers can collect money by one percent, as cheap as ever before, and then 7 or 8 percent interest on loans can be required and a margin of at least 6 to 7 percent is involved. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, this is basically a rescue package. [[In the case of the BZÖ, as well as the members of the FPÖ.]] This is a rescue package 2, which will bring the banks much more revenues than all the rescue packages before. There is still no measure for the speculation of banking companies. To this day, bank corporations can carry out their speculations in the casinos without having to fear any consequences. Ladies and gentlemen, the biggest evil thing is that we still have no bankruptcy right at the level of the banking sector. In the fifth year following the banking crisis, there is still no bankruptcy right. I am already wondering why this on the inside of the SPÖ and the ÖVP does not make anyone stand out, why you do not question this injustice, even though you have been demanding it for years. Of course, every entrepreneur goes into bankruptcy. Unfortunately, God meets many daily. No, banks can't, banks can't go bankrupt. For the banks, the taxpayers are in the right position. Yes, many entrepreneurs in our country would like that, believe me. It would be easy to operate, to assume responsibility, to also take over credit defaults. This is easy when I know that in the background the taxpayer is always available to me and is right for me. It is easy to operate at the level of the bankers. And then I look at what huge fees the banks and bank directors have entered and what credits they allow because the business is going so well because the balance sheet total has increased again – and the taxpayer assumes responsibility for it. Here I appeal to the conscience of the red and black party representatives of this House and try to think about whether this is still tolerable at all, that we allow it and that happens every day. If you let this go through your head, you have to find out that you don't want any bankruptcy right at all. Otherwise, it would not be five years after these financial crises that one would continue to have a bankruptcy right for the banks. You don't want it! I'm telling you, too, why: As long as a bank cannot go into bankruptcy, as long as there is no liability for the deposits, the deposit guarantee of € 100 000 applies only in the event that a bank can go into bankruptcy. Now we do not want to allow any bankruptcy for the banks, and therefore there is no deposit guarantee, ladies and gentlemen, either. [[In the case of the BZÖ, as well as the members of the FPÖ.]] That's the truth, that's the reality. I also expect a Mrs Finanzminister to finally stop these lies and tell us the truth here in the House. They are not responsible for everything anyway, but they should at least discuss openly with us here. [[In the case of the BZÖ, as well as the members of the FPÖ.]] You should at least discuss with us here in such a way that we can also grasp the situation as it actually is, because there remains a lot open to questions that we are entitled to ask you today. I have the presumption that a completely perfect plan has been devised here at European level, and that is what we wanted to do in the example of Cyprus. [[Abg. The test balloon was Cyprus!]] One wanted to know once more how great the excitement is when one can exercise and implement at European level, a small country like Cyprus, 0.2 percent of Europe's gross economic output. There's not much going to happen, you've thought. But it went beyond that. Mrs. Federal Minister Dr. Fekter, this is an accusation to make to you, that is a cold expropriation of the savers we have warned of. Therefore, every concern is justified, even in connection with the savings deposits that the Austrians have, because there has already been many promises made by this government bank, to guarantees. Let us remember what we have not heard in recent years, from the example of Greece: It's a business! - It still sounds a little bit like it in the back of the head. Or: The Triple A is not in danger! - Everything here belongs! Everything in here said! Read the minutes. And if there's a "guarantee" coming from you again: No, the Austrian savings deposits, they are safe, sacrosanct, no one has access to the Austrian savings deposits!, then, my dear Mrs Finanzminister, I must say no one believes you anymore! No one believes you anymore! [[In the case of the BZÖ, as well as the members of the FPÖ.]] In view of what has already happened in recent times, there is only one answer: We need a constitutional regime that makes it clear that Austrian savings deposits are safe from the access of politicians and, above all, from the access of government politicians. [[In the case of the BZÖ, as well as the members of the FPÖ.]] Trust and planning security must be restored. Especially when you hear from a Mr. Juncker, your best friend, that we are going in economically difficult times, we need this planning security for investors, for companies to create jobs so that they can look to the future with confidence. Yes, who still has confidence in the future when the politicians, the government politicians, have it in their hands to access the savings deposits?- Oh, my God! That's the subject that matters. I hope that you will also see in the example of Greece and in the example of Cyprus how dramatic the situation is and how it is getting worse now – it is not that we are the only ones who always issue these warnings – especially when you look at how the savers will bleed in the next future and the only profiters are the corporations and the banks. Mrs Finanzminister, since you ask again and again: Yes, what is the alternative?, I have to say that the right way would be to approach the shareholders of these great banks who have made such excellent profits in recent years. Shareholders benefited in a double-digit percentage area, Mrs. Finanzminister! [[In the case of the BZÖ, as well as the members of the FPÖ.]] What about the bank bonds? Why not even approach those persons and ask them if they are cofinancing some of them? That's the first way I'm going to ask the shareholders to check out the checkouts, which have entered 20, 30 to 40 percent profit in recent years. [[In the case of the BZÖ, as well as the members of the FPÖ.]] That would have been your job as a Minister of Finance to bring it in, and not to scrape the minimum pensioners and the middle class, as a representative of a so-called bourgeois party! It is also said today in an article of a newspaper that European taxpayers help Russian billionaires. I don't want to mention the name now, because everyone can read it in their press review. ‘The EU’s ‘Millions of Saves’ are needed in Cyprus in particular to stabilise a number of large banks. They have a number of foreign shareholders who, according to today’s status, remain unscathed as bank partners.” These are those that have 10, 15 percent share in the banks and then buy large yachts, secure large corporate interests et cetera. Mrs Finanzminister, answer only this one question if you close the other questions like last time: Why should the Austrian taxpayer hold for any oligarchs? Why do we have to bleeding for these oligarchs to buy yachts and companies? Mrs. Federal Minister, explain this to us once! No one understands that. [[In the case of the BZÖ, as well as the members of the FPÖ.]] You're always talking about a special case. [[Abg. Street: Like Greece, Spain, Portugal – all special cases!]] Today will come again, yes, Cyprus is a special case. Yeah, it's coming today. Greece was a special case, Spain was a special case, Portugal was a special case. Now I'm telling you: This federal government is a special case. Austria has never experienced such a special case. [[In the case of the BZÖ, as well as the members of the FPÖ.]] I can only give you the opportunity to think once about the citizens, think of the country, not always of the corporations, of the bank leaders, even of the oligarchs. It is inconceivable what is happening here that the dark side of power, the bankers basically govern Europe. Everything happens according to their ideas, according to their concepts. Yes, you finally understand that the bankers are those who tell the government politicians what they have to do! That, ladies and gentlemen, is shocking. I hope we, as representatives of the people, do not allow this to happen.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-03-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00193_d7e14298	To answer the question, Mrs Federal Minister Dr. Fekter spoke. I would draw attention to the fact that the speaking time should not exceed 20 minutes. – Mrs Federal Minister, please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-03-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00193_d7e14319	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Dear Seers! High house! [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Dear Sparer!]] This panic, which Mr Bucher has just tried, is not justified. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: You're panicking!]] In Austria we stand incomparablely better, more stable and neatly positioned there. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the SPÖ.]] I can therefore calm down the savers. [[Calls:]] It is not justified to run a panic in the high house, which may in any case insecure the savers in Austria. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: This is the first threat!]] Don't believe what's been done on panic. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Street: A “great business” for the savers!]] The Austrian banking sector is stable and completely different from Cyprus. Secondly, We don't abandon savers. We proved this when we saved the people's banks. We did not ask if 100 000 €, below or above it. We have acted, and you have not carried it here in the House, Mr Bucher. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the SPÖ.]] Thirdly, My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! The Austrians should know that our budget is stable, that we are on a consolidation path, where we have a zero deficit in 2016. We are not directly in favour of Cyprus. And that's why a comparison is unscrupulous, Mr. Bucher. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the SPÖ.]] My venerations Ladies and gentlemen, solid economies protect our savers. And that's why we fixed our budget. That is why we have a solid economy because we are protecting our savers. I don't like panic. That means the savers can sleep calmly. We will still have legal protection of deposit protection, and our system of step-by-step deposit guarantee guarantees the savings in Austria – unlike in Cyprus, for example, where both the financial sector and the budget have been lost. We have put our budget in order and the banks have been stable. Not so in Cyprus. There we are currently faced with two challenges: once we counter the pleite of the state and on the other hand we are restructuring the hypertrophic financial sector. You must imagine, ladies and gentlemen, the economic performance in Cyprus is only one eighth of what the financial sector is there. This means that the banking sector is eight times the total economic performance. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen, the guaranteed deposits, up to €100 000, make up €75 billion in Cyprus, but the total economic performance is only €18 billion. Yes, is the Austrian taxpayer supposed to school all that was built up in debt there? I understand the small savers in Cyprus, but I also have to pay attention to Austrian taxpayers. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the SPÖ.]] My venerations Ladies and gentlemen, we already have to ask ourselves if the taxpayers in Austria are willing to carry all that has existed there over the years of economic imbalances in the hypertrophic financial sector, with much higher interest payments than a saver ever gets in Austria, even if you have to say that loudly. The fact that we have this in mind here is also my task. Cyprus has lost its stability, and it has to restore it. Rehabilitation of the public budget, restructuring of the financial sector. Reforms in the government budget are necessary in order to reduce the high debt mountain so that Cyprus can stand on its own back in the period by 2020. It's not supposed to be a barrel without a floor. This would not be understood by taxpayers in Austria, and the International Monetary Fund would no longer be on board. If the International Monetary Fund is rising because it can no longer recognise any meaning in the reorganisation, because the measures do not lead to stability, ladies and gentlemen, I cannot recommend to the House that a package of aid be attached to Cyprus. Therefore, it is necessary to draw all elements for this renovation into the calculation. Question 1: The Euro Group has on the night of 15th to 16th. Council in Brussels on the economic conditions for an aid programme. In this context, agreement was reached on important issues, including urgently needed structural reforms and, in my view, an independent review of the implementation of international money laundering standards in Cyprus and the establishment of a Trust Register. I have also introduced, in particular, that all planned measures should not eliminate pension funds. This is why I have introduced it because Hungary, where such a measure has been implemented, has been calling for a response and the Commission has threatened with sanctions because it has not been sustainable. In a common understanding of the content of the programme, it was initially necessary to make a fundamental commitment to the provision of financial resources. So we have promised the Cypriot aid, and Cyprus itself has made a commitment to mobilise internal funds to reduce aid credits to a reasonable level. While this “responsible” has not been seen in terms of our performance, it has seen the extent to which a debt backpack is acceptable for Cyprus, i.e. how much help Cyprus can repay in a manageable period of time. This has then led to calculations that have resulted in an amount of €10 billion, the repayment of which is reasonable for the Cypriots in a medium-term period. At the same time, however, the total financing needs had been set at €17 billion, so Cyprus had to spend money on its own. In this respect, a wide range of options have been discussed: There was a commitment from Cyprus to raise the capital income tax to 28 percent or higher, to raise corporate tax and to introduce a one-time special levy on deposits. The published statement of the Euro Group – and that was the consensus of the Finance Ministers – does not contain a number of requirements for the structure of these levies. The structure of these taxes has been made by Cyprus with regard to the compatibility in the country itself, because we need to do so in the Cypriot Parliament. ==References== A telephone conference of the Eurogroup's Finance Ministers took place on March, which discussed the issue of the special levy once again. It was once again clarified that Cyprus has room for manoeuvre and that it can make the levy more progressive or that this is also recommended. It was made clear that it is a decision by Cyprus to determine the amount of the exemption, which is theoretically possible for all deposits up to €100 000, but at the same time the total amount of €5.8 billion – whether by means of a mix of measures or by such a levy – must be applied. Since then, there has been no new meetings of the Eurogroup. Questions 2 and 3: The ESM's aid measures are limited in particular by the issue of debt and are particularly difficult in the case of Cyprus due to the very small economy and the huge financial sector. As a result, the concrete requirement is that a higher amount than €10 billion would not be acceptable to Cyprus because it would not be possible to raise the debt burden à la longue. All other measures then arise and build on this knowledge. Then there has been a dialogue with Cyprus until the night, how best to ensure this. All possibilities were offset by the Troika, consisting of the Commission, the Central Bank and the Monetary Fund, and the finance ministers were constantly presented with the new calculations. Finally, one has agreed on the above measures. In particular, I have expressed the view that every solution must be clear that the financial sector is significantly reduced and that the issue of money laundering standards must be examined rigorously, that there must be a ‘trust register’ and that pension funds should not be eliminated. – All of this has been done for us. Questions 4 and 5: The Federal Government is regularly informed in the Council of Ministers about the discussions in the Euro-Group. The Federal Government also became a member of today's Council of Ministers – today in the early days – on the consultation of the Euro-Group on 15 and 18 November. ==References== The Euro Group itself had a provisional negotiated solution, not a decision. There is also no final memorandum of understanding, but the government in Cyprus is at the ball to find a national agreement to ensure sustainability. Financial assistance to Cyprus requires the approval of the House. This means that we have to consult here in the House before I can formally give the consent to it in the ESM. On question 6: The Euro Group consists of the 17 Euro-zone finance ministers who make their decisions together. It's being negotiated until you find a consensus. The statements of the Euro Group reflect the common position and are carried by all – and also jointly edited by all – so that they can be carried along. Questions 7 and 8: We had to meet at the Euro-Group meetings on 15 and 16. In March, we set out the elements of a sustainable programme for Cyprus. The debt capacity was the essential element, i.e. how much debt Cyprus can raise. It was important to establish a financial volume which would allow Cyprus to repay its debts in the long run. Against this background, €10 billion was set as the maximum for a programme for Cyprus. The rest of the determined financial requirement of €17 billion must come from Cyprus as its own contribution – not in the form of a liquidity injection, i.e. new loans that are recommenced somewhere and increase debt, but in the form of debt reduction. Thus, the sums for the aid programme amounted to €10 billion and for the own share €7 billion. The Troika, together with the Cypriot authorities, developed various solutions in order to achieve a corresponding share of its own. Due to the large financial sector, which is above average compared to the economic performance of the rest of the country, the Troika and Cyprus have been found – that is, Cyprus itself! – a contribution from the financial sector. The shareholders, concerning Mr Bucher, believe that we should involve them, are, of course, involved; that is, the shareholders of the banks already have negative equity and then nothing more, because these banks then belong to the Cypriot state. Given the seriousness of the situation, all appeared to be a special levy on Cypriot savings than the smaller evil – also with respect to the small savers – was the smaller evil in view of the otherwise upcoming pleite of the banks and the pleite of the state. I would like to stress that Cyprus's government representatives have agreed to levy a special levy on savings, and I do not want to hide that the Finance Ministers offered the Cypriots a more socially acceptable demand, but that was not accepted by the Cypriot government team present, and that the percentages were reduced to less than 10 percent, causing the smaller savers to be taxed at a higher percentage. As in the statement of the President of the Euro Group of 18.3. – after the telephone conference – however, it has been made clear and unmistakably clear, it is in the interests of the euro group as a whole that deposits below €100 000 are to be treated differently from those above € 100 000. And once again we have made it clear that it would be desirable to guarantee all deposits below € 100 000. Questions 9 and 10: I have always expressed my support for the fact that public budgets have ordered finances. It has also enabled and set out measures with the Interbank Strengthening Act and the Financial Market Stability Act to keep the financial market stable and secure in Austria. Banks also contribute to the stability of the financial market, whether through dividends or liability fees, but also through the stability levy for banks. I therefore see no need to introduce a new levy for savers. [[Between call of the Abg. Ing. Westenthaler.]] I will therefore not introduce either a simple legislative or a constitutional initiative for taxes on savings. [[Abg. Petzner: That was not the question at all!]] The protection of savers in Austria is provided by a stable financial system effectively supervised by financial market supervision and the Austrian National Bank. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: No guarantee!]] [[Abg. Bucher: No protection!]] In addition, we have a deposit guarantee system that meets the EU legal requirements of the guarantee obligation of € 100 000 per bank and customer. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: “Not necessary” means, if necessary, then we do it!]] Solid economy protects the savers, and we have a solid economy. This is always more important than empty promises. [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. Dr. Cap.]] On the question 11: The Finance Ministers have repeatedly reaffirmed that smaller savings funds are to be treated differently than larger ones. The concrete amount of the tax on savings was proposed by the Cypriot government. The structure of the levy can be made positive by the Cypriot government. We expect new proposals in this regard. Question 12: The conditions for existing programmes in other countries were quite different. A special levy on savings was therefore not thought of or discussed there. On the question 13: The figures for the distribution of the Cypriot savings balances have been transmitted to the European Central Bank by the Cypriot National Bank. These figures are based on the calculations of the income of a special levy on savings. Question 14: The number is not known to the BMF in detail. Question 15: The Eurosystem central banks are currently conducting decentralised studies under the heading “Household Finance and Consumption Survey”. In the third quarter, the Austrian National Bank presented the partial results for Austria. These are available on the Internet on the homepage of the Austrian National Bank. Sub-Results from other countries are not known to the BMF. On the question 16: Austria is in no way threatened with such a special levy. On the question 17: The deposit guarantee is designed in Austria to protect savings by individuals and also by certain legal persons up to €100 000 per bank. It is a private law system that is built up in a step-by-step manner. This is effective, and the State is also empowered to support in case of need. Questions 18 and 19: There are a number of theses and studies on the academically imaginable possibilities to deal with macroeconomic issues. One may see inflation as a panacea for any challenge to financial markets and public budgets, and the other may recognize the need to respond to the economic features of the economy with an adjusted mix of measures. It is no secret that I am defining how Austrians can create an environment in which performance is rewarded and security is offered. For this to happen, I am convinced that it is necessary to act with an eye-catching and in line with the particularities of the respective phenomena and challenges. Question 20: I will not express my views on the personnel policy of the German Ministry of Finance. That's not one of my tasks. On question 21: I am not aware of the concrete reasons for the Cyprus Minister of Finance on the exact structure of the special levy. On the question 22: The concrete implementation of the measures promised by Cyprus clearly falls within the competence of Cyprus and is controlled by the Troika. On the question 23: The overall package was designed with the aim of making the banks and the state solid. The European Central Bank has expressed its willingness to support the programme with sufficient liquidity as soon as appropriate decisions are taken on the aid package from the Cypriot Parliament. Question 24: I would point out that I have already sent Parliament an opinion from the European Commission in cooperation with the European Central Bank on the risks to the euro area if the Cyprus problem would not be solved. Furthermore, in accordance with Article 13 of the ESM Treaty, the allocation of ESM aid depends on a review of the country's systemic importance for the euro zone. ==References====External links== As a supplement, transmitted on 19.3. The deliberations on this matter are strictly confidential in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the National Council. Question 25: Yes, I see no occasion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-03-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00193_d7e14588	We are now going into the debate. I would draw attention to the fact that, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, no speaker may speak for more than 10 minutes; Total speaking time per club: 25 minutes. Mr Scheibner, you are the first to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-03-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00193_d7e14615	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs. Federal Minister Fekter, you have now spoken of Panikmache, which we have with this... – How? [[Interference of Federal Minister Dr. Fekter.]] [[Federal Minister Dr. Fekter: What Mr Bucher has given of himself!]] Once again, Mrs Bundesminister – with all appreciation and respect for your office as well – that it is absolutely necessary that the BZÖ with the Klubobmann Bucher today submit a urgent request to be able to discuss it at all is embarrassing! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] You would normally have expected to see you as the Minister of Finance – if you still say it was so good anyway; and you have the right to do so – immediately with a statement here as the first item on the agenda to discuss these matters prominently with us. We would have expected this to happen, but not that you would still be accusing the opposition and condemning that panic-making is being carried out here! [[BZÖ and FPÖ are welcome.]] [[Abg. List: Unheard!]] You could have acted pro-actively and discussed this situation with us with a statement. That would have been your responsibility as a Minister of Finance. Please be glad that you are now explaining this – and I say that you could have, because you have not explained anything. And above all, you didn't even pick up the little wood that we threw at you with the guarantee for our savings deposits, for the savings deposits of the Austrians, and that was really surprising for me. [[Abg. Bucher: Merkel did this!]] [[Interference of Federal Minister Dr. Fekter.]] – What is secured, Mrs. Federal Minister? - Nothing's secure! You know very well that deposit protection is only effective in Austria if a bank becomes insolvent, but it does not protect savings from such interventions as they have now been decided in Cyprus that a certain percentage of capital is deducted from a special levy. [[Interference by Federal Minister Dr. Fekter]] [[Intervocations at the ÖVP]] And that's exactly what we're talking about, Mrs. Federal Minister. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] And we would have given you the possibility with question 9 here: a guarantee. – But you just said – literally – that you do not consider such a special levy necessary. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: What if it becomes necessary?]] – Yes, what kind of guarantee is that? Now you don't think she's necessary, do you? [[Abg. Bucher: It can be different in two weeks!]] A future finance minister might see this differently? – Yes, this is not a guarantee! Mrs. Federal Minister, now is really going... – Now stop your Gspassettln there in the Austrian People's Party! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wheeler.]] Now we are really talking about confidence-building measures! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Tamandl.]] If the Ministers for Finance of the European Union, including the Austrian Minister for Finance and Finance, have failed to see this important principle of trust in savings as well as the Austrians as the number one of their work, then we should do so as parliamentarians of the Republic of Austria. We will demand today – even in a request – that we decide here a constitutional guarantee of the savings deposits of the Austrians. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Ladies and gentlemen, it would be our duty to support this today together and thus to ward off all other attacks on property tax assets – and, Mrs Federal Minister, I think you belong to the Austrian People's Party, which, as I hear, is constantly trying to prevent the introduction of property taxes of any kind coming from social democracy here. [[Abg. Höfinger: If you don't even know that?- Oh, my God!]] [[further calls to the ÖVP]] What is it, if not an asset tax, that you intervene in savings and say today once 10 percent, maybe 15 percent we simply deduct? [[Abg. Tamandl:...but no asset tax!]] That's not a panic! None of us claim that this will happen in Austria today or tomorrow. No man says that. But we want to put in place confidence-building measures, because confidence has been shaken by the measures adopted by EU finance ministers. That is why we want this guarantee anchored. They have today failed to provide such a guarantee and to express relevant projects here. That shows how necessary this urgent request has been. It is also interesting that you have obviously not informed anyone in the Federal Government. You said you were actually only informing the Federal Government of this in the Council of Ministers. This is also interesting, because it is a very large measure, but it is your business, how you manage it within the Federal Government. The Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany has also been rescinded in the evening, because you were not accessible, and the Vice-Cancellor would have imagined other measures. I'll tell you what's important to us. Mrs Bundesminister, you have also said that you want to pay attention to Austrian taxpayers. – Now suddenly at Cyprus, where there has been €6 billion in additional payments, now suddenly pay attention to the Austrian taxpayer! At €100 billion for the Spanish banks, this was an act of necessary solidarity! At hundreds of billions of euros that have now flowed into the Greek banks, it is an act of European solidarity! In the case of rescue shields open up, which we all had to take part in, this was an act of European solidarity! There was not the talk of the Austrian taxpayer. And now, where it is about small Cyprus, you suddenly take these steps and then you sell them as a concern for the Austrian taxpayer. [[Abg. Bookbooker: No solidarity!]] I'll tell you what else this is about. They come from a party that is particularly European-friendly. I tell you who really rejoiced this evening, these were the European opponents, the EU opponents. A better pleasure than this measure you would all have had if the EU finance ministers could not have done these people at all. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] [[Abg. Rädler: ( towards BZÖ) Today you! You're still raising it!]] This distrust that is now developing, this Tabu-Bruch, this opening of the Pandora canals – these are not our words, but it was in the Austrian and international media – is something you simply don't do! Where is the confidence of citizens in this European Union, if such a thing is possible, and that is what it is that is inconceivable? In Italy it would not have been possible to trust it, nor would it have done so in Spain. – These are the great ones, there is no such thing as that. That is where taxpayers must be liable for the debt. Only with the little Cypriots, you can do it once. The fact that Cyprus, a country of the European Union, is flying to Moscow begs whether there is any means from there, is also a "toll" signal for the strength and solidarity of this European Union! That's right, the suspicion that they said we're trying that out there: What happens in a country when banks lock for a week? What's going on there? [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: No money comes from the banker, Mrs. Minister!]] What happens if the banknotes don't spend any more money? If you inform people in front of the TV screen and say that 10 percent of your capital is gone now? Sage You don't always, these are the oligarchs! You said it yourself now: €75 billion of the €85 billion that lies on the Cypriot accounts are made up of accounts below €100 000. [[Federal Minister Dr. Fekter: 31 of them belong to the Cypriots!]] That's not going to be the oligarchs, but that's the mass of the Cypriots, the mass of the smaller savers who are simply being put there to their money, while protecting some oligarchs. I'm telling you, these are test balloons, and no one can rule out that then in another country the same thing happens. That's it. I don't know if these euro euphorics even thought about what they did. I say to you that all EU finance ministers should resign because they have “reduced” and done a huge damage to the idea of Europe, which will be difficult to correct. We want to make him right, at least for Austria. We want to maintain the confidence of the savers in the Austrian savings book. They always tell the Austrians not to speculate, but to put their money on the safe savings book – and then a signal like that, oh great! Ladies and gentlemen, once again: Today, we shall make an appropriate request: Guarantee of Austrian savings at constitutional level. Voices (The sitting was suspended at 3 p.m. and resumed at 3 p.m.) Mrs Bundesminister, it is embarrassing what this action has done to the principle of trust in the European Union.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-03-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00193_d7e14887	Mr Klubobmann Dr. Cap is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-03-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00193_d7e14908	It's always the same mesh that the BZÖ marches up there. [[Call the BZÖ: The BZÖ!]] – The BZÖ; in the matter is better anyway. In reality, the message is: Fear, fear, but if we have more to say, then you no longer need to fear, for we are the ones who really protect you. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: You would have jumped so high, you would have jumped over the speaker's mouth if you weren't in government!]] This equalization of Cyprus and Austria, I think, is the most impressive thing. As if we had such a huge area of banks with financial market activities! As if there were oligarch money to the extent! It's all absurd. They make themselves here and have only one goal to communicate: Panic, panic, we have to protect the savers, but it is not possible because the evil, evil government prevents it! . As I see it, this is not a contribution to an objective debate, because if you were to lead the debate objectively, you could also make critical comments, undisputed. The EU sits together and says, okay, they have to bring €5.8 billion, but the way they bring it is their coffee. And then they go back to Cyprus, which has already paid 5 percent interest on the deposits and only 10 percent corporate tax, which had already had a very own scheme, which basically invites: Please, come to us, bring your black and other money to Cyprus! There are people with the most prominent names in Austria, who are also at home in Cyprus. This is almost the Creme de la Creme from a particular social and political area. If you ask, Where does he have the account?, then the answer is: He's got the account in Cyprus! So my compassion for the rulers in Cyprus, with those who are in charge of the banks and those who are responsible for this system of rule, is limited, I can only say. [[Abg. May. Kogler: Not just one!]] I therefore believe that we have to deal with them very quickly, and I think it is also right to think about it... – What do you have with Cyprus at the hat, Mr Petzner? [[Abg. Petzner: What about the little savers?]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: What about the little savers?]] [[Abg. Petzner: The little savers are meaty!]] Got your hand once! Who of the BZÖ also has some kind of downgrading in Cyprus? Maybe that's the way it is! I've never experienced that you've been as excited as you are now at Cyprus. That's something new. I guess it's not just the vacation you might spend there. - All right. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: You have the foundations in Styria for this!]] In the question of what to clarify, the following is to be said: If we let Revue happen here again what it is about, then you have to hold on: It is 0.2 percent of the eurozone's GDP. Cyprus has lost around €4 billion in the debt of Greece. Bank recapitalisation and recession have doubled Cyprus's debt to 90% of GDP since 2000. This is a development that shows the interrelationships, the dependencies, but at the same time also the misdevelopment that exists there. A new government has now been elected there, and this new government is the little savers and savers. - You have to say that. The person who has just the saying there is thinking of those beyond 100 000 € or of those who have collected their assets at 100 000 € each in the various savings books or in the plants that have them there. That's how you have to see it. I think we should say that here in all clarity. The fact that one has a certain distrust of international banks and bankers who make a political claim to power is justified, but as far as the conclusions are concerned, we often disagree, Mr Bucher. However, I am of the opinion that one must be suspicious of the fact that there is a need for insolvency rules to be established for financial markets. [[Abg. Bucher: That's five years ago! For five years!]] Personally, it would even be best if investment banking and the real-life business of banks were to be separated. [[Abg. Booker: Five years you've been doing it!]] – Yes, but there is also the need for majority groups to decide certain things! [[Abg. Bucher: You don't want this!]] There's a need for a majority. But to conclude from that, there would be a laissez-fair behavior, including from our side, that one says, well, my God, come the hold, but no one can have wanted that, that is not justified. This is particularly true of those who have been present in the discussion with Juncker, who have been sitting here in Parliament and who have said this themselves, that is to criticise the fact that the EU is now something that it has not decided at all, namely that those in Cyprus are precisely as detailed as they have just tried to regulate in Cyprus. Then, of course, some of the steps that are even stronger in this picture. They are waiting for a proposal from Cyprus. It was originally said that Cyprus was self-regulatory. So there are a few points, because we are quite sure that you have to practice criticism. It also says that this does not bring confidence to the European Union and that this was an unskillable process. The majority there have chosen this unskilling procedure, and I think that can be criticized. [[Abg. Vilimsky: The majority rejected this!]] It is also our task to say that this is happening in Cyprus, and this will not result in the fact that there is reason in Austria for an uncertainty on the part of savers. You leave this grey zone here with your appearance. That's not the first time! I think that this is ultimately irresponsible, because this affects the economic roots in Austria, which affects the confidence of the savers, and finally we are also responsible for the fact that this trust remains intact. – I wanted to say that in this context. I would have expected a little more critical comments on the Russian oligarchy from the BZÖ. Everything possible has been found in the speeches, but one has almost already had the impression that a little compassion for the Russian oligarchy and its funds in Cyprus, which may be back on track, has grown in emotional commitment. To be honest, we have no understanding at all. – I would like to write that to you in the main book.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-03-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00193_d7e15082	Next speaker: Mr Dr. Stummvoll. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-03-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00193_d7e15104	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Ladies and gentlemen! I think there is no doubt about two findings: First: The situation in Cyprus is dramatic. The country is de facto pleading for some time. However, the former government has always rejected constructive talks with the European Union. The help is always two: one who wants to help, and the other who can be helped. Secondly, Ladies and gentlemen, although the situation is dramatic and even though Cyprus's pleite is in the room – with the words of Mrs Finanzminister today in the "Morgenjournal": a terrible scenario; President Novotny’s speech in the “ZIB 2” yesterday: a pleite is an experiment he does not want – although that is so, the second finding is that there is no risk to the euro zone at all, ladies and gentlemen, for several reasons. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: He needs it!]] Firstly, it would sadden the euro zone if a dwarf state with 0.2 percent of European economic performance could endanger the euro. Secondly, the euro is better placed today than one or two years ago. We have the six-pack. We have the Fiscal Pact. We have European stability mechanisms. We have the new purchasing policy of the European Central Bank. [[Abg. May. Rossmann: That's why Cyprus is also in a recession!]] The euro is thus safer today than it was one or two years ago. This is undisputed, ladies and gentlemen. Thirdly, we must say that Cyprus is already a special case, Mr Bucher. There is no other member of the euro area in which the banking system is eight times the total economic performance, in which the bank deposits alone are four times as large as the gross social product. There is no second country in the euro zone, whether Portugal, Spain or Greece, which has not implemented any reforms at all. [[Abg. Krainer: Ireland!]] And thirdly, there is the security of financial markets. Financial markets are very sensitive, and although what we are discussing has happened today, the financial markets have not responded at all to interest rates for Spain, Portugal and Greece. The financial markets therefore see this as very realistic. This is a small state, a dwarf state, with 0.2 percent of the European social product. This has no effect on the euro area and its stability. But, of course, the question, ladies and gentlemen, is now: How's it going to go on? One thing you have to say: What was available here was an auxiliary offer from the European Union. It was an auxiliary sacrifice to say that we are giving you 10 billion, the Monetary Fund 1 billion, but you have to bring an own contribution of 5.8 billion. The Cyprus problem is only – and I understand the Cypriot government in the negotiations with EU finance ministers – that they have no capital other than the high bank deposits. This is the problem of Cyprus, ladies and gentlemen. To the shareholders, Mr. Bucher: The two largest Cypriot banks are not a trace of shareholders. They all have a negative equity. There's nothing to get with the bonds either. They're all worth nothing. This is really a dramatic situation. I quote once again Ewald Novotny, who said yesterday in the ZIB 2 that there will be no solution that does not represent a hardness. - No question at all. In fact, it is only more about the solution which is the lower evil. But I must say one thing, Mr Bucher, because you have announced a mistrust request against Mrs Federal Minister Maria Fekter: I have not experienced more absurdity in this house in 30 years. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Really?]] What are the facts? There is a meeting in Brussels where the European Union and its Finance Ministers of the Cypriot Government offer help. The Cypriot government says yes, we do. And then the Cypriot government is not supported accordingly by its own Parliament in Cyprus. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: No voice!]] So the Cypriot government has no backsliding of the Cypriot Parliament, and that is why our Minister for Finance should withdraw? That's absurd, please! Absolutely absurd! I have never experienced anything like this in 33 years of Parliament, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: The EU hopes that it will implement this?]] But that is obvious, Mr Bucher. We have always understood ourselves well, but it is obviously the only straw you still hold on to: Maybe we can move some people with panic, with horror scenarios. [[Abg. Ursula Haubner: Go!]] So, honestly, that's not politics for me in the sense of future orientation. We're solution-oriented. We need a solution for Cyprus, not a question at all. The solution won't be easy, that's what every expert tells you. There you can still talk so populistly to the main tables, the banking companies should pay and the like. – There is nothing there! The largest balances in Cyprus are not quite 70 billion bank deposits. Of course, it was politically unwise not to take out the small savers, that is no question at all. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: She wasn't there? Mrs Fekter wasn't there?]] But on the other hand, I can't believe our taxpayers to help a country in which about 40 billion dollars of money are from Russians, Ukrainians and Britishs to help a country in which three times as high interest rates have been collected for such deposits for years as our small savers are cashing to help a country that has 10 percent corporate tax while our businesses pay 25 percent to help a country that has a capital income tax of 5 percent while we have 25 percent. [[Abg. Bucher: In Greece it was no different! Greece is the same!]] All this has to be included, Mr Bucher, and if you are honest, then admit that what you are doing today is pure populism. It's just panic and nothing else.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-03-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00193_d7e15258	Next speaker: Mr Themessl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-03-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00193_d7e15279	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Values Advisors! High house! You know, if a serious mistake had already happened, at least I would have expected, Mrs Finanzminister, that you would stand down and apologise to the savers for making a serious mistake by the elite in Brussels you belong to. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. What are you doing? What's that?]] They belong to the elite in Brussels. You are one of the seventeen finance ministers from the euro area, and you or the Federal Chancellor – no matter who goes to Brussels from you – are always the first to shout at all yes and Amen as First of all, of course, call Hurra, and if it goes into your pants, you didn't know anything. But now we are producing ourselves here – you too, Mr President! – and pretending to be guilty of all this miser, which has happened, of this damage that has arisen throughout Europe, only the Cypriots, that is a strong piece. You don't believe all that seriously yourself! Does the Minister of Finance perhaps want me to know that the seventeen finance ministers of the euro area did not know that the Cypriots want to access the savings of the individual savers to the population? You don't believe that yourself! This was set out by the ministers of finance from the euro area as to how money can be collected there. What they've done with it, I'll tell you. I don't know why you're playing this. I am glad that the Minister of Finance has not apologised and is now devoting it to the Cypriots. The euro area is the best in the world anyway, and we are the best of the best in Austria anyway. I'm just telling you so much because we're the best of the best: What Cyprus now needs, the €10 billion that you, Mrs. Finanzminister, have made minus last year, with €11 billion additional debt in the budget. Just so we talk about the magnitude of how good we are. - That's the part. [[Abg. Wöginger: With your requests it would have been 60 billion!]] Then make yourself up now and know nothing about it. I would like to thank you now, for the reason that, in the meantime, your speeches and the reaction of the Euro-zone Finance Ministers, of course, every stupid thing in this EU has become clear what this EU and this euro zone want. One operates nothing but lobbying for global large companies and above all for the financial industry. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Everything goes down, cost what it wants. It will only strengthen the financial market, it will strengthen the oligarchs you want to scrap, and, and, That's exactly what you're doing. But now it has understood the stupidest in Europe in the meantime what is going on. And what do you believe that will have an impact on the peace project Europe, which you are always stressing? I now bring you a few quotes from the “German Economic News”: “With the forced plundering of the Cypriot bank accounts, the EU has destroyed all the principles.” Further: “This is state-socialism in its sharpest form. The EU’s mask has been ‘laid’. That's exactly what I'm telling you: The stupidest has understood where this EU wants to go. [[In the case of the FPÖ and the members of the BZÖ.]] Another thing: ‘The impact of the Brussels toll will be serious.’ We all know this and there is also a clear statement from Mr Stephan Schulmeister, who will know you, who says: "The fact that the banking system is frozen is not the main problem. ‘Locking up is the problem’’. – Wait a minute, what happens then! Then go on with these quotations: “The EU can only keep the euro formed together by abolishing the rule of law, democracy and civil rights.” And you're on the best way to do exactly that. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Call the FPÖ:Right! Clean!]] The final sentence is given as follows: The “peace project” Europe is being broken by this “murderful event” or this murderous attack. – I told you months ago: If you continue to do so, then the peace project Europe is really at risk. And then I quote Stephan Schulmeister again: “I am outraged by the stupidity of the EU elites because they do not seem to know the least of economic history.” Schoolmaster is perfectly right. There's nothing to add to that. [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] The so-called EU-owned EIA: Her colleague Ikrath writes in the “Vorarlberger Nachrichten” – Michael Ikrath, Secretary General of the Sparkassenverband, as well as ÖVP National Council member: ‘It is shocking how easily investor confidence is put at risk.’ [[Call the FPÖ: That says even a black man!]] You know, Mrs. Finanzminister, there's nothing to add to this either, you know?- Oh, my God! And you imagine here as if nothing had happened, as if you had a plate on your bike, we can fix it and we will continue tomorrow. That's the wrong way. Then there are many, many statements, not just from you. Let's go back to Governor Novotny. I wonder, anyway, how some of the top positions in this Republic are occupied. This question is not just a question of me, it is already a question of a large part of the population in the meantime. Nowotny says Cyprus is a special case. – Yes, you know, we heard that Greece is a special case at the time, then we heard that Ireland is a special case because there were other standards everywhere, why funds were needed. Then Portugal was a special case, now Spain is a special case, Italy is also a special case, France dares not talk at all, that will be a super special case. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: Spain!]] [[Abg. Bucher: Super-GAU!]] Yes, the whole euro area and the whole euro in this form are a special case. That's not a special case, it's a fall of sin! You always forget to say that. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Mr Bartenstein has praised in the Financial Committee how good we are in the euro area and what all this has led to by sending billions around Europe, none of which has seen even a cent. This was just to save the banking system, the financial system et cetera. Then he said we've managed in the last two, three months that the Italians pay by 1 percent less interest, that the Spanish pay less interest for their loans, that the Portuguese pay less interest, and, and, and. And do you know whose cost? – At the expense of the fact that we have 20 million unemployed in Europe in the meantime, and which is much worse, we have six million youth unemployed in Europe. This is a lost generation, and you have to be responsible for this because this euro zone does not work and this EU will not work. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I'm just telling you one thing: They need to rethink and bring the EU back to the direction it originally intended – a strong community of strong regions, from strong national states with common foreign and security policies. But you've been out of the way for a long time. They want central bureaucracy in Brussels and have not even understood the results of Italy's election that the voters do not want – not only in Italy, not throughout Europe. In Germany, there is a survey that has been carried out before this case of sin: 65 percent of Germans voted for a withdrawal from the euro and a return to the D-Mark. Do you know what after this case of sin such a survey will result? – I’m excited how this will work out then, it will be published at the end of the week. Then we are far more than 70 percent of the Germans, and that is the economic nation number 1 in this EU, which gets everything more or less alive. And if You don't know you're on the wood road yet, then I don't understand you. To the savings deposits in Austria: Of course, fears are justified that any other EU country can, of course, access to pressure from the EU. As good as you always present them, our budgets of the next few years do not look forward. By 2016 we continue to make debt permanently every year, and for this reason it is important that the savings balances are secured. I therefore propose the following motion for a resolution by Mr Strache and other Members: The National Council wants to decide: “The Federal Government and, in particular, the competent Federal Minister for Finance are invited to forward to the National Council a government template which has a constitutional security of the local giral and savings funds.” Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-03-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00193_d7e15429	The motion for a resolution which has just been tabled is sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows:
ParlaMint-AT_2013-03-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00193_d7e15520	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Rossmann. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-03-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00193_d7e15542	Madam President. High house! Yes, Cyprus is, of course, a special case. [[Call the FPÖ:Na go! No special case!]] That's right. Cyprus is in a deep banking crisis. Cyprus is in a deep recession. And serious is the situation in Cyprus not only since yesterday or before yesterday, but serious has become the situation in Cyprus with the Greek Haircut at the beginning of last year. [[Call the FPÖ:Right!]] This cost the state around €12 billion, with a gross domestic product of about €18 billion. [[New call to the FPÖ.]] Therefore, in June 2012, a request to the EFSF for relief loans was followed accordingly – not completed to date. And since then, the liquidity of Cypriot banks has been increasingly financed through an emergency program, the so-called ELA program, Emergency Liquidity Assistance. Cyprus is also in a severe recession. However, Cyprus is also a special case if you want to, but that is not new when Cyprus is a money laundering plant and a tax haven. And in this context, the European Union, the ECOFIN Council, the Finance Ministers, were unable to reach a solution for Cyprus in the long term. You actually have to follow the situation back to 2008 and not start in 2012. I'll come back to that again. The essential element, the core element of Cyprus's security, which the Ministers of Finance decided on the night from Friday to Saturday, was a one-time penalty on savings deposits, both for deposits of over €100 000 and for deposits below € 100 000. Mr Themessl has already given me what I wanted to say, namely, Mr Ikrath. I'm totally Ikrath's opinion. I am at least as shaken as I am with what ease one has overcome this 100 000 € limit in Europe, Mrs Finanzminister! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] But I quote Ikrath to the end. He goes on to say that this taboo – as many have meant and as I am saying – is contrary to the €100 000 deposit guarantee, which was raised in 2011. And the damage you've done with it is enormous. How often have I heard in this financial crisis that trust building measures in the financial markets are important. Scäuble has not got tired in the last days, that always to repeat again and again. And what have the Finance Ministers decided? . They have decided on a measure that they have reached exactly the opposite, namely, not a confidence-building measure, but, in reality, a measure that has destroyed the long-term confidence of the people, the retail investors in the financial markets, in banks. It is very difficult to build confidence in a sector, in an area. However, it is very easy to destroy confidence – and this, Mrs Finanzminister, has made you overnight with your colleagues in Brussels. [[Congratulation with Greens and BZÖ.]] However, it is also problematic in the light of the fact that one does not know what will happen if the Cypriot banks – probably tomorrow, it was the last media reports to be found – will be locked up again. Will the small investors make a bank run? – It is not to be ruled out! Contagion effects on other countries are also not excluded, in particular Spain, but perhaps Italy. Of course, the burden on small investors must also be seen in the light of the fact that the aid package for Cyprus will be one which will contain a Memorandum of Understanding, which will include further expenditure cuts and tax increases. The last Memorandum of Understanding already contained reductions in pensions, social cuts, cuts in wages in the public sector, freezes in minimum wages, increases in VAT, increases in other excise duties, increases in fees, increases in drug charges. Yes, Mrs. Finanzminister, do you want to ask the small investors everything?- Oh, my God! However, little is said about what needs to be talked about, because the business model Cyprus should not be maintained. I am already with you when you say that, on the basis of the ESM, credit should not easily be granted to a country like Cyprus as long as Cyprus is just a money laundering facility and a tax haven. But now I'm asking you: What have you done in recent years to solve this problem? What happened at European level? I'll tell you: Nothing happened! – neither in terms of tax havens, nor in terms of bank insolvency law. If we had a bank insolvency right at European level, the whole problem would be a little easier to deal with. Then, of course, you could also send banks to insolvency. But if banks are now in favour, then what is left but they are to be picked up in order to avoid the risks involved and which we all cannot really estimate?- Oh, my God! So why didn't you talk about redimensional the hypertrophic banking sector that night? Why didn't you talk about Cyprus's tax haven? Cyprus is a country – you have to imagine that! – with 250 000 capital companies. That is, on three Cypriots, there is about one capital company. And the tax rate on profits in capital companies is 10 percent in Cyprus. And now, you say, Mrs. Finanzminister, it was the Cypriots' wish to raise it from 10 to 12.5 percent. We must talk about it, about this tax dumping, about harmonizing tax rates! I know, Mrs Finanzminister, that you told us very clearly in the last committee that you are in favour of a tax competition. But in this case, the tax competition goes too far. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Nor was it about why this country has no wealth tax, why it has no inheritance tax. [[Call:We don't have either]] It has not been discussed how the wealth is distributed in this country. According to a report from last week’s “Frankfurter Allgemeine Zeitung” (Frankfurter Allgemeine Zeitung) it is true that many of these states that need to be helped have a much more uneven distribution of assets than other countries. Which does not mean, Mrs Finanzminister, that Austria would have a very similar distribution of assets. - No, no, no, no. That's not how it is. According to the data the ECB is hoping to publish shortly, Austria is the country with the highest disparity distribution among the countries in the euro zone. And you have to talk about it, about wealth taxes! The money is to get where it is available. I am in favour of withdrawing a special levy where the money is: in the case of deposits over € 100 000. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I am also in favour of looking very closely at what is still to be found in the bonds, which is still to be obtained from the owners. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wheeler.]] We've heard that there's not much left for the two biggest banks. But what about the other banks? We must put our fingers on this, and the solutions must be found, and not in the case of a compulsory levy, which also includes small investors! [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] In my view, this is not responsible for the background to solidarity set out in Article 3 of the EU Treaty. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-03-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00193_d7e15641	Next speaker: Mr Klubobmann Ing. Lugar. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-03-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00193_d7e15670	Madam President. High house! When the news arrived, what happened in Cyprus, I asked myself: How is there such a thing? How is it possible that seeing eyes do something that economic experts, bank experts in virtually every country fear? One fears that a system that is built only on one basis will collapse, namely trust. The banking system is a trust system. And in this system, nothing works without trust. And if you look at history and make 800 years of financial catastrophes happen, then you see that always the banks and the states and many other things have failed when the trust was gone. Now I have wondered how can anyone seeing eyes destroy something that is very, very fragile and that has also led to some growth in 2008 with us, namely the confidence of the savers that they get their money back at any time – and not with discount, but with 100% and with good luck with interest. That's this pre-confidence. The original confidence that the savers have towards the banks, and that is also necessary. Not everyone knows that the money you bring to the bank is not there at all. At the same time, this is awarded to borrowers, to investors, to whoever. And what the bank has is a very small reserve, which is sometimes only 1 or 2 percent large. I know that the equity rules there require more, 7 or 8 percent, depending on, even 10 percent were already in the conversation. Only the financial resources that are not directly available are not available. That is, as soon as 2 or 3 percent of the savers go to the bank and once they want to see if their money is still there, every bank is pleading, except anyone jumps in, anyone gives money; just as it has always happened in the past. And that is exactly the problem we have in Cyprus. Today, Mr Rossmann asked what will happen if the banks lock up again today or tomorrow or sometime. I'm not a blind man, but I can tell you what's going to happen: Anyone who has money there will try to remove it – everyone. Or what would you do if you brought your money to the bank, hoping you'll get interest, and then experience 10 percent discount? Do you think you'd leave this bank the money? Would you leave the money on the bank, in the hope or, so to speak, in the fear that 10 percent will be cut down again? Nobody knows. Once this taboo break has happened, no one knows what happens. And right now we're in Austria. Finally, we also had the discussion in Austria: Is the money on our banks safe? That's about trust. And this confidence is now a big piece of play, also in Austria. People are worried. They are worried because it seems that there is no genius at all to do something that should not be done, namely to shake this trust relationship between Sparer and Bank. And that's what you did. Now I'm wondering, Why did you do that? – From my point of view, there is only one reason, because one could have let these banks go there. Many will say that the savers would have paid for it, too. – No, not at all, because we know the rules that the subordinate liabilities are first dissolved. That is, all those who have given the bank money, for example bonds and others, are the first to be asked to cash. The owners are asked to cash. And first of all, at the end of the day, the savings book owner comes to an end. This order has now been reversed. They were turned around and asked those who would not normally be the first to do so when a bank went to the cash register – and that the Cypriot banks were going to take care of it, that was clear. If we were not to prevent this by all force, then they would have been pleading for a long time, then things would have taken their course. And it could have been that, so to speak, savers would have come to the train in the last instance. But you could have intervened in order not to destroy the trust. But you didn't do that. You just turned it over and immediately asked the saver to check it out. That's this taboo break, and I wonder why you're doing it. I think I know the answer: Cyprus is a very insignificant player, viewed internationally. This is about €15 billion; if you know the billions that were thrown around in Greece, the peanuts. It's about a test lab. You want to know what happens when you do exactly what many have in mind, namely in the euro area to let individuals jump over the blade. What happens if no money comes from the banknotes? You said that yourself, Mrs. Minister: For God's sake, in Austria no money could come out of the banknote if we had not done that and that at the time! In Cyprus, we now see what is happening – and I suppose it has been deliberately made, because in the end it is: The banks there are now pleaded, but you have just asked the saver to cash out, and then you will ask everyone else to check out if they are not already over all the mountains. And that's the point. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] That means: Finally, one tries to set up a test laboratory here to see how the situation develops in case the banking system collapses. And it's going to collapse in Cyprus now, and I can predict that. This is only to be saved if we pump into it unlimited money. I hope that this will not happen because, in the end, the Cypriot banks were, to a large extent, themselves responsible for the fact that it came as it did – and we have already heard the statements. A point now perhaps still on the requests that are going to be made here, and on the announcements you, Mrs Minister, made a long time ago: We secure the bank balances of the Austrians. There are a lot of applications here that sound very exciting and interesting at first sight. We simply guarantee all Austrians that no matter what happens, they will definitely get their money back – up to €100 000. Has anyone ever made the effort to calculate what happens when the banks in Austria go to pleite? If you say you guarantee that up to 100 000 €, then it's 80 billion €. The Federal Government would then have to pay €80 billion. – Yes, Mrs. Minister, where are you taking this? Where to God's will, do you want to raise €80 billion to satisfy all the savers you're now scattering sand into your eyes? [[Abg. May. Rossmann: Austrian deposit guarantee!]] Finally, the state cannot guarantee savings, for the state is the citizens, and there would be citizens for their own deposits. That is, what you can catch up with, are individual banks that sometimes get in the wrong position; you can turn it back with a few billion. But if that happens, what is happening in Cyprus now, namely, that the banks are in a row, then you can't guarantee anything to anyone. That's why: Scattering You don't have any sand in your eyes! [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] Take a better look at this taboo, which has now taken place at international level, and that people's confidence in the banks is not so shaken that they are running to the banks and withdrawing their money, for we know from the story: A bank run is for no state to bear for no bank. That inevitably leads to the pleite. Therefore, be careful, you are acting on the Cypriot government to consider this very carefully, and also on your European friends and on the other finance ministers. Once the trust is destroyed, it is not to be restored. And then the Austrian deposits are at risk in the long term, and you cannot guarantee that, nor can you exclude it. That's why: Look at you playing with open cards here! Above all: Let us let the Cypriot banks go into bankruptcy, because in the end they deserved it, and then those who have also earned well in this financial carousel that has turned there! And: Do not take the taxpayer in liability, especially not the Austrian. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-03-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00193_d7e15721	Next speaker: Mr Petzner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-03-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00193_d7e15742	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! What is certainly not going on is that one simply makes a perpetrator-offer-return and now accuses us of the opposition, we would be panicking, as did the Federal Minister, but also Mr Klubobmann Cap. [[Interlocutory call to the ÖVP]] Ladies and gentlemen! The fact is: We have not decided in Brussels this cold expropriation of the Cypriot savers; we have not raised the paw in Brussels, but the paw has raised this lady, Minister of Finance Fekter, and she is, together with the European finance ministers, responsible for the uncertainty of the savers and for the panic of the whole of Europe! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hörl]] [[Interference by Federal Minister Dr. Fekter]] [[Intervocations at the ÖVP]] [[BZÖ's condolences.]] [[New call for tender of the Abg. Hörl.]] And that's not just what I'm saying, that's what all the experts say; I'm allowed to bring some quotations to that. [[further calls to the ÖVP]] The “Frankfurter Allgemeine Zeitung” wrote in its issue two days ago – quote –: “It is hard to imagine a worse loss of trust than the state confiscation of savings overnight”. The US economist and Nobel Prize winner Paul Krugman expressed it even more vividly – quote –: “It is as if the Europeans are holding up a light advertising that is written in Italian and Greek: ‘Time to storm the banks!’” For this panic, only the European Union and also – for Austria – the Finance Minister Maria Fekter bears the sole responsibility, ladies and gentlemen. We are from the BZÖ – we stand up and defend ourselves against what is happening there, ladies and gentlemen, namely that the small savers – and this is not about the Russian oligarchs, Mr. Hörl – are to be asked to pay for the mismanagement of large banks that they should be expropriated cold. [[Abg. Hörl: Catastrophe!]] [[New call for tender of the Federal Republic of Germany Hörl]] Ladies and gentlemen, you have to imagine this: Even before the Cypriot Parliament agreed on this measure, the banks were closed and the savings customers had already been deducted from their accounts the sum that had been negotiated in Brussels. – What else does this have to do with democracy?- Oh, my God! What else does this have to do with parliamentarianism?- Oh, my God! This is nothing but a diktat from above, a dictatorship of Brussels, which is being executed down hard. On the other hand, everyone who still has a spark of responsibility must defend himself, ladies and gentlemen. We from BZÖ do this, we defend ourselves against these measures, and we also fight for the Austrian savers. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Therefore, we have also proposed that we write a guarantee in the Constitution that such a special tax on savings in Austria is not possible. And you, Mrs Bundesminister, have rejected this extended BZÖ hand with the answer to our questions today, although this measure would be very important, because Mr Scheibner and Mr Klubobmann Bucher have already done quite right that this deposit guarantee, which is promised to the people in Austria, cannot function insofar as this deposit guarantee requires that a bank can go into insolvency. Everyone who knows about matter knows that, although a bank insolvency law has been promised for months and thus an orderly settlement of a bank's pleite, there is no such law to date. That means that this deposit guarantee exists purely on the paper, and that is not a panic, ladies and gentlemen, but that is simply the truth that we are telling the Austrians here today. Ingeborg Bachmann wrote: “The truth is acceptable to man”, and this conviction is also mine, ladies and gentlemen. But what did Mrs Fekter do? – She explained in the "Mitagsjournal": After what should I have done, why should I have voted against the rescue package? – That was their first announcement, and the second announcement was that the choice was either to go this way that the savers have to pay, or – quote – “to take Austrian tax money into their hands” to help Cyprus. This too is a smooth untruth that you are spreading here, Mrs Fekter, because Austrian tax money has long been used to help Cyprus, such as Greece and other European Pleitee States. That means that you are not only insecure the people, but simply informing them wrong. The fact that everything that is done here with little Cyprus is a test run for other European countries, I would like to do so with a quote from Jean-Claude Juncker, who has said this quite openly. Mr Juncker once explained – quote –: “We decide something, then put it in the room and wait a while for what happens. If then there is no great scream and no uprising, because most do not understand what has been decided, then we continue – step by step until there is no return.” It is precisely in this policy that the BZÖ will never participate, ladies and gentlemen, the electorate of which can be sure. [[In the case of the BZÖ, and the members of the FPÖ.]] Mrs. Federal Minister Fekter, if you – next lie – declare that you had put the Austrian budget in order, you obviously do not know the figures. Ladies and gentlemen! The fact is that Austria is now liable with billions of money for banks and Pleite States such as Greece, Cyprus, Spain, Ireland and others, but also in parallel with an unprecedented debt. You, Mrs Finanzminister, are responsible for the highest debt burden in the Second Republic! That is the truth, these are the facts and figures that are on the table, and that is why we want to have this guarantee in the constitutional rank – not because we are running panics, not because we want to run uncertainty, but because we want to create security for the savers, for the Austrians. [[OBJECTIVES]] It would also be a smart signal – a smart signal for the Austrian economic location, which is in an international competition like any other European state – if we could and would send this signal. Her party friend – you have to say in this case – the German Chancellor Angela Merkel has given such a guarantee to Germany at least by word of mouth. Why can Austria – I wonder – not follow this model and also use a constitutional anchoring of a corresponding measure? This is, honestly, obscene. I believe that this security measure is urgently needed. However, because you do not want to do so, Mrs. Federal Minister, because you misinformed the Austrians and because you do not, at least, represent the interests of the local savers, but state here what some gentleman in the Raiffeisen Centre tells you, I make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[BZÖ's condolences.]] You, Mrs. Federal Minister Fekter, have proved in your time as Minister of Finance that you are completely overwhelmed with this office, that you are not at all fit to represent Austria on the European stage on a serious and competent basis from your nature and attitude – I remember your embarrassing slipper on kidney stones and I do not know what – and that, on the third hand, by your failed financial policy – I am referring to the record debt that Austria has to show – you cannot help to ensure that Austria remains a safe and orderly economic and financial location. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hörl]] [[Interference by Federal Minister Dr. Fekter]] [[New call for tender of the Federal Republic of Germany Hörl]] [[Calls and calls between Mr Bucher and Mr Hörl]] In one word: They failed as a Minister of Finance. They are much better lifted up than another female member of the “First General Insurance” because what you are doing is uncertainty policy. [[Call to the ÖVP: For God's sake! That's great!]]
ParlaMint-AT_2013-03-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00193_d7e15919	The request just submitted is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2013-03-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00193_d7e15975	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Muttons. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-03-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00193_d7e15996	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! High house! Mr Petzner, it would be nice if you had your language in mind, and I would refer to the beginning of your remarks. [[Congratulations with representatives of SPÖ and ÖVP]] Ladies and gentlemen, I should like to clarify two things at the outset: Firstly, no one is thinking of taxing savings in countries other than Cyprus, especially in Austria. And second: Cyprus will have to make its contribution, even if this is related to cuts. But let me say the following: With the help of the ESM and the guarantees of the European Central Bank, we have finally succeeded in ending the hysteria in the financial markets last year, and that has not changed any negative developments in Cyprus, which were known. The measures that have been taken so far have been very successful. The interest on government bonds in the euro area has fallen significantly, Austria pays as little interest for its government bonds as never before. As the first country, Ireland has already been able to absorb money on the capital markets and will soon no longer depend on the aid. And even in Greece, the government achieved a budget surplus for the first time. – That's the one side. On the other hand, many countries of the euro area have extremely high unemployment – we have often debated youth unemployment – and they are making major reforms in politics and the economy. The latter, which these countries can now need, is a renewed uncertainty on financial markets and an increase in interest rates for their government bonds. And this is not in our interest either, because we want, at last and finally, unemployment to fall, to boost the economy, because it also ensures jobs with us. Cyprus is therefore also entitled, in our own interest, to help its European partners. But it is clear that: Grants are not gifts, even if this is sometimes hoped for. The requirement for Cyprus to receive money must be a radical restructuring of the Cypriot banking sector. Cyprus needs to give up its previous business model, which builds on speculation and low tax rates in particular, but it needs to reduce the financial industry to a healthy level. The banking sector – we have already heard this today – is almost three times as large in Cyprus as in Austria. Considering that the population in Cyprus corresponds in numbers to that of the Styria, one can calculate the dimensions in which the whole is displayed. The aim of the Euro-Group and the Austrian Federal Government is to minimise the risk to taxpayers. But it is, ladies and gentlemen, anything but fair to let the little people pay for the Cypriot problems, and it would also be more than unfair if the Russian companies and the Russian oligarchs were unscathed, because: Those who have benefited from the Cypriot business model with very high interest rates and extremely low taxes should ultimately make a fair contribution. No one can expect gifts in millions or billions. [[Congratulations with representatives of the SPÖ.]] So what can't be is that small investors are also taxed. However, this has not been required by the Euro Group either. This plan comes from the conservative Cypriot government. [[Call the FPÖ:Falsch!]] However, the finance ministers would have had to be vigilant and get the emergency brake in time. An exception for savings of less than € 100 000 would, in any case, be decent, fair and also financeable, and I assume that our government will continue to influence the Cypriot head of government in this sense. It is now up to Cyprus to make appropriate proposals on how to get out of this dead end, the next few days will be crucial. The longing for help from Russia could prove to be a mistake. As we read in the media, Russia is currently very much decorated, and it is of course also the question of what Russia expects as a counter-performance. In summary, this means: In order to be successful, the Cyprus aid package must help to tackle the root problems. The financial sector needs to be reduced to EU cuts, and standards against money laundering must be introduced. Cyprus can thus return to a sustainable path within the euro zone. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-03-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00193_d7e16044	Next speaker: Mr Auer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-03-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00193_d7e16065	Madam President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! A little short-term is the memory of the BZÖ already, I may hold on once. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Grosz.]] I have a copy of the debate on the ESM here, and I can say that there was a mistrust against the Federal Chancellor, Mr Bucher, in so far as he accused the Chancellor of being the patron saint of the banks. On this “teufelswerk” – so it was referred to by Mr Bucher – he said in the direction of Federal Chancellor that it would be terrifying how unfailing the German Chancellor would waste money and betray it. That is why he has been distrusted because this European Stability Mechanism has been decided. [[Demonstrative applause with BZÖ.]] [[Abg. Grosz: Exactly!]] Ladies and gentlemen, at the time you asked: We must not spend any money on this mechanism! Today, at a time when we are to discuss this decision of the European Union, and I do not think it to be the happiest idea, as one has now done, today, you say, of course, that we should also support it with Austrian money. [[Call BZÖ: What? Who?]] [[Further continuous calls to the BZÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! That's probably not how it works, because nothing else would have come out, ladies and gentlemen – the memory leaves you, I thank God for the contributions of your colleagues in written form! [[Abg. Grosz: short-term memory? – You have no memory at all!]] I only need to read them if you don't know for yourself. [[President Neugebauer shall take over the chairmanship.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The fact is that you may need to look back a little bit more generally. If I were to buy a company, you'd buy yourself a company, then we'd probably first check out what that company is like. This procedure has not been considered by the European Union in enlargement. I would have liked to see the credit quality of these countries joining. I would also have liked to see the legal certainty of these countries – it is only Hungary. What did Greece’s credit quality look like, which was ultimately the cause of the Cyprus-Malaise? You didn't check! The European Union is very fast with some provisions, for example, in the curvature of cucumbers, the standard of tractor seats, in the electric lamps we would have to install. The European Union would have other tasks than to prescribe these things, which is undisputed. This is not about the truth or anything else, but it is about how to handle such things better. That is where the European Union really needs action. It is undisputed, ladies and gentlemen, that the Austrian banking system and the Austrian deposit guarantee function. This is absolutely certain in Austria because the Austrian government budget is on stable pillars and debt reduction measures have been launched thanks to this Federal Government. Austria is one of the most stable economies that no one can dispute, and Austria is, and this is confirmed internationally, relatively sovereignly by this crisis – thanks to the timely action of this Federal Government. The Austrian banking system is not comparable to that in Cyprus. It is this deposit guarantee, which is a legal one in Austria, to protect the customer even if a bank gets into a wrong position. In Austria, the following are protected: Savings, savings cards, asset savings books, fixed-terms, building savings, salary, pension and current accounts, including interest. The accounts must be in euro or in the currency of an EEA Member State, and the five professional associations of the Austrian credit industry must hold back collateral, ladies and gentlemen! Whether this is the Sparkassen-Hafting AG or the Austrian Raiffeisen deposit insurance or other areas, they must be kept. Only if these own security facilities did not work would the state be liable. I can remind you that this deposit guarantee has proved successful. There have already been bankruptcys of banks in Austria: Trigon, Rieger Bank, BHI Bank, Discount Bank. But no saver has lost money because the security facilities have worked, which unfortunately is very beautifully pushed aside. [[Abg. Scheibner: No one said that today!]] On the contrary, the Austrian banks are being suffocated by saying again and again that they have been thrown down by the banks. Let me give you an example. [[Abg. Scheibner: No one said that!]] – Yes, you can read it, Mr Scheibner! [[Abg. Scheibner: Not from me!]] You today, I admit, have argued very serious and objectively, but very often I hear here: “the banks”. ‘The banks’, very often one hears this, I will show you the corresponding speeches. [[Abg. Scheibner: Not from me!]] Not from you, undisputed, but there are these things. Ladies and gentlemen! The Austrian banks are required to pay a bank levy. The Austrian banks – not all, but the main ones – pay their interest to the PartCapital, which the state does not deserve much; for example, a bank to which my proximity is known is Raiffeisen Österreich AG. The Austrian state alone from the PartCapital earns well over € 120 million per year. Due to the refinancing rate to be paid by the Austrian Republic and what is required for this PartCapital, more than € 120 million of interest per year is due, and they have also been paid heavily. That is why I am tired of constantly hearing “the banks ”! The Austrian banks have contributed much to the success of the economies. The Austrian state has done much to ensure that we have managed the crisis perfectly. The Austrian savers can rely on the Austrian credit instruments, on the banks. Accordingly, the Austrian State also guarantees deposits.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-03-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00193_d7e16199	Next speaker: Mr Dr. Strutz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-03-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00193_d7e16241	Mr President. High National Council! I would like to start by referring to the comments made by Mr Auer, who said that the Austrians are protected, the savings assets are safe, the deposits are safe. This reminds me of the many promises we have always heard from the ÖVP finance ministers in the past, of the promises before EU entry, when it said: The EU accession will: all will be cheaper – you can still remember the Ederer-Tusender – and the hard and strong Schilling remains Austria at an EU accession. If you look back, you will see how often you have led the Austrians behind the light! Every time an ÖVP minister or a minister says we don't need to worry, exactly what the liberals and other opposition parties articulate here and warn them of. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] They have promised us that loans to Pleite States like Greece will be a good business. The ÖVP finance ministers wanted to do this to us. That's exactly the opposite! Or: Protective shields bring us security, are only provisional, the liability will not be beating. So whenever someone here from the ÖVP and the government parties takes the floor and says that we do not need to worry, everything is fine, then a few months later exactly the opposite occurs. I have also listened very closely to the statements made by Mrs Muttonen. Unfortunately, she's not in the hall now, but she said it must not be that the little savers are asked to cash. It must not be for the oligarchs to get away from this. . With these decisions that SPÖ and ÖVP have made possible here in Parliament with the support of the Greens, by the recommendation, by the approval of Mrs Finanzministere in Brussels, precisely these steps are being taken now that the small savers in Cyprus are asked to check out that the oligarchs do not have to make their contribution to dealing with the crisis by banks that have earned millions of billions of dollars in recent years. High house! The responsibilities are therefore relatively clear: The Federal Chancellor, the SPÖ, the ÖVP have, with the support of the Greens, by their approval of the ESM Treaty, enabled what is now taking place in Cyprus. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] The Federal Minister for Finance has given the green light to the EU's finance ministers that the small savers in Cyprus are being asked to cash out. The simple citizens are to be expropriated. They no longer have access to their own money overnight. But the owners, the speculators, who have made fat profits for years, and their managers and speculators, who have equally collected fat premiums, are unscathed. This is exactly what, as Mrs Mutten said here, should not happen. But this has been made possible by SPÖ and ÖVP through your process. In particular, I ask the SPÖ: Is this the social justice you want to uphold: that the small savers have to bleed for it? Is that the redistribution you are talking about in the run-up to the National Council election? Is this the way you want to enable social peace in Europe? On the example of Greece, we have seen what this way is for the European Union. I am of the opinion – to change a quote – that Cyprus is the small world in which the big, the EU speaks, keeps its test. We are very concerned about these signals, these catastrophic signals that the EU's Finance Ministers have sent out here. That was nothing but saying to people in the European countries: Make your savings safe! Because what happens to Cyprus today can happen tomorrow with Portugal, with Spain and finally with Austria. I am excited about what will happen in these countries in the banking sector over the next few weeks and months. I think Mr Novotny made it clear: The problem is not to lock up banks and shut down banknotes, but what will happen if the banks lock up again when what the European finance ministers have now signaled, namely: Save your savings!, then actually will occur. That is why we are also in favour of a clear statement by the Austrian Federal Government. Today, we liberals have also made a request to ensure constitutionally that savings are protected from the access of the European Union. If you say that's all right, then we'll meet this demand and we'll put it in the constitutional rank, then we'll give the Austrians a signal that the savings are actually safe, so that they don't get what's happening in Cyprus now, that everyone's storming to the banks and putting their money into security, their last money!
ParlaMint-AT_2013-03-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00193_d7e16313	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Kogler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-03-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00193_d7e16335	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! It is, of course, not easy to make a judgment because the situation is sufficiently unclear, but so much for me, in all the imperfection of the efforts to take action: In phase one may fall on the head, they are partly simply squabbled, but the debate is even more perplexed. I can no longer hear Austria being compared with Cyprus. That's total nonsense! What is done here by the legal parties is completely wrong, nobody helps them, not even themselves, because no one can believe it anymore. In the future, you will not increase the credibility deficit that is already present in the established policy, because it is already such that no one is thinking about it anyway. The additional damage is relatively low. However, Mrs Bundesminister, a very large-scale damage has already arisen, and this is all the perverse in the process – with an approach that is not wrong in the case of us. Finally, with all the criticism in the past – and we have always called for this, and that is also true – we are finally considering the participation of large customers, however, as one can see from the idea – I do not know if it is enough to refer only to the decision-making processes in Cyprus itself – to want to catch the small investors and the small savings funds, that is actually not understandable to me. This creates a collated damage that would have been absolutely avoidable. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] At the same time, however, it is possible for us to finally get through with this – and I just want to highlight this part of the debate – even once again when it comes to high assets and large deposits. I would really pull the cut at €100 000, for the reason that the promises can be heard again and again that up to €100 000 all deposits are secured anyway. The deposit guarantee is in favour of a bank, so it can't be that people in Cyprus have to pay more to save a bank than they would get in a pleite. This process would be completely absurd. So there has to be a logical limit unless you want to go down with the deposit guarantee, for which you can have something left. I am now expressing my personal opinion on this. I do not see at all, nor in Austria, that it is possible for one alone – I do not, because I have not three times 100 000 € – to distribute three times 100 000 € to banks, to those who make completely overstated interest promises, are duly risky on the road, and the public should then be liable for it. That's total nonsense! If market economy has a sense anywhere, then going that the general public is not always liable for the risks arising from the fact that individuals who already have a lot of money can make a lot more profits. Therefore, the search for the border where the cut is drawn is so important. Now it is 100 000 €. You'll have to explain this someday how it really was. This has not yet been completely plausible to me, except that the ECB has pushed and the Cypriots have organized the whole thing themselves. But now to the main problems, they are perfectly clear: Money laundering, a tax haven, a tax haven of the special class, not only because of low corporate taxes, but because the entire Gauner colony of half and all of Europe can settle there – with money that has been generated here and there black, it is hidden there and increased under the most favourable conditions and with which there is still plenty of speculation. This is the business model of Cyprus, which must be broken from the front to the back. The problem will only be – that was also recognizable, they have recognized – the political class there obviously is not about protecting the small savers in their own country at all, but it is obviously about maintaining the business model. In fact, this will, of course, mean a massive restriction in the future. With the step that has now been taken – perhaps the wisdom we are not aware of – this business model is essentially disastrous. When the banks lock up, not only will the “little ones” remove or subtract, as the fear was, but the“ great ones ” will certainly be much faster, and this falls into more weight. That means, and that's the next case of sin: If such a measure is thought and announced, then you really have to go through it. I mean, now the damage is maximized in all directions of heaven, he's not catchable either, and I don't know how you want to do this tomorrow and the day after. The capital flight will be used accordingly without the cut having happened that would have been necessary, we will give you the right. So in view of this tax haven, we can quietly demand and enforce even stronger and sharper measures. The question is much more why this has not been addressed or has been done so far, under which abductions Cyprus has been included in the euro zone at all – it has not been so long ago. The business model there has been known for a long time. Moreover, it should encourage us to look more critically at countries such as Liechtenstein and others, which are also partly doing so, where this business model is still working, where Gauner money and blood money are used, and the devil knows what else is organized by the local prosperity. The whole thing then means service – great! That is where the European Union regularly leaves out. In Cyprus, it has been so long since gone wrong that, despite all the measures in the back and in the front, nothing is right. Now the damage is naturally potent. If one also wants to save a banking sector which is three to four times more than what would be needed on an average for the economy, then: Good night! The question now really arises whether it has not failed – I say this quite openly here – to send it in some sort of order in bankruptcy. There may not be much else left if you do not ask the European taxpayers again to check out what the owners are doing there. This has also remained nebulos, Mrs. Federal Minister! We're interested, we want to know: What about those – still against the background of the fact that they wanted to grab a savings book with a €10,000 deposit – that not only parked €10, 20, 30, 40 million and collected a lot of interest for it – I am still talking about this problem – but also make up the owners there? They're not just Cypriots. It is not true that the ensemble of the Cypriot minimum pensioners holds a bank there. I guess we can't go out of it. Have you looked at the ownership structures of the banks there? - Yes, but where is that? [[Federal Minister Dr. Fekter: 77 Dispersions!]] That is not the case in Cyprus, which is a scattering bomb of the speculation society, and that is the problem. Now, of course, it's not that easy, because it's all over, it's clear to me, but that that's not just Cypriots, it's probably clear. For example, the famous Russian oligarchs are not only which – in this area perhaps even the lower problem – which park large deposits there, although this is also very lucrative in the interest differences that exist, but also those who keep in hiding any trusts there – fight that too. That's what you always write on the flags. That is why Austria is giving the mandate to the Interest Tax Directive and where it is not free, because we are supposed to fight so much. Then we'll fight for it now. It is also a problem that because huge assets and company coats can simply be hidden without a owner's card. This is at least as bad as the high interest rates that are paid there – in retrospect, at our expense. Who are these owners now? – It is also Russian oligarchs who hold ownership shares in the banks. Read in the press today! By the way: You have to put this together by means of the media, because that is not legible from the information we have received so far. In this context, the question arises: How will the owners be interested and how will those who hold bonds be interested? Not by the State of Cyprus, that would be another type of debt cut, but also the banks may have financed themselves with bonds. They may have offered four or five times higher interest rates than the European average, as did the savings deposits. Who cashed them, where are they running? They have to be cut, and above all they have to be cut. Since the economic crisis, the interest rate difference has already been apparent in the normal investment sector – and this really affects the barrel, I find – a ratio of 1: 3 in the two-year deposits. 1: 3! I've been looking at this. With the money due daily, the interest rates are four to five times as high! Who pays that? This is a pyramid game that will be held there. [[Federal Minister Dr. Fekter: Yes!]] The whole thing only works more if more money is still being put on. Yes, these are the fruits of the tax havens, the tax competition you always defend elsewhere. But that's where it really went. [[President Neugebauer gives the bell sign.]] I can't look into you how honest you mean that, I just mean, the whole thing isn't enough for a mistrust, because it also has something good, as it was done, but with these huge mistakes. But that this is no longer the case that the four to five times higher interest rates can be paid out at the expense of the general public – and the higher the investment that is in there, the higher – is correct. You can't tolerate that. [[President Neugebauer gives the bell sign again.]] I have calculated that even after this forced levy, they would still have done more business than the normal savings investors with us, small and large. But the big ones are to be cut, the others will still need it anyway.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-03-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00193_d7e16407	Next speaker: Mrs Kaufmann-Bruckberger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-03-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00193_d7e16428	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! High house! Klubobmann Bucher started the debate with a quote from Jean-Claude Juncker: “If it gets serious, you have to lie.” And then it was the question of how he meant that. There was a bilateral discussion two days ago, in which the club members were also present. The President was there, and as a guest of honour, I say so, Jean-Claude Juncker. That means that one could have understood the possibility and asked him directly, but the BZÖ was not present at this bilateral discussion. Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs. Federal Minister! I also have to say quite honestly, I don't understand why the opposition has to talk in a grotesque way at regular intervals. There are simply sound arguments that you do not want to hear, and therefore, of course, an objective discussion – I mean, a really objective discussion – is not possible at all. Last July, there was the debate on this – I really say it now – crazy ESM Treaty, when the Greens of course voted in favour. That is, you, too, of the Greens must take full responsibility for Austria's involvement in this society. Professor Hans-Werner Sinn formulated the following – I already said that at the time, but I repeat it –: After consenting to the ESM, we Austrians are practically involved in a “society with unlimited liability” from which we no longer come out, and we have become “empressable.” Ladies and gentlemen! I have already mentioned and highlighted a fact in the debate at that time, which was also about the loss of financial sovereignty, i.e. the approval of the ESM, here in the House. At that time it was said that Cyprus needs money, the credit rating agency Fitch sees the financial needs for the banking sector in Cyprus at 4 billion – and that is at least 22.85 percent of Cyprus's economic performance. Today, eight months later, we stand here again and read in the newspapers: Cyprus is Europe's worst case. There is a financing requirement of 17 billion or 18 billion – one of them, 17 billion, others say, 18 billion – and 18 billion correspond to the economic performance of Cyprus. Last afternoon, it was said that the Euro countries would make 10 billion available, in the form of an aid package, but the Cypriots also have to make their contribution and contribute around 6 billion to it. Today everything is different, the Cypriot Parliament has given a clear rejection to the EU's pressure. And we read in all media, even in the ORF, that the country is threatening the pleite. . I must say quite honestly, I understand why the Cypriot Parliament has spoken against this special levy on savings. Ladies and gentlemen! You have to be very honest: I believe that what has happened in Cyprus over the last few days is a sense of democracy policy. The EU Finance Ministers have been watching in recent months, and you too, Mrs Bundesminister, have been watching this nonsense. One also has to imagine that in a night and fog campaign over the weekend – and it was really the weekend – it was decided to do so without democratic legitimacy that the savings deposits would be rejected with a special tax. However, this one-off payment would not have been available to the Cypriots, because the country is pleading, no, this money would have been provided for bank rescue as it was in Spain, but also in Greece. ==References== In June 2011, it was announced at a meeting that the EU would promise high and holy to protect savers in the event of a bank pleite, that there would be nothing happening to savers in the event of a bank pleite. However, it has not taken even two years, and at one time everything looks quite different: a unanimous decision by 17 monetary union finance ministers, according to which savings can be shared up to €100 000 to save the state from a pleite. In fact, you just look, I'm saying once again that you save the banks. I'm asking: Does this decision now apply only to Cyprus or to all countries in the European Union? But I also ask: Can one still believe the words of the boss of Bank Austria when he says that in Austria the first 100 000 € guaranteed by deposit guarantee are safe? But can you, Mrs. Federal Minister, also believe that our savers are not being abandoned? . I believe that no one can believe it, and that is because you have already pointed out that the grip on savings in Cyprus is therefore necessary in order to counter the pleite of the state. [[Abg. Krainer: If you can't believe anyone, why should someone believe you?]] Now I'm asking: When does Europe access our savings deposits? When do you, Mrs Bundesminister, access the savings deposits of the Austrians? The German economist Bofinger literally says: “The participation of small savers is highly dangerous. It shakes investor confidence. Europe’s citizens must now be afraid of their money.” Ladies and gentlemen! I personally agree, and I understand everyone who is afraid of his savings deposits. You have to look at one more point. It is to be read that Cyprus has made an offer to savers in Cyprus – and this is particularly interesting. The offer has been made that there will be compensations in the form of bank shares – this has been reported by state television in Cyprus. Moreover, those who leave their money in the country for the next two years should receive 50 percent of the lost sum in the form of options for the profits from the suspected gas deposits off the coast of Cyprus. I must honestly say that banking shares of pleite banks are certainly “very desirable” that I personally would not accept them. But the offer to get 50 percent in the form of options for profits from a suspected gas occurrence, I would not, honestly, accept as a Cypriot either. I'm not coming with it at all. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] That is to say, one wants to access the savings deposits, promises nothing but scrap papers and does not seriously consider how to make the amount or how the Cypriots can make the amount of 6 billion available. I think you could certainly raise the corporate tax – you have done it now, from legendary 10 percent to 12.5 percent! However, it is also necessary to know that the average Köst rate in the EU is 23.5 percent. That means maybe that would be a topic to get money. But I think that one of the most important points would be to address and clarify the black money policy in Cyprus. I do not think it is a problem to allow the necessary capital to flow back into the budget from this area. We will see what the negotiations look like in the next few days and hours. I can only say, ladies and gentlemen, on the example of Cyprus, you have seen how fast it can be that you want to access bank accounts – thank God so far you haven't worked. We've seen this in the last few days. I have to say that there should also be a guarantee in Austria that 100 000 € savings from Austrians are safe. However, this guarantee cannot be given, and I am clear that it cannot be given either because, Mrs Federal Minister, you are making a debt policy and continuing to pursue it, which Austria cannot afford. I can only say – and I think I speak on behalf of many Austrians – that we certainly do not want to become Cyprus or have a status similar to Cyprus. [[President Neugebauer gives the bell sign.]] Last but not least: We will not agree to the BZÖ's request for distrust, we will not support it. I think that the Austrians will express very much their distrust in the autumn of the National Council elections.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-03-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00193_d7e16479	Next speaker: Mr Ing. Westenthaler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-03-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00193_d7e16500	Mr President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! To my previous speakers: Mr Kogler, no one compares the Cypriot system with that of Austria. That's total nonsense, and no one has. I don't know where you're from. This is the same nonsense as comparing Carinthia with Greece, which has increased red and black in recent weeks. We don't. But something has just happened, and we all know that politics also lives by symbolism. [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] And it is a devastating symbolism and a devastating signal that, for the first time, state-owned and ministers of the European Union are intervening in private savings. That's the devastating one, and that's what we criticize. And that is why we also criticize the Minister for Finance because she has participated in it because she also intervenes in savings. And there it's completely wretched whether that's where in Cyprus or elsewhere, it's about this taboo break. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] If the Minister still believes that after this taboo break, people – she said it herself – sleep quietly, I have to say, I do not think so, Mrs Minister, because you have been, since the decision of the Minister of Finance of Friday, something like the Austrian answer to the Sheriff of Nottingham – that is the Minister of Finance from Attnang-Puchheim, who already seems to the people in the dream. People cannot sleep quietly if you have both hands in the pockets of people, not only over the taxes where you take them out, not only over all these bank charges that we pay, but now for the first time also through this taboo about Cyprus. That's why we criticize you! If Mr Cap comes out here loosely and says that he doesn't really care what happens in Cyprus, since that only affects the rich, the following: Mr Cap, there are also people who are not well, who are the minimum pensioners, who are teachers who have put their savings on savings books and are suddenly to be expropriated over the night – on a state recommendation. That is suddenly the attitude of social democracy, Mr Cap? - I don't understand. They would have beaten a double salto today and would probably have leaped over the speaker's seat, a black and blue government would have been sitting on the government's desk, which would have made such an outrage. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] But we would never have come to this idea, Mr. Klubobmann Cap. And today you're still defending that. Or colleague Auer – he is now no longer in the hall – his statements were at all the highlight of today's day: Mr Auer as ÖVPler comes out here and explains to us on the example of a company purchase that we did not look so closely at enlargement. The value of the applicant countries has not been carefully reviewed, and that is why it should be questioned. – Yes, who wanted to go with skin and hair and as soon as possible to this European Union and enlargement? – The Austrian People’s Party was that, ladies and gentlemen. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] All of a sudden, Mr Auer is talking about enlargement, which is at all the very best! – These are developments that are really interesting. And the Minister of Finance says here: I can't do that! It is good that they finally have to pay, because then the Austrian taxpayer does not have to pay! – But billions and billions so far he had to pay and put on the table, for Greece and for all possible financial recovery actions including ESM. This is not an honest policy either. I find this interesting, that has actually brought to the point today Josef Urschitz in the “Press”. He asks the question as the title of the article, and that is the remarkable thing – perhaps you can put the pudding on the government bank and listen to the honourable Member once: [[Federal Minister Dr. Fekter talks to Federal Minister Dr. Karl]] “Is there intelligent life in the eurozone?” Urschitz writes: “The rescue of Cyprus confirms that there is no sign of intelligent life in Europe.” And then: “In any event, the Eurozone’s Finance Ministers will have the task to do on the weekend, find the stupidest, most trusting and market-most remote variant to push a black money paradise in the eastern Mediterranean a few billion” mastered with bravour.” Urschitz continue: ‘The taboo is committed.’ This is the cracking point, even what the Greens have reached, which has already been in a bit of a defense position today, in relation to the government. [[Abg. May. Rossmann: Wait a minute!]] I quote: “We now know: The deposit guarantee, which should secure eurozone-wide savings of up to 100,000 euros, is pure fiction." – “Reine Fiction”, Mrs Finanzminister! – “You can pack our savings at any time. And they will do so in the face of major problems – if they miss every genius already in the relatively small case of Cyprus’s help.” That's the point: The deposit guarantee is fiction. The security you constantly convey to the savers has not been available since then, which is no longer available. And that's what we criticize. It's a kind of new bank robbery that's like a bank robbery. A difference to the real bank robbery is that you know the bank robbers – they are sitting in the European Union's political chiefs' days. And the second difference is that a bank robber goes to a bank and steals money there from the cash register, but in your bank robbery it is so that the bank robber, namely the European Union, goes into the bank and directly steals the savings of people. This is the big difference to a real bank robbery, ladies and gentlemen! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] That's what we criticize. This is nothing else – and in this respect my previous speakers are right – than a sample gallop for other countries, a sample galop where you, Mrs Finanzminister, co-galopp. And that's why we're expressing distrust to you today, out of deep conviction.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-03-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00193_d7e16576	Next speaker: Mr Krainer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-03-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00193_d7e16597	Mr President. The Minister of Finance has given a very good title to what has happened in recent days, as I believe, namely, ‘political failure’. – Of course, what has happened in recent days is nothing but political failure. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: (to the Federal Ministers Dr. Fekter and Dr. Karl sages, who talk to each other) Can't they go to the Landtmann, Mr. President?! Have a conversation!]] First of all, it is a political failure to see that Cyprus is also concerned with saving banks – one has to say, in principle, that saving banks is not the most all-popular; and we think it is right to save banks, because we believe that bank rates are cheaper and better and less negative, that they are pleading for banks – but if one compares them and if the bank rate is worse for the savers than the bank's pleitegies, then something can't be true of saving. [[Abg. Vilimsky: Red Carinthia!]] If the Cypriot banks argue, the savers will be replaced by up to €100 000, but if they are rescued, they will not. This cannot be the result, since the Minister for Finance is perfectly right: It is, of course, political failure to make such a rescue package. [[Abg. Dr. Rosenkranz: Municipal credit!]] Secondly, of course, it is also a symbolic political failure. If 17 national finance ministers, the European Commission, the ECB, the IMF and I do not know who meets all from Saturday to Sunday, announce a result on Sunday in the early morning hours, but no one wants to be present on Monday, no one can remember any more, it was the other in principle, and no one who took part in this meeting and made this decision stands for this decision, then this too is a political failure, a failure to bear responsibility. [[Demonstrative applause with BZÖ.]] And the third political failure is probably the structural policy failure behind it. If 17 national finance ministers meet, who are all nationally legitimate, think nationally, act nationally, then no reasonable European solution will come out at the end of the day; and this is also seen here. The principle of these 17 national finance ministers is not to interfere in what the other is doing. However, it is important to say clearly that when it comes to taking European money into the hands of banks, saving or financing countries, in order to bring stability here, it is necessary to interfere. Then it's a interference, and it's justifiable and right to interfere. Especially in the case of Cyprus, the message can only be the following: first to the Cypriots: Your business model no longer works and is neither tolerated nor supported by us. Putting on black money from all over Europe, attracting low tax rates and living at the expense of others is not working. Secondly, the message to those, even in Austria, who believe it is particularly great and particularly funny to go to Cyprus and withdraw taxes or not to pay taxes in Austria, which should also receive the message: [[Abg. Vilimsky: municipal credit!]] If you bring your money into a tax sum like Cyprus, it can also sink. If you want your money to be safe, pay your taxes properly in Austria. Then your money is safe. But if you think it's better lifted in a tax cup – it's totally meaty whether Cyprus, Liechtenstein, or whatever – then it's okay as a signal when you say the money can also be gone. I really have no pity for someone who is withdrawing at the expense of other taxes when his money is gone and his business is not going on. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The last question is what the solution looks like: Cyprus has been talking not only for a week, but for many months. As the euro zone has always made proposals, wages are reduced by 15 percent, pensions are reduced by 15 percent, VAT is increased. These were always the proposals. You were rejected, I think that's right. You always have to think in alternatives, that means: From 100 000 € – among which I think it is wrong, but from 100 000 € – I say yes. The savers also lose all the money over €100 000 in a pleite of the bank. That is why it is justified to demand part of the bank's rescue. What is the alternative? – Since wages and pensions are to be reduced or VAT increased, I do not think that this is a socially just alternative. No, I think it is right that those with more than €100 000 in bank assets or savings deposits also make a contribution of, for example, 10 percent or 15 percent. I think that's right. I also think it is right that the owners and creditors of the bank pay something. Only: If you calculate it, you won't even get €2 billion. If you calculate the owners and the bonds together, you won't even get €2 billion. [[Abg. May. Rossmann: Protect small investors!]] After all, I think that's the right thing to do: You will not come around to think about something about the deposits before you reduce pensions, reduce wages and increase VAT. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-03-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00193_d7e16712	Next speaker: Mrs Tamandl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-03-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00193_d7e16733	Mr President. Mrs Finanzminister! Appreciate members of the government! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to focus very briefly on the text and content of the urgent question that Mr Bucher has put here today. I talked to a qualified specialist about the previous paragraph on the first page. One can see from this, Mr Bucher, that you and your team are not so decorated in professional matters and can not prove what you want here as well as what you want. They write – I quote –: ‘The collection of compulsory payments on bank balances is also economically questionable because it also withdraws capital from illiquid banks.’ So that the bank deposits of savers are not equity, Mr. Bucher, you learned something again today, and I hope next time you will come to us with a better, well-founded urgent request. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] To your style. Already in the title is “Mortal attempt at Savephroh”. Mr Bucher, who do you really want to impress with this statement? [[Abg. Bucher: I already impressed you!]] Or: Mr Petzner said that Mrs Finanzminister had “uprooted the paw” in Brussels. What political style, ladies and gentlemen of the BZÖ, is that supposed to be? – It’s not ours! And we're not going to put ourselves on such a level with you at all. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Call at the ÖVP – towards BZÖ –:To shame!]] [[Abg. Singer: He did not write “Sumsi” but “Sparefroh”!]] But it's up to you. In her statement and in the reply to Question No 1, Mrs Finanzminister pointed out that there was a commitment from Cyprus, precisely at the time when Parliament was not yet involved, when the increase in the capital income tax, the increase in corporate tax and the introduction of a one-time special levy on deposits were in principle promised. Now, of course, we can argue about whether this is reasonable for the small savers, not reasonable or anything else, but, quite honestly: If you go extra to a country where you don't pay more than 10 percent of taxes, for some deposits, for some interest you don't pay any taxes at all, if you're in an area where you say, well, the little bit of tax you can pay from the Portokassa, then you can't see why such people and such companies that give their deposits there should not also make a contribution. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] On the topic of non-faith and shareholder involvement. I believe that you can still say that so often, and you still do not understand, as Mrs Finanzminister said today, and some of the previous speakers have already said: If there are not enough creditors to ask for the cash register, if the banks in Cyprus have a negative equity, I ask you what this lasting claim has to mean at all. Quite honestly – the colleague Rossmann is not here at present –: He is not always in agreement with me, and I am never in agreement with him, but one thing I have to say is that he has been at least the first of the opposition that came out of here and meant that one should look at what the tax increases or just the low tax rate in Cyprus mean. And quite honestly: Why should our taxpayers be asked to register if they are a real low-paid country? - That's what we're against. And that's why we want other solutions. Now, in principle, to save. We have always said from the EIA that, if we believe we are supporting a country, if we believe we are giving such countries a credit because they can no longer obtain loans on the normal financial market at acceptable interest rates, we want to set up game rules that we want to develop programmes, and only when these programmes are fulfilled, then these countries also get money. They always act as saviors of the Austrians, including the FPÖ, which has once again said what we should not do for the taxpayer! - Yeah, right! [[Abg. Singer: It's us!]] That is why we want these countries that get money to do our money from our taxpayers to do their homework. Or is that so wrong, Mr. Bucher? - No, that's not wrong! That's exactly the right way. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Finally, because my speaking time unfortunately God has already been used up again: Mrs Finanzminister, you are a very professionally decorated Minister of Finance, you are putting many of your predecessors, including from other political groups, in the shadows. We, my group, I personally express your confidence. Keep going! You do it right for the Republic and for taxpayers.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-03-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00193_d7e16853	Next speaker: Mr Podgorschek. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-03-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00193_d7e16874	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Government! Mrs Federal Minister Fekter, in one I give you absolutely right: Cyprus is a special case – for about 40 000 letterbox companies – we have heard it today – 250 000 capital companies, black money from oligarchs, black money from tax refugees and from various lobbyists, also from Austria. One can sometimes find the who is who of the Austrian side-view society in Cyprus. For years nothing has been done against this hypertrophic banking sector. And the banking insolvency law, which is announced to us, comes a lot too late. One should have responded much earlier. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! The savers, the small savers in Cyprus, of course, are now rightly disappointed and feel betrayed. It is also felt by the savers and taxpayers in Greece, Italy, Spain, Portugal and France. But paradoxically, the Germans and the Austrians are also frustrated by what is happening at the moment, namely from this taboo break, that one can access the savings funds. This is, and I believe, a symptom of the state of this euro zone, resulting from the political failure that we were able to see again last week. I'm actually just coming to a conclusion: The euro does not connect the euro countries, but at the end of the day it separates the euro countries. And I am prophesying to you the following consequence: If Russia doesn't jump in now – it seems to be – and we don't save Cyprus completely through the ESM – Cyprus itself has nothing to lose; it won't help, then Cyprus will probably have to leave the euro zone sooner or later. Finally, I can quote Arnulf Baring, a political scientist from the Federal Republic of Germany. This is for me that version of the future that will come to us, and we should think about it. Baring wrote the following: "Germany threatens to be extorted financially; and because we demand monetary discipline, the other countries would make us responsible for their problems. In doing so, the Germans risked becoming the most hated people in Europe as economic politicians.” ‘Germany isolated as in 1918’. And, unfortunately, we're on board.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-03-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00193_d7e16919	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Widmann. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-03-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00193_d7e16941	Mr President. High house! Mr. Tamandl! Where is she? They criticise the political style, the wording of the urgent question, namely: We from BZÖ protect the sparefroh. – Quite clearly, before the death of the ÖVP and the SPÖ. [[Call the ÖVP: But now it's enough!]] Ladies and gentlemen! If the ÖVP stands on the side of the large banks, the speculators, and the off-zockers, that's their business. We are on the side of the savings book and the assets of the Austrians, ladies and gentlemen. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] If you want to do that, ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP, if you really want to do so, you support the following request: Request by Mr Josef Bucher, Mr Herbert Scheibner, Mr Colleagues on constitutional protection for savings The National Council wants to decide: "The Federal Government is invited to submit to the National Council a draft law for the constitutional protection of the bank balances of Austrian savers against expropriation measures such as compulsory charges." There's nothing to add to that. And if you pretend to be against property taxes, then you have to support this request properly. That's where I'm excited. To pretend to take action against Gauner, big capitalists and shareholders, but to disburse the small ones, that is politically legitimate bank robbery by this federal government, ladies and gentlemen. And that must be prevented! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] You've got all the butter on your head. I've experienced this: Mr Krainer from the SPÖ was out here, including the colleague Tamandel, you were all completely dissolved. Look at the butter on the head of Mrs. Finanzminister! She's got butter on her head. She was with the ECOFIN, and she has authorized it. And on the other hand, it is important to act! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! A final word on the ÖVP: What you are doing here is expropriation of the small saver, expropriation of the middle class and tax increase. Stop doing this at last! But we like to take over your voters.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-03-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00193_d7e17004	The application submitted is under negotiation. The application reads as follows:
ParlaMint-AT_2013-03-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00193_d7e17081	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Grossmann. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-03-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00193_d7e17102	Mr President. Values Members of the Federal Government! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! The surveyors pretend to care for the Austrian savings funds, and in 25 questions they shed crocodile tears on the security of Austrian bank deposits. But, ladies and gentlemen of the BZÖ, just through the scandalous title of the urgent question, you are working in the opposite direction. Is that even clear to you? – In terms of the uncertainty of the savers in Austria, because we all know that in economic life, apart from the objective facts, the subjective sense of security of people is crucial to their behaviour. It is true that a lot has already been said about trust today. Trust in the financial centre and in Austria's economic location is crucial to the value of this financial and economic location. Shattering by your scandalous pretenses and pretenses You have this confidence and contribute – I do not know if you are aware of it at all – towards the risk of the financial and economic location of Austria. But you will not succeed in a real threat, I hope, because you will be taken too little to see and seriously for that. I ask you: Try to reflect on your behavior, whether it is really worth discouraging people in this way, just now in a last year's yearning for political change before the next election! Because if a non-financial expert reads your urgent request and gives you faith, then he must fall into a shock bar and clear his accounts in Austria immediately. And there is no safer financial place than Austria, which shows that our government bonds have one of the lowest interest rates. We have the deposit guarantee up to €100 000, which, as we have seen, is even overcrowded. That is, it pays off to raise money in Austria. But: Of course, the lessons must be learned from Cyprus and from other crises. What is the main difference between Austria and Cyprus in terms of economic and financial policy? – Cyprus is attracted to fast money and has put it fully on the financial sector, which is already evidenced by the fact that the banks of Cyprus Eight times the size of the economy there. The financial sector of Cyprus has disconnected itself from the real economy. And that can't go well in the long run. This bubble inevitably bursts as we now see more and more examples. There must all those who have pressed the saying in their noses, always and without fail: Money works! - Money doesn't work by itself. Money is no more and no less than a means of exchange that always needs a match in real values, in goods or services. And this connection has been lost in the gold tombs of the last decade in many places. And what makes Austria – and we can be proud of it – strong and also strong in the crisis, this is the stable foundation of the real economy, especially the solid small and medium-sized enterprises with their employees who produce and offer goods and services of the highest quality. Of course, they have not quickly become rich, but they have developed a high-level prosperity that has also existed. These people secure Austria's economic and financial place. And these people must not be insecured by you. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] That's why I'm trying and really asking you to reconsider your behavior. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-03-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00193_d7e17166	Next speaker: Member of the jury. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-03-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00193_d7e17188	Mr President. It is precisely these strengths, which make up the Austrian economy and the Austrian financial centre, which Mrs Grossmann has just quoted, that have been put at risk by the policy of the European Union. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen, if we only see money as goods, then the labour market policy measures we are making are all for the cat. Multinational corporations undermine this policy of the Austrian small-structured economy. The European Union's energy policy raises its hair to mountains. And the agricultural policy – well, that with all the food scandals we know anyway – is led ad absurdum. And if we continue this European financial fascism – not I say, but the small Cypriot savers – and these post-communist tendencies on a path towards a European central state, I say: [[Intervocations at the ÖVP]] Good night, Austria!
ParlaMint-AT_2013-03-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00193_d7e17224	Next speaker: Mr Dr. Matznetter. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-03-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00193_d7e17245	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! High house! We are lucky to continue with the accusation of uncertainty: The BZÖ does not even believe this itself, so that the concern of the savers does not take place anyway. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Inter-calls at the BZÖ.]] That's it! In this respect, this is actionism, which has been properly in the pants. I am grateful to you, Mrs Federal Minister, that you have made it clear from where this proposal came from to levy less than €100 000 6.75 per cent on savings. That was the Cypriot government – against every advice! The EU Commission – and those who have followed the APA today – clearly said that they did not want to have a levy on the amount of deposit guarantee. That's where the Cypriot government tried to get the money in width. Why even now? – Now we have heard that the request came from the middle of last year. Refreshingly honest! According to APA issue 326, a spokesman from the EU Commission said that a solution could not have been possible with the former Cypriot government. That is, one has waited consciously until a government comes to make such solutions. And yet we have to discuss the part, Mrs Federal Minister, because it was the whole Euro group that made this expectation. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hörl.]] Why did the government wait? – We have experienced something similar with Greece. The results of the elections were not all right. It had to be re-elected until there was a government that was not ashamed to intervene in this area. And from Portugal to Cyprus, it was always conservative governments. What I don't quite understand is why voters in these countries don't read the leaflet: Tell your doctor or pharmacist about side effects and other effects! [[Inter-calls at the BZÖ.]] Spain is bleeding underneath. Greece is bleeding underneath. Portugal is bleeding underneath it. And that is certainly an ideological question! Return to our thematic position here: There is a request from the German Ministry of Finance from the beginning of March, where it is counted together, according to the Central Bank of Cyprus, for deposits. As of mid-2012, there were 87.7 billion deposits, of which 32.8 billion were from non-residents directly in Cyprus and 17 billion abroad. That is, 50 billion of these 87 billion people there were black money. And that they should not be asked for cash – and since a applause from me for Werner Kogler and for Bruno Rossmann on this question – you cannot really want BZÖ and FPÖ to do so, and that, in order that those who have banked black money in the Pirate Bay there, whose money has already been lost, because the banks already have negative equity, which is already lost, will get away unscathed, for these money from tax frauds in the millions of dimensions our taxpayers will cover the full 17 billion. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Vilimsky.]] But these were your demands today! Therefore, you must make a confession. The large investors must pay, and you must finally agree to our double taxation agreement. [[Further calls at the FPÖ.]] They defend all tax fraud. Stay every time You sit when we make an understanding agreement. And I'm sure you remember: We have had an investigation committee where we have learned that 10 million have been transferred to a Cypriot society of a certain Mr. Hochegger. 8.6 million were able to continue to flow to a certain Meischberger – by the way, the former Federal Managing Director of FPÖ – without tax. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Aha-Rufe at the ÖVP.]] That's how Cyprus was! And they want to protect you? – I am in favour of paying more than 100 000 there. And I look forward to receiving this contribution. Just continue to defend such black money payments! We will also discuss this in the election campaign, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-03-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00193_d7e17366	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Haider. Time left: 3 minutes. Please, my colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-03-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00193_d7e17387	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! High house! Yes, Mr Matznetter, it was the municipal credit that has invested its funds – the funds of the pension funds and the like – in Cyprus. And who was there in the board of directors, who was the director at that time? – That was your Minister of Education, Ms. Schmied. That's how it looks! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] It's incredible! A representative of the Social Democratic Party is there and the conservative government of the Cypriots – and that there is no cry from you at all, I am really surprised that she has approved this forced expropriation. [[towards ÖVP]] The idea of this forced expropriation – we know it very well today; the German press agency writes it, and all Cypriot journalists have written it – came from the IMF and was taken over by EU finance ministers1 : 1. That's the true scandal! [[Interference of Federal Minister Dr. Fekter.]] Mrs. Federal Minister, three times on the night from Friday to Saturday the Cypriot delegation wanted to go home, three times they had already packed the suitcases, and they were then presented by you, Mrs. Finanzminister, and by your colleagues the alternative: Either this special tax or back to the Cyprus pound! That's how the whole thing got done! Forced taxation of savings: First, the banks are closed, and then the state clears the deposits. Do you know when last time this happened, Mrs. Finanzminister? – This was the last time in Serbia under a Mr. Milošević, and that is why the Serbs today still have no confidence in the banks and prefer to put the money under the pillow. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] But Milošević was a Communist. This cannot be said by everyone at first sight by you, Mrs Finanzminister. But at second glance, Mrs Finanzminister, there is not much to the Communists. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] Then: They state the savings of the Cypriots. Next are the Greeks, then the Italians, then the Spanish. Then there's nothing more to get in the south, and then we're on it. Then the north is on it, because there's still something to get. You played in this test run! Cyprus was just the test run. That's obvious. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Interference of Federal Minister Dr. Fekter.]] Yeah, yeah, I know that's not gonna happen to us. Our savings deposit, our deposit guarantee is guaranteed, ladies and gentlemen. Mrs. Federal Minister, I almost believe you believe this yourself. Only: If you look at the past few years, you know that the savers of the Western and Northern states have already been severely exhausted in recent years, as we all know, very secret, quiet and quiet. We all know that we only need to look at the inflation rates it has been in recent years. The European Central Bank's unwarranted policy, which has supported you and which has ensured that we have had inflation rates that have caused a 3 per cent purchasing power loss per year, in fact even 4, 4.5 per cent, if you calculate it correctly. [[President Neugebauer gives the bell sign.]] Mr Grob, Federal Minister – last sentence! –: For the rational-thinking person, it is the same whether he suffers a minus of 5 percent due to the loss of purchasing power: by inflation, or by a unique additional tax at this level. Theft is something like that. Trust in deposit protection is destroyed. And you played there, Mrs. Finanzminister!
ParlaMint-AT_2013-03-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00193_d7e17501	Mr Matznetter spoke on an actual amendment. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-03-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00193_d7e17526	Mr President. Mr. Haider has just claimed that the municipal credit under member of the board of directors has been Dr. Claudia Schmiedim's deposit business in Cyprus. I'm actually correcting: She never did a deposit business there. Mr Haider has also claimed that responsibility lies there. I'm actually correcting: Ms. Federal Minister Schmied has been in the Austrian Federal Government since January 2007. In the course of the 2008 financial crisis, however, local credit problems occurred a little later. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-03-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00193_d7e17566	The speaking times are exhausted. It is therefore no longer possible to debate. We shall now proceed to the votes. First of all, we are voting on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Strache, ladies and gentlemen, on: Savings are constitutionally secured! Whoever is in favour of this request, I ask him for a sign of approval. – He finds no majority, is therefore rejected. We shall also vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Members, Mr Bucher, Mr Colleagues, on the failure of confidence towards the Federal Minister for Finance in accordance with Art. 74 para. 1 B-VG. In view of the fact that such a decision is taken by the National Council in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this paragraph. 2 of the provision quoted, which is necessary for the members of half of the Members, I expressly note. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are voting in favour of the motion for a reluctance to accept it. – This is the minority. The application is therefore rejected. We shall also vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Members, Mr Bucher, Mr Colleagues, on constitutional protection for savings. If you support this request, I ask for a sign to be given. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. [[18:12:15]] The continuation of the agenda
ParlaMint-AT_2013-03-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00193_d7e17641	I take the negotiations on the second. Agenda item again. Mrs Mag. Schwentner was already on it and is on it now. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-03-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00193_d7e17666	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! Mr State Secretary! Minister! So many are there. I tried to argue before the interruption of the debate on item 2 of the agenda, why this model of preference undermines or undermines equality and the objective of equality, namely the state objective of equality between men and women. There have been two very interesting opinions to which I have referred. And there has also been a lot of skepticism in the run-up, not only from SPÖ-side, but also from ÖVP-side. It was also there hope that there would be an ally in Mrs Mikl-Leanner, who unfortunately is no longer there. You, Mr State Secretary, have just made fun of our proposal in the Committee to think again about the fact that this existing model does not take into account equality and the different conditions for men and women in politics. [[Abg. Dr. Rosenkranz: The more I think about it, the more funny it becomes!]] I find that very unfortunate. I wish you'd take it seriously. Then: This is a very serious issue. That'll be the way it is. I would have hoped that we should not wait until the next National Council election results show that the proportion of women in Parliament will fall again through this model. It's a shame that this hasn't been picked up in any way. We made a proposal. Our proposal was that at all three levels of election, namely the regional level, the state level and the federal level, two votes should be given each, and at least one vote – perhaps you could listen very briefly – must be given to a woman or two votes can be given to women in order to ensure at least that equality goals are not torpeded through the preferred voting model. [[Federal Minister Dr. Fekter talks with Federal Minister Hundstorfer]] I am very sorry that you, Mr State Secretary, who cost a maximum of a smile, did not take up this proposal, or said in advance that the Minister was very skeptical about the introduction of such a model and that was not an issue. Why, I'm excited to hear that in the explanations. I would have liked us to have found an alliance for this, at least we among women's politicians, because it is a very serious subject for democracy. [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] – I would not have expected support from your side. That would not have been the question either, because you have never shown understanding in this respect. Too bad it's not. There is at least one concession as regards linguistic adaptation, namely that “the applicant”, “a candidate” is no longer in parentheses. On the other hand, I consider linguistic equality to be a matter of course. But after all, there's her now. And there is also obviously the agreement that there is at least information about the applicants on the Internet. Our proposal was also an election brochure so that at least with regard to information on candidates there are equal opportunities for all. Perhaps there are still possibilities to talk about this. As I said, It's a shame you didn't go into our model. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-03-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00193_d7e17717	Next speaker: Mr Vilimsky. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-03-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00193_d7e17739	Mr President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! You don't know where to start the argumentative curiosity cabinet of the last 20 minutes. I would like to try Mrs Schwentner. You know, it's great somewhere when you come out here as a representative of the Greens and your colleague Brosz and moralise on the subject of voting rights, which should all be better and fairer. I can remind you: There is still a genuine and valid agreement of your top representative in Vienna that justice is brought about in Vienna, where there is a highly unjust right to vote, so that the outcome of free elections in Vienna is reflected in the actual majority relationship in the Vienna city parliament. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Switzerland]] That is not the case! And that does not give you the right to speak morally here. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I'd like to write you a second in the main book. And that's... If you come out here with a more than cross-checked system and say, in order to bring women more into politics, we have to create a parallel system where we have to choose with a second and a third-party vote, then I claim or at least I would understand it in this way, I projected into the female psyche that this would be a serious insult to women, namely, with forced commitments by quota arrangements to bring women into politics and leadership functions, instead of rolling out a red carpet, motivating them to accompany them positively in such a process in order to enter into mandates. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Schwentner.]] With forced obligations, you insult the world of women and reduce them to the need to have to choose them rather than want to choose them. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Now a few words following what we have debated here on the issue of Cyprus, which is related to the right to vote. – For me, because of a single facet, it was a positive thing I experienced here. On the one hand, we have experienced that a democratically unauthorized body, consisting of the central bank, the EU Commission and the IMF, has devised a plan to expropriate people in the “Cyprus Test Case” and has invited the Cypriots to execute this proposal. And there has been a Parliament which, on the basis of free elections, has enabled freely elected representatives to vote in favour of this disastrous plan, which was conceived in Brussels. We can think about solutions in Cyprus, how we like them, there are different opportunities for access, that is clear to me, but that a Parliament No – freely elected representatives – says about an unauthorized plan from Brussels that should have been executed, I find a positive facet. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Now to you, ladies and gentlemen of the Social Democrats, who come out and represent all of this: Yes Believe You really think the almost a million Cypriots are all oligarchs and ganovans? Yes, there are also oligarchs there, yes, there are black money holders there, no question, you have to help them differently, but you must not block the entire population for a week the banknotes and turn off access to their accounts. They can't even go shopping. They can't buy fuel, buy food, buy medicines. But You're coming out of here and you're still saying that, yeah, that's all right?- Oh, my God! I say that of these nearly a million Cypriots, perhaps 900,000 are quite decent people who pursue ordinary professions, and pensioners who put something on the account for the Enkerl, families who need the money for their lives. [[Abg. May. Gäßner: Agenda item 2!]] And you come here and say, "Shaving" we're gone, yeah, there's all right?- Oh, my God! – That’s bad! I'm really telling you that in all clear terms. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] As social democrats, you should go into it and keep in mind what you are doing and produce Europe-wide loss of trust. Return to the right to vote: I mentioned the topic of Vienna, I mentioned the issue of injustice in the right to vote in Vienna. There are other injustices, keyword: current population survey, where with a post-term of, I think, seven to ten days – Hokuspokus Fidibus! – Suddenly, 100 000 additional signatures entered into the evaluation, something that should be anything but the case in a developed democratic rule of law. Or: As far as you are concerned by the ÖVP, it was already the subject of the debate at lunch today, that it is possible to suggest that you choose a head of state, even though it would have been a election to the country day, and that this is already more than bordered and not in order on the subject of electoral fraud. I'm short: This right to vote and what is to be put on the rails today has not been made the big one. We have brought in elements of personalization, which from my point of view was quite fine – not too much personalization, because we do not want a system in which those who are good, those who are millionaires, those who are billionaires who have the opportunity to put incredibly much money into personal campaigns, are entitled to cross it with personal campaigns over others, but they should be able to apply for the High House, mixed in all levels of society. That is why we have an approval from us – not from an exasperating enthusiasm, but we have achieved a compromise which contains these personalisation facets in a form that is also viable and will therefore receive the approval of my group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-03-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00193_d7e17815	President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-03-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00193_d7e17837	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I am pleased that today, although we are in this case, as Mr Vilimsky has said, we may not bring together the great throw, but we are taking an essential step in the right direction. We face the challenge that politics and population often seem to be drifting apart and that there are more and more voters who do not identify themselves with a people's representative or often do not know who their people's representatives are, who are in their constituency, on their national lists or for them throughout Parliament. That is why it was the objective of the democratic package, which we have worked together with many other young people from various youth organisations a year ago, to find elements that are trying to bring citizens and politics together a little closer again. This is about the appreciation of popular desires as well as the involvement of new media or the elevation of preferred voices. It's a shame that it wasn't possible to do everything. But it's nice that this package, as I think, is a step in the right direction. I should like to thank all the political groups who support this proposal and, as a result, I would like to add a lot more to the vote in the future than has been the case in the past. That the Greens do not want to vote in particular, I think I am sorry, and it is actually incomprehensible to me, because, I believe, a more direct democracy can only work if there is more competence for voters. The idea of having to give two preferred votes and at least one must be given to a woman, I think it makes sense for anything else. I believe that it should be in our sense that women want to be elected – and not have to be elected – and I also believe that this is a clear limitation of the right to vote if one tells a voter to which sex he has to give his vote. [[Abg. May. Musiol: Look at your own rows!]] [[Congratulations on ODP and FPÖ Members.]] The aim is that preferred votes will not be irrelevant in the future. There is the possibility now to give a preference vote on three levels – in the constituency, on the national list and also in the federal government – and I am in particular invited to invite all spectators at ORF III to make use of this right. I think personalization does not harm our right to vote. Thank you very much to the parties for supporting this project!
ParlaMint-AT_2013-03-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00193_d7e17882	Next speaker: Mr Ing. Westenthaler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-03-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00193_d7e17904	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Now you have been in office again for a few weeks, Mr. State Secretary, and it is really Usus in this House that you are waiting for at least the first round of speakers of all parties. But maybe you don't place so much importance on the opinion of the BZÖ, that can also be. In this case, it will be your wish, because we have already given our approval to the Committee. Where this is a very narrow story: You can say the glass is half empty or half full. – Perhaps we are still thinking about it, because it is still meaty, what the BZÖ says about this debate. But you're right, it's not a big throw. However, I would have liked you to face two issues, and I would have liked to have your opinion here in the House. On the one hand, I would have liked to ask you what you are saying on the right to vote for majority voting, because your group's representatives are constantly talking about the right of majority voting, including representatives of the SPÖ. The positive thing about today's proposal is that the legal situation with the current reform will not be changed, and therefore such a change will no longer come during this legislative period. This is reassuring, because I believe that a majority voting right is a political concern for democracy and, above all, for smaller groups, is a real democratic policy – how, Mr President? - What's your name? [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Lettenbichler.]] [[Abg. May. Lettenbichler: The BZÖ doesn't matter anymore!]] Are you a Member? - Oh, yeah, I'm sorry. Because I don't know you. But it doesn't matter, he's allowed to call down. It's nice, too. From the previous series, it is still difficult enough to be heard here too. I didn't understand you, but tell me afterwards! The second thing that would interest me, Mr State Secretary: We have remained in the evolution somewhere in Austria as far as elections are concerned. I said this in committee, unfortunately you did not replicate it either. [[Abg. Amon: In the revolution or in evolution?]] – In evolution. Evolution, yes; not revolution, but evolution. Why, I'll tell you the same thing: Because in Austria we can do almost everything that is important and right and also secret, in part with the Internet – we can do everything we can – unless the government block the computers and banknotes, banking over the Internet, we go shopping over the Internet, we do everything over the Internet – but what this government – which is so modern and progressive, as the Secretary of State often represents – has failed, that we will be able to vote over the Internet in the future. I wonder, Why? What is so difficult to choose over the Internet? These are simple electronic processes, programs where you can make voices safe, with codes, with all drums and dran. That's what's available today, so it's possible. It is possible in all areas of economic life. Why can't you choose? Then what the colleague Brosz of the Greens has assembled at the beginning is that we have to write down with such huge ballots in a electoral cell, which always takes longer and longer, you have to read. The vote has grown ever bigger in recent years – and this is not because more and more parties are running, but because formalism has become more and more. That is why it would have been useful if the government had thought about how it was facing this problem. And that is why I would have liked to ask you, Mr State Secretary, in the first round – and perhaps you would have answered – as you say, whether it would be possible to launch an e-voting – however it may be called – for the future elections. I think that's right. To the law itself: We therefore agree with this because we believe that it is a step in the right direction – for more personal right, for better regulation and perhaps also for more use of preferred votes. And this is also the criticism of the Greens: In this House, we cannot always and at any time stand up for more democracy, more direct democracy, but on the very first occasion we can prevent this and not agree. That, I think, would be wrong. That is why we believe that this is a step in the right direction – not a big throw, not a large democratic package, but acceptable and indeed an improvement in the direction of direct democracy.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-03-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00193_d7e17961	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Aubauer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-03-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00193_d7e17983	Mr President. High house! Many aspects have already been illuminated, but a point of view has not yet appeared: Let's imagine, there's elections and no one's going. – An exaggerated scenario, yes, but fact is: A third of the Austrians are not going to the elections. The locals always complain, nothing changed anyway. There is a need for a proper means of combating this political starkness. Our recipe is: The citizens should decide more than before who represents them in the National Council. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] There are more opportunities: The population can punish those whom it does not like, and it can find those in a chair here in the National Council that it likes. – So new great opportunities. Do the Austrians even want that? – I remember a study of last autumn in which the University of Graz was involved: According to this, 80 percent of respondents wanted to make more decisions and talk more. – We take this wish seriously, and that is why we want to upgrade the preferred votes. A lot of things speak for it. Those who reach many preferred votes also achieve the confidence of voters. You can't buy the trust of the voters, you have to work it out. And that's why this new regulation also gives a new motivation boost for candidates. And we will also get closer to the goal that there can be more confidence in the Republic in which democracy can be achieved. What else can you expect? – Politics becomes more exciting, the elections become more exciting. Why? – Because people with ideas and commitment have greater opportunities. Now, many will not overtake the so-called peat deer – and I hope that is not a question of order, Mr President, because that is positive, because the peat deer are the strongest in the area – but they will nevertheless come up a bit further on the list and recommend themselves, as it is so beautiful, for higher consecrations. Ladies and gentlemen, the people are always right! Then it may be that the disciples choose young candidates. It may be that seniors choose senior candidates – well so. And, Mrs Schwentner, of course, it can also be that women choose women – well so – without compulsion, but for their own sake. I am convinced that with this innovation we can motivate more citizens to go to the next elections. That's an important goal. And if we get a step closer to this goal, that would be a good thing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-03-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00193_d7e18035	Mrs Mag. Worm. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-03-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00193_d7e18058	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! My previous speaker added another important aspect to the debate: What do we do if there are elections and no one goes? And that was one of the reasons why we launched this reform: to motivate more voters to take part in the elections through more personality elements. Now I would like to refer to the argument made by my colleague from the Green Group, Judith Schwentner, who was concerned that this change in voting rights might perhaps result in fewer women taking part in the National Council. I don't have this fear so massive, my colleague Schwentner. I have looked at what it looks like in my federal state of Tyrol, even in those elections where one has already been practiced, for example in municipal elections, mayors, mayors' elections. If you look at the results of the last elections, for example in Lienz, in Wörgl, in Innsbruck or also in Hall in Tirol, you can find: These four – for our country – relatively large cities are now all governed by women! And this also does very well for the elections and democracy. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hörl.]] To the district skaters – because the colleague Hörl speaks so loudly –: I have the hope that, because of this right to vote – that is, because one needs less votes for the Regional Electoral List to move forward – a woman such as some regional or district skiers will teach fear. I'm convinced of that. Let's take a look at: What about women's participation? Where, then, are the “special sinners, sinners”, as far as the non-participation of women here in the house is concerned? Where are those who don't really take gender democracy seriously? Mr Vilimsky, why did you particularly like to talk about Cyprus and not about the lean participation of women here in the House? Why? – They have a female rate of 16.22 percent in the FPÖ. The red carpet does not seem to have been rolled out especially for the women. Or also at the BZÖ or the new team Stronach: Far from it, women really have the corresponding representation in the House. I think one thing would work very well – we talked about it at the last women's day, and there is certainly a great need for discussion in our own parties in this regard –: In fact, we could change something if we were to say something about the funding of the parties, if we were to say: Those parties who do not have the corresponding women's quota among those who then sit here after all the three elections – we have a right to vote in relation – in Parliament, they simply get less money and just less sensitive. I'm sure that would be useful!
ParlaMint-AT_2013-03-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00193_d7e18102	Next speaker: Mr. Dr. Rosenkranz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-03-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00193_d7e18123	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Yeah, it's a trick on the right level. It is now also about running on the federal list and with a corresponding percentage system – a more personal right to vote. But there have also been some voices in the debate before the urgent question, which have, for example, denounced states in Lower Austria, especially on the part of the Stronach team – yes, very small still here. Mr. Klubobmann Lugar said that he had learned about things that one in the community, if one had made a statement of support, was saying: You'll lose the right to vote. – That interests me burning, because there is no worse case. I will therefore, in the sense of truth, transparency and fairness, make available the minutes of this speech with these allegations by Mr Lugar to the Procuratorate of Corruption, so that Mr Lugar can be heard there as a witness and then present these cases in a very concrete, transparent, true and fair manner, so that these people can be crafted. In my opinion, this is very important when such accusations appear here. With regard to what has been said here that in Lower Austria things are different in relation to the party voice and name voice, that there is also abuse here, it is quite clear that one should make changes. On what Mr Westenthaler mentioned, e-voting in this area: Well, the experience that has just been gained in the election of letters, as has been done, makes me very doubt the principle of the secret election. [[Congratulations on the members of the FPÖ.]] What happens if, for example, I'm a 16-, 17-year-old, who's the first to choose, I'm gonna open my laptop at home and the dad who might be inside a political network says: Go, now you choose for the first time, and you're so skillful on the computer, show me that!? – I would like to see what young people say: Dear Dad, my secret right to vote is so sacred to me, please go out of the room if I choose now! So you can talk about how you can make it sure, but I fear that the abuse here can unfortunately still be opened to God's door and gate. Now on the questions raised by the representative of the Greens in the committee, but also now by Mrs Wurm on women's law. I always wonder, There are about 3.3 million women entitled to vote and three million men. Why do we not at last make the quota that these 300 000 overhangs are not allowed to choose? What's that kind of mind-making, that you say now at once: Ui, there are more women!Unknown term type: "%s".? - Where's your quota-why? There is nothing to be changed about this at all. No, you even want to go so far as to remove the word “election” by saying that if someone goes to vote, he must be obliged to choose a woman, otherwise the vote may become invalid. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Schwentner.]] This is diametrically opposed to the principle of election! [[Abg. May. Hammer: That's absurd, that's it!]] If I choose – secret, free and equal – then I choose whom I choose. And obviously it's only women's politicians like you and like you that the women don't choose you. That is the problem! [[Cheerfulness and applause at the FPÖ.]] Then: The women who live in Austria are filled with such a theoretical ivory tower chateau. The women in Austria have other problems.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-03-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00193_d7e18181	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Hammer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-03-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00193_d7e18204	Mr President. Mr. State Secretary! Dear ladies and gentlemen! The present amendment to the National Council electoral system, which already applies to the forthcoming National Council election, clearly brings a stronger right of choice of personality and thus a stronger participation of citizens in the award of mandates. I believe that in today's time it is an hour's commandment to strengthen the rights of personality and also the rights of the mandaters, because – and we notice this daily in our constituencies – the citizens of politicians whom they know who they trust, in whom they also notice that they are regionally committed to their interests, have strong ties. Now citizens can appreciate and appreciate this work even more effectively by supporting these politicians in their participation through preferential votes. I believe that this also strengthens our position as mandates, because our work in the regions can be properly rewarded by the citizens and rewarded by a preferential vote. This will allow voters to play a more active role in the award of mandates and to support the importance here too. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] But I would like to say one thing to the discussion, and that has been clearly said: Please, at a National Council election there is a poll, on which male and female candidates stand, and every citizen, each electorate should have the right to choose a candidate or candidate, whom he or she wants here in the House for his or her constituency and whom he or she particularly supports. This is equality in the purest sense, because everyone can choose whether man or woman. Anyone can choose the one or the one they want. Every quota as they promote the Greens is to reject inequality and absolute rejection. This is a very questionable process. I would also like to say something because the issue of local skiers and district skiers was also addressed here, and how the last National Council election in the preferred votes on the regional constituency list went out. Among the first 30 places on this list of preferences were 18 ÖVP mandatare, 60 percent who had far more than 5,000, 6,000 preferred votes. We have many good mayors here, because people trust them, but also many other candidates, because they are popular because they are sympathetic. That's why I'm saying: Don't be afraid of this preferential voting system! If you stand up to the citizens, be you regionally represented, set up sympathetic candidates, then you will also be elected! It is important that the citizen can participate accordingly, and this is strengthened by this innovation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-03-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00193_d7e18253	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Steßl-Mühlbacher. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-03-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00193_d7e18275	Mr President. Mr Hammer! I think we in the House are not afraid of the preferred votes. I do not really want to miss out on the sympathy values of the individual parties, but I think we should, in the context of this discussion, continue to disprove some crazy statements which are being made again and again in such discussions. I am not in favour of this proposal by Mrs Schwentner because I find it difficult to imagine it in practice. However, with regard to what we have heard today, in particular from the FPÖ colleagues, about a quota system, I say to you, Mr Vilimsky: You said we should get the women into the high house and roll out the red carpet, but it must have been very short with you! [[Abg. Silhavy: That wasn't even a quota, that was a flickering teaspoon!]] If I look, there are just six female women in your group. [[Abg. Dr. Rosenkranz: Well, six male women we don't have, that's right!]] It is always worth mentioning the quota in the sense of insult, as well as the demand for a qualification, which is unworthy of all the discussion. It's actually reluctant that I'm going into your arguments because you don't understand anyway. You will never understand why we still need a quota system here in our Republic. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I'm looking forward to the day when we have to talk about a male quota. [[Demonstrativ accompaniment of the Abg. Königsberger-Ludwig.]] [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] This is also said here in the House. Every time we talk about quota arrangements, therefore, crazy lines of argument are coming, and I think that must be said. To Mr Westenthaler, who briefly mentioned e-voting: I am not in favour of this proposal, because we have seen what e-voting has produced in the ÖH elections. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: That was not applied properly!]] It may be possible that it has not been properly applied. But, Mr Westenthaler, I cannot imagine how this form could really guarantee the secret right to vote. If you have a proposal with a guarantee, you can discuss whether you are for it or not, but I cannot imagine it in practice. In summary, and this has not yet happened in the discussion today – unfortunately, the Minister of the Interior is not here, but, Mr State Secretary, you will be sure of it to your Minister –: We have decided to establish a committee. I believe that it is very, very important – especially in the context of the fact that we are now changing the National Council electoral system with the preferred votes – that we really, and I really mean most objectively, inform the people with an information campaign by the Ministry of the Interior. I also hope that the Minister for the Interior will take up the suggestion from the Committee, namely to present the candidates on the homepage better, so that, of course, all candidates can have the same starting position. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-03-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00193_d7e18364	No one is reporting on this. I'll close the debate. We shall come to the vote. We shall first proceed to the vote on the draft law and the title and receipt in 2213 of the supplements. I would like to ask those Members who are in favour of this draft to have a sign of approval. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who, at third reading, also give their approval to this draft law, to give an indication of this. - That's the majority. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. [[18:46:02]] 3rd. Point Report of the Committee on Internal Affairs on the Government Template (2144, e.g._Other Organiser Federal Law amending the BFA Constitution, the BFA Procedure Act, the Asylum Act 2005, the Foreign Police Act 2005, the Branch and Residence Law and the Border Control Act, and the Basic Supply Act – Federal Law 2005 (FNG Customisation Act) (2215 d.b.) 4. Point Report by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection on Amendment No 2119/A(E) by Mr Walter Rosenkranz, Members of the Committee on the Exclusion of NGOs in the field of participation in the asylum process (2217, e.g.)
ParlaMint-AT_2013-03-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00193_d7e18430	We come to Agenda items 3 and 4, on which the debate is being held under one. There was no oral reporting. We are going into the debate. First speaker: Mr Vilimsky. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-03-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00193_d7e18461	Mr President. High house! Mrs Steßl-Mühlbacher, as you have addressed me directly and have criticized our red carpet here: It's true, yes, I'd like more women to become active with us. Women have a red carpet with us. In your case, the system seems to be that men must be forced out, although they may be equally qualified and have the same political suitability. [[Abg. May. Steßl-Mühlbacher: You have still not understood, Mr Colleague.]] I think it is the wrong way and a bad way to make political suitability dependent on what sex a person has. That's an access we don't want. [[Abg. May. Steßl-Mühlbacher: You didn't understand anything at all!]] Nevertheless, I am right to say that it would be welcome if more women could be involved in political decision-making. We are debating an amendment to the Foreign Authority Reorganisation Act on this point and we have already expressed our rejection in the main part of this law last year. Today we are talking about adaptations and we are going to refuse our approval this time. In order to make you understand why we cannot give our consent here, I would like to justify this by making up some sort of current figures from the asylum field. Compared to 2011, we had an increase of more than 20 percent – by 17 500 asylum seekers. On the other hand, we have recorded a number of 8 500 to 10 000 asylum seekers per year. We also have a total of 2,625 persons in asylum proceedings in 2012 based on current requests from the Federal Ministry of the Interior, which are simply submerged. In the procedure itself there are 1,634 persons. You have to imagine this: People who come here and say: I would like to ask for asylum, and then simply disappear and not even wait for the outcome of this rule of law, but just dive, subvert, in the last episode somewhere in the criminality. Last year in 2012, we had 1,631 unaccompanied minors who have applied for asylum. This came into the broad media discussion under the word of the anchor children. A further answer to the question was that of these 1,600 unaccompanied minors, 556 cases – apologies!, 366 – were rejected by an age-diagnosis report and the maturity could be determined. After all, this is a percentage of 60 percent. That is the pure fact of how it represents itself to us. Especially curious is that at the end of the day 31. December 2012 3 018 persons with negative asylum procedures – I emphasize: with negative asylum procedures – are in basic care. I am already excited about how this should work and how the Secretary of State will explain it to us. So really the bird has completed an information that has caught me recently and that today has also found an entrance to the “Kronen Zeitung” and which should give more than an occasion to make the alarm bells scream properly. It is an information of the Federal Ministry of the Interior, referring to the fact that at 28. On February 1, 2013, the Italian Decree-Law on the so-called Emergenza North Africa expired. From this point on, Italy is running a policy that looks like only unaccompanied minors, disabled people, seniors, single pregnant women and parents, torture victims or victims of other forms of physical, psychological or sexual violence can remain in the care centres and all others fall out of this care. What happens to those who fall out of this Italian asylum care? – They receive a foreign law document. It is about passports – titolo di viaggio – or about gift-effective residence permits – permesso di soggiorno in order to apply the specific term. On this foreign-law document, with which you can travel in the entire Schengen area, there is still a 500-€ picture on the part of the Italian authorities. With this 500-€ light and the outlook “Continue to Austria, continue to Germany, you will be well cared for there!”, we will then have to deal with the whole problem. This shows how across the entire asylum care system in Europe actually works. We have now documented the situation that the Italian authorities are now no longer losing fingerprints – except in absolutely precarious cases – simply send a good part of the people to Western Europe, push them 500 € into their hands and then we have to press through the problem in the West and, in particular, with our competence in Austria. – That’s not all right, and that’s also a reason why we cannot give our consent to these foreign materials! The same happens in Eastern Europe, from where, in turn, people from Chechnya come here with asylum applications and, unfortunately, they are arrested in criminal organizations and – as we know – when the summer comes, the vacation comes, they go home to Chechnya to spend their vacation there. So, in principle, there is no persecution at all. We also know from a group of experts from the Inner Region that there are now insufficient grounds for persecution in Chechnya to apply for asylum in Austria. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, in foreign law, asylum law is very, very wrong. I have the impression that the government fractions are making their eyes shut. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Plessl.]] For things that would have to lead to an international approach, such as the Italian approach, which simply disregards all the rules of international law, pushes the asylum seekers into documents of foreign law plus a 500-€ image and tells them: Continue on to Western Europe!, where we can then take care of this, I expect you to a) a shout, b) a solution, and that you do not try somewhere simply to negate it, just to do it as if nothing. I expect you no longer to put your head like a bird ostrich in the sand, but really act with solution models in the Austrian sense, so that this asylum system does not grow over our heads. I'll hold you once again. We have no problem at all with the fact that, if they need protection, honest asylum seekers should naturally receive this protection in Austria. We only need to become a master of one development, where very, very many come to us with false expectations, be ensnared into criminal organizations and where we then have to pay the token for this supposed good humanity, while around us in Europe people close their eyes, the asylum seekers to us, because they know that the Austrian Government and the Austrian Government are – I don't want to use the word now – sufficient to move the problem to Austria and no longer to have it in Italy or somewhere in Eastern Europe. [[Abg. Königsberger-Ludwig: What you're talking about is unpackable!]] I would like to ask you to think seriously about this, and really also to present solutions, not just to make some dirty adjustments that really don't do anything and only make the status quo worse. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-03-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00193_d7e18554	Next speaker: Mr Kößl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-03-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00193_d7e18575	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Dear ladies and gentlemen! What we decide today is to adapt and implement directives. I believe, Mr Vilimsky, with these adjustments and implementations, the measures you have called for – that on the one hand, the aid that is actually in need of protection and that we are fighting abuse – will certainly be better implemented here. The present draft law includes minor changes to various legislative instruments which are going to be taken into account in the field of foreign and asylum. In addition to the Federal Office for Foreign Law and Asylum, the institution law and the procedural law, the foreign police law, the asylum law, the local law and residence law and the border control law are concerned. The Asylum Act, of course, also includes substantial improvements, especially for those in need of subsidiary protection. Here is an extension of the family concept and a Extending the duration of the temporary residence permit to two years. With regard to the Asylum Act, I make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] In addition to this amendment, I would like to make it clear that the future mandatory participation of unaccompanied minor refugees in the search of their parents applies only to minors of age, i.e. to persons over 14 years of age. Furthermore, it is again clarified that the obligation to participate does not exist if the search for family members is not in the interest of the child's well-being. Especially in Austria, children's rights are implemented with great sensitivity. However, I do not want to abstain from the House because we are working in this area exactly in this direction: On the website of the UNHCR, the question is about unaccompanied minor refugees: “UNHCR works closely with other organizations such as the Red Cross, UNICEF and Save the Children to ensure that children are identified, registered and found without support.” We are therefore being blamed for what the UNHCR is proposing here and for itself, or as a requirement, because this change of law is going in this direction. I believe that it is fully possible to accept these amendments.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-03-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00193_d7e18669	The amendment which has just been tabled is being negotiated. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2013-03-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00193_d7e18756	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Korun. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-03-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00193_d7e18777	Mr President. Mr. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! I would like to point out that we can partly decide on life and death for those affected, for example those seeking asylum, without discussing and treating the Minister of the Interior. The Minister of the Interior shines through absence on the important issue, and I can see that she is represented by the Secretary of State, who, on every occasion, declares himself not responsible for asylum and for human rights protection and is constantly emphasizing that he will be responsible only if someone has a permit of establishment. [[Abg. Amon: But now he is here as representative of the Interior Minister!]] I am therefore very excited to see how the Secretary of State will explain to us the problematic points in this draft law. – So much about the seriousness of the federal government and how much it takes the issue seriously. The government template is intended to implement several points of EU directives. Once again, it does not waive the possibility – as happens regularly every six months from the Federal Government – of increasing the corresponding rules of the Asylum Act, the Foreign Police Act and in this case even the Border Control Act. The new additional commitment for children's refugees has already been addressed. It was not mentioned, however, that this is provided for as a law at EU level, specifically in the so-called Status Directive. This directive states that unaccompanied children's refugees should have the right at the latest when granting asylum – it is not a duty but a right! – to look for their family members or their parents. This right, which must be implemented in accordance with EU law, makes our Federal Government an additional and new obligation for those concerned, namely the unaccompanied children's refugees. It is important to know, of course, that in the Asylum Act we have for years had a general obligation of participation for all asylum seekers and asylum seekers, including for unaccompanied children's refugees. In addition to this general obligation of participation, a further obligation of participation will now be imposed on the children's refugees. This is precisely regulated in the paragraph where the general obligation to participate is regulated. It is this § 13 – for those who want to look! It is also pointed out that it will be taken into account in the decision on asylum if the obligation to participate is violated or not observed. The so-called credibility is not available when it is involved. There has been a lot of public criticism of this. Mr Kößl! By the way, there was criticism from UNHCR, from the UN High Commissioner for Refugees, who tried to get you as witnesses. It is precisely this UN High Commissioner for Refugees who has also publicly criticized and criticised this approach, namely from the right to construct a duty. What was the reaction of the government fractions? – You have tabled two amendments and you have said: Well, we limit this to the minors, say: to unaccompanied children refugees between 14 and 18! There, of course, it would not be bad for all those who will stand up today to decide that the 14 to 18-year-olds are the largest group among the unaccompanied children's refugees. It is therefore quite a trick from the government to say that this is limited to the 14 to 18-year-olds if this group is the majority of unaccompanied children's refugees. There are also positive points in the government template, which should not be left unmentioned. One point of this was made by Mr Kößl. Name: The right of residence of subsidiary guardians is currently extended from one year to two years. That's positive to see. By the way, this also reduces bureaucracy, especially since in recent years we have repeatedly had to do with the fact that these people had to go to the authority every year, each year the same request had to be made once again. This is not exactly what relieves the authorities, especially as it concerns a group of people who are in fact indispensable. They get the protection, although not the great asylum, but the small asylum, as it is often called. However, there are also very negative points. Unfortunately, the time is too short to discuss in detail all aspects contained in the government paper. However, I do not want to leave one unmentioned. And that's... In part, new provisions should be implemented because of the new administrative jurisdiction. The new administrative jurisdiction – and this has ultimately been enforced by the Greens in the parliamentary negotiations – provides for a four-week deadline for a decision-making complaint. What now does this government proposal provide? – The halving of this period from four weeks to two weeks for asylum seekers as the only group to be an exception. For all other persons concerned, there is a four-week appeal period in the new administrative jurisdiction. For the most vulnerable group, the protection seekers, half the period is valid, two weeks. We also owe this to the SPÖ and the ÖVP. That alone would be reason enough not to agree. [[President Dr. Graf takes over the chairmanship.]] I would also like to make no mention of the massive intensification, namely the threat of mass surveillance, which should have been introduced by a change in the border control law. There's been a call from our side. There has also been reporting on this. This point in the government template would have meant that a massive monitoring of the border control law should be introduced, namely the power to compare biometric data in the course of border control with any, non-determined, so-called central databases. There were fingerprint files and non-specific DNA databases. Since the call was large – at least by us Greens – there has been an improvement in the deterioration. Name: The DNA data was taken out again. This is gratifying, however, but the draft still provides that fingerprints, for example, that are taken off when crossing the border, can be matched with all possible, undetermined central databases. This shows that it is increasingly going in the direction of which we have been warning for years – not only we, the Greens, but also fundamental rights experts, human rights experts and experts! This data collection, namely the storage of data and the restriction of databases, leads to an ever-increasing surveillance, by the way, not only of so-called strangers, of non-EU citizens, but also of EU citizens, of course including Austrian citizens and Austrian citizens. It is not possible for me to discuss this whole novel in detail within nine or ten minutes in its comprehensive composition. But only these few points, which I have listed, are more than enough reason not to agree to this bill. I have not even mentioned our criticism that the so-called alien laws are becoming increasingly complicated and therefore increasingly difficult to implement, let alone comprehensible. For years, this has also meant that the officials and officials in charge are overburdened. Once you take the time to talk to a foreign police officer or other executioners in the so-called foreign affairs, you will be able to find out for yourself. I have also here at least once, I think, presented the comprehensive manuals for the implementation of these laws. Such a manual covers approximately 300 pages. That means that the Federal Government does nothing good to officials and officials. It would be high time to rethink and address the need to simplify the laws of foreigners, to make them more enforceable, comprehensible, but also humane. We don't think it's too late for that. That is why I would ask you not to implement these points which are being debated today and to make rapid progress towards a total reform of these so-called alien laws. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-03-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00193_d7e18835	Next, Mr Pendl. 4 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-03-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00193_d7e18856	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! As always with the topic of strangers, the field of tension – the speeches of colleague Korun and colleague Vilimsky – has shown this – is very large. Mr Vilimsky, I was the first to make a comment. I have already said this when we decided on the Federal Office for Foreign Law and Asylum: Administrative reformatory was a milestone, in which we all agreed. [[Between call of the Abg. Ing. Westenthaler.]] Mr Westenthaler, if it is nothing to reduce over a hundred authorities to one, I wonder. But that we have the problem, that is clear to everyone, you can ask any police officer or anyone in another area of our society. The police now also have the road traffic regulations, the motor vehicle law, the arms law, the explosive law; I could continue the list. No one comes up with the idea and says: Let's make a law! It's all very difficult, and these are all risk laws. And that's where we intervene: Previously, Magistrates, District Head Teams, have made a wide variety of authorities. There you have to intervene, otherwise you can It's the first time you've ever seen it. Don't do it. And of course, that we will touch all these laws was already clear in the process of law enforcement when we decided on the Federal Office. Mr. Vilimsky, I still believe that these are two pairs of shoes. This can be discussed and criticized. I believe that the European Union and Austria will try a lot. One will try to regulate a number of international movements differently, to regulate uniformly, so that one may be able to disable certain processes in the future. But we're talking about an organizational question here, and it's really okay. The other comes only in parallel. I'm just trying to deal with this because of the materiality. Mrs Korun, have you not read the amendment? - Otherwise I can't imagine that, because it's clear. If You show me where the duty is now, I don't know. We have had this discussion in committee. We have discussed this in detail and have tried to bring about another regulation. That's not a question at all. I think this regulation is good. If that's what you want, I'll say this in a mundane way: It is always very difficult from extreme left to extreme right. Go out and ask anyone why a police officer in border control would not be able to carry out normal activities, which every Austrian thinks he is allowed to do anyway. We'll take care of this now. And what is this supposed to be for God’s sake for a “crime ” under quotation marks? This is the greatest normality in the world. [[Congratulations to representatives of SPÖ and ÖVP.]] We don't want the DNA stories at all. This is not necessary either, we have also ruled out ex ly. It's about normal checks. But we need to be careful; in fact, we can't explain that to anyone anymore. I invite you to know how difficult it is to try to find a solution. But it does not really have anything to do with humanity, Mrs Colleague. I would say that we see that we solve these as difficult materials as human and as quickly as possible. I should like to remind you that, in many debates here in the House, all the political groups have repeatedly expressed their desire to have rapid procedures, because it is important that they be carried out quickly. Now we have half-speed procedures and we are again beginning to criticize one point after another, which has helped us to get to quick procedures. In connection with legal certainty, I would think that in Austria everyone who needs help can rely on it to receive this help, in a reasonable time frame. We are now implementing some directive adjustments, on the other hand we are also making adjustments so that the Federal Office can function accordingly in January. I can really ask and appeal to you to give your consent to these templates in the interests of the matter.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-03-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00193_d7e18938	The next speaker was Mr Ing. Westenthaler. 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-03-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00193_d7e18962	Mr Pendl, unfortunately it is not. That was an example that is more likely to go backwards. You have now said that we do not need to merge the laws on foreign law, because there are also clear competences in other stories. The police officer knows: If there are violations of the Waffengesetz, he is looking at arms law, explosives in the Explosives Act, addiction in the Addictions Act – where it is already a bit more complicated. In the case of foreign law, Mr Pendl, this is not the case. This is not the case, but the competent official must, before he opens any procedure at all, search through three legislative works and then decide which of the three he uses to know which procedures he even opens. That's where we mean it's in the arse. That is what Mr Korun is right about. That is not just what we or the Greens are saying, you have to see, Mr Pendl. The Federal Chamber of Labour says that the associations, the auxiliary institutions, even the foreign police themselves already exist w.o. and says: First of all, we were never involved in the reforms, almost never got involved, and second, this simply and grippingly exceeds the feasibility! I admit, a few structures have been corrected, but the law on and on itself has not been corrected. We still have so many different laws – local law, residence law, foreign police law, everything there is, asylum law et cetera – and this is again a far-reaching opportunity that I see today. The laws on tourism are discussed every six months. Every half year, there are some novices, most of them flicking, like today. There are then some adjustments where Mr Kößl has his great appearance, his annual appearance. He comes here to the speaker's desk and is allowed to read long laws, where he is important. There he is allowed to read an amendment, which no human being understands, including himself, then he goes back, it is clapping, and at home he tells us that he has had a big appearance. But what we lack is not that Mr Kößl can read out an epic amendment, but that we are finally discussing a comprehensive legislative novel with which we can bring all these legislative instruments together into a uniform foreign law in a cast, thus speeding up the procedures and providing even more legal certainty. That would be what we want. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] That's all I can say about today's flick work. Just one quote: There is the agenda asylum – these are not all partygoers of us, but quite the contrary – which says in the review: It is “an unmistakable wealth of legal references and innovative provisions, which make it difficult to effectively review and appear to be very alarming in the sense of legal certainty and a transparent legislative process”. I do not need to quote that from which organisations the agenda is composed. That is, we do not like this, and we would really like you to be asked by the government – it is no longer going to be the responsibility of the next government – to shape this foreign right in such a way that it is actually one that is also applicable. I would just like to say something about the current case, because it is also part of the law matter. That's a wild story. Mr Kößl, who is quoting his requests here and reading the paragraph end, did not find a sentence to that effect, which must be imagined. There is a truly obvious problem, which the media have recorded, for two days also from the “Kronen Zeitung”: Italy simply failed to obtain residence permits. There will simply be residence permits, and with a pink five-hundred he gets a residence permit and can drive anywhere he wants to go to Austria. 150 cases of these purchased residence permits have occurred in Bavaria alone in the last few days. By the way, the Monti expert government, which the EU still has, has been so beaten and praised, will be issued. Not the evil right are these, the Monti government was still on the row, because there is still no government. The squeaky by 500 € residence title. It can't be your serious thing to watch! A bar has to be pushed forward and said clearly: Whoever is caught by such a purchased residence permit must be postponed immediately, for he has no right to stay here; he has lost this right. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Last point: The red and white red card is also being treated here. Mr State Secretary, an Odyssey of a failed measure – now we have it over a year. I remember how we stood here. That was one of your great works, and you said that 8 000 – that was predicted – are highly qualified, highly qualified – no, no, by 2012. 8,000 are expected to come in a year. [[State Secretary Kurz: by 2030! Check it out!]] I'll limit it, bye. Highly qualified managers, doctors, scientists will come, the red-and-white red card is the all-healer. There are 1,500 – They have read the list to the Committee – including a large number of former handballers and volleyball players, all of whom are not included anywhere, but interestingly, under this title, the red-and-white red card suddenly comes into the country. Where they're going to play? – I look forward to that. Maybe in a senior selection, maybe the ÖVP is setting up a senior handball team. [[Abg. Grosz: Jugendobmann Jakob Auer!]] But that can't be the purpose and purpose of the red-and-white red card. Mr State Secretary, I would like to ask you a question, perhaps just tell us today. You stood up at the committee meeting and said you met Mr. Hundstorfer in the afternoon and renegotiate the Red and White Red Card. This is essentially two points: the income limit and the extension to Bachelor's studies. These are the priorities so that more will come. I would therefore be interested in what the outcome of this negotiation is, because Mr Hundstorfer has so far directed us: That's not going to be the bag! And I'm telling you, he's right, too. This is in the present state, which is not in the bag of this record unemployment, that we avoid it and put the regulations down so far that we no longer get highly qualified, best-qualified elites into the country, but once again the ones we do not need, that is, non-qualified, less qualified. [[Interlocutory note by Secretary-General Kurz.]] If you lower the income limit, it's just like that. You just have to note that the entire model of the red-white red card actually does not work. That's what we told you from the beginning. If only you had looked at our model, our point system of the so-called foreign check. That would have been a better solution from the outset. They would have had the right ones in the land and not the wrong ones. They would have carried the right ones out again and not the wrong ones. This is, in principle, a policy as we imagine it.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-03-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00193_d7e19035	Next speaker: Mr. Singer. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-03-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00193_d7e19056	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Dear ladies and gentlemen! The draft law today on the adoption of the decree with the barbaric title of the Restructuring of Foreign Authority Act has its origin in the adaptation of foreign material laws to the new administrative jurisdictions in 2012. As we all know, we decided in July 2012 to set up the Federal Office for Foreign Affairs and Asylum. For me, this is a very important decision, and he should and will be with 1. ==References====External links== This brings together the competences of 194 authorities currently assigned to the district authorities and the countries. In this Federal Office for Foreign Affairs and Asylum with a headquarters in Vienna in the future and a regional management in each federal state, the asyl and foreign agents are brought together. This means – I see it very positively – that we can better cope with the migration flows, thereby reducing double and multi-tracks. This brings savings and – that is very important to me – also a shorter process duration. In doing so, the people concerned are quick to ensure that their procedures are concluded positively or negatively. I would like to address two points which are standardised in this law. On the one hand, the legal basis for the use of national officials and staff members of the municipality of Vienna is created by the Federal Office for Foreign Affairs and Asylum. Why is that important? – These are national and local officials who have been entrusted with such tasks so far, therefore a prerequisite is now being created to take over them, namely, while maintaining their service and remuneration status. On the other hand, I would like to address the amendment of the border control law. Mrs Korun! The comparison of fingerprints with various databases is only possible if there are reasonable doubts about the identity of the traveler. This is an important point for me so that security can continue to be maintained. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Korun.]] That is why I believe that this measure is justified. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! It is gratifying to see that this change in the law has created another jigsaw for administrative reform. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-03-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00193_d7e19108	The next speaker was Mr Hagen. 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-03-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00193_d7e19132	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! This repair of the foreign and asylum law, as it is here – it has already been addressed – is a purely flicking work. In the meantime, it is not even possible to read experts properly. We have already had several hearings here in Parliament, where experts from all areas have examined this matter of law and explained to us that this is actually not legible. We from the Stronach team demand a general reform of the foreign law or asylum laws, because only in this way can we reform the major mistakes contained in these laws, or these bureaucratic obstacles. [[Abg. Petzner: How do you want to reform them?]] Mr Westenthaler said it right earlier: I do not benefit from the best law, either, if there is such an action as it is in the tomorrow issue of the “Kronen Zeitung”, namely, this wave of refugees from Italy. There are residence titles to the illegals, you said wrong, but they still get 500 € for the title so they can leave. These are things that are unacceptable. Mrs. Minister, I expect you to make a clear protest from the Austrian point of view – you have already announced it in the newspaper. This violates EU law. If we are already in the EU, then everyone should stick to it. I think it would be necessary for you to hit the table properly. All in all: This foreign-right matter is a very difficult matter, which I believe – I will illustrate it to you by an example – sometimes shoots beyond the goal and is sometimes not comprehensible. We know the many cases of asylum applications, which are then towed away, people who are fighting for up to ten years here. The children are well integrated, and then we have the problem that these families will then be postponed, and no one understands that anymore. We must therefore look at the fact that these asylum procedures are pre-examinations, which will be completed quickly, so that this will be done relatively quickly and the decision will be taken whether someone is an economic refugee or a real case of asylum. There's still a huge lack of it. This could be a great deal of suffering, averting anxiety, and saving a lot of money. Mrs Minister, you are called upon to take the appropriate measures in this regard. However, I would like to demonstrate in another case how difficult and problematic this matter is. I was addressed a few days ago by a woman, a native Serb. She was born in Vorarlberg, now just over 40, a native of Serbia, which has Serbian citizenship, which has Serbian parents, who were not Austrian citizens at the time. [[Call to the SPÖ: What is a “born Serbin”?]] She was born in Vorarlberg, speaks waxy Vorarlberger dialect – for the woman back there. This lady lived in Vorarlberg for 20 years, had an unlimited residence permit there, and then, when she was 20 years old, married to Serbia. The whole family, siblings, parents, has lived in Vorarlberg for over 40 years. And now it's going to be interesting: Now this woman is divorced and wants to return to her family. She tried to get a residence permit here over a seasonal job; that was not possible because everything was already booked out. So this lady is well integrated, has the interests of life in Vorarlberg, has no more in Serbia and would like to return to her family in Vorarlberg. – This is not possible. These are problematic family fates that I believe need to be repaired. That's where you have to act in a humanitarian way. There you have to see where you can help. [[Abg. Dr. Rosenkranz: The Frank could help!]] I think it'll be tremendous in the law if we have such bureaucratic obstacles. I'm not saying doors open for everyone. But if someone has lived in Austria for a long time, if someone is integrated here, is adapted, and is still working in the hospitality sector, where we need seasonal forces, or if we have jobs and mass available, could be well integrated there, could earn his livelihood, speak the language, I don't understand that there is a brake. We've been trying to help her now, but that's just impossible. I think there's a need here for a man or a woman in this case. There you really should let reason act and really reform the foreign law in such a way that it is humanly enforceable and that people can understand and understand it properly. Then we'd be on the right track, Mrs. Minister. I can only offer you, we'll pack it together. We from the Stronach team want all of us to pull on a line here, find a reasonable solution where we can say that we really did something for the people, because we did something for Austria. Reasonable solutions – that would be the right thing, Mrs. Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-03-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00193_d7e19192	The next speaker was Mrs Lueger. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-03-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00193_d7e19213	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! All the topics that have now been mentioned, especially what is in the tomorrow’s “Kronen Zeitung”, do not have something to do with the novelle that is present today. That is why I do not understand the excitement in principle. This difficult and problematic issue with Italy, I think, can only be resolved in the area of European asylum. We certainly have – and you too, Mrs Minister – to take all the steps on the part of Austria so that we can come to a common solution. [[Complementary of the Abg. Königsberger-Ludwig.]] But now back to the actual project: This project on which we are dealing today is a pure adjustment. This is not about us wanting to unite and compress the laws on foreigners, the asylum law, the adaptation law, the citizenship law. We still have that in another project. Finally, this is about adaptations to legislation on materials, administrative jurisdiction, a legal basis for the transfer of the procedure until 2014, until the other rights apply, to the creation of the possibility of using municipal services, then finally to the other procedures for the adaptation of foreign law provisions of the Judicatur to the Administrative and Constitutional Court and to two transpositions of EU Directives, a status directive and a second, then a regulation dealing with the Visa Code and the Schengen Border Code. I would now like to address the rights of participation, because of course they were also the subject. They were a very important topic in the assessment procedures for unaccompanied minor refugees. The basis of this is the Directive, where in Art. Paragraph 31 5 – Mr Korun mentioned it briefly – says that unaccompanied minor refugees have the right to seek out their parents when they are here and that they are also supported. That is what the directive requires. This right was reversed by the first draft that we discussed. This right, which has been prescribed by the EU Directive, has been transformed into a duty for unaccompanied minor refugees. That's where they're supposed to be. That is what we have already discussed in the Committee, and we have said that we do not really want to do so. What we have further criticized was that youth welfare, the well-being of the child, was exclusively quoted in the explanations and was not formulated in the law. On the basis of this, there has been this amendment in the Committee, which you have already quoted, where there has been a distinction between male and unmistakable minor refugees. You have also written the child's well-being into the law. It was established that the children should be supported in the search of their parents, but only if it corresponds to the child's well-being. What I still didn't understand was that turnaround. I am glad that we have a lively parliamentaryism, because the amendment tabled by Mr Kößl is precisely on this point. This now requires the Federal Office that it ultimately shape the search for their parents for minor refugees, and the obligation to participate for unaccompanied minor refugees is out here. That is clearly established. This is also to be underlined in an additional way. This request also states that the Federal Office for Foreign Affairs and Asylum is responsible for supporting children in the search of their parents. I say, on the one hand, thank you, Mrs Minister, that this change has been successful. I think it is for the benefit of the children that this was formulated in this way, so we will agree to the proposal.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-03-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00193_d7e19282	Next speaker: Mr. Dr. Rosenkranz. 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-03-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00193_d7e19304	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! We liberals agree with these innovations. In another area, we do not agree because it is a matter of our own. But it is interesting what you hear here about the right of foreigners – it was also referred to by the Greens as a foreign law – so everything sounds. I say one thing: We liberals are happy to join us in the boat and also as a thinker when it comes to combating illegal immigration, because that is what is most often precipitated to us when we talk about asylum. We are talking about asylum fraud being prevented and abolished. We will demand any legal measure that serves this purpose. If it comes here within the framework of a government proposal, we will also support it. That's why: We want to stop illegal immigration. Interestingly, most of the greens come Ideas like: It's not supposed to be done with the control with the fingerprints. This is really something quite common that you take fingerprints there, for example, to identify identities so that you have security, for example, if someone has perhaps already filed an asylum application in England or in Germany or Italy. That, at once, an Austrian asylum authority comes up with: Wait a minute, you lie to us, you've been somewhere else – the greens aren't there at once. [[Abg. May. Korun: It is also about the countries!]] That's where you say these are all human rights, fundamental rights. That is why you will vote against it even at another item on the agenda, which concerns these controls in the Schengen Information System. These are very interesting things. Whenever it comes to abuse, the Greens say it's not allowed to do anything. We liberals say quite clearly: We do not want illegal immigration with the sham of asylum. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] This is our political line. That's easy. The voter will have to decide which line to follow in this narrow segment of politics. The question of Italy: It is not just the situation that a Member State will automatically issue a residence permit from the Schengen Convention, which will then, in effect, burden other Member States – and I can deliberately say so. If, at once, these residence permits are granted without the necessary economic restraint – 500 € are probably used up relatively quickly in Europe; in Cyprus they would sometimes be happy if they were at the banknote – if this happens in the rest of Europe, then it is true that these people have a residence permit, they are allowed to stay in that country, but they have no means of acquisition. That is why they will be burdened by the general public, especially in Austria. This is not a living solidarity that we always show, not our liberals, but mostly the Austrian Federal Government in Brussels. We must be in solidarity with the friendly European Member States. Inverted: When it comes to solidarity with Austria, it will be pruned by other countries. As a result, the Austrian Federal Government – and in particular you, Mrs Federal Minister – must once again deal with the abuse in European countries, EU Member States and Schengen countries. This must indeed be done at the highest political level. Now we have heard something, interestingly from the Stronach team, where we are still eagerly waiting for the program. [[Call the Stronach:Internet team! Homepage!]] [[Abg. Hagen: You have to read!]] – Is there a program now? Secret science? Very good! We have not heard much of you about the issue of foreign law and asylum, except that we should make this very humane. I can now give a free tip if the Stronach team already has the fate of these 40-year-olds born Serbin, who was born in Vorarlberg – Mrs. Bayr is right, who asked how a native Serbian was born in Vorarlberg; this is very interesting, but please nice – is so at heart: There is the possibility that good Austrians – perhaps you know one – will take over a sponsorship. Or maybe you know an Austrian entrepreneur who has a group in Austria and hires this well-qualified, integrated person as a key worker. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Maybe you know someone, maybe he's not in Austria right now, but maybe you can call him or send him an e-mail. Maybe it's the uncle Frank.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-03-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00193_d7e19379	Mrs Königsberger-Ludwig spoke as the last speaker on this item in the agenda. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-03-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00193_d7e19402	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Like almost every foreign-right debate, today's debate has gone on. On the one hand, the laws that are decided to milden, on the other hand, are too strict the laws that we will decide. We are simply trying not to talk about illegality and crime at any time in the debate. However, we do not want to open the borders to all people by means of our laws, but rather we want to create rules that ensure a regulated move on the one hand and on the other hand ensure that those people who need asylum are actually given protection from asylum. I think that these people should be given this quickly, and they should also be kept transparent because, Mrs Korun, I also think that it is human beings in particular when people who come to us quickly know whether they can also stay with us. I guess. Your commitment to foreign law and asylum law is really extraordinary, I think only sometimes that your contributions to the debate do not help to give people real real access to this issue. You have also worked with some half-truths for me today. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Korun.]] One almost has the impression that you may not have read the last legislative novel to the full, because the amendments that have been tabled, for example, have actually improved precisely in this area with the obligations of participation for unaccompanied minors. Mr Lueger pointed out that this right of conversion from the right to duty is now regulated in such a way – even in the asylum law – that it is very likely that the EU directive will be implemented. I would like to thank Mrs Mikl-Leiter for speaking after the committee, and it has actually been changed. In the same way, Mrs Korun, in your contribution, you have said that the removal of biometric data is being done in border controls. – You also know that there is an amendment that clearly and clearly regulates the fact that fingerprints are compared only if there is reasonable doubt about identity and that the allowable comparison of biometric data does not apply to DNA. This is clearly defined in the amendment. You, Mrs Korun, have not taken these improvements into account in your contribution to the debate, at least in my view, and I think that the fear of the population is also being aroused. That's the one point. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Korun.]] The second point: Unfortunately, Mr Westenthaler is not here at the moment, but he has wondered why the red and white red card has not been the great success that, rather than the forecast 8,000 people, only 1 800 people have apparently come to us. Ladies and gentlemen, I really want to say this: If, in part, a climate is created in Austria, where strangers do not feel so comfortable or do not like to come to us so much, because you can sometimes have the impression – especially from the liberal colleagues – that strangers are not at all welcome to us, why should strangers come to us? – Then no highly qualified people will come. I am convinced that – I say that again and again, and I live it myself – you have to create a positive climate so that this highly qualified move, which we want, actually comes to Austria. In the future, we are all called upon to hold this debate on the one hand, not always in connection with crime, and on the other hand to lead it in such a way that we have opened the doors for all people, but we must talk about it objectively. You have to address what it is, different matter laws. Then I am convinced that on the one hand, people seeking asylum receive the protection we want to give them, and on the other hand, the move comes to us, which we want to regulate with the red and white red card.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-03-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00193_d7e19476	No one is reporting on this. I therefore conclude the debate. Does the rapporteur want a final word? - That's not the case. We shall come to the vote which I shall put to the vote on each of the Committee's proposals. We shall now proceed to the vote on agenda item 3: Draft FNG Amendment Act in 2215 of the Supplements. For this purpose, Members Kößl, Pendl, and colleagues have tabled an amendment or amendment. I shall therefore first vote on the parts concerned by the supplementary or amendment referred to above and, finally, on the remaining parts of the draft law, which have not yet been voted on. Mr Kößl, Mr Pendl, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, have a supplementary or amendment concerning Rule. 2 and 3. Whoever speaks for it, I ask for a sign of approval. – This is accepted by a majority. Finally, I come to the vote on the remaining parts of the draft law and the title and receipt of the Committee's report. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent to a positive sign. – This is also accepted by a majority. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who are also at third reading for this draft law to be a sign of approval. – That too is the majority. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. We shall now proceed to the vote on agenda item 4: Proposal from the Committee on Internal Affairs to take note of its report 2217 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to a sign. – This is accepted by a majority. [[19:46:53]] 5. Point Report of the Committee on Internal Affairs on the Government Template (2143, e.g._Other Organiser Federal Law amending the EU Police Operations Act (EU-PolKG) and the Federal Law on the Establishment and Organization of the Federal Office for Corruption and Corruption (2214, e.g.)
ParlaMint-AT_2013-03-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00193_d7e19564	We're now on the 5th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). 4 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-03-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00193_d7e19591	Ladies and gentlemen! We are now discussing the Schengen Information System II. We are dealing with technical amendments, and there is nothing special about these technical amendments, which are of great political importance. I just do not want to see a misunderstanding arising here, namely misunderstanding, approval or recognition of purely technical changes and, in part, improvements to the Greens' consent to the Schengen Information System. We have voted against and will continue to do so at every stage of this legislative process. In order to avoid this misunderstanding, which is certainly wanted by some parties and by some colleagues, we will also refuse to accept this amendment. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-03-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00193_d7e19619	The next speaker was Mr Kößl. 4 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-03-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00193_d7e19640	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen! On the one hand, this Police Cooperation Act is an adaptation of the Law on the Law on Corruption of Criminal Law and an extension of the tasks of the Federal Office for Corruption and Corruption in the field of Infringement of Official Secrets. That's the one area. The other area has been addressed by Mr Pilz, the Schengen Information System II is adopted by this bill. I believe that the Schengen Information System in general is a success story in the fight against crime. It is no longer to be thought away in the police work today. I believe that it is important to implement this Schengen information system, this chain, this fight against crime, which would no longer be possible, especially in the international field, without this Schengen information system. ==References====External links== ==References====External links== It cost the Federal Ministry of the Interior around €5 million, but I believe that this is important and that with this measure, with these new possibilities of search options, it is certainly useful that this money has been used. This system is used by border guards, customs guards, visa and law enforcement authorities throughout the Schengen area and ensures a high level of security. There is no reason at all that this measure, these new legislative proposals in the Schengen Information Area of Generation II, is not approved. I believe that it is also important that there is an agreement to extend the fight against corruption and the measures that exist as a bill.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-03-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00193_d7e19679	Next speaker: Mr Fazekas. 2 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-03-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00193_d7e19701	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs. Federal Minister! This item on the agenda concerning the amendment of the EU Police Operations Act deals with the Schengen Information System of Series II. I can say from personal experience that this system has been known to me since the 1990s and you can have different access to it. I respect the access of the Green Group, which has a strict attitude on the subject of arrest measures. However, if we take the Europe system seriously, namely a Europe of the area of freedom, security and justice, then we cannot escape the fact that we need to discuss measures. On the one hand, the boundaries are opened up, what we all want, what is particularly important and what is part of European thought and concept, but on the other hand, security authorities must also have the opportunity to have a working basis for search methods in order to work better. This includes the Schengen Information System II, which has been in the opening holes for a very long time and is supposed to go into operation by the end of March. It is simply important that the user has the opportunity to have a database which is harmonised at European level, which is based on the same base and also excludes confusion. I believe that this is also an important aspect of the security of travellers, the people who come to us in the country, the people who move in the Schengen area. On the other hand, this also provides safety in the application for the users, namely the safety authorities. It is therefore necessary to see that from the point of view of data protection. I think this is also taken into account. The Data Protection Council is very strongly involved. In the end, however, such a system, which is important and correct in the European area, must also work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-03-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00193_d7e19734	Next speaker: Mr Herbert. 4 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-03-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00193_d7e19755	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) We will vote in favour of this government template: firstly, because we see the evaluation, the technical extension of the Schengen Information System, called SIS, in the second generation as useful, as necessary, practical and also necessary for police use as a necessary further development in the service of police work. I should like to remind you at this point that the current system dates back to 1990. In other words, a further development after more than 20 years is more than expected. brought. This also seems to be urgently needed in order to meet the challenges of international crime control in the future. I would like to comment critically on the exploding costs of this SIS II system. Out of the €20 million originally sought, €160 million were now co-imported. This is an interesting development, especially since the budget of the BMI, as the Minister of the Interior has told us in the Committee on the Interior, is at least €5 million in addition. I would have liked us to be able to use these €5 million elsewhere for police work, but in particular for the daily daily work of the police officers who often do a hard and unthankful job at the public. The second part in this government template is a legislative adjustment due to the 2012 corruption penalty law, with 1. It's the first time that we've come into force. Here additions have been necessary in order to meet legal requirements. Here too, a brief critical remark is reserved for me. In principle, I think it is to be questioned that the Federal Office for Corruption and Corruption is located in the Ministry of Interior in Section IV and is not only responsible for awarding contracts in the control function, but also for controlling these tasks. That means you're your own controller. I think that this constellation of organisational settlement is more than questionable in the sense of a transparent fight against corruption, and I think that there is a right to accept a conflict of interest. I should like to ask the Minister of the Interior to ensure, in an appropriate way, an improved, more transparent distribution of control. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-03-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00193_d7e19801	Next speaker: Mr Hagen. 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-03-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00193_d7e19822	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! We will also be giving this government template to SIS II the approval of the Schengen Information System II, which is more than excessive. As early as 2007, this SIS II system should go into operation. That means we're six years late. That's not very commendable. But we're glad it's coming at all. The costs have also been addressed, they have been extremely exploded from € 15 to € 20 million initially estimated, depending on the information you speak of € 143 million in Germany, and in Austria, € 160 million are already being co-imported. To the detriment of the Ministry of the Interior's budget – which has already been mentioned – there are €5 million more, which are no longer available for other security technical measures; and this hurts. Nevertheless, it is a very important craftsmanship for police work. It is important that photographs can be passed on throughout Europe, which can be passed on to fingerprints. This greatly supports police work in the international crime field. This means enormous technical improvement and is extremely important for police cooperation. The anti-corruption law is also included. We also welcome the fight against corruption. That's important. We all know how necessary it is in many areas to take action. I believe that we are on the right path, but of course it should be made a little more; and we will support it. Now I would like to say something to Mr Rosenkranz. I don't know, didn't you do well with the election results in Lower Austria? . I have already experienced it in the Committee, you always come with horrendous things that do not vote in the back and in the front. [[Abg. Dr. Rosenkranz: “Husband”?]] Mr Rosenkranz, there are possibilities where you can express yourself and where you may perhaps be able to speak out of such measures. That's good. I recommend that. That's good for the psyche. Maybe you'll try it once. As I said, our party program is available on the Internet; you can read it. [[Abg. Dr. Rosenkranz: I read it! Cabaret bar!]] The new revision will be presented shortly. You can already look forward to it. There's a nice surprise. You'll love it, I can guarantee you that.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-03-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00193_d7e19885	For a statement, Mrs. Federal Minister Mag. Mikl's head of speech reported. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-03-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00193_d7e19906	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, ladies and gentlemen! The main focus of this meeting is, among other things, the Schengen Information System and therefore also the adaptation of the EU Police Operations Act. Before me, a number of national councillors have already spoken, who have also exercised the police profession and recognised the importance of this Schengen information system. Yes, it was certainly an expensive matter, a matter that has become more expensive than planned. We have also clearly deposited with the European Commission that, in future, such costs may no longer be met. The fact is that the Schengen Information System is a success story, a search system that allows people seeking or missing data to be linked to those who are lost or stolen. A big advantage is that these data can be exchanged in real time. As a result of this information transfer and the exchange of data, the authorities are closer to each other and are therefore better prepared to fight crime. This is not a question of monitoring in Europe, it is a question of informing crime, it is a question of increasing security. Above all, it is about being able to track the perpetrators more efficiently, more quickly, across borders, and thus establishing a very important basis for Community security police action. We discussed this subject intensively in committee, and I also told you that we had the SIS system on 9 October. It will be put into operation on April 2013. We have made adequate preparations for this, we have carried out test runs. I am therefore firmly convinced that we can start the SIS system freely, which is important in order to put a grip on crime, and above all in order to guarantee more security in Austria. Allow me to add one or another sentence to the novel of the BAK law. They all know that corruption and abuse of power do not constitute a cavalier offence for all of us in God, but rather that corruption and abuse of power must be persecuted, that it must be strictly done against it. For this reason, a few years ago, the Federal Office for Corruption and Corruption was created, an office that is particularly important in the fight against various phenomena of corruption. Just because changes were made in the corruption law in 2012, we are now also adapting the BAK law. We will adapt the tasks, extend them with a view to the violation of official secrecy. Thus, expertise is collected in the Federal Office for Corruption and Corruption. It makes sense that the entire competence and responsibility are bundled here. I am firmly convinced that through this pooling of competence, the non-cooperation between the Federal Office for Corruption and the anti-corruption and corruption can continue to be successful. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-03-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00193_d7e19952	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Gerstl. 4 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-03-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00193_d7e19973	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! At the beginning, I would like to thank you very much, Mrs Federal Minister, for your commitment in the Council of Justice and the Interior to achieve this Schengen Information System number two. It was a difficult birth, but a birth that really paid or will pay off to express it better. I thank you for this because this is a sign that international cooperation in the fight against crime is a success story. Not only are European Union States jointly represented in this system, but also Switzerland and Liechtenstein, because they have recognised that it is important to practice cooperation, regardless of Union membership. There are now 28 states in Europe that exchange all search data between each other. This makes it possible for the individual police officers, but also the judges, to make decisions very quickly in the future. We no longer have to make extradition requests with long-term proceedings, it is no longer necessary to make our own national arrest application. SIS II automatically stores and transmits the EU arrest warrant, allowing us to take very quickly the necessary steps that lead to the arrest of the respective registered citizens. We have already saved an incredible amount of data. More than 40 million data are already stored. With the new system, we expect to have more than 70 million data sets, a lot of personal data, as well as even more information, identity documents, and accompaniment. Many Austrian arrests can thus be successfully concluded in the Schengen countries, and many Austrian offenders who have tried to withdraw from prosecution abroad will be taken on board. This system serves to bring them back to Austria quickly so that they can then be brought to justice and their punishment. This system really speaks for itself: An effective crime control system, a sign of greater cooperation in Europe, which will also increase security in Europe and will make information exchange even better in the future by linking personal data with property security data. This link will allow even more results to be achieved and even better results will be presented in the fight against crime. I would like to thank you once again, Madam Minister of the Interior, very much for your commitment to the EU-JI Council, which enabled us to make a significant contribution to Austrian security. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-03-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00193_d7e20012	Next speaker: Mr Plessl. 2 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-03-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00193_d7e20034	Mr President. Estimated Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Today, with the EU Police Operations Act, there is again a matter with broad approval from the Internal Committee for decision-making. One of the objectives of today's decision is the possibility of Austria's participation in the second generation Schengen Information System, called SIS II. We've already heard it planned to be implemented in spring. The Federal Minister will continue to act as a data protection client of Austrian SIS invitations to tender, and this is also a very good proposal. Ladies and gentlemen! According to European legislation, Member States are free to choose whether access to search data is made directly via national interfaces to the central SIS II databases or through a national copy of SIS II data. Austria has opted for the second variant, and that is a good thing. There will also be regular adaptations to the database in the future. It has already been informed in the Committee that the costs have increased significantly. The Minister also noted that she opposed the increase to the European Commission. This is correct and important, because an increase of approximately €20 million to €160 million means a contempt, and that is quite significant, even if the system is essential to be able to work really efficiently. Ladies and gentlemen! Estimated Minister! On the one hand, it is very important to give this tool to the police, but on the other hand we also need to use staff efficiently and effectively. I would therefore like to return to my request in this regard, which I made on 17 November. ==References====External links== It is about police officers in the Lower Austrian border area, about the control of the state border for which personnel are posted in some districts. In my district, it is so that we are unfortunately the only ones in this area. 55 were actually planned. According to the question answered from 17.12.2012, there are still 44 persons who are actively serving. My last level of information is that the current level is even more than 30. We are above the target for the compensatory measures in Lower Austria. Perhaps you can, treasured Minister of the Interior, In my district of Gänserndorf, this sub-committee is helping with service assignments in the short term.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-03-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00193_d7e20079	As the last speaker on this item on the agenda, Mr Hornek is speaking on behalf of the European Parliament. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-03-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00193_d7e20100	Mr President. Estimated Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen. High house! The Federal Act, which amends the EU Police Operations Act, regulates two things. On the one hand, the legal measures for the implementation of the Schengen Information System are being re-established, in short SIS II, and on the other hand, the Federal Act on the establishment and organisation of the Federal Office for Corruption and Corruption of Corruption is adapted to the Law on the Criminal Change of Corruption. Ladies and gentlemen! More than 400 million people live in the Schengen area. The greatest advantage for people within the Schengen area is, of course, the disappearance of checks on persons at national borders. Only samples below the national borders are carried out. To this end, the Schengen Information System, which can be presented as an electronic chain of inquiry, has been created. Cross-border police cooperation has been intensifyed over the years. The facilitated exchange of information, common lines in the internal border area and cross-border observation have achieved many successes. The Schengen Information System is at the heart of the so-called Schengen compensatory measures. It is the central instrument and the legally binding basic requirement for the removal of border controls. The Schengen Information System is therefore a tool for the security authorities of the Schengen countries. This will allow for the automatic implementation of personal and property commitments in the European Union. In the Schengen area, unwanted, missing and out-of-office persons are stored in a non-public database. It also covers motor vehicles, banknotes, ID documents and firearms. The exchange of search data with all Schengen countries takes place in real time, i.e. without delay. And SIS II brings new functionalities. SIS II includes new search options. In this way, personal arrests can contain additional biometric data such as light images, fingerprints and DNA profiles, thus helping the investigators to identify offenders. In addition to the data mentioned above, for example, construction machines, container ships and valuables can now be taken into account accordingly. The networking of the data, i.e. the personal investigation combined with the investigation, is thus also possible. In this way, a corresponding tender may be made for both the volatile perpetrator and the vehicle used by him. The Schengen Information System is an important security building for us Austrians. As a resident of the border region, I thank our committed executives with all my heart and am delighted with the newly gained quality of life in the border area after the border opening.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-03-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00193_d7e20144	There is now no mention of this. I therefore conclude the debate. Does the rapporteur want a final word? - That's not the case. We are now voting on the draft law, title and receipt in 2143 of the Supplements. I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this bill to have a sign of approval. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who, at third reading, also give their approval to this draft law, for a sign. – That too is the majority. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. [[20:14:34]] 6. Point Report of the Committee on Internal Affairs on the Government Template (2135, e.g._Other Organiser Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Austria and the Government of the Republic of Moldova on mutual assistance in the event of natural disasters or technical disasters and cooperation in their prevention (2216, e.g.)
ParlaMint-AT_2013-03-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00193_d7e20201	We're coming to 6. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. I would draw attention to the fact that only four speakers have spoken and we will therefore soon come back to a vote. As the first speaker, I should like to speak to Mr Prince. 4 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-03-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00193_d7e20231	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Strengthen international cooperation, support with knowledge, but above all rapid and reliable assistance in the event of disasters, these are all points that can only be supported and approved in the case of the Republic of Moldova. The Republic of Moldova with the capital Chisinau, once a proud Principality, lies at the EU's external border, trapped between Romania and Ukraine. The independence of 1991 unfortunately had dramatic economic consequences for the predominantly agricultural country. The Republic of Moldova with just over 3 million inhabitants is one of the poorest countries in Europe. A quarter of the working population has left the country because of lack of prospects in the home country. Migrants like these transfer more to families at home than the country's gross domestic product. I can only welcome the fact that Austrian-Moldau cooperation now includes disaster aid after the fight against crime and child trafficking. Especially in the case of disaster aid, Austria is an important partner in this poor country, and we have already helped. Let's just think about the floods in July 2010. The disaster agreement allows our professionals to intervene more quickly in the event of natural disasters or technical disasters. We therefore create the legal basis for mutual assistance. We regulate in advance all possible bureaucratic events, such as the border crossing of the helpers, the facilitated import and export of relief goods. The Agreement includes regulations in the event of damage and also for appropriate joint exercises, because those who help quickly help twice. Strengthening security in Moldova also means a security gain for us. Ensure knowledge and knowledge at a partnership level is simply important. And I may have another point to discuss where cooperation might arise. I have already said that the country is mainly agricultural. Anyone who deals with Moldova's changing history will learn that Moldova has a great history in winemaking, especially in the area of sweet wines and according to the "Guinness Book of Records" in Moldova, Moldova is the largest wine cellar in the world. This agreement on civil protection cooperation is valuable for both countries. For the people of the Republic of Moldova, it also means, in addition to aid in serious cases, appreciation by the Republic of Austria. - We are happy to agree.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-03-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00193_d7e20277	The next speaker was Mr Prehauser. 2 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-03-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00193_d7e20298	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr Prinz has explained in detail what this agreement is all about. My group expressly welcomes and supports the remarks made by Mr Prinz. For economic reasons, I do not carry out the same thing again. That is to be underlined from my point of view. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-03-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00193_d7e20325	Next speaker: Mr Tadler. 2 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-03-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00193_d7e20347	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! Civil protection has a very great tradition with us in Austria. This is obvious because of the topographical circumstances in Austria. On the other hand, we have the best trained specialists for these efforts. Especially after natural disasters, it was always our concern in Austria to send help quickly to the affected areas, whether it was in the Caucasus or also in Thailand after the tsunami or in the assistance services on Haiti. With the enlargement of the EU in 2004, Moldova became a direct neighbor. In this context, the European Neighbourhood Policy has been launched. The aim now is not to draw a line between the EU and its neighbours, but to ensure common stability, security and prosperity among all those involved. The Austrian foreign policy, as we understand from the Stronach team, should offer quick, efficient assistance. In the case of natural disasters, we have here a country that we need to help and will also help. The possibility of self-help is limited by the poverty that prevails there. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] The conclusion of this State Treaty will address the important issues of assistance. We from the Stronach team support international cooperation by providing assistance in the event of disasters. – That was short and crispy too.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-03-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00193_d7e20392	As the last speaker, Mrs Mag. Becher in word. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-03-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00193_d7e20413	Ladies and gentlemen! So far, all the disaster relief agreements that we have concluded with countries, except those with Italy, have proved themselves very well. The assistance has not been provided in the context of a UN resolution in the past in the event of natural disasters, not on the basis of a bilateral agreement. The fact that the Republic of Moldova is one of the poorest countries in Europe and has to deal with serious social and economic problems is, I believe, undisputed, therefore also dependent on assistance in the face of natural disasters. It has already been mentioned that we have already done this often, not only in the flood, but also when energy supply bottlenecks came in 2009. Food aid was also provided. But there is one point I would like to mention that is quite important to me. That is where I join the Human Rights Commissioner of the Council of Europe Nils Muižniek, who said that the Republic of Moldova must make targeted efforts to protect human rights, which is really important. Now, of course, I do not want to play out humanitarian aid against human rights, but it is, I believe, important to point this out. Since this law has been approved by both the Committee and is accepted here, I assume that it will also be decided in the Federal Council.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-03-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00193_d7e20447	No one is reporting on this. I therefore conclude the debate. Does the rapporteur wish for a final word? - That's not the case. We shall vote on the request of the Committee on Internal Affairs, the conclusion of the State Treaty in 2135 of the Supplements in accordance with Article 50(1). 1 Z 4 Federal Constitutional Act to grant approval. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to a sign. – This is unanimously accepted. [[20:22:30]] 7. Point Report of the Financial Committee on the Government Template (2196, e.g._Other Organiser Federal Act, with which the Financial Market Supervisory Act, the Banking Act, the Stock Exchange Act 1989, the E-Money Act 2010, the Payment Services Act, the Investment Fund Act 2011, the Real Estate Investment Fund Act, the Investment Supervision Act 2007, the Capital Market Act, the Rating Agency Enforcement Act, the Central Counterparty Voluntary Act, the Pen- sionskassengesetz, the Insurance Supervision Act, the Punciation Act 2000, the Fees Act 1957, the Gambling Act, the Federal Tax Code, the Financial Penalty Act, the EU Financial Penalty Act, the Bundesfinanzgerichtsgesetz, the Bundespensionsamttransfers-Law and the Broadcasting Fees Act (Verwaltungsgerichts-Adaptierungsgesetz – Bundesministerium für Finanzen) (2233 d.B.) 8. Point Report and request of the Financial Committee on the draft federal law amending the Consular Fees Act 1992, the Sanctions Act 2010, the Foreign Exchange Act 2004 and the National Bank Act 1984 (2234, B.B.)
ParlaMint-AT_2013-03-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00193_d7e20507	We come to Agenda items 7 and 8, on which the debate is being held under one. There was no oral reporting. Mr Magistrate has spoken on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Rossmann. 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-03-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00193_d7e20534	Mr President. Mr. State Secretary! Madam Minister, bye-bye! [[Federal Minister Mag. Mikl's head is about to leave the government bank.]] I would like to speak a few words about the Administrative Jurisdiction Adjustment Act. In principle, it is positive that – we have already talked about this – the Bundesfinanzgericht was set up. We had some open questions, however, why we had denied this law at the time, especially because the Federal Minister has too strong rights to intervene on the authority. But that wasn't the only point. This law of administrative jurisdiction now in force is about various adjustments, i.e. a revision, which in fact only concerns the Federal Ministry of Finance, but in different areas: the exchange, the e-money, the payment services, the capital market. But the central point is financial market supervision. So far, there has been no possibility of a complaint when the financial market supervision is moderated. One had to go directly either to the Administrative Court or to the Constitutional Court to appeal against it. The new legal situation now provides for an additional level, namely the Federal Financial Court. This means, at the same time, that complaints are now permitted, but without any delay. In capital market matters, it is already good and in principle correct that there is no suspensive effect, because in many cases it is the case that we need to act very quickly. Think of investment companies, for example! I still have the case AMIS in front of me, who would have been a candidate for such a thing – it has never happened – and where it is very good and helpful if the financial market authority can immediately withdraw a concession and then these investment companies can no longer carry on their business – for example, as was the case with AMIS – if, for example, client funds are misused. But it is a little too large for us, because it refers to all the decisions. We are a little in doubt because there may also be cases in which a suspensive effect can make sense. From these considerations, we will vote against this Administrative Jurisdiction Adjustment Act. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-03-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00193_d7e20580	Next speaker: Mr Ing. Windy. 5 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-03-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00193_d7e20601	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, The 2012 Administrative Jurisdiction Novelle carried out an intensively negotiated and long-required policy position. The two-stage system was introduced. This makes the system slimmer, a red tape reduction is to be hoped for and occurs. [[Abg. Mayerhofer: To hope!]] This two-stage administrative process should now also be extended to the subject area of the Ministry of Finance and the Financial Markets Supervisory Authority. It is about the successive adaptation of around a hundred legislation on matter, so that this ambitious goal of the entry into force of this novelle of jurisdiction per 1. January 2014 can enter and remain preserved at all. A rapid change from the old system to the new one must be ensured. It is commendable to mention that the backlog, which is always available, has now been phased down regularly for many years. For example, a total of 4,600 appeals were filed to the Administrative Court in 2011, but at the same time 6,250 cases were handled. The law now to be passed, the Adjustment Act – BMF, is of course also about the Austrian financial centre. The financial area issue has a very special meaning – we have already discussed a lot about it today – and the recent financial events force us to take things seriously. Trust is, as has already been quoted, to ensure, of course, it is to be strengthened. This means that effective supervision of the financial market is also appropriate. I believe that a stable, an integrity, a competitive financial system is the best guarantee and the basis for that we have a thriving economy, that we have sustainable employment, and that this, in turn, results in a secure prosperity. The control of banks, insurance companies, pension funds, investment funds and securities trading by the FMA shall be ensured with effective, proven instruments. The requirements for financial market supervision are constantly increasing through the globalisation of the financial world and also through increasingly complex financial products. First of all, intervention must be possible quickly and effectively on the volatile markets of today's financial world, for example the appointment of a government commissioner by the FMA, the withdrawal of concessions, the prohibition of the management or of profit or capital withdrawals. At the same time, however, it is also necessary to comply with European legal requirements, European regulations with and without the legislative character to be implemented by the FMA. These European regulatory objectives must not be delayed or hindered by national procedural rights. I believe that the lessons of the past are that the financial crisis can only be handled through measures that are equally common in Europe. The FMA receives its own procedural right so that FMA decisions can be implemented immediately. A postponing effect of complaints against FMA’s decisions is excluded. That's, I think, also good. The FMA will be strengthened to become a powerful instrument. But in order to preserve – and this is now explicitly mentioned – the principles of the rule of law must be removed, and it is very important that in individual cases the Federal Administrative Court is very probably responsible, where it can nevertheless be granted a suspensive effect: then if there is no circumcision of public interests; then if the complainant would otherwise have a disproportionate disadvantage. In conclusion: The aim is to strengthen the economic location by means of this Adjustment Act, to achieve faster justice and greater legal certainty for citizens and to secure and strengthen Austrian confidence in our banking and financial system. Consumer protection, investor protection and the protection of creditors must not be forgotten. It's in the focus. The proposed adjustment scheme takes into account precisely these objectives and is therefore supported by us.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-03-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00193_d7e20638	Next speaker: Mr Ing. Westenthaler. 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-03-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00193_d7e20659	Mr President. High house! We have already not agreed to the changes in administrative jurisdiction. Therefore, it is not surprising that we do not agree with the laws on adaptation. I would like to say to Mr Rossmann: In general, to say that there is no further suspensive effect in complaints against FMA decisions, I think there are problems. For example, the Causa Waldviertlers are making sense to me at the moment. Without calling it a Lex Waldviertler, I see in it at least a parade example of how it should not work. But there are also several other reasons. However, I would like to address two points very briefly, because the gambling law and the pension fund law are also affected. [[Abg. Krainer:... no pushing effect!]] First of all, gambling: I should like to remind you, Secretary of State, that in the course of the decision-making of the gambling law Novelle in 2010, in particular, in June and July 2010, a committee was set up. I can quote a sentence from this. I quote from the 14th century. June 2010: “In the context of the further evaluation of the gambling law, the Financial Committee is still expecting a revision of the current regulation of Internet gambling in this legislative period” I'm allowed You recall what it is all about: regulation of the Internet gambling market in Austria within this legislative period. It's not long, it'll be over soon. What we consider reasonable and urgently necessary – I know, even in your party, such a discussion is generally held – is: We need a clear regulation of the Internet gambling game also in the sense of concession, where we make concessions as well as in the small and large gambling, and where value creation is brought to Austria. Because at present, you know, these Internet gambling portals are sending, for example, from Cyprus, but also from Malta, from other countries. We have nothing in Austria except that the wild growth prevails here and everyone can play everything over the Internet. I think this is a huge problem, even in terms of player protection. Therefore, I think we should go along with it, adapted to the current revision of the gambling law, to regulate the Internet gambling game, to make it quite clear concessions here and to get an added value for Austria, but also to finally reach the player protection via the Internet gambling game, because that was the central point of the committee. It is time to present it before the summer. Second: As regards pensions, I am very pleased that we have succeeded in transforming an initiative from us into a six-party application, namely the initiative to support some 150,000 pensioners who have acquired a pension right there because of their former activity in Germany and are suddenly asked, overnight, by the Finanzamt Neubrandenburg, to declare their tax situation retroactively by the year 2005 in order to obtain any subsequent repayments. This concerns elderly people, in one case a 101-year-old has been confronted with such a call. How are people supposed to handle this? - I don't know! We discussed this in the Financial Committee half a year ago and were then ridiculed by the Minister of Finance and also by parts of the EIAP. At that time, the Minister of Finance gave the best: Well, the pensioners are supposed to visit their tax advisor or check the Internet. – This is interesting if you recommend a 101-year-old to visit the tax advisor or look at the Internet. Swamm over it! In any case, a five-party request - I think it is even a six-party request - has been made here, which will be submitted today or at the latest tomorrow and will be dealt with in a consistent manner at the next meeting of the Financial Committee, so that this group of around 150,000 pensioners, mainly from Upper Austria and Salzburg, Germany-near Germany, will receive unbureaucratic, rapid assistance, in the best case, that they are not threatened with repayment and that a solution can be found in a bilateral way.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-03-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00193_d7e20696	Next speaker: Mrs Silhavy. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-03-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00193_d7e20717	Mr President. High house! Dear ladies and gentlemen! I should like to express my astonishment at the fact that this morning, in the debate on the subject, the BZÖ made a further item on the agenda, because they obviously need an increased discussion, but now for a long time in the specialist debate, a maximum of two Members of them are in the Chamber. [[In-between calls at BZÖ.]] That clearly shows how serious you are to take, ladies and gentlemen of the BZÖ! [[Abg. May. Widmann: With you too...!]] Ladies and gentlemen, we are debating today the Federal Ministry of Finance's Administrative Jurisdiction Adjustment Act. It has already been mentioned: The Administrative Jurisdiction Novelle 2012 has established constitutionally the introduction of a two-stage administrative jurisdiction, and the present draft law simply prepares this introduction for 2014. It has already been said by my previous speakers that, in future, the decisions of the FMA can also be appealed to the Federal Administrative Court with appeal. Mr Rossmann also pointed out how important it is and in itself that there is no suspensive effect here. At the same time, however, you have taken this as a reason why the Greens cannot agree. Yes, you can only choose one or the other! I believe that it is a real and essential step to ensure that timely decisions can be made, in particular, which could not otherwise be implemented. It also introduces a regulation authorisation for flat-rate fees. In the financial committee, we have also decided on a request from Members of Parliament, Mr Krainer, which includes an amendment to the Consular Fees Act, the Sanctions Act, the Foreign exchange Act and the National Bank Act, which also has the necessary adjustments to the institutions and the provisions of entry into force. As mentioned at the outset, these laws are the necessary adaptation to the already decided administrative jurisdiction novelle. I am surprised that we do not find broad support in this House.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-03-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00193_d7e20760	Next speaker: Mrs Kaufmann-Bruckberger. 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-03-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00193_d7e20781	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! High house! We agreed in December to the novelle of administrative jurisdiction, for the reason that it looked so much like it was going to be simplified. Now, in all departments, in all ministries, changes are being made to the legislation on matter. Of course, it is also understandable that this is necessary. As it turns out now – we hear from some or many officials – the disappearance of the levels of administration is very positive or is considered very positive. Of course, what we can't estimate is whether there are actually cutbacks in the procedure or whether improvements will be made. It is currently the case that authorities are being dismantled on the one hand, but on the other hand authorities are being rebuilt. And from our point of view, this is not really a reform, but just a redistribution. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] It is an open secret that this bill is still controversial. The “model 9+2” sounds very good, but if existing institutions – and I have already said that – like, for example, the independent administrative Senate, It is only a shift and not a reform. Ladies and gentlemen, I also assume that the independence of the members of the independent administrative Senate who are not bound by instructions in their decisions – that is, they can also be treated as judges – will in the future be at risk. I am afraid that is because the Regional Administrative Court is simply not a truly independent authority, for the reason that the members are elected by the national governments. That is, freedom of guidance through party book – I think we all agree – does not make a really slim foot. However, one also has to be right about the criticism that makes one or another staff representative renowned. That is to say, the question arises whether there will be Pragmatizations of judges in the future. – You see, there are many open questions in this area. The most important question, which we all cannot answer, is: What will it bring to the Austrians in the future? We agreed in December, and those who say A must also be able to say B. That is why we shall also be voting in third reading.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-03-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00193_d7e20838	Next speaker: Mr Podgorschek. Four minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-03-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00193_d7e20860	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! We voted in favour of the novelle of administrative jurisdiction, and therefore it is logically clear that we also now agree, although I also wish to say that we do not approve of the procedure in committee. If we still receive requests and additional requests during a committee meeting, which we cannot read in time, we cannot expect to hear and agree immediately in the Committee. That is why we did not agree to the Committee either. But I have already said at that time that we reserve the right to agree in second reading – what we do at the end of the day. But this also shows that the process of the two government parties is actually sad, because they can never agree in time and then always cover it when there are problems. And then this is happening in committees. I would like to say to Mr Westenthaler: I would like to congratulate this initiative, although my colleague, Mr Neubauer, has already become an initiative as a senior speaker. I come from a constituency which has about a long border with the Federal Republic of Germany as well as the rest of the Upper Austria. There was a border along the house truck. We used to have had a lot of counterparts in the Federal Republic of Germany, that is, Lower Bavaria, and there are a lot of pensioners affected by this. Especially in the district of Braunau, many still work at Wacker Chemie and are of course affected. In the meantime, thanks to God, something has changed and changed, because now more Lower Bavaria are commuting to Austria, to the Inn district, because we thank God for having a very decent economy that needs jobs. That is why this problem will be solved in the medium term. Then it may be reversed, then we have to pay the pensions to Bavaria. I therefore welcome this initiative once again. Because it cannot be that hundreds of years are being seceded by the Bayerische Finanzamt or by the Finanzamt Neubrandenburg and are given tax rulings, which they cannot possibly fill out and deal with alone.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-03-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00193_d7e20899	Mr Mag (S). — (FR) Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, I should like to thank the President-in-Office of the Council. On behalf of the PPE Group, I should like to thank the Commissioner for his - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-03-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00193_d7e20920	Ladies and gentlemen! High house! On the two questions raised: I'll start with the game, and my colleague, Mr Podgorschek, will be able to finish his plausher. [[This one is on its way to the seat of Mr Riepl and Mr Mag. Gäßner stood still]] On the one hand, you have to say to gambling purely legally that the Internet license has been granted with the lottery license. It is true, however, that we have decided not only on this committee and also on this project, but also on work. But it is not a light matter, because of course the Internet is cross-border. And then the question arises, where does the taxation occur, where is the server, how can you control it, how can you block illegal servers that play in? All these issues are not easy to solve, but sometimes have a competitive and European dimension. That is why we have set up an active working group with like-minded countries in the EU, i.e. those countries that also want to deal with this issue, where we are fully involved, and are trying to find solutions across Europe. We will hold an international meeting on this subject before the summer break with us in the house, the Ministry of Finance, in order to perhaps find models that offer a solution that corresponds to the mandate of the legislator. Whether a common solution is really found until the end of this legislative period, I cannot promise you, but not because we are not working on it, but because the matter is sometimes very complex. On the pensioner's question: The topic has been known since 2011. I myself had appointments with the German State Secretary at the German Ministry of Finance, who is responsible for this. He promised me to take care of solutions. However, these are not those who are looking for pensioners, but only transitional solutions by providing support, interest payments and the like. This is, after all, a relief, but of course not what many hope for. That is why I think it is also good that this initiative exists. As it has been said, only on the Internet would have been informed: No, two years ago we also sent out an information to all the financial offices, since we know that in the affected regions, such as the Mühlviertel, in the district of Rohrbach, many pensioners also go directly to the Finanzamt and ask for it. And there is also the direct possibility of information where competent, friendly, helpful employees can continue to help the people, but can not offer the complete solution because it lies in the area of German legislation. That is why I am glad that there is this request today because the additional pressure is generated and the wind blows into our sails in order to reach a common solution on this issue for our pensioners. In order to address administrative jurisdiction briefly: This has to be stressed again, this is an essential contribution to the administrative reform. It is very often asked in Austria what the administrative reform is. Today, a decision is taken here, as well as reducing management and making it more efficient, faster and more cost-effective in the medium term. There is this continuous two-stage administrative jurisdiction within the meaning of “9+2” – that is, the Federal Administrative Court and the Bundesfinanzgericht, and the national administrative courts. Many of the more than one hundred special authorities we have in Austria can thus be dissolved, so that they become almost eleven places. Because it was a short topic, I would like to stress that with 1. January next year against FMA decisions can also be filed at the Federal Administrative Court, but in order to enable effectiveness in execution, the suspensive effect in the event of complaints is excluded. And this is also the radical experience from the past: because very often the damage was further caused by delaying tactics and then everyone finally asked themselves why they did not intervene here. I think it is necessary and right to decide that way. On the amendment: For further administrative simplification within the administrative simplification, it should also provide for flat rate fees for inputs, instead of these individual fees, because this is much more contemporary. In other words, in the short term: A big step in the administrative reform! And I think it's good that this one will be decided today.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-03-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00193_d7e20982	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur wish for a final word? - That's not the case. We shall come to the vote which I shall put to the vote on each of the Committee's proposals. We shall now proceed to the vote on agenda item 7: Draft Administrative Jurisdiction Adjustment Act – Federal Ministry of Finance and Title and Entry in 2233 of the Supplements. I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this bill to have a sign of approval. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who, at third reading, also give their approval to this draft law, in order to give an indication of this. – That too is the majority. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. We shall now proceed to the vote on agenda item 8: Draft federal law which amends the Consular Fees Act, the Sanctions Act, the Foreign Exchange Act and the National Bank Act, including the title and receipt in 2234 of the Supplements. I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this bill to have a sign of approval. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall come to the third reading. I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who, at third reading, also give their approval to this draft law, in order to give an indication of this. – That too is the majority. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. [[20:51:15]] 9. Point Report of the Financial Committee on the Government Template (2151, e.g._Other Organiser Agreement between the Republic of Austria and the Principality of Liechtenstein on cooperation in the field of taxation and final acts including those attached to them (2235 d.b.) 10. Point Report and request of the Financial Committee on the draft federal law amending the Law on the entrance of the Foundation (2236, e.g.) 11th@item: inlistbox Point Report of the Financial Committee on the Government Template (2145, e.g._Other Organiser ==References====External links== Agreement between the Republic of Austria and the Principality of Liechtenstein signed in Vaduz on November 1969 to avoid double taxation in the areas of income and wealth taxes (2237, B.B.)
ParlaMint-AT_2013-03-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00193_d7e21077	We now come to points 9 to 11 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. There was no oral reporting. I call Mr Themessl. 6 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-03-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00193_d7e21104	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! High house! We will not give our consent to this tax agreement with Liechtenstein, if we have not already given it to the tax agreement with Switzerland, for a very simple reason: Because it is an affront for every duly paying Austrian that he is treated here. That is to say, you are now doing something legal, in which every Austrian who withdraws taxes pays the corresponding penalty, and if he pays normal taxes in Austria, he pays much higher amounts than he now has to pay for this agreement. [[Abg. Krainer: That's not true at all!]] - Of course. You also know that in the tax agreement with Switzerland, you assume that you will receive € 1 billion at the end of the year. And at Liechtenstein, the Minister of Finance has said that she expects to receive about €500 million. I know from many personal discussions with banks close to the border – and these are only small banking institutions – that over the last year alone hundreds of bank accounts have been dissolved in Switzerland only at the border, whose owners, of course, withdraw from this criminal tax they expect. But now I'm just talking about the border institutes, not the agglomerations. I'm already excited. We have with colleague Karlheinz Kopf then on 27., 28. In the course of the parliamentary group of friends with Switzerland, May an opportunity to address this issue. Then we will keep you up-to-date as Switzerland sees it and the sum of what Switzerland is going to be, which the Austrian Fiscus will then receive. But don't make yourself too big a hope. In your place, I would think about rethinking the budget for 2014 and correcting these thoughtful sums more downwards. I would like you to do that, because we need every euro anyway. But what was interesting about the whole discussion in the Financial Committee was the statement of Mrs Finanzminister. I think the green colleague Rossmann asked why these agreements were negotiated bilaterally and not at EU level, both with Switzerland and Liechtenstein. - I'm right, aren't I? At the time, they asked why this tax history is not regulated across the EU, but bilaterally. – Then the Minister for Finance replied: Because it's going faster bilaterally. That's interesting to know. I made a request here in the House five years ago. It has been about the fact that, for over five years, Austrian, especially Vorarlberg craft companies have been heavily disadvantaged in services in Switzerland. At the time, I put forward a request to regulate this in bilateral negotiations. At that time, the request was rejected by the government parties. Two months later, the same request came exactly as I did, by Mr Karlheinz Kopf, who, however, changed the request in such a way that it was not to be regulated in bilateral negotiations but at EU level. Do you know what's been settled to this day? - Nothing! I ask the Minister of Economic Affairs every three months whether the Vorarlberg companies can expect these escapades to stop on the Swiss side of services, and the answer is always the same: It is still in Brussels and nothing is done. But you do turn it the way you need it, once bilaterally, once at EU level, just as it fits you best. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-03-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00193_d7e21147	Mr Dr. Stummvoll. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party. 4 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-03-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00193_d7e21168	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to begin by congratulating Mr State Secretary, Mrs Finanzminister and you on the fact that this agreement has again been reached within a record time. Also the chief negotiator, Wolfgang Nolz, great recognition. We have an internationally recognized specialist here, and this, of course, facilitates such negotiations. In this case it was once again easier because the basis of these agreements was the Swiss agreement. The agreement with Liechtenstein goes beyond that. While the Swiss agreement only covers capital assets on bank accounts, foundations and trusts where capital assets exist are also recorded. For me, what the colleague Themessl has done, i.e. justice to other taxpayers, is the question: Should this capital be the same as So far, we have been in Liechtenstein without tax in the future, or do we want tax revenue from it? That's the question. Do we want it or don't we want it? This could continue to be in Liechtenstein for years, for decades. Now we have a scheme that ensures that we receive tax revenue from four sources: We receive a remuneration tax for the past; we receive a income tax on future earnings; we receive an entrance tax from foundations when grants are made; and if grants to beneficiaries are made, a grant tax. That means we get tax revenue from four sources here. Honestly, if I can choose whether I am not taxed and the wealth is still in Liechtenstein without tax, or if I get it, I like to take it. In this sense, Mr State Secretary: Congratulations, congratulation to you, the Minister of Finance and the Head of Section Nolz.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-03-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00193_d7e21211	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Kogler. 6 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-03-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00193_d7e21232	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Really a simple and staggering speech, obviously according to the motto: More than €500 million now, if so, than 2 billion in a few years – but a rabid discount factor. But isn't that about any more? Is it not about political, economic morality – this is a term that should not be entirely foreign to the ÖVP, at least a little bit of it should have survived – the idea of an assigned justice also in the fiscal field and ultimately also really about the fight against the wrong – in our world of the repugnant – and in connection with it also about the question of economic and fiscal algeography, if one wants to do so? What, for example, is the Union supposed to do, and what is it supposed to do? We would like to talk – and we will not discuss this now – about where the Union should perhaps do less and the regions more. Now there are the national structures, and the regions are growing historically. And there you could really talk about what skills there should be. It's clear: On issues of major economic governance and financial issues, we will not get far in the long run, at least not in the declared target pursuit – after more justice, after more efficiency, after more reliability – if we always proceed bilaterally. And that's the basic sin. [[President Mag. Prammer shall take over the chairmanship.]] Even if the prognosis was that in a few years, if the Union were to prevail, it would also come to those countries like Liechtenstein, Switzerland and others, because only one bit more would come – and we would rather take a lot of it now and draw the great benefits – even then it would be reprehensible. But I'm not even saying that. But the point is yes – and now I have to look at the Social Democrats: I don't think it's a coincidence. They will also have thought of something in the Federal Republic of Germany. [[Phone call at the SPÖ.]] – The social democratic sector is just so big that there are still some sitting. I can't always look at the colleagues there. There's Krainer. Krainer I've been acoustically... He said he's really in the room, too - he wanted to prove this clearly, for the protocol. Krainer feels addressed. But I do not know whether this was so smart to emerge, because the comrades both in the Bundestag and in the Federal Council of the Federal Republic of Germany voted against these agreements with strong arguments, with expressions which we do not use here. That was an agreement with Switzerland at the time. The agreement with Liechtenstein has indeed been re-enacted except for the specificities that exist there. By the way, I can certainly join the “compliment” – under quotation marks – of the negotiators. There are a lot of people at work, that is not the case, only those who have to follow a certain political mission. And now it is about looking, what would be the other way, as we think, the better, but certainly the more correct. And if we have talked about Cyprus today – and I have to make this bow – then it cannot be that we are in fact excluding Switzerland, but in particular Liechtenstein, also Monaco and the usual suspects. Because what actually happened in Cyprus? And here you can see the hypocrisy of the whole process, which some in Europe have shown, but our Republic of Austria unfortunately also, leading by Spindelegger and Fekter, but ultimately also supported by the Social Democrats: namely, that Cyprus might have gone even longer if they had not been heading towards a certain preliminary phase of the state bankruptcy for years. You wonder how inefficient they are. Now they have a giant business model, where they know what I get in like many billions, which many else go off, whether it's Gauner money, blood money, or whether it's just the normal tax flight, but anyway, they have managed to show such inefficiency that they don't even get over the rounds with it. I'm saying that so salopp. It is known that our group is not one of the chauvinists, but that is really a state there from my point of view. But now that's broken up, so the question comes up: Do they need an aid package? They even made a request. It's been a long time since that was already in June of the previous year or sometime. You wonder what was prepared in the meantime to trigger the disaster on exactly one weekend. But now you're gonna figure out how wrong and unfair that is. We've always told you that. To Liechtenstein: Well, they're not going bankrupt right now. They make the whole gearbox a bit more efficient, but unfair, wrong, and just too evil these whole models are anyway! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] With these paths we are taking, we will not live up to the matter in the best sense of the word. I would even give up €100 million – although the bill would be different if you did it anyway – just to put Austria in the role here. And that's what you're torpedoing. Why Just You do this is not clear to me, only if I compare this with that of the Social Democrats in Germany. But it is being torpedoed that the Union will be able to act as a negotiating partner against Switzerland, Liechtenstein, but also others; namely, in the interest rate directive – I do not want to become so technical – on the one hand – and on the other, in the new anti-fraud agreements to be negotiated, where it is precisely about such things as we would then come to the data. Then, of course, you have to go here and, at the same time, make a rigorous change in the law of the financial penalty, greatly extend the limitation periods – why don't we do that, how long do we want to be danced around by the tax gauners on the nose?! – and in this context, and all together, not only trust in it, but also contribute to enabling the Union to negotiate in this way. What's our role now? And you're snorting again. [[The speaker points towards SPÖ bank series.]] [[Cheerfulness of the Abg. May. Rossmann.]] I can't directly accuse you that you are perpetrators, but you are snoring with Social Democracy, let it allow the black position to be the government position and the Republic of Austria hinders negotiation with these tax havens. And today we are discussing Cyprus all day. It's so holy! That's it! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] That's why I'm not concerned that it's €500 million now and sometime later, nothing like you fear, no. This eh-nothing occurs only because we are not consistent enough. On the one hand, the Union is not bringing anything further, and there is never anything going on, and at the same time not only to hinder the Union, but to bind it entirely, which an individual state can do, because there is still unanimity in the area of tax law, which is actually more than hypocritical. And that's where we have to move out! By the way, I'll tell you: If that were the case, we would get out in a few years much more than the 500 million € now, even if you don't want to believe it!
ParlaMint-AT_2013-03-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00193_d7e21350	Mr Krainer came to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-03-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00193_d7e21372	Mr Kogler said that, in principle, the current agreement with Liechtenstein is in accordance with the agreement with Switzerland. That with Switzerland we did not invent, but there we have been windshadowers. Germany and Great Britain have negotiated these, and we have said that we would like to. In this respect, it cannot be said that Austria would have been the spearhead of the European Union to prevent European agreements. I believe that we do not do so with the Swiss agreement, nor now with the Liechtenstein agreement, but it was quite other countries that started it. I say quite honestly: The question is not whether 500 million € now or 2 billion € later, but the question is, 500 million € now or as in the past zero, today zero and also in the future zero. [[Abg. May. Kogler: Yes, but why in the future zero?]] That's the real question. That is why it is not a blow for honest taxpayers to make such an agreement, but it would be a blow to the honest taxpayers if we did not try to catch up with those who go abroad and believe that they do not have to pay their taxes properly. [[Abg. May. Kogler: They are afraid now!]] That is why it is precisely the right thing to catch those who are trying to escape with this agreement also where they think they have their sheep in the dry. That's why I think that's right. What I agree with Mr Kogler is that, of course, at European level, there should not be any further agreements. [[Abg. May. Rossmann: But this is hypocritical now!]] I have said that in committee for a long time. On the issue of the Interest Tax Directive, I also clearly represented in the Committee the position of the Social Democrats, which is in a certain contradiction to the position of the Minister for Finance. I have no problem at all, if we also have even better agreements at European level, where the € 2 billion comes from. [[Abg. May. Kogler: But we do!]] I just don't think that what we decide today is an obstacle to the fact that there are even better agreements in the future, where more money comes into it. But that's just a first step. Let's see that we're now catching those who believed they'd save their taxes by putting their little sheep in the dry. Let us see that we catch them and that there is now a significant contribution from this group. That is why we support these agreements.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-03-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00193_d7e21448	Now comes Mr Mag. Widmann speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-03-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00193_d7e21470	Madam President. I might now repeat the speech on the Swiss agreement which we discussed here in Parliament a few months ago. The agreement we concluded at the time is dizzy like a Swiss cheese. The main criticism is that those who have not paid taxes in Austria but have taken money black abroad are now amnested and, if they declare it, are rewarded with quite low tax rates. My colleague, Mr President, has said this: The agreement was drawn up in record time. That's what it looks like. Even though the trusts and foundations are now present, this is the government's next confession of guilt. In this way you admit that the agreement with Switzerland is much weaker. That's the point. That is to say, the Swiss agreement, which you strongly celebrated by the Social Democracy and the ÖVP at the time, is even weaker than the small tax agreement with Liechtenstein. They hope for €500 million of unique revenue – we will see if that will happen, we don't believe it – and in a row it will be €20 million a year. I wish it was so, but the main charge is that the ordinary, diligent taxpayer, the small worker, the employee, the entrepreneur, the official, can't afford to pay properly than his taxes at the appropriate level; and the one who can judge, who deserves much, he gets the free letter from the Minister or from the Secretary of State: If you bring the money out of the country and declare it, you will need to pay less taxes than the one who really earned his money here in Austria. With the BZÖ, there is no such thing. We want tax justice for all taxpayers in Austria! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, this hypocrisy is no longer to be surpassed. We have had the Cyprus debate today, namely the debate on bank accounts in Cyprus, that people are not getting any more money there. As the small ones, namely the workers and the enterprises, are cast off, and the Bank accounts. He's closing. That's what you're gonna do. The savings book is being attacked. It is also a signal effect to be seen as sample gallop for other countries, including Austria. But the big tax culprits can now be taken away more or less. According to the motto: If we get a little bit, it's right, better than nothing. And I am now telling you, ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP and of the SPÖ how you could have done it. What would have been more intelligent? – It’s really easy: To listen to the EU, in this case only once, and to say, does not make a single entry, no bilateral agreement, which in fact is only a mutilation and brings little. But we are giving those who have spent money in black abroad, within a period of half a year, the opportunity to return the money to Austria and then tax it quite normally; according to our tax rates, which we also have in our tax laws. Perhaps you can also talk about some tax rates. Then we'd all have had here. But if this does not happen within this period, Mr State Secretary, arbitrator, then there is the full hardness of the tax law, up to severe punishments, to prison sentences. This would have been an approach to tax justice. But you missed that.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-03-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00193_d7e21527	Mr Delegate spoke on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Bartenstein. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-03-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00193_d7e21548	Madam President. Mr State Secretary! High house! It has only been a few months since we discussed the situation of tax fraud and have come to a clear conclusion here, regardless of Liechtenstein or other countries. But, Mr Widmann, it is really all about what also attracted Krainer, namely the alternative to make 500 million euros in tax revenue in the short term, or to keep things running up to date as they have been; according to which the taxpayers you quoted would have to continue looking for Liechtenstein and Switzerland and taking note of the fact that not too few Austrians obviously do not tax very considerable assets and their incomes de facto. [[Abg. May. Widmann: Half a year!]] There the famous spatz in my hand or the famous half-filled glass is much better than the half-empty. In terms of content, I am stupid in everything with Günter. He has already said what is necessary and what is right. One thing that the Minister of Finance has been able to say in an addition to the Committee, Mr State Secretary, is that there has already been a significantly higher number of self-admissions in recent weeks in the run-up to the conclusion and ratification of the agreement. That is, Austrians show themselves to themselves, transfer their Swiss, their Liechtensteinic funds to Austria and then pay quite normal taxes here, because this is true in the course of self-advertising, which is then rolled up – thus clearly a positive aspect. Last but not least: Of course, this is a coincidence, but it is a coincidence that we have to discuss Cyprus today, I say, and discuss Liechtenstein. One is not desirable, the other is quite desirable from my point of view. There is something like a line in it – that is, the line that concerns not only Austrians that the European Union, that many others are going the way to dry out tax havens in this world slowly but surely. [[Abg. May. Rossmann: Quick, fast!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Moser.]] It is no longer considered to be fashionable, it is no longer considered acceptable, quite the contrary, it is no longer acceptable that island states, princes or anyone else in this world, under the title Low-tax location, anonymity and other unwarranted revenues, now befall countries such as Austria for tax purposes. [[Abg. May. Kogler: This is collaboration, but not drying out!]] Instead, we want appropriate, reasonable, not too high, but also too low tax rates, a high level of tax dishonesty – and then not 99 percent of taxpayers who pay this, but 100 percent. And the 1% that has so far been able to go to tax havens should be part of the past for a short or long time. And believe me, both this agreement with Liechtenstein and what is happening in Cyprus, are contributions in this right direction.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-03-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00193_d7e21617	Now Mr. State Secretary Mag. On behalf of the PPE Group, I should like to thank the Commissioner for his - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-03-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00193_d7e21639	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! I share a lot of things that have been said, including opposition speakers. Where it is about tax justice, about morality, it is not possible for people not only to tax their money, but also to get illegally abroad and then to live well on it. The point is just: Even if I believed everything I didn't do quite – what Werner Kogler said, even if I signed it all, the question of the alternative still remains. The alternative is not to see anything from the past. Therefore, the distinction between nothing and €500 million is not only a question for the budget, but above all a question of justice, as the €500 million of those who have previously worked on the tax is paid. That is, it is a tax payment, an additional contribution to justice in this sense. That is the crucial point. I myself was very, very critical of these things, since I also thought it must be possible to prosecute all these crimes. Only at the border of the legal system in the other state is one found. And especially if there are countries such as Liechtenstein or Switzerland, which are not even in the European Union, one cannot even hope that there is a European legislative authority to do so. Then it is crucial how the country itself decides on its banking secret, on its foundation secret. If they don't change it so that we can see which Austrians parked there, then we will always pull the shorter. That is why this agreement, which allows us to check even in cases where people do not take the tax to pay, is a much better way than not to go. Mr Bartenstein said that the decision is between half and half empty. No, the decision is between half-full glass or empty glass. That is why, I think, it is a failure to take at least half or three quarters of the glass. I would like to thank Mr Nolz, head of the Section, for his early 70th anniversary. his second tax master's piece has been delivered in this field. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] In this context, I would like to say a few things – especially when we say that tax evasion is to be and must not be a cavalier offence: We, or you, with your decision, have also doubled in this legislative period the penalties for financial offences, created the financial police, which, by the way, is excluded from the withdrawal of the federal government in order to control more closely. These are all measures that create more efficiency in this area. But you can see that despite high punishments there are still people who commit such crimes. Detail: What does this agreement mean? The level is the same as in the Swiss agreement: Between 15 and 38 percent must be paid. That's what it's all about: The longer the money is in the Principality of Liechtenstein, the higher the sum of money and the more movement, the higher the tax rate. Whoever has nothing to hide, because he has made everything entirely legal and has not withdrawn any taxes, can also escape the tax on remuneration by disclosure to the financial authority, because then everything will be checked by the Austrian tax authority. The revenue of €500 million has also been mentioned. What is added to Switzerland is the following: There is also a foundation tax rate that Liechtenstein supplies to Austria, which is between 5 and 10 percent, depending on the structure of the foundation and the degree of anonymity, the more anonymous the higher; and this also brings revenue of at least € 20 million per year. By the way, the Foundation's entrance tax on retirement to Liechtenstein has been 25 percent. The problem, however, is that it has not been declared and has therefore provided annual revenue for the budget of €3 000. Here too, I think, the difference is crucial: The difference between €3 000 and €20 million per year is, I believe, quite clear. I would also like to add the following, because at the next item on the agenda, a case like this will be decided again: By changing all of our agreements to OECD standards and thereby improving and ensuring mutual assistance and information exchange, we also ensure that tax evasion, tax evasion, will be more effective in the future. We also link a closer network in the international fight against financial crime. So, as you can see, it is a wealth of measures that make sense and make it possible not only to get to the bottom of this phenomenon, but also to stop it.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-03-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00193_d7e21709	Next speaker: Mrs Kaufmann-Bruckberger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-03-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00193_d7e21730	Madam President. Mr. State Secretary! High house! Yeah, I think we're all in agreement, every state has to collect taxes. That makes sense. There are a lot of areas that simply need to be financed from a common checkout. But we're still saying, As much taxes as you need – but as little taxes as possible. I would also like to say once again that if we followed this principle, we would not be discussing this tax agreement today. I personally believe that, because of the high tax revenue in Austria, we have, as it were, made the way to transfer money abroad, and this is also a tax-effective one. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr State Secretary! Of course, we are in favour of complete transparency and also of truth in the course of this agreement. But what's missing is just fairness. What about fairness in this area? As far as this agreement is concerned, I am not in a position to get rid of Mr Krainer's remarks or to understand a single sentence, because it is really the Austrian taxpayers who are being disadvantaged. It is the tax refugees who are rewarded by a reduced tax rate and who so to speak have outsourced their money into tax havens. [[Abg. Tamandl: Stronach!]] – Mr Stronach lives in Canada, as you know, Mrs. Colleague. – But depending on the amount, a tax will be lifted, and this tax will be between 15 and 38 percent in the future. A study shows that there is a peak tax rate in Austria of 50 percent. Austria thus has a pioneering role to play in the European comparison. A study by KPMG shows that it is apparently modern to increase the tax rate in times of economic crisis. In this study, it says literally: “The upward trend is the result of a lack of economic recovery and rising debt”, further, that new tax rates have been set for top earners or temporary taxes to stop budget holes quite simply. [[Abg. Riepl: Where does the Stronach pay its tax?]] I would now like to get out of the debate, because Mr Krainer said in the Committee that the top rate in Austria is 42 percent. The study speaks of 50 percent and of the fact that the effective tax rate is 44 percent and Austria is thus fourth in European comparison. I do not want to condemn those who have been able to judge it quite simply and have transferred their money abroad. But, ladies and gentlemen, there is a very classic case in Vorarlberg, where an entrepreneur should not have paid €65 000 in taxes, but has taken a penalty of €50,000. If one still reads in an Austrian newspaper that the Minister of Foreign Affairs calls the Vaduz agreement a big throw for the local taxpayers and Mr Vice-Kanzler speaks of a further step towards greater tax justice, then I can't get it either. Ladies and gentlemen! We shall not vote in favour of this agreement, as it is here. There is such a clear disadvantage on the part of taxpayers in Austria against Austrian tax sinners in Liechtenstein, as the tax is almost below the tax rate in Austria and there is a resolution for these people. In any event, this draft or proposal should not be accepted.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-03-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00193_d7e21783	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Rudas. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-03-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00193_d7e21805	Madam President. Mr. State Secretary! My previous speaker has already made almost a humorous contribution. If someone comes out of the Stronach team and comes over tax- Refugees are excited and about those who are not patriotic enough to pay taxes in Austria, then, I think, this is a bit humorous. I also believe that you do not have to suffer the founders if you think they are paying too high taxes in Austria. But more interesting would be the disclosure, where exactly Frank Stronach pays taxes and how much. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Kogler has rightly expressed criticism of the lack of fiscal justice, and that is nothing to add. Nevertheless, it must be said that those who do not wish to decide on this agreement are for the maintenance of the status quo, and that is definitely worse than an agreement that leads to more revenue and that is at least one step towards greater tax justice. I think these steps are also necessary. And 500 million in revenues more or less is also a decisive criterion. It is seen in Switzerland that such an agreement makes tax flight at least unattractive. After signing the agreement with Switzerland, it has been shown that some have returned money to Austria, and this shows that it makes such agreements more unattractive to transfer money abroad in order to hide it from tax authorities. Ladies and gentlemen, once again: This agreement not only brings more income, but is also a small step towards greater tax justice, because it demands a contribution from those who have not contributed so far and who have thought they can address it. The Stronach team is simply asking me to say in one of the next speeches, where Frank Stronach is actually paying exact taxes, because I think that's what interests the whole house. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-03-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00193_d7e21847	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Rossmann. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-03-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00193_d7e21868	Madam President. Mr State Secretary! Is the glass half full, half empty, or would it be empty if it didn't exist? I say here that it would be half full - and this also applies to Mr Bartenstein - if we were to take the alternative path. Yes, there is an alternative, Mr State Secretary, and the alternative is the European Union. Let us take steps together with the European Union! But that is exactly what is preventing Austria, and that is exactly what makes you, Mr State Secretary, but also my ladies and gentlemen, of the ÖVP and of the SPÖ, so seem to be this strategy. It would be more to get, it would be much more to get. If you say, Mr Bartenstein, that means that tax havens are slowly, but surely dried out, then I have to resist this, that certainly does not dry out tax havens, not dried out at all, not at all. If Mrs Rudas has made himself here and said that this agreement leads to more tax justice, I must say, I understand, honestly, that the SPÖ is now no longer. In a situation where the person who is acquired by this tax agreement pays less taxes than the taxpayer, you have to explain to me what to do. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] It's extremely unfair. This will encourage tax evasion. That's it! You from SPÖ have a campaign for more tax justice. And what are you doing with this agreement and with the agreement you have concluded with Switzerland? – Just the opposite of what you preach all the time. This is an extremely unbelievable strategy. Their strategy for greater justice may understand who wants, but people already know how to do it. People know and feel that they are in fact the people who are in trouble, namely those taxpayers in this country who can't help but drop their taxes to the financial office month after month – while others who have fled with their money are subject to an agreement such as this one. I really don't understand this. On the OECD Agreements, which you, Mr State Secretary, mentioned: It's good that there's her. If it were not for her, then the Minister for Finance and They do not do anything to go in the right direction at least one step further. Because you also mentioned Mr. Nolz: Yeah, I remember him from my time out of the Ministry of Finance. He's really an asset, you have to say, that's why he's still head of section at 70 years of age. I think he'll leave sometime. But you should make better use of his knowledge than use it for such tax agreements that do not serve tax law and that lead to less money in the public funds. They should use it for things of which he also understands much and which are more promising for the Austrian federal budget and go towards greater tax justice, Mrs Rudas. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-03-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00193_d7e21929	Mrs Tamandel is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-03-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00193_d7e21950	Madam President. Mr. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs Kaufmann-Bruckberger has now gone out, but still: We have people in our circle who have the most well-known tax refugee – now Mr. Hagen also goes out quickly because he does not want to hear that – in their ranks. And if Mrs Kaufmann-Bruckberger said today that we should ask Mr Stronach ourselves, I must say: Tell him to give journalists such answers that the people can really imagine that they are not paying taxes at all in Austria! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hagen.]] The colleague spoke today: Mr. Stronach lives in Canada. – This is one thing that is very dishonest, Mrs Colleague, and that is also to be rejected. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] However, this is not the issue today, although we could deal with it for a longer time. It has to be about the question today: What do we want? Do we want to pursue our consistent course of combating tax fraud and tax evasion, as we have already done in the past? - We have tightened the penalties. We've introduced the financial police. We have made various reforms here – and now, in accordance with the Swiss agreement, also the agreement with Liechtenstein. As it is said again and again, we are waiting for what the EU is negotiating in this regard: First of all, we do not know which law would come into force. We can say at least now that there will be taxation at four different levels and that, of course, the foundations will also be taken into account, which have not been established under Austrian foundation law. In addition, there is always talk of tax amnesty, of a person's license issued there, of an exemption or otherwise: I believe that the criminal amnesty has a good tradition in Austria too. Because in 1993, when we introduced the capital income tax, we did not mention the interest income in the tax returns at the time, which caused the state to lose a lot of tax revenue, because it did not get it, made a criminal amnesty for those who made a self-admission. I therefore believe that it is much better to get tax benefits from black money than to get nothing at all. Before the Swiss agreement, the opposition was met by Mrs Finanzminister with mockery and Mr Hohn and said that she would never achieve the tax agreement with Switzerland – Mr Krainer said today that we were on foot, which I cannot understand at all. The Minister of Finance and the Secretary of State have negotiated with officials very long and very intensively and have given a good result. That's quite simply recognized. Again, on the accusation of tax evasion: Those people in our ranks who are financed by tax sinners should take their own noses and think about the immense and morally indecent way that is applied there. We are not available for this.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-03-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00193_d7e22010	Now comes Mr. Ing. Oh, my God, my God. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-03-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00193_d7e22032	Madam President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! The tax agreement with Liechtenstein is based on that with Switzerland, with foundations also included in the present case. The main objectives are the taxation of income lost in Austria. It is also intended to ensure that current income can be taxed. The scheme is expected to be effective from 2014. 500 million € are expected once or 20 million annually. This is done either by a one-off 30-percent post-tax taxation or by a 25-percent deduction tax for current earnings, for foundations by means of input tax and grant tax or alternatively by reporting the tax data in Austria. The agreement is probably the only way to force the rich Austrians to co-finance our society. Of course, voluntaryness would be more morally valuable, but obviously every morality ends when it comes to money. It is a pity that we must conclude such agreements. I should like to refer very briefly to the motion for a resolution on the German pensions for Austrians. Yes, it is a problem when affected persons get the call back in 2012. effective from 2005 onwards to issue tax returns in Germany, as this retroactive execution may mean massive repayments. According to a calculation of the AK Salzburg, this means that for an annual pension of €3 900 for a five-year post-tax requirement of €1 800 – no doubt a significant financial burden that is rightly annoying people. However, it is not reasonable for the persons concerned to deal with German tax law and its consequences, rather, the German tax authorities are required to inform in good time and intelligible. But that's not what happened. My colleague, Mr Aubauer, and I have a petition on this subject some time ago with concrete demands to the President. The motion for a resolution tabled largely supports these demands. It is positive that all the political groups represented in Parliament want to achieve an improvement here. We hope that the various measures will make it possible to avoid hardships.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-03-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00193_d7e22083	Next speaker: Mr Steindl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-03-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00193_d7e22104	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr State Secretary! This tax agreement with Liechtenstein is certainly an essential step for Austria to bring back tax money located abroad to Austria and thereby manage the corresponding revenue. Of course, the need for certain incentives is self-evident. By the way, all other countries do so if they want to have the corresponding tax money back. Mr Rossmann! If anyone wants to make money anonymously, he also has some opportunities outside Europe to do so. It is therefore important to use these OECD basic principles for these provisions and agreements, and this is the case here. I think it is particularly remarkable that there is also the possibility of finding out the relevant funds, especially with regard to the trusts and foundations under Austrian access law. So, in total, a good, fast agreement that has been reached at bilateral level. At European level, ladies and gentlemen, this would have taken much longer. I should like to congratulate Mrs Finanzminister Maria Fekter and Mr State Secretary Arbitrator and, above all, thank Mr Nolz.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-03-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00193_d7e22145	Mr Matznetter has now come to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-03-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00193_d7e22166	Madam President. Mr State Secretary! Unfortunately, no Bruno Rossmann or Werner Kogler is here now. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Walser.]] I'd like to take her back on a little time trip. It has been a quarter of a century since Bruno Rossmann was not yet with the Greens, and as a young, committed economist, we have considered what we can do for better taxation. I still have the concept. Our main problem was that we never knew – and even then we didn't really think of anything – how to effectively combat this move into the tax havens. If someone entered a time machine today and at the time would tell us that there will be an agreement in 2013 that will not only be lifted at the source, but also in the case of the non-transparent structures, especially trusts and foundations, with an Enforcement, a check in Liechtenstein, we would have said: Unthinkable! – We could have imagined how the Peer Steinbrück marched in with a cavalry. [[Abg. May. Kogler: Here we are.]] The probability of this was not high, however, the pressure on the world, which is true, has naturally become higher. On whether the fee is too low or too high: Werner, do you know what makes me sure she's not too low? – If you read the client information of the various audit firms, the bank recommends that the client should properly reschedule them, as a rule, rather than risk the package fee. And that makes me sure the amounts aren't too low. And because you mentioned the morale earlier, A country – and Mr Tamandl has pointed out – that has solved the problem of the anonymous savings book by considering a flat tax with half the tax rate is relatively difficult to act internationally as the great, special moral soul. There we have the house task of raising awareness with us in the country. [[Abg. May. Kogler: After all!]] The agreement is a progress that would have been unthinkable one or two years ago. And really: Chapeau! for Wolfgang Nolz – I know that he also used a moon window – and I also offer this to the State Secretary, who really deserved to receive all the notifications of these agreements with the OECD agreements. What Andreas Schieder, as the State Secretary, has now done to negotiate, namely that we have a comprehensive DBA network, where we can ask individual questions, is a performance which is a major contribution to the increased tax justice. Yes, it is a small step for this Parliament, but it is a big step against the tax evasions. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: For mankind!]] And we hope that people with foundations in Liechtenstein who have “Silverland” and other names will be forced to do something at least. We have also come to know a great deal of amazement in the Committee on Inquiry. I am sure that this agreement is an essential contribution – and all better than nothing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-03-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00193_d7e22235	Now comes Mrs Mag. Aubauer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-03-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00193_d7e22259	Madam President. High house! It is good, ladies and gentlemen, that today we have tabled a proposal on double taxation which is important to us. Some 150,000 pensioners need help. We do not want to leave them alone, we want to solve their problems quickly, as does the Council of Senior Citizens. You have to imagine this: Pensioners are expected to pay taxes to Germany retroactively by 2005. There can easily come together amounts of several monthly pensions – Mr. Kaipel has already predicted this. Many are insecure, desperate, do not know how to deal with bureaucracy. There's an urgent need for more information! That is why the application also provides for the Ministry of Finance to set up an advisory body, an ombudsman's office, where each person concerned should also receive advice. And our Minister of Finance is to negotiate a better, unbureaucratic arrangement with Germany. People need help; we want to do it. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank you very much for this six-party request.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-03-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00193_d7e22299	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. No final word is required on the part of the reporting. We shall now proceed to the vote which I shall put to the vote on each of the Committee's proposals. We shall proceed to the vote on agenda item 9: Proposal from the Financial Committee, the conclusion of the State Treaty: Agreements between the Republic of Austria and the Principality of Liechtenstein on cooperation in the field of taxation, including the Final Act, including those attached, in 2151 of the Supplements in accordance with Article 50(1). 1 point 1 B-VG to be authorised. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this. - That's the majority. Accepted. We shall proceed to the vote on agenda item 10: Draft federal law, which amends the Foundation's Entry Tax Act, together with the title and receipt in 2236 of the Supplements. I am looking for a sign for those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this bill. - That's the majority. Accepted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. Whoever agrees with this draft law in third reading, I am looking for a sign again. – In turn, this is the majority. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. We shall proceed to the vote on agenda item 11: Proposal from the Financial Committee, the conclusion of the State Treaty: ==References====External links== In November 1969, in Vaduz, the agreement signed between the Republic of Austria and the Principality of Liechtenstein to avoid double taxation in the areas of income and wealth taxes, in 2145 of the supplements referred to in Article 50(1). 1 point 1 B-VG to be authorised. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent to a sign. - That's the majority. Accepted. [[21:47:44]] 12. Point Report of the Financial Committee on the Government Template (2134, e.g._Other Organiser Agreements between the Republic of Austria and the Republic of Chile on the prevention of double taxation and the prevention of tax evasion in the areas of income taxes and assets and the Protocol (2238, e.g.) 13. Point Report of the Financial Committee on the Government Template (2136, e.g._Other Organiser Agreement between the Republic of Austria and the Republic of San Marino amending the Additional Protocol on the September 2009 Protocol amending the Agreement between the Republic of Austria and the Republic of San Marino on income and wealth taxes (2239 d.b.) 14. Point Report of the Financial Committee on the Government Template (2152, e.g._Other Organiser Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Austria and the Government of the Republic of Kosovo on cooperation and mutual assistance in customs matters and Annex (2240, e.g.)
ParlaMint-AT_2013-03-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00193_d7e22394	We shall now proceed to items 12 to 14 on the agenda, on which the debate will be held under one. There was no oral reporting. First of all, Mrs Himmelbauer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-03-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00193_d7e22422	Madam President. Mr. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! In this debate, as already mentioned, three bilateral agreements are to be voted. An agreement will be concluded with the Republic of Kosovo, which creates the legal basis for cross-border trade in goods and with which we hope, in the course of the course of the process, to prevent smuggling, in particular with tobacco, alcohol and drugs, with a view to comprehensive cooperation with customs administrations. Similar grant agreements are already in place with other EU Member States and the Republic of Kosovo, and as such it is also a concern and is in the interest of the Austrian economy and the Austrian Republic to also conclude this agreement. Agenda item 13 deals with the Republic of San Marino. There is a need to amend the Additional Protocol to the existing Agreement in the field of income and wealth taxes, as is the case with other bilateral agreements. – In concrete terms, it concerns the transmission of information, of names and addresses, which is extended with the addition: ‘where known’. A double taxation agreement, as is now being amended here in the case of San Marino, will be concluded for the first time with the Republic of Chile, based on the OECD standard and the United Nations model agreement. Hiezu is to say: Chile has a high economic growth. Among all 34 OECD Member States also have the highest growth rate. With regard to its position as an export market, Chile is our second most important partner in South America alongside Brazil. The double taxation agreement supports the project to position Chile as an attractive location for branches of Austrian companies, but also to attract the Austrian site for investment and for companies from Chile. From the economic point of view, these agreements are to be welcomed and therefore the request for broad approval.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-03-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00193_d7e22470	Mrs Bayr is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-03-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00193_d7e22491	Madam President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! I am chairman of the Austrian-Latin American-Caribbean parliamentary friendship group. This is relatively rainy: We meet about twice a year with the ambassadors who have been accredited in Vienna and exchange, for example, on renewable energy issues or on how bilateral agreements should be further developed or on development cooperation. Yesterday, we had a very intense debate on social inclusion, which is being conducted by many Latin American states – and is very active. It was exciting to see that all the countries present are doing a little different, a little different, different target groups in their social inclusion programmes – whether it be women, whether indigenous, or people who migrate from the country to the cities – but whatever all the countries – and this also affects almost every discussion that we have together – is common to the countries of Latin America that are very urgently seeking economic growth and investment, including from Europe and Austria. I am the last one who believes that, due to economic growth, poverty can really be eliminated, because it always comes to the question of how the wealth that may be generated will be distributed, but despite all of this, we also know that Austrian companies are not exactly the most impotent when it comes to investing abroad, to set up branches abroad or to be economically active abroad at all – especially if abroad is further away, as is the case with Chile, for example. This bilateral double taxation agreement, which is available to us today, will enable us to create something very important, namely legal certainty in tax matters. For the first time, we are entering into a double taxation agreement with Chile, and I find it exciting to believe that we will not only implement OECD criteria, as regards transparency and administrative assistance, but will also, for one of the first time, include elements of the UN pattern agreement between developing countries and already developed countries and, for example, we will adopt taxation arrangements from there as regards establishments, licensing fees and independent work. I think that this double taxation agreement will certainly be a solid basis for the fact that both Chilean companies might find Austria as headquarters for their activities in central Europe and hopefully more than ever invest Austrian companies in Chile, trying to get a foothold in Chile. And I very much hope that this double taxation agreement will provide a basis for a win-win situation for both countries. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-03-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00193_d7e22531	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Haider. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-03-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00193_d7e22552	Madam President. Mr State Secretary! High house! We will agree to the conclusion of the agreement with Chile, even if it contains the paragraph 5 we criticised in Article 26, in which we see an erodement of the Austrian banking secret. You remember: That was this OECD article, which was put to our attention, after in 2009 the then German Finance Minister and current SPD Chancellor Peer Steinbrück opened the hunt for tax refugees and succeeded in Austria, Switzerland, Liechtenstein and Belgium being placed on the grey list of tax havens. And these articles, this erodement of our banking secrets, are unfortunately the price for us being deleted from this list again. There are no more new agreements without this article, so we will agree. We will not agree to the request for amendment of the San Marino agreement, because we do not see any need to amend existing double taxation agreements. On the other hand, we will vote in favour of Agenda 14 of the Customs Agreement with Kosovo, because such customs agreements are, of course, an effective weapon against smuggling, especially drug trafficking and drug trafficking. We will therefore agree to this agreement with the Republic of Kosovo.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-03-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00193_d7e22582	Now comes Mr Mag. Kogler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-03-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00193_d7e22604	Madam President. Yes, we agree with all the agreements. Only because it fits in with and with the previous articles: So Austria already plays a strange role – and now the OECD is already being strapatised! As I said, It is good that this is because this enables us to better exchange with any partner countries. Only: The real OECD story is that it also produces the effect – and so it was in 2009; we remember – that Austria is forced to return its partly tax haven. You have to make that up. We always criticize that; we are consistent. Ms. Federal Minister Fekter is always talking about the fact that tax competition is good – down. With Cyprus she has done this now, but with others it should be so! . We are also laying the standards on ourselves, and thank God there are these OECD stories, which have led to our being an official aid. Implementing Act. It was also with a green success that something has been adjusted. And, in fact, we are now adjusting these entire double taxation agreements on the basis of these provisions. It is therefore logical and consistent if we agree. However – and that was the theme of the day – we stay there: It is actually embarrassing for the European Union, but ultimately also for the Republic of Austria, to have watched for so long what is going on in Cyprus. Now, at the end of the day, everyone will get shot and show – rightly – with his finger, but where in Europe it is still very easy – not only in Liechtenstein, but also in the canal islands, there are others there too – it would be time for us to have hard negotiations there. Because of course they are also under pressure! Why is that Cyprus right now? - That's the point. It is precisely the wrong thing, Mr State Secretary, that Austria – and this is always going down in these debates, even earlier, with the glorious speech by Christoph Matznetter, which goes down there! – so Austria is blocked. It is not half empty, and now we are taking what we have, and it is fairer than... – but at the same time the Republic of Austria is blocking the negotiations of the European Union, because there is only one principle of unanimity there, with such countries as Liechtenstein and the other mentioned, so that there are much more stringent provisions there. Yes, do you think they could defend themselves forever? This is the wrong thing to say: The others do not figure out anything for years, they do not bring anything together anyway!, but they are themselves the trapper for the fact that they really do not bring anything together. So honestly, Madam President, we need to extend the code, because that is more than hypocritical.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-03-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00193_d7e22652	Mr Mag. Kogler, I've been tracking how often this word has fallen in the last hour. They do it very skillfully by not directly substituting the hypocrisy to persons, and therefore I also have other calls of order – just to make this clear, because you have now asked me directly. [[Abg. Brosz: That the word is an order call is anyway...!]] [[Abg. Grosz: “Sham Saint” is an order call? “Smell” too?]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: You should adjust that once!]] [[Abg. Grosz: You should get rid of that once! But I can do that for you, Madam President. I'm an expert!]] Now comes Mr. Ing. Gartlehner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-03-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00193_d7e22723	Madam President. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) My colleague, Mr Bayr, has already discussed the subject in detail, and I would therefore like to comment very briefly on the Kosovo issue. I think it is good and important that this “black hole” – in customs terms – is closed with Austrian support. We therefore support this legislative measure with full conviction.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-03-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00193_d7e22750	Next speaker: Mr Ing. May. Kuzdas. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-03-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00193_d7e22771	Madam President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! I would also like to address the issue of double taxation agreements with Chile. It is one of the hundred double taxation agreements that Austria has concluded with other countries. This is a very important thing, because double taxation is naturally avoided. International tax law – this is about income taxation, income tax and corporate tax, not about turnover tax. With Chile, there are a few special features that differ from the OECD Treaty, but this has to do with the particularities in Chile. On the subject of taxes, tax refugees and tax havens, there is still a lot to be said about Cyprus. Why, then, has Cyprus come into the situation in which it is today? Why should the small savers not come to the handcushion – because Cyprus has not necessarily simplified the situation for its own country by rejecting the aid package? Cyprus is now on the move to make alternative proposals. In any case, it's clear: The small saver must not pay the tokens for the millions and billions that Russian oligarchs have taxed in Cyprus. It is important to ensure the safety of savings bank deposits for small savers, not only in Cyprus, but throughout Europe. Because it is a double taxation agreement, a few more rates on taxation and tax havens. Ladies and gentlemen, it is already remarkable that there are net payers and net recipients in the European Union, but there are considerable differences in the taxation of income, corporate tax. In Austria, corporate tax is 25 percent, but there are some countries, Cyprus, for example, or Bulgaria, where corporate tax is 10 percent. In Lithuania and Latvia, the figure is 15 percent, in Romania 16 percent, in Montenegro 9 percent. It is also time to think once about harmonizing taxes and eliminating tax competition within the European Union. On the one hand, this concerns the tax base and on the other hand, the total tax rates. Only in this way will we achieve a balanced structure in the tax system of Europe and prevent the motivation for the withdrawal of headquarters from Austria to other countries.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-03-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00193_d7e22808	Mr. State Secretary Mag. Arbitrators have now spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-03-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00193_d7e22830	Madam President. High house! Perhaps only as a short supplement to what has already been said about Chile, because it is a new double taxation agreement that we have not yet had in this form. We have also renewed many others. This is important because the Latin American market is not uninteresting for Austria, and particularly Chile is one of the most stable and dynamic countries in this region. Even without double taxation agreements, exports to Chile amounted to around €150 million in 2011, imports a little less, and there are also 40 branches of Austrian companies there. This agreement will be even more successful in dealing with this hope market from Austria with good economic cooperation. A double taxation agreement is often a starting point for deeper relations. That is why this is also a good decision today.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-03-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00193_d7e22866	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. No final word is desired by the reporting. We shall now proceed to the vote which I shall put to the vote on each of the Committee's proposals. Firstly, we shall proceed to the vote on agenda item 12: Proposal from the Financial Committee, the conclusion of the State Treaty: Agreements between the Republic of Austria and the Republic of Chile on the prevention of double taxation and the prevention of tax evasion in the field of income and wealth taxes, together with Protocol 2134 of the Supplements, in accordance with Article 50(l) of Regulation (EEC) No 1408/71. 1 Z 1 B-VG. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to do so to give an appropriate sign. – This is unanimously accepted. We shall also proceed to the vote on agenda item 13: Proposal from the Financial Committee, the conclusion of the State Treaty: Agreement between the Republic of Austria and the Republic of San Marino amending the Additional Protocol on the In September 2009, the Protocol amending the Agreement between the Republic of Austria and the Republic of San Marino in the areas of income and wealth taxes, together with the Protocol in 2136 of Supplements, was signed in accordance with Article 50(1). 1 Z 1 B-VG. Again, I am looking for a sign in case of consent. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall also proceed to the vote on agenda item 14: Proposal from the Financial Committee, the conclusion of the State Treaty: Agreements between the Government of the Republic of Austria and the Government of the Republic of Kosovo on cooperation and mutual assistance in customs matters, together with Annex 2152 of the Supplements, in accordance with Article 50(l) thereof. 1 Z 1 B-VG. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their agreement to do so to give an appropriate sign. – This is unanimously accepted. [[22:06:19]] 15. Point Report by the Financial Committee on Amendment No 2234/A by Mr Jakob Auer, Mag. Kurt Gaßner, colleagues and colleagues concerning a federal law amending the VAT Act 1994 and the Evaluation Act 1955 (2241, B.B.)
ParlaMint-AT_2013-03-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00193_d7e22940	We're going to the 15th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. First of all, Mr Auer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-03-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00193_d7e22968	Thank you, Madam President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! By this amendment to the Decision With this initiative request, Mr Gässner, we are eliminating a disparity between different areas, first of all in the livestock collection of sheep and goats, which are of particular importance to certain farms in Austria, because at the last decision-making in December we may have taken too close action in this area, if I may say so. This change is therefore fixed to a realistic and like the desired level of production for this area of animal production. Secondly – and this is a very special and important part – the pre-tax period of 30. ==References== December, due to the fact that many rural family farms in Austria have commissioned investments last year, in good faith that the possibility of pre-tax deductions still exists. By setting the deadline to 30. In June, therefore, a disparity had been created. I would like to thank Mr Kurt Gaßner, his party friend Zehentner, and especially all the members of the Financial Committee, for the unanimous decision-making process. I thank you for that. I believe that we have given the farmers concerned a basis, in turn, for them to be able to operate accordingly in the future, in confidence that the legislation will keep what she has set out a year ago. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-03-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00193_d7e23004	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Gaßner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-03-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00193_d7e23025	Madam President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! In terms of content, my previous speaker, Mr Auer, has already said everything, and he has thanked for the good cooperation. I can give this thanks back. Mr Auer, however, I can doubt whether this good cooperation will continue in the future due to a fact which I would like to briefly describe. Last week we had a meeting of the Subcommittee on Plant Protection. This one went all the way over the stage, it's all been agreed there. Then the following happened, which I only learned about today: The ORF wanted to make an interview with the social democracy expert. [[Abg. Huber: Is that a Tyrolean?]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: You have experts? Listen, listen!]] The expert in social democracy is the employee of the... – Go, see that you are inside the next time, and be quiet! [[Abg. Grosz: This is a contradiction! “Social democracy” and “expert” is a contradiction!]] [[Abg. Grosz: I'm trying!]] This expert is an employee of the Bundesanstalt für Miningnfragen and widely recognized in Europe in its area. [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: He's right!]] Now, he has rightly informed the ORF that it is possible to register with the press department of the Federal Ministry and so to speak, to ask if this is possible. You shouldn't believe it, the lady of the ORF then came back the following message to Dr. Hoppichler: Unfortunately, I'm not allowed to make an interview with you. Instead, the Minister's Office has communicated me to Dr. Girsch, AGES. With friendly greetings. I feel it's an affront, as it's no longer annoyed. [[Congratulation with SPÖ, Greens and BZÖ.]] [[Call the BZÖ: A madness! Incredible!]] [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: This is a censorship!]] In this case, Dr. Hoppichler is not an employee of the ministry in the narrower sense, but he was our expert. This is an affront against these experts and also against us to forbid him to give an interview. [[Call the BZÖ:Coalition break!]] If I then know that the Federal Minister in Brussels has again voted against the neonicotinoides being banned, I am already aware of why this ban on the interview came. Only: If the school is doing, I wonder how we should continue to work together well.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-03-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00193_d7e23174	Next speaker: Mr Linder. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-03-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00193_d7e23206	Minister! Mr State Secretary! Dear Members! Dear colleagues! [[Abg. Grosz: Mr Gaßner has just announced the coalition!]] – I do not think it will be alone, but it is, Mr Gaßner, justified, then one shows these things, because I do not think that is necessarily evidence of fairness. On the pre-tax scheme and on the assessment law. We liberals will agree. However, we believe that this procedure has caused irritation for many farmers. Some were in the planning, have realized that they no longer manage, have stopped planning, are now motivated by this repair, yet to put in still many construction measures, and hope that they will finish them by the end of the year. To sum up, I think one should plan such things longer, prepare better and also set the deadlines longer. We know that construction measures in agriculture in particular do not happen from today to tomorrow, that they are partly very large investments that cannot easily be made. If you change laws in steps of three, four, five months, that is, I think, a problem for the farmers. We agree because it is beneficial this time, but in total we should plan longer, and specifically by the government parties should not be made ad hoc laws which really put farmers before problems.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-03-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00193_d7e23259	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Rossmann. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-03-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00193_d7e23280	Madam President. We will also agree to these changes in the Evaluation Act and the Sales Tax Act. We have already agreed to the recent amendments to the Income Tax Act, because we believe that this will be more just and just. In this case, there is a need to improve the level of taxation of the various professional groups in that country. The time shifts associated with these changes we buy with tooth gnaws, but we agree.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-03-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00193_d7e23309	Next speaker: Mr Huber. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-03-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00193_d7e23331	Thank you, Madam President. High house! It is already significant what we have heard from Mr Gaßner today, especially in view of the fact that we have really been in this subcommittee for so long. If experts like a Dr. Hoppichler confirm that we have these whole neonics, these poisons in honey today, if Mr. Dr. Hoppichler confirms that a very high percentage of impotences or infertilities that exist today are due to our diet, to the glycosate and to the Geneva nut, then I am surprised when the ÖVP, which represents the industry, and not the farmers or the consumers, really starts such muzzler actions. This is really incredible, Mr Hörl, and it is also significant. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] [[Abg. Grosz: The ÖVP is to blame for becoming impotent!]] You have to consider: Due to my pressure and years of work, we have brought this subcommittee together, and with all these findings, which the Federal Minister must now also have, he is driving to Brussels and is again voting against consumers, against farmers and industry. I think that's what we need to think. Mr Auer, if we read the newspapers today, all the gaskets, then we see: You are sending out one after another, praises this new reform that Brussels has brought, where nothing has yet been decided where we have one such farmer's death! Today there were again 20 farmers in Parliament – they were also with you – who really cry and have fears of existence, and you have nothing else to do but celebrate with broadcasts. – That’s the wrong way! Mr Auer, let us be honest. If we don't believe the scientists and kill the bees, then Albert Einstein will be right, who said that if there is no more bees, there is no more humanity. But then there is no more raiffeisen and no more industry.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-03-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00193_d7e23388	Next speaker: Mr Tadler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-03-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00193_d7e23409	Madam President. Mr State Secretary! High house! It does not force a farmer to return to the package and thereby trigger a pre-tax correction. However, it appears bitter when an additional subsidy is removed from the farmer's account. But now to the Assessment Act. Although we from the Stronach team are in favour of this law, this change to the assessment law is like so often a bit of an eye-catching. This should be a distraction from the real problems in agriculture, ladies and gentlemen. In order to recognize this, we only need to look at the livestock population in Austria. Then it quickly becomes clear the importance of goat and sheep breeding. So where does the big throw remain in this change of law? The assessment law should also have been used in particular to reduce the number of livestock units due to the poor yield of cattle. In general, however, it can be said that the new single value scheme for livestock holdings is more burdened with increases in meat and milk production, which is contrary to the statements of the two government parties regarding tax relief of work. Therefore, it seems that you should already have a few advantages again or favour your own planned livestock management, Jakob Auer. A bad guy who thinks bad. Maybe it's a Lex Auer or a Lex Tohentner. We have agreed, Mr Gaßner.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-03-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00193_d7e23452	Next speaker: Mr Ing. Schools. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-03-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00193_d7e23473	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Appreciate High House! On agricultural issues, we are used to the fact that the discussions are always getting a little violent. It is a pity that the subject of VAT is being misused again, in order to bring in quite a different subject and not to discuss it very objectively. That's why some corrections are made. On the question of neonicotinoides: All colleagues in the house said that we have been using insecticides in agriculture for 100 years. Insecticides are there to combat insect pests, and the sense is that no benefit is harmed. Many years ago, this was quite a difficult story. As the development progresses, the active substances used have become more and more precise. Today it is that we use insecticides in agriculture as well as in bees. That's it. This is why we have problems because we have gotten foreign pests in agriculture. The corn root drill came to us from Hungary – a pretty bad story for the corn, especially for the small-structured maize building in Styria. Considering that the beekeepers have a similar problem – for 20, 25 years there are the Varroamilbes that must also be fought with insecticides – we both have the same problem: Targetedly used, it works. Accidents are accidents. Unfortunately, the bees have a lot of losses due to the Varroa. Some instrumentalize this now politically and play beekeepers with foreign statements and vice versa. That's a big problem. [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: (demonstratively leaving the meeting room) Now I'm going out!]] Ladies and gentlemen, we know today that in Lower Austria in the Weinviertel we only sow 7 percent of the corn fields with fermented seeds, and therefore we know that today of twelve corn fields eleven are certainly unbitten. However, it is claimed that there is a damage. They themselves know, if not fermented, that there can be no damage either. The allegations that are being made again and again run into emptiness. To represent this, there is science. If scientific statements are misinterpreted, they do not help. And if Mr Pirklhuber is still puddled up like that, it will still not be different. He repeats just now – [[Abg. May. Worm: Why can't the expert say anything?]] The expert may say something, of course, but the civil service law applicable in the Ministry of Agriculture applies equally in all the red ministries, and there too, the superior makes the statements public and the specialist may be the right one in the committee. This has been a completely correct process, and that will probably be the same in BMVIT. We shouldn't be upset. This is in itself so common in the Austrian state and so is the custom. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I would have liked to talk about the great investment of Lower Austrian agriculture. With €45 million of investment funding, we have triggered 1 000 million in investment over the last seven years. These are more than 6,000 permanent jobs in other areas. The investment performance of agriculture: €24 000 per holding per year alone in other sectors. This is a great story that should remain so, and we want to be glad to thank the farmers and wish for the future a good year! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-03-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00193_d7e23537	Next speaker: Mr Mayer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-03-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00193_d7e23558	Madam President. Estimated State Secretary! Dear ladies and gentlemen! Austria in particular has a structural disadvantage as regards agriculture. Our agriculture is small-scale, and this makes it quite difficult to keep up with the international agricultural markets. That is why it is also the task of policy to create framework conditions that allow farmers to generate income. That's where we're all required. In the past, we didn't do this so bad at all. In the EU comparison, we have the lowest structural change in agriculture – despite the constant criticism of the opposition – and we have the highest share of young farmers as farmers in agriculture, and this is very, very positive. Especially these young farmers and farmers want to invest in the future. They want to generate sustainable income, and that is very positive. But they also want to meet the demands of society. They want to produce sustainable quality food. They want to pay attention to the environment and also to maintain the landscape and also to maintain animal welfare, so to speak, everything that the consumer demands. But this also has its price, and if the conditions are constantly being pushed up, then we simply can't produce at the given prices. Nevertheless, the investments made by young farmers have a very, very positive impact on the economy. My previous speaker, Hermann Schultes, has shown this impressively. But we have the following problem: In investment promotion, the pot has been empty for about a year. Hopefully there will be an improvement in the new period of the common agricultural policy, which will once again expect a secure level of investment support from 2014. In conclusion, I would like to say thank you for this fact for the fact that there will again be more planning certainty in the fiscal backgrounds, especially in the pre-tax option for farmers, especially for the farms that started the investment phase prior to this change. I would like to thank you once again for your unanimity. I would also like this unanimity on many other concerns for farmers and farmers, because I believe that there should be a debate of envy and that the matter should be taken up here! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-03-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00193_d7e23600	Next speaker: Mr Hell. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-03-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00193_d7e23622	Madam President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Return to the real issue of this item on the agenda: A six-party agreement indicates that all parties are interested in a rapid change of the VAT Act and the Assessment Act. These are, in principle, small changes which, of course, can also have a significant financial impact on those concerned. The 2012 Tax Change Act has re-regulated a pre-tax correction in the course of the change between the rule taxation, the rate of sales or vice versa. This repeals a special scheme for farmers, which has been shown to be unfair by many tax experts. Ladies and gentlemen, since the new regulation in the autumn of the previous year, such a change very likely means a change in the conditions, and thus a pre-tax adjustment must also be carried out. However, today's decision-making enables those farmers who have already started planning or building buildings or installations to implement their projects for reasons of trust protection – and this has already been pointed out today – on the legal basis in force at the time, and I also request your consent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-03-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00193_d7e23655	Mr Auer spoke a second time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-03-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00193_d7e23676	Ladies and gentlemen! It was not too stupid for my colleague Tadler to go out here and say that he was almost understated, perhaps it was a Lex Auer. [[Calls: Tentner]] I expressly say, Mr Tadler: I have never used such a pre-tax option so far. And for the second time, I'm holding on: I have no production that deals with sheep and goats. But I now understand why your group – your former BZÖ group – does not cry tears. Such a supposition is a consequence.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-03-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00193_d7e23709	Next speaker: Mr. Dr. Pirklhuber. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-03-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00193_d7e23730	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! So first of all: There is a joint decision-making procedure. We also agree with the appropriate amendments. As far as there is oneness here in the house. However: What Mr Schultes is doing here for the time being is really mocking every parliamentarianism, every fairness. And I have to say one thing: Mr Gaßner has really highlighted a problem which is obviously still on the agenda in this place, namely that a minister in an autocratic, yes, almost aristocratic manner not only gnaws employees, but prohibits them from the freedom of expression and articulation that a science necessarily requires. Ladies and gentlemen, it is perfid if a minister does not allow an expert of the Social Democratic Party to be questioned, and as an alternative suggests that the expert of the ÖVP should be asked, because colleague Girsch von der AGES – both are from the Federal Offices – has been the expert in the committee. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Pendl.]] Yes, colleague, that's how it looks: The expert of the ÖVP will be asked because the Minister wants it that way. [[Abg. May. Worm: The Freedom of Science!]] And now to the colleague Schultes: I'm telling you, you're not an environmental speaker, but you really don't deserve this label! You are a chemical and interest lobbyer for pesticides, nothing else can be attributed to you. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] It's a shame, I say, a shame when an environmental speaker – it's only about the bees today. [[Call the BZÖ: AMA seal!]] It is a shame when an environmental spokesman of the ÖVP last Sunday at the Lower Austrian Imkerei Annual General Assembly threatens the beekeeper when they continue to act against the neonicotinoides, that is, against these maize beekeeping agents – well, dear friends, he has said there, and the beekeepers have spread it – then there will have to be the genetic maize. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hornek.]] So this kind of policy, Mr Schultes, where is he now, the colleague Schultes, where is he? – He has gone because he does not want to stand up for this discussion, as President of the Chamber of Lower Austria. [[Abg. Riepl: He fled, did not go!]] [[Call to the ÖVP: This is a nonsense!]] Col. Schultes detests the beekeepers and knowingly tells the untruth. He quotes EFSA with a false intention and completely distorts the facts. And this is unfortunately what Minister Berlakovich is doing. I'm going to quote: Minister Berlakovich claimed that the Standing Committee on the Food Chain and Animal Health at Brussels level had rejected the Commission's proposal to ban neo-notinoids. That's what the Minister announced to the public. – This is wrong, ladies and gentlemen! The fact is: 13 Member States supported the Commission, 173 votes in favour, 9 against and 93 votes against. Austria voted against. Germany has included itself. There is therefore a majority in Europe, and EU Health Commissioner Tonio Borg has made it clear that he will call the Appeal Commission, he will enforce a ban by July, because if there is no qualified majority between Member States, then the Commission has the right to decide. It'll come. That is what I say to all my colleagues: We had good discussions in committee. We will now receive a written report and will make a clear decision in the next Committee on Agriculture - and I would like to appeal to everyone - here in the Austrian Parliament too, namely a clear decision for bees, for nature, for ecology in Austria. We will also decide in the interests of farmers and consumers and will enforce a ban – against the interests of the chemical industry and against the interests of the Austrian Farmers' Federation. [[Abg. Hornek: Pirklhuber, you're the last one to speak for the farmers!]] - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-03-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00193_d7e23838	Mr Huber spoke a second time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-03-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00193_d7e23860	Thank you, Madam President. Mr State Secretary! High house! You already have to put something in the right light: Mr Mayer, you stand here and say that we have almost no structural change, the Austrian farmers are doing so well, celebrating it and comparing it within the EU. – Yes, let's compare! Please compare North Tyrol with South Tyrol! What's your policy? – You have taken away the agricultural diesel compensation from farmers. [[Abg. Grosz: Pfui!]] The German farmer gets 26 cents per litre, the Austrian zero. - I'm getting to the point. [[Abg. Jakob Auer: On the matter!]] The South Tyrol farmer is completely exempt from the mineral oil tax when it comes to diesel, and what are you doing? – You have ruined the livelihoods of the farmers, and you continue. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] But your policy has done a lot. We are no longer self-evident today, the Green Report says, 88 percent of the cereals we need are producing. In response to this, you have built Pischelsdorf so that the agricultural industry, in order to make Agrana and Raiffeisen even more million profits and you can import cereals from the east. [[Abg. Jakob Auer: On the matter!]] But, industrial speaker Schultes, what you said is really – I don't want to say a sin now, but please consider it! [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] Making yourself here and defending the neonicotinoids, knowing what the experts have said, is a cowardice. These are chemical combatants. We know when we eat the honey, these are inside the honey, and that this kills our cells. You know that. You know that this is carcinogenic, and you're taking the floor for the industry. It's a cleaner. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] [[Abg. Grosz: Bee killer!]] 18 to 20 years are these toxins in the soil, 18 to 20 years are not mined, are contained in every fruit. And this is really, my colleague, Schultes, a sourry that you're going here and the industry.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-03-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00193_d7e23969	Mr Huber, you have now used the word “saury” twice. I'll give you a call for order.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-03-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00193_d7e23989	But the farmers have no understanding that only the industry is represented and that every consumer is also interested in – only by making Raiffeisen profit.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-03-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00193_d7e24029	Mr Ing. Schools are reported on the word. Mr deputies, you know the Rules of Procedure. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-03-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00193_d7e24053	The honourable Member, Mr Huber, has said that there are residues of these active substances in the honey. – I’m actually correcting: The results of residue tests of all honey samples have shown that 321 samples of conventional beekeepers have remained undisputed and 20 samples of biological beekeepers have also remained without any objections. I can tell you that your statement – even if you turn your back on me now – is simply false, false, damaging and a community towards the beekeeper.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-03-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00193_d7e24090	No one is reported in the word anymore. The debate is closed. No final word is desired. We therefore proceed to the vote on the draft law and the title and receipt in 2241 of the supplements. [[Unrest in the meeting room.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I am not quite sure whether you can now give me the attention to this point in order to have a proper vote.- Oh, my God! So we are at the time of the vote on the draft law and the title and receipt in 2241 of the supplements. I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of the draft law to have a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. Whoever gives his approval to this draft law at third reading, I ask for a sign. – That is unanimous in turn. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. The agenda is exhausted. [[22:36:40]] Inflow
ParlaMint-AT_2013-03-20-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00193_d7e24151	I am still announcing that self-employed requests 2236/A(E) to 2238/A(E) were tabled at today's meeting. Questions 14262/J to 14290/J were also raised. The next meeting of the National Council is scheduled for Thursday, 21. March 2013, 9 a.m. The agenda will be delivered by the clubs. The sitting is closed.
