ParlaMint-AT_2013-11-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00003_d8e3200	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen! I will open the session and ask you to go to your places. The unreaded parts of the Official Protocol of the 1. Meeting and the Official Protocol of the 2. Meeting of 29. In October 2013, the Parliament's Directorate remained unanswered and undisputed. Deputies Weninger, Mag. Lettenbichler, Mag. Darmann, Doppler, Neubauer, Mag. Brunner, Stronach and Dr. Eder-Lindner. I announce that this meeting will be transferred live to ORF 2 to 1 p.m. and ORF III. [[09:06:47]] Current hour
ParlaMint-AT_2013-11-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00003_d8e3237	We are now arriving at the current hour on the subject: ‘Youth employment: model Austria’ First of all, Mrs. Dr. Oberhauser. The speaking time is 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-11-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00003_d8e3264	Madam President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Today's current hour is devoted to youth unemployment, a topic that is of great importance not only in Austria but throughout Europe. [[Abg. Kickl: Really brave!]] Mr Kickl confirms courage to me – yes, be courageous, I can relax. [[Abg. Kickl: The courage of despair, I attest to you!]] With the Social Minister in the background, with the achievements Austria has to show in international comparison with regard to youth unemployment, I can easily be courageous and can easily respond from the speaker's desk to your attacks from the first series, which go empty, Mr Kickl! Let me start my speech with a quote and think a little about whether this quote comes from today or perhaps from the past: [[Abg. Kickl: This is the courage of despair!]] [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Given the outstanding importance of the integration of young people into the world of work and work for society and the personal and social development of the individual – one is just thinking of the "no-future generation" – this term was influenced, among other things, by the international high level of unemployment – the fight against youth unemployment is at the heart of employment policy. A sentence from a social politician who could easily be found in today's newspaper, no matter which country. However, this quote was from Alfred Dallinger, who was Minister of Social Affairs from 1980 to 1989. That is, the question of youth employment, youth unemployment is a topic that has been working on us for many years and decades – and parallels between then and today can be drawn: At the time, it was an economic crisis that forced young people, as well as older people, out of the labour market, and we know that measures have to be put in place and put in place in order to follow them. More than 5.5 million young people between the ages of 14 and 24 do not find work in the European Union today. [[Abg. Kickl: Because the euro is so good!]] Let us take a look at some examples – many of you/many of you will have taken this from the media, contributions from Italy, Spain, where youth unemployment is particularly high. [[Abg. Kickl: Why? They're all in the euro!]] There young people are more or less torn out of their own lives. That is, they had their own apartment, a job, and had to return to their parents. These are young people who are no longer able to finance their lives outside, who go back to their children's room, who cannot build their own existence and who in many cases pursue unpaid work – a phenomenon that we also know in Austria, "Generation Internship" means the keyword. There are many people who, with good qualifications due to the bad work situation and also because of the hope of finding work in the very narrow labour market, take on unpaid work, which also affects insurance periods, retirement periods – a discussion that also concerns us – and which, of course, endangers their existence and training. Austria – under the last German government, especially by Minister of Social Affairs Rudi Hundstorfer, together with the Minister of Economic Affairs – has shown that the common view of the labour market, the economy with the social partners can really put benchmarks there. The European Union is attesting to this too. [[Abg. Kickl: Are these wage increases with real wage losses?]] Minister Hundstorfer has participated in many social ministers' summits and has presented the example of Austria as an example for the whole of Europe and, in part, in the overseas region. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Belakovich-Jenewein.]] It is a system that creates very good training for young people, through dual training, a model that has been successfully lived and presented in Austria for many years and is now gaining increasing importance in the European Union. Nevertheless, youth unemployment is also too high in Austria at 8.7 percent. It is the second lowest in all of Europe, that is, one can see that the efforts made by the Austrian Federal Government in this area bear fruit. It is said again and again that we live in Austria and not in comparison, but nevertheless I think we see that, compared with the European environment, cooperation between the economy and the people working there works very well and that very many young people also find work. What has been done by the Federal Government in recent years? – There were a few things, for example, the training guarantee. The training guarantee ensures that people between the ages of 15 and 18 are guaranteed to find or receive training at a high level. In 2013 there were almost 6 700 – training is still better! [[Abg. Dr. Belakovich-Jenewein: High-level training?]] Mrs Belakovich, I prefer every youth who is in a training course that continues in his life. You know very well that we do not live in Austria, that we produce cheap workers, but that we have well-trained, well-trained young people. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kickl.]] I prefer every youth in education to be on the street. And that's exactly what we're looking at! That's it! We must ensure that we encourage young people to achieve good qualifications and not work in the field of auxiliary work. And that's exactly what we're doing through the training guarantee. In 2013, we had 6 700 young people in measures or in a course, in an OCTA. [[Abg. Kickl: Your guarantees are not worth anything!]] We will accommodate 11 000 young people there in 2013 and 2014, and there will be €150 million of labour market funds for this purpose. Mr Kickl, is that too little for you? – Look Once what happened in the time when you were in the government! At that time, unemployment was significantly higher than it is now in times of economic crisis. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Kickl: I have never been to the government, but it will soon be so far that we are in the government – and then we will show you how!]] We also have a large problem field in the range of 19 to 24 year olds – and we also look at it. We have taken some measures in the transition from school to teaching, but we have had to look at the 19 to 24 year olds more in recent years. [[Abg. Dr. Belakovich-Jenewein: Must!]] The “Action Future Youth!” is about a targeted training to bring people into higher-qualified employment. 47 000 young adults have participated in a higher qualification, and 80 000 have taken up work through the AMS. You said I'm brave to talk about this: Yes, I can be, because the success is right. [[Abg. Kickl: This is the courage of despair!]] And I don't let that courage take me. But there are also a lot of problems, we know: on the question of the transition, on the question of the education system and on the question of the transition from the education system to the world of work. We know that in many areas a transition management between school and profession is necessary. There are also measures to be taken: Youth coaching! There are a lot of students in the individual 9. School year, that's really in her 9th. School year, accompanied by youth coaches at schools. You look forward to problems and try to eradicate them. And it is tried to motivate and accompany the students to attend another school or to teach them. We have production schools. There are now 20 Austrian production schools that are preparing for further training. That means, we're also looking where else is being looked away. It is tried to provide young people who, due to health or social problems, are unable to start teaching or further training from themselves, coaching and support. Training fit! – We all know the stories that young people are unable to apply soft skills. It is a matter of getting up in the early morning, of regularly going somewhere, taking up a job regularly. Looking at that shows that we know where the shoe is pressing, that we know that we do not want to assume that young people start their work with auxiliary jobs and then, as we know, let it end in unemployment. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Belakovich-Jenewein.]] That's not enough! In addition to the training guarantee, we would also like to have a training obligation; the Federal Government is currently working on this. The guarantee of training is intended to be compulsory, so that people do not simply disappear in their working lives. We know – we heard yesterday – that every sixth apprentice breaks down his teaching. We know that every eight-year-old commercial student breaks down school. Some are found in unemployment statistics, some are nowhere to be found. In other words, some people are not covered by any social system or by any other system that brings them back into the labour market. Keeping this in mind is a task that we have to devote ourselves to in the future. In this year’s Bad Ischler Dialogue, the social partners have focused on the motto “Investing in Youth”. The young social partners have shown where to go: To give people, young people, together a perspective for the future. What they considered to be very positive in the youth study, namely that they want a good education and see the way into good training as a way to a good future to support it in it, will also be the task of the future Federal Government. Again, Mr Kickl: I don't need courage to stand here with this Minister of Social Affairs in my back.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-11-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00003_d8e3483	Mr Hundstorfer spoke on a preliminary opinion. The speaking time should not exceed 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-11-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00003_d8e3505	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! Dear visitors! I can already understand that one tries to interfere with the opposition parties on a subject that is perhaps an interesting one for the opposition, through intermediate calls. [[Abg. Ing. Höbart: Authorized!]] I can understand. That's a part of democracy. [[Abg. Kickl: She thinks she was at a union event!]] But I mean, you have to take note of the numbers. [[Abg. Kickl: With numbers you have to be very careful with you!]] Figures that say that we have the lowest unemployment rate in all of Europe. You have to take note of that! You must note that despite rising unemployment, we are massively opposed. You have to take note – whether it is fun or not – that we have had a reduction in unemployment for the past 36 months for the 15-19 years. Whether it's fun or not, you need to take note of this! [[Abg. Kickl: I'm not quite sure everything you tell me is right!]] You must note that we invest 500 million for the 15 to 24 year olds, that we do not look away, but look at it. [[Abg. Kickl: You can't believe anything anymore! You can't believe anything anymore!]] That you do not like that, I can understand, but a little discipline, ladies and gentlemen of the opposition, would not harm you, namely listening. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] In the meantime, Austria is a country whose industrial products were and are an enormous export product. Austria is a country whose agricultural products are partly export goods. And with our tourism we are also a good example of what you can do. But added – and this is all new –: Our political programme has also become an export article, our political programme on guarantee of training! The Swedish Reichstag would not have decided to adopt the Austrian dual vocational training system by 2017 if it were a bad one. And not for nothing, we have the most intensive contacts with Spain, with Greece, with Portugal. Not for nothing is our labour market administration one in the concert of European labour market administrations. We were invited by Mrs Merkel to lead the working group, which is to strengthen cooperation between the employment agencies in order to learn how certain programmes are running. All of this does not come about, but is the result of a consistent policy, the result of what the social partners have done, what the coalition parties have done in the last five years. Whether you're having fun or not is your problem. I can only tell you: The dual vocational training system, which we have in Austria, has now simply become an export hit, because many countries insist on how to get well-qualified professionals. [[Congratulation with SPÖ and ÖVP as well as the Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber.]] We must not rest, no question at all. We can't say everything's good – no, not at all! Of course, there are problems, such as the transition from school and profession, and of course we look there. The project “Youth coaching” has already been briefly sketched. Of course, we don't care that in certain teaching professions the kids don't create the examination, and of course we don't care that some young people break their teaching, change their way or do whatever they do, while the changeover is still the best variant, but the most severe. It doesn't matter to us, it's perfectly clear. As a result, we intensify our activities. Together with our colleague Mitterlehner, we have introduced apprentice coaching. We make this offer available so that something can easily be done if young people have problems or if a farm – that can be, you have to say quite openly – has problems with a young person. We will also strengthen all our activities in this regard, because we do not care that 15-, 16-year-olds do not know where their journey should go. I would simply like to implement and develop this so-called training guarantee, because there are young people – and yes, they are a few thousand – who think that compulsory education has ended and life has passed. These young people must and will not care about us. What also worries me, of course, is the decline in apprenticeships in the first year of education. This is partly demographic, because at the same time we do not have an increase in unemployment among the 15-19 year olds, but rather a fall. Another reason is the entry into schools. This shows that it is also necessary to point out again and again together with the economy: Being an apprentice is a great thing, which is just as great as visiting the AHS upper level, a HAK or an HTL. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP as well as representatives of FPÖ, Greens, Team Stronach and NEOS-LIF.]] We need to get better together – all together. It must also help society. Politics can create framework conditions, we can call together with the economy to certain things, all of that we can do, but we must also as multipliers in daily life participate in the awareness that it is just as great to be an apprentice that it is often a hundred times failed, someone learns something than the AHS upper level costs thousands of euros in follow-up hours. – I can say that quite openly. I really believe that we all have to work together. We commit ourselves to this, and the economy and the social partners have also committed themselves to it, because the experts of tomorrow, of course, do not care about us. That's perfectly clear! As I said first: The industry is one of the few sectors in which we have a plus of apprentices. There are also concerned children, we know that, for example, tourism. The trade, which for the first time after a long period of time has fallen in numbers for the first year of education, is also a child of concern. We are therefore going to act together, and that is to say: Prevention, Enlightenment and Reintegration for those who have left, because getting out of school at 17 or 18 and then finding a new apprenticeship is not always easy. There is also another project, starting from 1. Januaryen is effective – as everything has already been decided, you have decided to do so, because it is contained in laws – namely the “training fit” project, which is to help young people who have very special problems – these are not only disabled young people but also young people who have some development problems. We are starting the project in seven federal states with 600 young people, because I do not care what happens to these young people, but because it is important to me. And if they need four years until the end of the teaching period, they need four years – they should need one year longer! – but it is important that they can complete their teaching. Our training guarantee is also continuing, no question. We have 7 141 young people in the OCTA at the hour. This figure was already higher, but is now falling. Because first there was a laugh about various training courses and so on: This year, we have already been able to communicate 46,300 young adults through the AMS – by offering trainings to them before. Youth coaching has reached 20,000 young people at the hour, of which 7 000 have migration backgrounds – in order to answer this immediately and to show who needs it all; it is those with migration backgrounds less than those without migration backgrounds. [[Abg. Kickl: Great!]] – Well, that’s also a development. [[Abg. Kickl: Great! With migration background, these are the good ones, and the others, these are the bad ones, that is the new model of the SPÖ!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Belakovich-Jenewein.]] – I just wanted you to Give your permanent migration bashing an answer, because that's one of your favorite hobbys. The production schools have already been mentioned. Long speech short sense: Europe has been in Berlin, has given an answer in Paris. The European Community is making available 6 plus 2 billion. The European Investment Bank is making a further 6 billion available. – This is for Europe. We are not involved in these European programmes, and I am glad that we are not there. We have been the initiators of these programmes – both the Foreign Minister and the Federal Chancellor as well as I, everyone at his level, were the initiators of these programmes – but I am glad that we are not there, because we do not have a single region in Austria where youth unemployment is 25%, and that is the starting point of this programme. I am mistakenly happy that we are the model there, that we are the lead there, that employees are constantly booked by me, just as next week another employee will drive back to Spain. I am very happy about that, and I am very, very happy that we will never get into these programs, that we will never need these programs. [[Abg. Steinbichler: So happy...!]] This is also a value you should take note of. You should know what this is really about. We're the Ideas. We're the drivers. We're the lead. But fortunately we are not affected, and this is also part of what we can contribute to a common Europe. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-11-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00003_d8e3681	I draw attention to the fact that the speaking time of all other participants at the current hour according to § 97a Abs. 6 of the Rules of Procedure shall not exceed 5 minutes. Mr Katzian. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-11-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00003_d8e3706	Good morning, Madam President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen! I mean, in spite of all the calls and calls we can say that we are proud that youth unemployment in Austria does not take on that level as in other European countries. It has already been pointed out that there are 5.6 million young people under 25 in Europe without work. Today, when we discuss youth employment and how youth employment can be secured in the future, I expect a discourse on ideas, a debate on what could be done better, but not that there is a pity about how the crackers are and prevents each other from talking normally with each other. The House has not deserved this, and we do not need to say it, especially those who constantly want to explain democracy to us. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Kickl: We can still talk about what this house did not deserve! We will talk today about what this House has not deserved!]] – Yes, I meant you, Mr Kickl. Get in touch with me! [[Abg. Kickl: You may need this even more than some others!]] Mr Kickl, speak. Tell me what you think! It's all right, I don't have a problem with it at all. But don't always explain democracy to others as you scream in and prevent there from being a proper discourse. This has nothing to do with a normal discussion. The Federal Minister has already pointed out, ladies and gentlemen, the reasons for Austria's being better on youth unemployment than on other European countries. One main reason is the relatively low total unemployment rate of 4.9%. We still have a decline in unemployment among the 15-19 year olds, which is also linked to the demographic decline. The Federal Minister has also pointed this out. But the heart of the good employment situation of young people is dual vocational training and the vocational education and training schools we have in Austria, and also a very successful youth labour market policy for all those who have not found any place in these systems – for whatever reason – with a very high use of taxpayers' money. Examples such as the training guarantee, the project “Action Future Youth”, youth coaching and others more have already been mentioned. I would like to address the success model of teaching because it is very important to me that teaching in Austria continues to have a central role in the employment of young people. It has already been pointed out: In the context of apprenticeship training, not everything is so that you could say, that's right, but there you need measures and impulses for the future. A subject is certainly the question of the image of apprentices. The situation is still that someone who is an apprentice has a different image in the public than someone who attends a middle or higher school. Therefore, in the context of teaching, it is not only necessary to stress that it is equivalent, but also a corresponding position throughout the structure, e.g. by introducing further measures for permeability from apprenticeship training to higher education qualifications – to Matura and, subsequently, for those who want it, also to attend a university. [[Congratulation of the Abg. Kirchgatterer.]] In apprenticeship training, there is a quantity problem and a quality problem. The quantity problem is that the total number of apprentices is down, that, despite massive funding, only 35 000 farms in Austria are training. I would also like to make an appeal to the companies to which employers are addressed that we should increasingly take in apprentices that there should be more apprenticeships. It is not enough to be lamented at irregular intervals that there is a shortage of skilled workers. If you want good professionals, you have to train them. I would like to address this appeal to all those who have the opportunity to do so. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Mein Ladies and gentlemen, apprenticeship training also has a quality problem. It is still that way – and you can now discuss whether the black sheep are or not – that there is not a big problem in not a few farms, because apprentices are used as cheap auxiliary workers and are not trained properly and in high quality. There is a need for appropriate measures. For example, funding can only be paid more than if certain training benchmarks are fulfilled. It is also to ask specifically in such establishments why they have broken down their teaching. Overall, ladies and gentlemen, the situation in Austria is good with regard to youth employment. We know, however, that we need to put forward clear measures for the future, some of which I have outlined. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-11-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00003_d8e3786	Mr Haubner has now come to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-11-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00003_d8e3808	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mr. Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) It has already been mentioned that youth unemployment is at a very high level in Europe. Some media are already talking about a lost generation. If you look at the statistics: On average, youth unemployment is 23 percent, with countries such as Greece and Spain at 50 percent. It can be seen that the dual training model has proved to be successful – both in Germany, which has the lowest youth unemployment and in Austria, which is just behind it. It is true that in Austria, we are in a very good position for the 15 to 24 year olds. There is always something to improve – that has already been said by the Minister and that is undoubtedly undisputed – but we must say that we have a good overall system consisting of dual training, vocational schools and, of course, also the technical education system in which we young people are perfectly prepared for the labour market and where they are trained in practice. If we hear today that €500 million is being invested in youth in the field of vocational training, we must also note that entrepreneurs are investing a lot in young people. If one looks at the fact that about 80 percent of young people are trained in the enterprises in dual training, this is a clear language, namely that entrepreneurs have the greatest interest in providing young people with a well-founded training and a job and that they can also build on the relevant specialist in the future. In the “world, ” an article on dual education recently appeared, saying that it is“ so obvious that you have to keep in mind how good it is. ” I quote: “On average, four days a week in operation, one day in vocational school. practical experience from the beginning. And an employer who knows his apprentice and is interested in taking over him.” – This is excellent. When you look at how it is in other countries: There's only the vocational school. There is no way for young people to be trained in practice. “Long-term studies show that people with this training in the labour market are more successful than those who have only learned their profession in a vocational school,” the above article quotes an OECD employee. I think that's our model. Therefore, one should thank the entrepreneurs who train. They know why they train: Because it is a win-win situation, an excellent situation for an entrepreneur who trains a worker he has afterwards also available as a specialist, and also an excellent situation for the youth who learns a profession in the company and thus has the opportunity to practice this profession afterwards as a specialist! We see that we are doing a lot in this area, and this also shows us that we should continue this path of dual training consistently. Improvements are definitely indicated. Mr Katzian mentioned that entrepreneurs have some problems with young people. I believe that the root of the problem is not in the business community, nor in the youth, but it may be in the previous training. If an apprentice no longer masters reading, writing and basic accounting, then the company cannot reclaim within three years in training. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Rossmann.]] However, the enterprises also take up such young people and see them train them and give them an opportunity to become integrated into the labour market. I think that is a real policy of opportunity for young people, and we have done excellent work there. I would also like to say one thing: Our apprentices are among the best in Europe! This shows the EuroSkills and the WorldSkills. These are, as it were, the European and World Championships of vocational training. Last year we made 22 medals at the European Championships and eleven medals at the World Championships. That is, not only the enterprises have quality, but also the apprentices. This is the way to continue, and I therefore think that the entrepreneurs are our subcontractors. I'm sorry, sir. I'm sorry, but I'm sorry. We should support them on their way; with penalty payments or threats of punishment, as Mr Katzian has said – I must say that already! – we will not achieve anything in this relationship. We need incentives because incentives are what Austria has made successful. Ladies and gentlemen, “Handwerk has golden ground,” says an old proverb. In response to this, I say: Good training, whether school or professional, has a strong future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-11-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00003_d8e3887	The next speaker is Mr Klubobmann Strache. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-11-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00003_d8e3908	Madam President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! If one lights the current hour of the SPÖ, then one must insist that of course courage is already to be spoken of, insofar as such a current hour is, in view of the situation, “mighty” in the sense of an increase of the young people who have no work in Austria today. – Perhaps it is the courage of despair on the part of the Social Democrats, otherwise it cannot be described. Mr Minister, it is clear that once again here you sing the well-known song that in Austria luckily everything is better than in other countries, and then make comparisons. There are, of course, always the most negative examples, such as Spain, Greece and other countries, and one tries to create the picture that in Austria everything is best, and one can knock on the legs, how great one is – while, of course, we have the highest youth unemployment today compared to the last decades, and that is no reason for joy, Mr Minister. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] This is a cause for concern, a reason for finally ensuring more action and ultimately taking the problem seriously – and no reason to reject self-satisfaction and pray the whole thing as you do. I'm saying it's okay. The president of the Upper Austria Chamber of Workers, Johann Kalliauer, complained only last week that youth unemployment in Austria is on a historic high. What to sing You're here for jubilant choirs? This is an increase of the Austrian young people between 15 and 24! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] You can't figure out here and say, Great! Great! We're making such a great policy! - No, there's more done. I say that if you look at the figures – 76,250 young people affected by them – this is the highest youth unemployment in Austria. And with your numbers we know that you have to be very careful, because before the election there is no budget hole, after the election the budget hole appears at once, then it is gone again, like the monster of Loch Ness. These are your unbelievable patterns. So I am very, very careful on this question too. But one also turns out: In the euro area it is the most disastrous. That's interesting, too. You did not light this up today, and you have, of course, argued like the trade unionist – today seems to be trade union hours at all – by being held: Quantity and quality problems. – Yes, then one should also critically question the government: How does a quantity and quality problem arise in this area? We have a shortage of skilled workers – yes, that is the case – and we have young people who are unemployed today and have no education. And what is it about? – Here we are again on the original problem of the education system, which becomes visible in the PISA study 28 percent of compulsory school-trained young people cannot read meaningfully, have problems in basic accounting methods and much more. [[Admissibility at the FPÖ]] Yes, that's the basic problem: They breed in your school system, where you have made educational experiments over the last decades, ultimately young people who have no chance of finding then a teaching profession that has no chance of building up a existence at all. [[Admissibility at the FPÖ]] That's where we've got to go. – You have completely left this out and hidden it today. Who did the good Blum-Bonus, Mr. Minister? Who is that who has abolished a good system of promoting apprenticeships in cooperation with the companies, a very, very good model, where one has just helped companies to ensure more training places, in the course of which we must now experience the negative effects? - That's you! And then you come here and say you've done everything, you've done everything and you're not aware of any guilt?- Oh, my God! – I say that some of your side has finally gone in the wrong direction. We have a great responsibility here. I fear, however, that this government will soon be suffocated in a new edition to be expected as before, and I say that one should actually go here and call the party that has failed to do so by name. That's the SPÖ. The SPÖ is today the party of unemployment – otherwise it cannot be described. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] They manage unemployment. You park the people in any training courses – which you have to ask once, because what are they for training? This is a pure parking, a pure management, in part with training measures with which people cannot start anything at all, just so that they disappear from unemployment statistics in the short term. This is your responsibility, and I say that you are acting helplessly here and perhaps even in the end with mechanisms to freeze the statistics. So we're not going to go on, and I'm saying there's no reason to pray because anything's beautiful. There is no reason to present here, Mr Klubobmann Schieder, anything as if one could knock on the thighs. On the contrary! There's really a lot that's required.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-11-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00003_d8e4015	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Honey. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-11-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00003_d8e4036	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! 7.6% of youth unemployment and 9% of those 20 to 24 years of age are also a problem. The Minister has invited us today to work together on solving this problem. Mr Katzian has also said that he wishes to see a constructive, intensive debate on this subject. But I must ask you already, ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ, but also of the ÖVP: Why Prevent You then that we have sufficient time on the base of good documents in the committees responsible for this, are finally starting to deal with this issue? [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Why Prevent Are you setting up the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs or the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs to address this important issue? – I tell you, this is not all right, even because of the many young people who still need our support. Ladies and gentlemen! 7.6 percent of youth unemployment – we Greens are ready for a constructive debate. This requires a critical analysis first; it has been mentioned in part. The basis for good youth employment is education reform. A quarter of all compulsory school graduates cannot read, write and count properly. That's a scandal! And I think it is incredible that Mr Haubner, particularly from the EIA, is addressing this problem, the link between the poor basic qualification after compulsory school and the problems that the apprentices have on the labour market. I mean, what party, the representatives of which party have been on the brake for years when it comes to educational reform? – That is really cynical what you have said here, honourable Member. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] However, we also need action in the field of education and vocational guidance. It is still, to a large extent, up to the parents to help them find the right education, the right training place. There are still a lot of parents – or more and more – who are overly overwhelmed. 10 percent of all young people leave the training course after compulsory school. That's a problem. Countries like Slovenia or Poland have a rate of 5 percent – we are 10 percent. At last something has to happen here. All the measures in recent years have not taken place here. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Finally, dual training. I hear different: At the same time, Mr Katzian admits that we need massive reform. And there are really problems. The problems remain with the declines in the courses offered. Only more than 13 percent of all businesses are made up. 45 percent of all apprenticeships are terminated early. Almost half of all young people leave the industry in which they have been trained after the end of their training. What does this mean for the shortage of skilled workers? - I think that's clear to all of us. And finally, the incidence rates: 20 percent of young people do not manage to pass the final exam after completing a teaching. In some sectors it is 30 percent. That's a massive problem. And this is not only the problem of young people – so to speak, the approach adopted by youth coaching – but it is also a quality problem for the training companies. We need quality assurance here in relation to the performance of the training companies. Finally, that's what you're going to do. Look You're finally going there! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Ladies and gentlemen! We Greens are ready to work constructively on this issue. Mr Minister, I would like to stress here that you should not speak of “opposition” when it comes to destructive calls for call, for we are interested in the fact that young people in Austria receive good training and fair jobs. Let us, however, finally work on this problem, let us finally establish the specialist committees, the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs and the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wheeler]] Let us finally deal with it and no longer block Parliamentary work!
ParlaMint-AT_2013-11-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00003_d8e4123	Mrs. Klubobfrau Dr. Nachbaur is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-11-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00003_d8e4145	Say hello to God! Madam President. High house! I see in the problem of youth unemployment a problem that concerns not only Austria but, in fact, Europe in particular. And in this context, my first criticism: The EU and the euro in their current form, I believe, are significantly contributing to this problem. There is a central planning bureaucracy in Europe, and also the euro, this common currency, which was necessarily created there for countries that actually do not fit together, is like a suit that does not fit: One country is too small and the other countries too large. The euro in its current form is robbing the rich countries of their assets and weak countries of their competitiveness. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] I also think it is quite clear that the economic problem and therefore youth unemployment are the greatest in those countries that are net recipients. That's quite clear: We have suffocated these countries through this construction, we have brought them into line with the large banks. Instead of being able to stand on their own feet and act independently and sovereignly, they are tied and shattered, and there, in fact, youth unemployment is really highest. I think that should open our eyes. The unemployment rate clearly shows the failure. The second point I would like to address is the superfluous bureaucracy. In Brussels, about 80 percent of all of our laws we implement here are first designed. This is a huge cost, and the burden lies mainly on our small and medium-sized enterprises, which then have to fight with it every day. I mean, you have to relieve the service providers in our society and not burden them more. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] One must finally give them the air through fewer rules and less bureaucracy to do what they can best to bring innovation to the market. There will also be more jobs for young people. And finally, The location Austria can only work if the framework conditions are business-friendly. We need a different climate, a simplified and fair tax system that favours investment in our country, lower additional wage costs, because the high additional wage costs are very anti-growth, weakening the location and actually cost jobs. Addressed to the ÖVP: There are so many good, smart EIA politicians, but I just don't understand that with the forced memberships. [[Abg. May. Honey: On the topic!]] Here is a small example from the Styria, the end of a Gastro-Verein: There was a nice group of doctors and independent entrepreneurs who met on Thursdays in St. Oswald, where nothing was going on. They cooked there, sang, played music. Within a short time, this group counted 600 members, they made a bit of a contribution in this association. Hardly works – people have a joy – the Chamber of Commerce comes and locks the store to naughtiness, so there must be no such thing! [[Abg. May. Honey: On the topic! We are talking about youth unemployment!]] - That's so strange. I mean, the chambers and all this bureaucracy are blocking the economy. From this point of view, for me the bow is stretching towards youth unemployment. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] [[Abg. Brosz: It's not a current hour, it's a colorful hour today!]] You can also see this on the company: Lenzing AG – in the area of social-democratic influence – decomposes people, the Voest no longer builds works in Austria. The entrepreneurs say quite openly that there is no investment in Austria. Ladies and gentlemen, you have to ask the question: Why don't they invest anymore? These are the framework conditions you have created! Entrepreneurs no longer trust peace in Austria. We have a problem at all with political culture in Austria. Many government officials do not have the competence to manage the country properly, and then compensate it through rhetoric. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] [[Abg. Dr. Pilz: Where did you find this speech?]] - I found them in my head. We need a business-friendly climate – now I am coming to the end – that attracts investors and that strengthens performance providers in our country. Only in this way can we ensure that there will be jobs and training places for young people in the future, but that seems to be not what some people here want to hear. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-11-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00003_d8e4261	Mrs Dr. Mlinar is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-11-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00003_d8e4283	Madam President. Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Spoštovane lady in gospodje! The young people in Austria are not bad, especially in the European comparison. This is a snapshot, however, and it has no stock if you look a little beyond the edge of the plate or into the near future, because: Many of the indicators are on red, generation-righteousness is also in danger in our country, and young people here too are under immense pressure and fear of the future. – Young people shouldn't have that. An up-to-date view of Europe – figures that we have heard more often today, but because they are so impressive, I would like to repeat them: [[Abg. Vilimsky: Don't read! Speak!]] 5.5 million of those under 25 are without a job. In twelve European countries, over 25 percent are without employment, 55 percent in Spain and Greece. [[Abg. Dr. Hübner: This is well known!]] Being a young person without work, however, means not only material and economic distress, but above all also a lack of possibilities for life and design. This, in turn, causes the unbearable feeling of being unable to contribute constructively to society through its own abilities and strength. Thus, excessive youth unemployment has an economic, but above all a human dimension and thus far-reaching social impact. The measures to combat this situation in Europe are impressive at first glance when we start from the number of €45 billion to be used in the fight against youth unemployment. However, this does not stand in any relation to the 3,2 trillion € used for bank rescue. In Austria too much money is spent on bank rescue and hypo-rehabilitation, while in education and other expenditure on the future, it is constantly being saved and reduced. [[Abg. Dr. Hübner: “Recommendation: Hypo bankruptcy!”]] The funds used against youth unemployment are not only too little, but also misappropriate. Instead of enhancing people's self-confidence and facilitating the creation of new jobs by companies, many are created in mass courses between parked and state-funded, subsidized cheap jobs on time. However, qualified and self-responsible young people in combination with economic-promoting measures definitely find a suitable job quickly, or they create a job. We should not forgive this opportunity that young people are also able to create their own work. Therefore, there is not the slightest reason in Austria to lean back. The burning problem of youth unemployment is a pan-European problem, including an Austrian one, and it is rapidly approaching itself. It's a double tragedy: Youth unemployment not only means disappointed hopes and destroyed future prospects, but is also the ideal breeding ground for populists and radical movements that promise simple solutions, but never fulfill these promises and thus do lasting and serious damage. NEOS, the New Austria and the Liberal Forum therefore calls for: Instead of beautiful statistics and excessive self- praise, there is a need for sustainable action. It is the task of politics to frighten the young and give hope. It is the task of politics to create framework conditions for each and everyone to lead a successful and successful life according to their own ideas. We at NEOS and the Liberal Forum are available for this. Let's get it started, right now! The Austrian success model – and the dual model is a success model – should also remain a term for the next generations, because we will be measured by our actions and not by beautiful words. - Hvala lepa.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-11-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00003_d8e4349	Mrs Kucharovich has now come to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-11-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00003_d8e4370	Madam President. Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear spectators on the gallery or even in front of the TV devices! Before I start my re-de, I would like to clear up a number mentioned by Mr Strache earlier in his speech. This is once again the typical FPÖ panic mache. Strache speaks of more than 72,000 young people who are unemployed. – The fact is that it is 42 000. So, in the last half hour, 30 000 young people were driven more through the FPÖ into unemployment. It's not like that! [[Abg. Kickl: The disaster is embarrassing with the numbers!]] Nevertheless: Everyone and every youth who is unemployed in Austria is one and one too much. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] ‘Youth employment: Example Austria” – this is the theme of our current hour on the day of children’s rights. Many may now think, beautiful title, but what is behind it? – Estimated Ladies and gentlemen, from my point of view, the foundation and foundation for a functioning society, but also for the future of each and every individual. Imagine, you are growing up in a country where it doesn't matter which school you have attended, what education you have done, whether a teaching or also a completed study: You just don't find a job. This is not freely invented or overwritten by me, but a reality of life for many Europeans. [[Abg. Kickl: There is practical when you can drive to Austria, for example from the east!]] I would like to take an example from my private environment. In my circle of friends, I have a Portuguese who tells me again and again that it is going on in Portugal and that there is no job on the street – no matter what training you have, whether you have a full degree, or whatever, that you just hop from one job to the next, so-called mini jobs to be able to live by yourself. It doesn't work at all. I am not talking about having one's own apartment or financing one's own apartment. [[Abg. Kickl: Actually a shocking state for the EU!]] I would like to support this example of reality, based on a person, even with numbers. Around 5.5 million young people, 15 to 24 years old, are currently unemployed in Europe. Twelve European countries have exceeded the 25 percent mark in the youth unemployment rate, which is even more than 55 percent in Greece and Spain. We in Austria, however, give young people opportunities and prospects. We make it possible to live realities other than those I have described before. [[Abg. Kickl: Don't look good in the EU!]] That is why we have also made a clear commitment to the training guarantee for young people, which is inconceivably important to this age group. We stand by our dual education system. We stand for youth and job coachings, for professional orientations. And we stand at over-company teaching workshops, but without taking the businesses out of duty. However, the problem of the "Generation Internship" has been openly addressed – and this has already been mentioned by colleagues today: Get away with the under- and unpaid internships, of which neither the individual has anything nor we as a whole society! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The field of teaching was also addressed here today. We need better quality criteria. We from the SPÖ stand in total for a life in which we can not only survive in a nutritious way, but really live, live and enjoy our lives. All the more important now is the signal and, above all, the realization that young people throughout Europe are not left in the rain. The breeze was very late, but still recognized. We, namely Austria, serve as the best-practice example for the whole of Europe with our training guarantee model, which was borne by the Federal Chancellor, the Minister of Social Affairs, all of us in the SPÖ and also by the coalition partner. We are also faced with other realities of life and thus fight against essential injustices. The following has already been mentioned: If one is unemployed and without perspective, then the feeding ground for populists is unfortunately large – and it is also important to fight against it. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Oh, call at the FPÖ.]] That is why we are a model for Europe. That is why Europe finally took over €45 billion for the coming years – Europe! – to give young people perspectives and thus a different life. Are you, too, those who constantly intercede and make numbers even more horrendous, even more bad talk and bad letter, to do so! Support It is our model, namely the model Austria, now and in the future in the sense of young people and in the sense of our entire society.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-11-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00003_d8e4475	Mr Wöginger has now come to the fore. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-11-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00003_d8e4498	Madam President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! At the beginning of my speech, I would like to say the following: The current labour market situation in Austria, especially in the field of youth employment, is not a good thing to do. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kickl.]] But, ladies and gentlemen, especially from the FPÖ, it does not matter if we are constantly criticising everything and just talking things bad, and there is nothing to be done if there is a discussion of numbers that are so simply not voting. [[Abg. Kickl: Talk this out with the leitl!]] [[Abg. Dr. Belakovich-Jenewein: Your numbers are not right!]] Let us look at the data and facts on the labour market again! We have the lowest unemployment rate in Europe, but unemployment is increasing, and I say so. We don't care that we have more unemployed than we did in the previous year. Of course, we have to take action here, but we still have the lowest unemployment rate. In the youth field we are second behind the Federal Republic of Germany. – These are the facts, ladies and gentlemen. We have 8.7% youth unemployment, around 5 percent, 4.9%, total unemployment rate. In the EU section, the total figure is 11 per cent and 23 per cent for youth unemployment. Employment is increasing. It rose by 20 000 in Austria compared to the previous year. Never before have so many people been in employment when comparing the October figures as in 2013. This should also be mentioned when we discuss the labour market as a whole. The young people are allowed to hold, Austria has a success model. These are dual vocational training and vocational schools. We even have a decline in unemployment among the 15-19 year olds, which is minus 2.8 percent. Overall, however, unemployment increases by 4.5 percent. What have we done in the past – here in Parliament also decided by a presentation of the Federal Government? We have introduced the “Action Future Youth! ” All unemployed between 20 and 24 years of age are offered either for a job, for targeted training or for promoted employment. We must not leave young people on the road. We must give them hope, offer prospects, because unemployment means hopelessness. Especially a young person must not feel that there is no perspective for a job, for a job. That's our job, ladies and gentlemen. We, the Members of the Government, and also this Federal Government have taken this issue very seriously in recent years. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] Just a few comments on this: 80,000 young people have taken on a job due to a training offer. 46 000 were in a course to be prepared for a job. 2 800 young people participate in a work foundation, of which 2 200 participate in a placement foundation. What is a placement foundation? – This is a kind of part-training in which we are particularly concerned with those who do not manage to learn a complete teaching profession. This is the important thing, ladies and gentlemen – there are these thousands of auxiliary jobs that it used to be – no longer: We must grasp those who are not quite able to do it ourselves. That is why the 5 000 young people who leave school, who do not have a degree in compulsory education, have our attention, especially in the near future. This is also the subject of the current government negotiations. 4 900 young people are currently acquiring skills for the labour market. This means that there is a lot to be done, especially among young people. But there too we have seen an increase in the unemployment rate, and that is why we must act. We do not care that we have a total of 42 000, ladies and gentlemen of the FPÖ, not 72 000, 42 000 unemployed young people. [[Abg. Kickl: We'll explain it to you again!]] Every unemployed youth also means a fate, means that we must act – and that is what we do, ladies and gentlemen. Finally, I would like to point out a few points which we can still do: ==References====External links== In any case, the ÖVP is a very important issue for us. We are also on the way to an agreement in the government negotiations. But above all we must also attract the teaching, ladies and gentlemen. This is a social challenge. It's all about how we talk about teaching: What is the importance of teaching in the population? With what appreciation do we meet the apprentices? The apprentices of today are the skilled workers of tomorrow. That is why our overall attention is paid to apprentices, young girls and boys who are ready to learn a teaching profession. We need to talk about the teaching. An apprentice is just as important to us as a student at a trade academy, an HTL or a student. Ladies and gentlemen, attracting lessons is an important recipe for the future in order to further promote youth employment.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-11-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00003_d8e4582	The next item is Mr Themessl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-11-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00003_d8e4604	Madam President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! A nice morning also to all the spectators. The following is immediately addressed to my two previous speakers from SPÖ and ÖVP: These 42 000, which you repeatedly mention, are the official number in your unemployment statistics. I don't know, haven't you read the last broadcast of the Chamber of Workers? – The workers' chamber is well known to be red-occupied. This clearly speaks of 76 000. They do not say that in addition to these 42 000 more than 30,000 are hidden in various foundations, ÜLAs and ÜAZs. In Austria alone, more than 11 000 people are currently hidden in the ÜLAs and ÜAZs, which do not appear in your unemployment statistics. Mr Federal Minister, you have said that the figures speak for themselves. – What your numbers are worth is seen at the current budget debate. The figures you preach here again and again – whether they concern the deficit, the stability path for the next few years or the unemployment rate for both adults and young people – are all beautiful. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] In the course of the budget debate, we have now seen what your figures are worth. Finally stand by the facts and look into the truth! Do you know, Minister of State, what bothers me most? – If you are always preaching here, we need to solve the problem together with the economy. You said one thing right, I'm right. The dual education system in Austria is a world-wide model. I'll give you that. No one, not even the opposition parties, will object to you. But you do exactly the opposite with your youth employment policy! They risk this dual training. I can give you a few figures. Dual training means: the theory in school and practice, the practical execution directly in operation. That's the success model – but that's exactly what you're preventing! They have consistently broken the image of teaching in recent years. Who's loosened the notice of termination for the young people? Who then abolished the quality bonus after half the course? – That was this federal government! And that's how it goes. That's the way it goes seamlessly. Mrs Oberhauser then speaks of ‘high-level training’. You don't actually read newspapers? Do you know what the evil is promised, and not of us? – They are promised to do so by the Industrial Association and they are promised to do so by the Chamber of Labour. They are inefficient, far too expensive, and the drop-out ratio is hugely high. The average duration of stay in a ÜLA is not even a year; but not because the young people are then so well trained that the companies take it – yes, yes – with handcushion. [[Federal Minister Hundstorfer:... be there only one year!]] No, no, no, They then disappear exactly in your unemployment statistics, or you hide them in another program. I know you can't hear the name Blum anymore. I do not know what Mr Blum has done to you, but one thing is clear: With your apprenticeship policy, which you have been running for years, the following has happened: They have lost 12 500 operational apprenticeships since 2008. And what's even more dramatic: In 2008 we had 40,000 establishments in Austria that trained apprentices. This figure is down by 1 000 from year to year. At the moment we still have 33 700 teaching companies in Austria. And then you get here and ask the economy to help solve the apprentice problem or the young people's unemployment problem?- Oh, my God! That's exactly the opposite you're doing! This brings me to your famous offensive, which is now driving the EU. You're talking about €6 billion, which will now be increased by €6 billion in addition. Do you know how many young unemployed people there are in Europe? – 6 million. That is, you are ready to take over exactly €2,000 per unemployed person in the EU if you still increase the funds by €6 billion to implement it. In Austria, a training site in your BLA costs 17 300 €. That would mean: If you turn what is described here as a success model into Europe, then you will have to take over €98 billion a year for 6 million unemployed young people to implement it. Get this up once! What you have not said is that these €2,000 are intended for every unemployed youth you take into your hands for five years. [[Federal Minister Hundstorfer: That's wrong!]] That means that you have to say and write 400 € per year for a unemployed youth and want to solve the problems in Europe?- Oh, my God! I don't know when you finally stop dreaming? It can't be! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign.]] Think about it at last and take concepts back into your hand like the Blum bonus, which showed that he was crowned of success! I do not regard the Chamber of Commerce and Mr Haubner in this respect, because in the Economic Parliament we speak quite differently than otherwise. [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign again.]] A further sentence concerning the alleged decline in the number of unemployed in the first year of education: You know, you should think about family policy once
ParlaMint-AT_2013-11-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00003_d8e4675	Mr deputies, we can't do that! We need to change the Rules of Procedure before that. [[In the case of the FPÖ, please take a look at the box that leaves the speaker's desk. Themessl.]] The next item is the speech by Mr Schmid. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-11-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00003_d8e4706	Madam President. High house! Dear citizens of the Republic! This is my first speech now, and I am so excited, and you are probably excited about it most of the time on your very first working day. The first working day should always be a day of joy, a day of curiosity; but if I look into the world of my friends, my acquaintances, into the world of my college colleagues, of students and of people I still know from my schooling, then unfortunately the whole thing looks a little different. I see that a whole generation is afraid of finding no place in the world of work, that a generation is afraid of taking up a credit for the establishment of their first home, and is afraid of creating a family, because one has to afford children. 40 297 young people under the age of 25 do not have work in Austria, many boys who have work have a bad job; that is, limited time contracts with poor pay, i.e. to move from internship to internship. That means having no idea where to stand in two years today. This is a fear that my parent generation, which many of you are, has not known. [[Rejoicing with the greens.]] In addition, all the crises are still coming. And that's an atmosphere that the majority in Austria now believe that my generation's times are going to be worse than they were for my parents. And I wonder, What happened? I don't just want to run around here. We young people know that there are major upheavals in the world of work and will be much bigger. We know we're not gonna have the same job all our lives. We also know that we have to get up, learn and go. And we also know that probably for us a pragmatic job from the age of 18 and a pension of 50 years will not be the reality anymore. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] At the same time, we young people are quite sure that this new reality in politics has not yet arrived in such a way that this mood, this life feeling of my generation in this hall with the charm of the fifties has not yet arrived. We could improve and change so much in this Parliament. For example, if we want students to discover their talents at school, we only need more good teachers, who also promote this. That's so simple. And if we want a young person to find a good teaching position easier, then we as a state need to have an eye to ensure that our apprentices are not only sent to the sausage collection, but that they are really made in the establishments of the labour market and future. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the Abg. Dr. Strolz.]] If we want a young person to really get into the working world after training, for example, the AMS could subsidize two thirds of the entry level. That would help tens of thousands, at the same time it probably cost the state nothing at the end. If we want a boy who has a cool idea to start a start-up company, we could also decide here in this House to stop making life difficult for him, for example with excessive bureaucracy. Or we end up with these complicated SVA repayments. Or we could invest in green jobs. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] It is here in this Parliament, ladies and gentlemen, as much as possible, we only have to do it, and we only have to trust ourselves to improve youth employment – so that my generation can really look forward to the first working day and to the future in the world of work, as I was pleased to give my first speech in the National Council today. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-11-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00003_d8e4791	Mr Steinbichler is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-11-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00003_d8e4812	Madam President. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Dear spectators on the visitor gallery and on the televisions! I am grateful that I am able to work in this House again and can therefore also serve the citizens. I would like to take the motto of a famous bank as a work motto for the next time: “Let’s save our lives”! If I have heard the speeches so far, I have already felt with some colleagues how far they are from reality and how much they like to talk about statistics. I believe, Mr Wöginger, that neither the beautiful speech nor the slender step is appropriate. There is an agricultural saying: the golden middle path. I'm allowed to make a comparison from my native profession, from agriculture. There one also speaks of the successful agricultural policy, that fewer and fewer farms close, but forgets that half have already closed. And this comparison is likely to go hand in hand with this discussion. One is so proud of the decline in youth unemployment. I mean, 41 000 are 41 000 too much, it is very much about Austria's economic location. I'm allowed to quote our party founder Frank Stronach. [[Call the ÖVP: Where is he?]] [[Abg. Strache: The refusal to work is called that!]] – I could also ask this question concerning other colleagues. – But, Mr Wöginger, an answer: The main point of his statements was that companies, corporations and companies – and we just in the Vöcklabruck district at Lenzing AG have this case, which is too serious to blunder – which with their profits move abroad, belong to tax. Whoever invests in the site, who secures regional jobs, who secures regional purchasing power, secures youth jobs. This is the subject, ladies and gentlemen. We need to be quite honest about this. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] At this point, thanks to all 35 000 establishments willing to train apprentices. That's not always the simplest thing. It would be much easier to recruit skilled workers or hire workers. And thanks to the parents and the apprentices who are willing to take such an apprenticeship job. Because here was so loosely spoken of by the breakers of the doctrine. - Please, sometimes we're too far away from the farms. These relationships that once existed between family and farmers – go, take my boys as an apprentice, take my daughter as an apprentice! –, there is no longer in shape. It has all been estranged by internationalization. I think we should also talk about what the value in society looks like. How are we, when it says, now the son learns electrician, mechanic, roofer or spengler – or the daughter confectioner or hairdresser? Are they then valued in the same way? Or, in most cases, the second approach raises the question: Well, they can't study, can't they continue their education? – I qualify for excellent training, we need it, we need good people in research and product development in particular – but we must not “speak” those who are willing to make basic work in production. In addition to the necessary remuneration, we must also show the necessary appreciation, including social, but especially political. That's very, very essential. I am really, I say, concerned about what is happening at our economic location in Upper Austria right now; I think that can also be referred to all over Austria. It is not a nice Christmas that awaits these people; it has to do with youth unemployment. When these companies migrate, we have no more teaching places there, very valuable teaching places that we have so far had. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] Mr Katzian, I do not think that you should also be labeled as a "cracker" who is not your opinion here. You shouldn't do that, we should talk to each other fairly. We should work together to improve this situation, improve it sustainably, across the political groups – so much is said about sustainability. Regional jobs also have environmental protection to deal with regional economic power. We are all talking about the thinning of rural areas, the thinning of these valuable small and medium-sized enterprises. I'm thinking about the family connection. If you can work near your home location, it is not only pleasant from the time of arrival, from working time, but also from the contacts, to the music club, to the sports club, where you are an active member. In this sense, I may appeal on the day of children's rights: Let us give the families and thus the young and the apprentices a chance! Our goal should be that we can earn and spend money from active, attractive economy to use as tax money for the unemployed. In this sense, I would like to ask for good cooperation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-11-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00003_d8e4874	Mr Mag. Loacker is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-11-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00003_d8e4896	Madam President. Mr. Minister! Honourable Members! Youth unemployment is very low – this can be emphasized positively. But we also need to look at what price. If young people are provided in over-company apprenticeship training, it is better than if they are unemployed. But that also costs something, and the money we spend for it we have to take somewhere. 8 percent of apprentices can be found in such over-company apprenticeship training. In addition, the young people, who, like adults, are provided by the AMS in any course. What has not been illuminated today are those young people who are almost hiding in the university because the tuition fees are either low or are not lifted at all. Then you hang on to another semester or still do the master, although you would have liked to work after the Bachelor's degree. If such a student is studying a little and has a part-time job alongside him, he does not count as unemployed either. Government parties have an advantage: Demography will meet them. Youth unemployment will continue to decline because of the fact that we will have fewer young people, I am optimistic. The opposite will occur: We will be more and more faced with the problem of the need for young people to learn the qualified professions that will not exist then. Today, the industry – eight out of ten companies report this – has problems getting the right young people for technical professions. It has already been said by Mr Klubobmann Strache that they cannot read, write and calculate. The NEOS also drummed this in the election campaign: A quarter of the 15-year-olds cannot read meaningfully. I ask the young people in my private profession in my interview: How much are 10 percent of 250? – But there are many young people with 15, who cannot answer this question in their heads, some not even with a note. We have already heard the question of the image today from the trade union side, by Mr Katzian. I share your assessment, we need to do something about the image of apprenticeship training. But here I address the question to the trade unions – it is up to you –: Why are young people not automatically taken into the employee relationship when they have completed the teaching? - Because the workers' and employees' unions get into the hair. That's how it looks! The young people, when they have completed a teaching, must have the same collective contractual classification as those who have a school degree. There too is the ball with you. Vocational training courses for people with skilled qualifications, with a degree in teaching, cost money; Vocational training courses for maturants, for students at the university are free of charge. There is something wrong with those who make a teaching and pursue a different training. Now a look at the promotions. – You spend a lot of money on promoting apprenticeships, but no one can see it anymore. For an apprenticeship there is a basic funding, there is a special funding for apprentices over 18, a promotion for apprentices with learning difficulties, in turn a promotion if the apprentice makes an internship abroad. If the apprentices make further education and training, this will be promoted if the trainer makes further training, it will be promoted. The preparatory courses for the examination of the course will be supported, the examination of the course will be supported with good and excellent success. There is another takeover premium for apprentices from over-company training centres, and girls working in typical men's occupations will be further promoted. [[Abg. May. Arbitrators: Do you want to get rid of this?]] All of this can't be overlooked by a small company. It's great that there's so much money, but who's filling up all the papers, and who's the public officials and the chamber staff working these things in the background? It all costs a lot of money. Who cares about this bureaucratic monster? I think we have a good starting point, but there is still a lot to do.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-11-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00003_d8e4936	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. [[10:31:02]] Entry and allocations
ParlaMint-AT_2013-11-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00003_d8e4958	As regards the negotiated items and their allocations, I refer to them according to § 23 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure to the communication distributed at the meeting room. The written communication shall contain the following text: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[10:31:14]] Announcement of a urgent request
ParlaMint-AT_2013-11-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00003_d8e5096	According to § 93 para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure requested urgent consideration of the written question 34/J tabled before the entry into the agenda by Mr Strache, colleagues and colleagues to the Federal Minister for Finance concerning the disinformation policy on the budgetary situation of Austria. Under the Rules of Procedure, the request for urgent procedure will be discussed at 3 p.m. at the latest. [[10:31:46]] Announcement of an application for the establishment of an investigative committee
ParlaMint-AT_2013-11-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00003_d8e5120	Deputies Dr. Glawischnig-Piesczek, colleagues and colleagues have, in accordance with § 33 para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure requested the use of an investigative committee to investigate political and legal responsibility in connection with the accusation of a budget lie of the Federal Government (Budget Lie Investigation Committee). In addition, this is the case of five delegates, according to § 33 para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure proposed that a debate be held on this request. According to § 33 para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure shall be debated and put to the vote after completion of the agenda. We are now going into the agenda. Text-to-Speech Limitation
ParlaMint-AT_2013-11-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00003_d8e5151	The President-in-Office of the Council agreed on the design and duration of the agenda's debates. On item 1, statements by the Federal Minister for Defence and Sport and the Federal Minister for the Interior, a debate takes place in accordance with § 57 para. 3 Z 2 of the Rules of Procedure is unprejudicially designed as follows: the first round of speakers by group strength with 8 minutes, the second and the third round by group strength with 5 minutes each, thus a total of 108 minutes. On the agenda items 2 to 6 was unprejudicial in accordance with § 57 para. 3 Z 2 of the Rules of Procedure agreed that, at all first readings, a round of speakers should be held each time with a group size of 5 minutes, with the group applying for a first reading. We shall now proceed to the vote. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this proposal to give a sign in this regard. – This is unanimously accepted. [[10:33:51]] 1. Point Declarations by the Federal Minister for National Defence and Sport and the Federal Minister for the Interior pursuant to Article 19(2) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Council on ‘Austrian measures for the defence of intelligence activities’
ParlaMint-AT_2013-11-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00003_d8e5199	We'll get to the 1st. Agenda item. Following this declaration, a debate will take place within the meaning of Article 81 of the Rules of Procedure in accordance with the present request. I now give the floor to the Federal Minister for Defence and Sport. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-11-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00003_d8e5229	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Dear spectators at home in front of the TV sets! Dear gentlemen generals! I would like to take advantage of this meeting today to bring a little light into the dark around the activities of Austrian intelligence services, and to take this opportunity actively. The material that the ex-NSA employee Edward Snowden distributes at regular intervals in the media, the debate that was set up on it, and some claims that have also been made here in Austria by members of this house, require clarification and also demarcation. I hope that I will succeed, especially with those Members who are members of the House for the first time in this legislative period, in order to understand the need and the essence of the activity of our services. The Republic has two intelligence services and a security authority relevant to the current subject complex: the Federal Office for Constitutional Protection and Anti-Terrorism, in short, BAT, which is located in the inner resort of the esteemed colleague Mikl- Leitner, the Army Defense Office and the Army News Office, both located in the defence department. These three institutions differ as regards both their competence, their powers, their scope of action and their legal basis. Internationally, in democratic states, it is extremely common to have three or more intelligence services or security authorities carrying out different tasks in this area. There are also several intelligence services in Germany to address an obvious example. In addition to the Federal Intelligence Service, which is responsible for foreign education, there is the Federal Office for Constitutional Protection and Military Protection. This has the advantage, among other things, that there can be no concentration of powers, of resources and information in one hand and, in my view, it is an effective protection against abuse. It is precisely this objective that also pursues the current division in Austria. I therefore consider the demand for a superservice, as expressed there or there, to be particularly worrying about the current debate on counterproductive, even democratic, policy. You could also talk about a bear service. So what about us? Just to the BAT. – In Austria, honourable Members, the Federal Office for Constitutional Protection and the fight against terrorism for internal security is the competent authority. Among its tasks are the protection of constitutional bodies, the defence of threats to terrorism and the defence of espionage. This is also the reason why the BAT has started investigations on the question of possible espionage activities of the NSA in Austria and not the HNAA or the Defense Office. Both services located in the department of defence do not have any authority here. They can support a maximum of the investigations. In addition to the BAT, one of the two intelligence services of the Department of Defence is mainly active in the country, namely the Army Defense Office. However, his jurisdiction is limited to the self-protection of the Austrian federal army. It is, if you so wish, ladies and gentlemen, the work protection of the Austrian federal army. It is, for example, about the defence of sabotage and other criminal acts against members of the Austrian federal army, about matters of electronic defence and thus the protection of military networks or about the activity in the context of cyberdefense and assistance in this field. In order to be able to carry out its tasks effectively, the Defence Office of course also works closely with the Austrian security authorities, with which we come to the Army News Office, the Austrian intelligence service, which is in the most media and political focus in the debate around Snowden and the NSA. The Heeres- Nachrichtenamt, in short HNAA, is the strategic foreign intelligence service of the Republic and thus responsible for foreign education. The HNAA is thus early warning system and security service provider of the Republic and for the population. It sets out the situation of countries relevant to Austria, which serves as a basis for decision-making for political and military leadership. Let me give you two examples. It is crucial for the security of our Austrian soldiers in foreign operations to know at an early stage about the situation in the field. This begins with the observation of the large political weather situation in the country and goes to concrete information about planned attacks on Austrian convoys, patrols or camps in which our soldiers are stationed. This protects the lives of our peacekeeping forces in foreign operations. By the way, the Austrian police also benefit significantly from this situation, if it is in use abroad, such as in Kosovo, and it also serves as a basis for the travel warnings issued by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to protect Austrians from damage. However, the information provided by the HNAA also serves to protect Austrian citizens, if they are in distress in areas of crisis. For example, this year the HNAA supported the work of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs in the recovery of Austrian hostages from Yemen. [[Abg. May. Steinhauser: Can you get to the point!]] The fact that Dominik Neubauer was living at the beginning of May and that the circumstances could be brought to Vienna in the same way is also a merit of the Army News Office. They will understand that we have refrained from marketing this success and public shoulderbeat. [[Call the Greens: What?]] This is due to the nature of intelligence services. They are working in silence, and especially if everything goes well, there is neither praise nor laurels, because very few have performed the successful work. [[Abg. Dr. Pilz: Sorry, that's embarrassing! Painful!]] I would like to come to another point which has been widely discussed in the last few days and weeks. [[Abg. May. Kogler: This is a speech for the Young Citizens' Celebration in Hinterstoder!]] Yes, in order to be able to carry out these important tasks as outlined above, our Austrian services work on a case-by-case basis and within the framework of strict laws with foreign intelligence services. This is primarily about those regions in which our Austrian soldiers are engaged abroad with comrades from other countries. And yes, this also includes the NSA that is currently providing negative headlines worldwide. Austria is now facing the same challenge as countries around the world, such as our European partners and the European Union and its institutions. On the one hand, we have all benefited from cooperation with other services, this cooperation has brought more security to each one of us. [[Pah-Ruf des Abg. Dr. Pilz.]] On the other hand, we face an attack on our data and our privacy, whose extent we would not have thought possible a few weeks ago. [[Abg. May. Steinhauser: A few weeks ago?]] We will need an answer to this, and above all the European Union will have to give an answer, because, ladies and gentlemen, one thing is clear: Individual nation states lack the weight to be able to claim against these big players in the end. However, it will be crucial that, despite the current media and political focus on the US, we do not lose sight of other states having intelligence services. The challenge we face does not become smaller, but I do not think we should close our eyes. Honourable Members! I would like to ask you to understand that I cannot go into detail on the issue of cooperation, since it is also matters of national security. [[Abg. Dr. Pilz: This is your safety – and nothing else!]] However, I would like to speak and reply at any time on behalf of the Subcommittee on the National Defence Committee, which is specifically responsible and confidential for this. [[Abg. Kickl: What are you doing today?]] I would also like to take the opportunity to remove some misunderstandings on this matter from the world. Above all, the Army News Office – also fueled by the last election campaign – was again and again presented as a climbing sticker and handrailer of the NSA. A claim that I refer to the sharpest! The fact is, the HNAA is not active domestically as a foreign intelligence service of the Republic. It has neither a mandate nor the necessary powers. That means in the clear text: A sprinkling of the Austrian population by the HNAA is by no means planned, not possible and does not take place! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] We also do not use mass data, we do not depend on fiber-optic nodes, nor do we pay internet or telephone providers to get their data. A surveillance machine, as they have launched intelligence services from other countries, does not exist in Austria, such as PRISM or Temporarya. The logical conclusion of this is: We cannot pass on data that we do not have to foreign intelligence services either. – This is written to all those in the main book, in whose ideas employees of my department celebrate the privacy of the Austrians on the international data base. The same is not happening! The fact that the Austrian Federal Army and thus the HNAA and the Office of Defense do not support foreign intelligence services in spying on domestic soil is a matter of course and is here only for the sake of completeness. [[Abg. Dr. Pilz: This is a smooth lie!]] All those who want to represent the HNAA as a branch of the NSA in Austria, I must therefore vehemently contradict. These additions do not correspond to the facts and cannot be proved by any facts, and unfortunately I have to conclude that they have been politically motivated and partly raised against better knowledge. For all these things, I not only agree as a political minister, but also respect for all existing laws is strictly monitored by a large number of institutions. [[Abg. May. Stefan: For example?]] In addition to parliamentary control by the already mentioned Standing Subcommittee on the National Defense Committee, there is also a non-constitutional law enforcement officer and his alternate. Not only do they have access to all the necessary documents, premises and staff, they also have to cancel almost every step our intelligence services take. In addition, they shall submit once a year a report on the activities of the intelligence services, which in turn shall be made available to the competent subcommittee. By the way, the current legal protection officer, honourable Members, is the head of the department in Rest Dr. Alfred Mayer, his two alternates are University Professor DDr. Karlheinz Probst and Professor Dr. Ernst Markel, Senate President of the Supreme Court in peace. The qualifications of the three gentlemen are therefore likely to be out of question. In addition, both intelligence services as well as the BAT are fully controlled by different institutions, including the Court of Auditors, the Federal Parliamentary Commission, the Independent Administrative Senates, the Data Protection Commission and the Service and Technical Supervision within the Federal Ministry of State Defense and Sport. In addition, an advertisement by Mr Pilz, which is media-active and just placed at the time of the election campaign, is currently giving us the opportunity to demonstrate, of course, that we are also working with the Public Prosecutor's Office. [[Interlocutory call to the ÖVP]] [[Abg. Dr. Pilz: As an accused person!]] Although it is not publicly visible: My two offices are among the most strictly controlled institutions in Austria. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, I would particularly like to address those Austrians who are watching this debate live on television, on the Internet or directly here in the House. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Kogler]] Since its foundation, the Austrian Federal Army has only achieved a single goal: to protect our homeland Austria and its population from threats, whether they arise domestically or come from outside. All parts of our army are fully in the service of this order, and each part contributes to it. Some people do this clearly, such as our helicopter fleet, our pioneers or our soldiers around the globe in peacekeeping. Others seem to work in secret, such as the Army News Office, the Defense Office, or our special forces such as the hunting command. They do this not because it is something to hide from the public, but because the nature of their task requires it. They are also fully committed to the protection of the Austrian population, without if and but, in part, with the inclusion of high personal risk. In my view, they deserved not only our thanks, but above all our trust. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-11-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00003_d8e5431	Now I grant Mrs. Federal Minister of the Interior. Mikl-Leiter the floor. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-11-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00003_d8e5452	Madam President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen in front of the TV screens! In recent weeks, espionage has been a very central issue in recent months, a topic that has been focused and discussed by all. If we are discussing today in the House the measures to combat illegal intelligence activities, we must of course ask ourselves the following question: Who could be affected by a spinach grip? – There is a need to distinguish between two areas: the public sector and the public sector. In the state field, all administrative units could be affected by espionage. When we talk about the public sector, the economy, science, businesses and, of course, individuals belong to it. All these areas are safe, but the data of each individual citizen, each citizen, are of course just as safe. Mr Klug has already carried it out: In Austria, there are two intelligence services and a security authority dealing with so-called intelligence tasks. Each unit has its very clear competences, each unit has its very clear legal regulatory framework, and of course each unit is subject to legal control and to the various control instruments. The Federal Office for Constitutional Protection and Combating Terrorism is located in the Inner Region, and the BAT officials are working on the basis of the Security Police Act and the Criminal Procedure Code – that is, according to legal principles, such as any police officer or any police officer on the street. Of course, the Army News Office and the Defence Office fall within the competence of the Minister of Defence and also have their legislative and fundamentals, which have already been carried out in detail here. Of course, all three services work together on the basis of an administrative agreement, which, of course, is always adapted and adapted to the corresponding challenges. All three departments have installed legal protection officers, which are an important control tool. Mr Klug has already mentioned this: Of course, parliamentary control is very important. The BAT shall be subject to the control of the Subcommittee of the Committee on Internal Affairs. There, too, I am always happy to speak and answer with my experts when there are details to discuss or sensitive areas to discuss. We know, of course, that these three services, and these three units, can in no way be abandoned. We cannot, therefore, give up on them because, within the meaning of the State, we must fulfil national but also international tasks. am. One of these obligations on the part of the State, as it has to fulfil any other State, is, of course, the protection of its own country. In order to guarantee this security, there is a need for repressive measures, preventive measures, as well as for intelligence. Our task, of course, is to provide protection and security to the international institutions located in our territory. This means that, depending on the situation of the threat, police surveillance of buildings or facilities is also taking place, and that is also clearly regulated in the Security Police Act. Of course, the representative authorities of foreign countries, international organisations, but also, of course, buildings where the experts have a fundamental assessment of the risks involved; then there is surveillance, including civil buildings. It is not a rarity, but the normality that civil buildings, if there is a risk situation, are monitored or controlled by the police. I am thinking, for example, of the Vienna International School or of the Turkish Cultural and Tourist Department, in order to give just two examples. However, it is not only about the protection and security of buildings and institutions, but above all about the protection of data: it is about the protection of data of the state, but also about the protection of the data of individuals, of the economy and also of science. This is certainly a very big challenge. Cybercrime, economic espionage, industrial espionage are undoubtedly the key challenges in the 21st century. ==References====External links== The role of protecting information systems and protecting critical infrastructure is becoming increasingly important, both on the part of the state and on the part of the economy. Why do I emphasize that? – Because we simply know that, in addition to political stability, in addition to the know-how of our workers and the infrastructure in the present day, the safety of information technology is very important, that the safety of information technology is becoming an increasingly important factor for the economic location. Knowledge is capital – knowledge of the economy, science, research – and this capital must be protected from theft, and espionage is nothing but theft of information. If we cannot guarantee this protection, we all know that it can have fatal consequences, economic consequences, which ultimately also have an impact in the form of millions of damage. But not only does it remain with material damage, but these material damage go hand in hand with the loss of know-how, go hand in hand with the loss of jobs, the weakening of the social system and social peace. In order to be able to exercise our responsibility in Austria, namely to protect data, information, knowledge properly both in the private and in the public sector, I will be committed to setting up my own Cyber Security Center in the course of the government negotiations. We, the Minister for Defence and I, are on a very good path in the working group, because we are simply aware of this importance. In addition, it is also important to me that in the future there will be an even more intensive cooperation between politics, the economy and society. We now have a very reliable Austria with the curatorium Safe Austria Partners at hand, there are very good contacts to solve these tasks together. [[The President-in-Office of the Council shall take over the Presidency.]] I therefore say “to be able to solve these tasks together” because we know that no state, no company, no organization can ultimately achieve and guarantee the security of digital infrastructure alone. This requires the close alliance of all stakeholders. If we want to have full listening and spying and thus also mutual suspicions belonging to the past, I believe we need increased European cooperation. In view of the fact that the NSA affair is up-to-date, let me address a very important point, a very great concern here, namely the creation of a European data area. In a common European effort, we must strengthen the digital economy, strengthen the European security economy and, above all, protect it, because only in this way can we remain operational in the future in the security field. What does that mean? – From my point of view, this means that we have to deal with the following things: We simply need increased European investment in the digital economy, we need an EU internal market for secure and reliable cloud services. Only if core components, which are important for our security, are developed in Europe, produced in Europe and comply with our European safety standards can we guarantee the protection of data for Europe. If we develop our own systems to protect our data, it has the advantage that we do not run a risk – let me formulate this salopp! – to buy our alarm systems from a potential burglar. What does that mean in concrete terms? – In concrete terms, this means that we need a single European encryption system, with the advantage of keeping data in Europe and making Europe independent. Moreover, we need European safety standards, i.e., not 28 safety standards in the future, but a common safety standard. However, this also means that it is important to create a European server landscape, with a view to preventing and excluding the access of unnecessarily-needed third parties. This means that the e-mail transport within the European Union will actually remain within the European Union. We all have to be very clear about the fact that there is no way by such a common European procedure. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! However, it is not only the strengthening of European technology, but also, above all, the continued cooperation of intelligence services – cooperation at European level, but also at international level, of course under very clear legal regulations, under clear legal frameworks and with common understanding and mutual trust. Especially in recent months, this common understanding and mutual trust has become out of balance, and now it is about correcting that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-11-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00003_d8e5575	Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister. I am now the first speaker to give Mr Klubobmann Mag. Arbitrator the floor. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-11-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00003_d8e5608	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! Minister! Thank you very much for your explanations, because you have also given the opportunity to discuss these questions in detail here in the House from the point of view of the Minister of Defence and from the point of view of the Minister of the Interior. In recent weeks and months there have been many, including media, discussions. I believe it is also necessary to say here that Mr Edward Snowden, with his revelations, not only risked his life and – at least under US law – committed a breach of law, but, of course, raised important questions, presented documents where important questions arise for people in Austria, in Europe and probably worldwide. It seems that the NSA has been listening to telephone calls from 35 Heads of Government and has monitored or at least introduced programmes such as Prism and Tempura to monitor Internet and telephone connections by millions of citizens. In Spain alone, the NSA is expected to have collected over 60 million connecting data within two months, even 70 million in France at the same time. Diplomatic representative authorities are said to have been heard, and even the OPEC in Vienna should have been affected. We do not know whether these accusations are true or not, but only the presumption that it could be so, and that there are documents that prove that it could be so, which naturally raises many questions. [[call to the FPÖ]] It is important, I believe, to find European models and ways to ensure the protection of such people as we call Whistleblower, so that in the future people who want to protect the European civil society, the privacy of people will have the opportunity to say this clearly in the future. Whoever says the truth is not a criminal, and whoever says the truth shall not be punished, as if he were a criminal! This is a very important principle in Europe. Therefore, I would also like to say the following: Mr Snowden's respect for the courage and commitment is due, in particular here, to a circle of democratically elected Members. [[In the case of the SPÖ, representatives of the Greens and the European Parliament, the Committee of the Regions and the Economic and Social Committee, the Committee of the Regions and the Economic and Social Committee, the ……]] [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: Asylum!]] We know, in order to say that clearly, the question: Asylum or not asylum?, is not one that we can decide for ourselves, it depends more on the rule of law structure and, above all, on the one who raises the asylum question itself before we can put it here. [[Abg. Dr. Pilz: Offer! Offer!]] It is, however, an important debate, and I think it is good for Parliament to discuss these sensitive issues here at the beginning of the session. It is about finding the right balance between security and freedom. Whenever you throw up this topic, you come to the following quote from Benjamin Franklin: “Whoever gives up freedom to gain security will lose both at the end.” It is interesting that it was an American who shaped this quote, although this freedom as a central fundamental right – the protection of fundamental rights – is one of the fundamental foundations of European unity, because Europe was the origin of fundamental and human rights. They have emerged in Europe, they have emerged through the Council of Europe, where Austria is currently chairing, they have spread internationally from there and have been anchored by the United Nations. I therefore believe that it is especially in the interest of the European States to defend and protect fundamental rights, and the fundamental right to data protection and the fundamental right to privacy are central to this. If you look at how this debate is being held in the USA, you can see that we have a different understanding between Europe and the USA. Perhaps Europe is too broad, because British understanding is very often one that is much closer to the US. It must be said, however, that privacy in Europe is a crucial asset. We have to tell the United States quite clearly. I also believe that it is a foreign and European policy issue, both for Austrian foreign policy and for European policy, that this is clearly represented against the US and, of course, also made clear in the decisive negotiations. In Austria, the fundamental right to data protection is enshrined in the Data Protection Act, and there it says: ‘Each person shall be entitled, in particular in respect of respect for his private and family life, to the confidentiality of the personal data concerning him, in so far as there is a legitimate interest in it.’ This is a section in the Data Protection Act, more precisely the first one that is not just a simple law, but has constitutional rank. And we also express that this is a very central point for us, as a society. The essential strength of a rule of law is also the fact that powers of police and intelligence services are clearly defined and are also subject to democratic control. I am glad that this has been stressed in the two communications today, because any intervention in fundamental rights must be justified and justified in individual cases. And the work of the intelligence services in Austria is subject to strict control. The services of the Ministry of Defence are examined by the Parliamentary Subcommittee of the National Defence Committee. We will also use these committees today so that this work can continue seamlessly again. And those of the BAT, i.e. the Ministry of the Interior, are discussed and controlled by the Parliamentary Subcommittee of the Committee on the Interior. Both committees are being established today so that this work can continue. We also have an independent legal protection officer who can consult any act or operation of the intelligence services. We have also sent an Austrian expert to the European Task Force, which has been set up, so that we can also actively participate in this discussion. Perhaps a very important point, in this context: A data protection agreement is currently being discussed between the European Union and the USA. Austria will play a central role in this discussion and will always be among those who insist that these fundamental rights are firmly anchored and also strongly discussed. We will not give it peace, but we will continue to see that this happens. I am glad that what Commissioner Reding has said in recent days goes exactly in this direction. But it has also been said here to the citizens: Of course, we are also facing a technical challenge, because the Internet has created opportunities to an extent that it did not exist a few years ago, decades ago. Therefore, we need to technically analyze what is possible to suggest the bar, but also to say clearly: Every individual who is active on the Internet must also be aware that he sometimes publishes data that he does not want to publish at all. And there is no blame to the individual, but the blame remains, of course, with the intelligence services that monitor it. But I feel that this awareness is also very urgent, because everyone who takes care of himself has already taken an important step.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-11-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00003_d8e5675	The next item is the speech by Mr Amon. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-11-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00003_d8e5702	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Estimated members of the Federal Government! The revelations made by Mr Snowden revealed two things: on the one hand, the activities of intelligence services, in particular of American intelligence services, and on the other hand, the problem of dealing with data in itself and the possibilities – Mr. Klubobmann Schieder pointed out – that are currently opening up modern technologies. I think it is out of dispute and there is probably no coincidence that there is no state that does not serve its services, in the sense that it is primarily about safeguarding its own interests, protecting its own constitutional institutions. If a state abroad, as we do, is involved in military security operations, for example within the UN, it must also, of course, carry out information to ensure a high level of security for its own people. The tasks that services perform, in the sense of protecting the state and the state institutions, protecting critical infrastructure, protecting the own industry – the word industrial espionage – and ultimately also the protection of data, must therefore, in my opinion, be fully indisputable even in the future by these services, ladies and gentlemen. But, of course, a clear word is appropriate if such incidents, as they have occurred, come into the debate, namely that friends of the states are listening to Heads of Government, possibly listening to meetings of the European Union's bodies and more. That is why it is so important to enter into a dialogue about it. I would, however, like to warn against the fact that due to these experiences, one falls into a dumped anti-Americanism. That would not be appropriate either. It is true, because of the revelations of Mr. Snowden, things have become public. However, I would like to point out that perhaps much of what other services of other countries do and operate does not go public. We should therefore be very careful in assessing these things which Mr Snowden has brought to the public, ladies and gentlemen. It was a very interesting article – it has already been some time since – in March of this year in the “New Zurich Newspaper” entitled “Google as God?”, written by Dirk Helbing, a young professor of ETH Zurich. He has dealt intensively with the question of the monopoly which has arisen here, that there are apparently undertakings that have a complete single position regarding offers in the field of data and data management. This is at least as big a problem as some of the activities of some services. We warn our children and say: Please consider very carefully what you are twittering, what you are Googleing, what you put on Facebook, because all this data is stored somewhere! Anyone who moves on the Internet leaves traces, anyone stores these tracks, and anyone uses these tracks too! That is why, ladies and gentlemen, it is so important for us to take up the imperfection of the market we are experiencing here from the state and try to give, as it were, a European counterpart to those monopolys that exist. I think it is very important that we support and promote European companies in developing a European search engine for the Internet. The Federal Minister has raised the question of European encryption. I think this is very crucial. I also think it is very crucial that we have European data highlights, which are also supported and delivered by our own European providers, so to speak, because I believe it is only possible to achieve a high level of data security in the end – because with all the blessings that this World Wide Web brings us, of course, and with all the advantages that are not supposed to be small, it also poses incredible dangers, ladies and gentlemen. I come back to Dirk Helbing, who writes how necessary it is to develop appropriate rules for playing the net: “If the system is misdesigned, it will sooner or later be out of control, even if all involved actors are well trained, well equipped and highly motivated to do the right thing. The ‘stand of nothing’ or ‘mass panic’ are examples of how, contrary to all efforts, can result in a situation that no one wants. ( ) The appropriate institutions and rules for a highly networked world need to be found mostly. ==References====External links== ==References====External links== Everything is possible – from the Big Brother Society to the participatory economy and society. It is our decision.” That is exactly what I would like to talk about: that we have to put in place very strict, even legislative measures, which also involve individuals who abuse data. Data abuse should be punished individually for any person handling data. I think that's quite, absolutely necessary. The fact that there is a higher level of responsibility in dealing with data is quite crucial. We need a legal framework, both nationally and naturally at European level, to ensure that there is no such abusive activity and that we are not on our way to an Orwell State where it is no longer a question of whether the official secrecy remains or not, but in which each individual will simply and simply glass, simply by setting up activities. Today, we have the situation that banks can already, in part, be automatically issued using credit card behaviour, whether they lend a loan to someone or not. I'd prefer human decisions all the time, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-11-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00003_d8e5772	The next item is Mr Klubobmann Strache. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-11-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00003_d8e5794	Mr President. Minister! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The NSA pitfall scandal has been working on us for a few months. And again and again interesting details come to the fore, including that the German Chancellor Angela Merkel, as you have heard, is also to have been incarcerated. So you can only hope she didn't send all too private text messages there. But this has been holding us in breath for a few months, and then the Minister of Defence is here and explains to us what federal constitutional protection and anti-terrorism and the army news office and defence office have everything to do. Yes, I say: great work in these areas! – But today you have done a bear service with your presentation or explanation, you have called the term yourself; for I really wonder: What did you say today about the NSA incarnation? And what have you explained to us today how such a thing can happen at all in Austria, how can such developments come about at all? And what have you explained today about how you will prevent such a thing in the future, how you will protest, and how hopefully you yourself and personally are indignant about it? - I had to miss all of this. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] And that's quite surprising when you talk about the hot bridle like you did today. Of course, at the beginning of the month, it became known how the intelligence services of the Austrian Federal Army cooperate closely with the United States and that Austria was called as partners of the NSA in the same way as Germany and 14 other NATO countries. And if one then evaluates the papers received to the public, then it can be concluded that the intelligence services of the Austrian Federal Government are cooperating closely with the NSA. There is even a ranking where we are classified as a neutral country higher than several NATO partners, Mr. Defence Minister. How can there be such a thing? We are a neutral country, but we cannot act as a neutral country at once higher than NATO countries in the field of cooperation and cooperation with the NSA. There's a lot wrong with that! [[Consistency with the FPÖ and the Abg. Dr. Pilz.]] And then you do a bear service when you try to represent it differently. The internal documents point to: There is a focused cooperation, and this is a cooperation particularly in the areas of computer networks, and that is obvious. There is cooperation in the computer networks, and there are now many different possibilities. The question is where there are interfaces, Minister of Defence. Of course, this raises the question of what “discreet cooperation” basically means for our Austrian neutrality. What is the “discreet cooperation”? – Home cooperation, which has become manifest and then shows that unfortunately God did not live our neutrality status. That's what's left. And there is, of course, enormous need for information, because there is apparently electronic espionage where this cooperation exists. And that is to reject and, above all, reject it, Minister! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Austria has just the status of a neutral country, and there the Austrian federal army and our intelligence services, our constitutional protection of course cannot be used as a vanguard of the USA, or may be rated as a further additional service! I just can't do that. And, of course, the role of former Minister of Defense Darabos, namely to what extent he knew about these developments, must also be examined. You might want to light that too! At least the Ministry of the Interior has refunded ad. For this I am grateful, Minister of the Interior, that you have at least returned an advertisement against unknown, because of espionage to the detriment of the Republic of Austria. That's at least once an act that's correct. [[Abg. Kickl: already curious what comes out!]] But I say, on the other hand, you also have to ask what to expect. What's going to happen? If an advertisement is introduced against unknown, then of course the question is to what extent this is the target. But at least that happened. Of course, one must fear that in the end nothing will come out. But at least in the case of Snowden, the Foreign Minister meant, and it was quite remarkable that he could not exclude an asylum for snowden. It's quite interesting that he went through at least to this boisterous set, at least. [[Abg. Dr. Pilz: This is a legal situation!]] I think he is not generally considered courageous, Mr Pilz, but at least that. And I say, of course, it would be nice if you finally showed up braver! Mr. Snowden is a courageous person. I say he's a hero. He has revealed abuse, revealing, knowing that his personal life is naturally threatened by it, his whole future is at stake, a life-long prison sentence, perhaps even death penalty, because this is seen in the United States as a mystery, when someone tells the truth and reveals abuse, namely that such incredible violations of law are taking place beyond the national borders, even civil rights violations within the meaning of a George Orwell’s system. [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the Greens]] [[Interlocutory call to the ÖVP]] – Great respect for this snowden! I ask you, Mr Foreign Minister, and above all I ask the Federal Government: Why do you not have the courage and the character to say that this is a classic asylum case with a legitimate asylum ground where we also offer the Lord asylum?- Oh, my God! That would be the consequence of taking yourself seriously! [[In the case of the FPÖ, representatives of the Greens and of the European Parliament, the Committee of the Regions and the Committee of the Regions, the Committee of the Regions and the Economic and Social Committee, the ……]] That's not what happened. In the end, Mr Snowden really pointed out the total US attack on the privacy of citizens in Europe, but not only on privacy, the other area is completely excluded. This is also a question of economic espionage, of course, of developments in the European industry, of the European economy, of spying on it, in order to take the appropriate countermeasures and ultimately also to counter it. It's totally hidden. This is an incredible economic damage that has ultimately arisen for Europe, and it is not going through the agenda. That's where you have to counter it. But where are the courageous politicians of the European Union, where is this Europe, this European Union, which is always so large as a form of cooperation? Where are they today when it comes to not only giving a pseudoprotest for the best, but also demanding consequences, consequences due to the abuse of the Americans? This is not about America-Bashing, it is about real abuse developments that are on the agenda. Of course, American President Barack Obama has also been enraged accordingly. This is the one who has received the Nobel Peace Prize. [[Abg. Kickl: Guantanamo!]] That's a detachment, too. And even how he dealt with it is quite significant. I therefore think that there is something to be expected from the government here. If one experiences, like a George Orwell’s system, the great brother in the case, such mechanisms that we could have read the book “1984” by George Orwell, have become reality today and that the political leaders are taking it up, sniping and sniping, and say, well, that’s what it is, and in other services we have not revealed it, but that’s the reality of life, so that we must learn to live and deal with it – so I understood it from you, Mr Amon – then that’s exactly the wrong way to deal with it. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Amon]] Such a thing belongs to vehement fights, vehement rejects and ensures that citizens do not have to assume that every single phone call and SMS and e-mail land somewhere in a central place, personality profiles are created, and perhaps there or there, if you want to harm someone, you can construct something else! This has not lost anything in our society, and I expect from everyone here in the house and from this Federal Government the sharpest protest against the Americans and, of course, also a reconnaissance at all levels and the elimination of this abuse! [[Admissibility at the FPÖ]] Everything else is just not going to take it!
ParlaMint-AT_2013-11-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00003_d8e5909	The next item is the report by Mr Pilz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-11-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00003_d8e5930	Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to start with something basic and then deal with the two Members of this House. In recent weeks, not only I – and partly also within this house – have been asked more and more often: How safe is it when I use my phone? How safe is it when I inform myself on the Internet? – And the only serious answer I can give, ladies and gentlemen, but actually, if they take it seriously, also the two members of the Federal Government: This security is no longer given. Individuals have been monitored. We are now at the point where, in Austria, in the European Union, in the USA and everywhere else, it is decided whether mass surveillance of completely harmless, totally innocent and totally unwarranted people is permitted and can be carried out unimpeded or whether policy is opposed to it. This is for me the subject of today's meeting, and that is also the reason why I ask the present members of the government to do something more. [[Congratulation with Greens and FPÖ.]] Do you know which states used to be where citizens had to think about what they were saying on the phone, where they were informing themselves, who they were talking to? – This was unthinkable in free states such as Austria, Germany and the USA! [[Abg. That was the Soviet Union, that was the GDR!]] Today we have to ask ourselves what we are risking when calling, when it comes to research on the Internet, when it comes to daily communication, when choosing who we are talking to. And that's a point where it's not about intelligence services, about individual ministers, about individual ministries, that's about our freedom! This is about our freedom for the first time in a way that was not possible in the past. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] In this regard, the only thing that can protect us is responsible and self-confident policy. And at this very point, Minister of the Interior and Minister of Defence, you have again duly failed today. What is this for an interior minister who comes to the NSA item on the agenda in the Austrian National Council and forgets to use this term? What kind of defense minister is that telling you just how many beautiful services he has and that there is no problem on and on himself? I tell you one thing, Minister of Defence: You're doing it a little bit like Karl-Heinz Grasser. Karl-Heinz, too. Grasser says: I work closely with the prosecutor's office. – But you forget a little thing: The Procuratorate determines against you and your officials, and it is a matter of course that the suspects, especially if they are Federal Ministers, cooperate with the Procuratorate. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the FPÖ.]] But it is not a matter of course that, with regard to an important section of the Criminal Code, namely that concerning espionage, the support of the intelligence service of military services in Austria, whether it is determined against the head of the Ministry of Defense by the Austrian criminal justice. Now let's talk about what it's all about: There is something like this in the SPÖ, in the Ministry of Defense – the Minister of Defense probably means “art in construction” – and there are such white structures and buildings everywhere on diplomatic institutions in the USA. [[As a result, the speaker illustrates his statements with a series of expressions of photos]] This is Berlin, right at the Pariser Platz/Brandenburger Gate. I looked at it last week and I had that explained by experts: Behind these blinds are the antenna facilities of the NSA, which are precisely directed towards a direct radio line, over which most of the telephone and Internet networks of the German capital go. The same at the American Embassy in Switzerland: Art on construction. The same is true of Europe in Caracas, Venezuela. The same thing: Stockholm. [[Abg. May. Schönegger:... had a lot of time, right?]] [[Abg. May. Kogler: That was an intelligent call now!]] And the same in the Vienna Boltzmanngasse on the roof of the American Embassy. Minister of Defense, Minister of the Interior! What did you find out about the American art at the construction on the Vienna Boltzmanngasse? What do you know about the sight blends that have been mounted there to hide the antenna facilities of the Special Collection Service of NSA and CIA? And what do you know about the villa in Pötzleinsdorf? [[Abg. May. Kogler: Exactly!]] In front of this villa is an official of the Ministry of Interior every day. Every day people come, partly from a neighboring school, and want to photograph and want to know what that is. Your official goes to Austrian citizens every day and says: Get out of here. Prohibition of photography! – What to protect You there? Why does the Ministry of the Interior impose a ban on photographers there? When you go to Google Maps, you can rotate the view. Then you have the side view, and suddenly you have one of these large white areas. The experts in Berlin told me that there is also one of the antenna facilities of the NSA. Where's she headed? I asked myself: What does that do on the outskirts of Vienna? There's no federal chancellor phone, there's no defense minister phone! I do not want to focus on the danger of a Federal Chancellor's or a Defense Minister's phone being heard from the USA, which is a completely different question. The decisive thing is: Where are these antennas directed? They are aimed at the direct radio station, at the tower on the Exelberg in the Arsenal/ Exelberg/Jauerling radio chain. Most of the phone calls go to Germany and above all the entire civilian airspace surveillance, and this is used by the NSA. The Minister of the Interior does not say a word, but only one official – not so that the Austrians and our data are protected, but that the NSA's hearing facilities are protected from us. This is the only known action of the Ministry of Interior: to protect the NSA and CIA facilities in Vienna. And then there is the Minister of Defense, and he tells us that he has revealed everything to us in the secret subcommittee of the Defence Committee. In Berlin, my colleagues from the German Bundestag told me that the secret treaty between BND and NSA was, of course, disclosed in the appropriate body of the Bundestag. By the way, this is not a contract between ministers, but between offices, partly behind the backs of the governments concerned. You have refused to disclose this contract in the Subcommittee, Mr Minister for Defence – and I do not reveal a secret here. [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: That's how it looks!]] On questions from ÖVP member Ikrath, from the liberal colleagues and also from me, you have refused to mention only the names of the intelligence services with which the Army News Office has signed contracts behind the back of the Federal Government – secret contracts. And you're saying it's all been revealed here? Mr Federal Minister, I know what this accusation means, but there is no other word for it: You have today lied to the National Council in an open and public session. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Arbitrator.]] [[Abg. Heinzl: After hello!]] And I'm asking you: Why are you lying? Why Lie You are the Austrian...
ParlaMint-AT_2013-11-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00003_d8e6061	Mr President, you know very well that we do not use such expressions and names here. Unfortunately, I have to give you a call for order and ask you to refrain from doing so in the future.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-11-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00003_d8e6098	Mr President. I take note of that. I know that the Rules of Procedure require of you, but please make an alternative proposal!
ParlaMint-AT_2013-11-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00003_d8e6125	Mr President, I do not, of course, intend to follow this bizarre proposal. In addition, your speaking time is exhausted, and I may ask you to take your place. Thank you. [[Abg. Brosz: But the light does not shine!]] [[Call the Greens: The Light does not shine!]] This is not a voluntary speaking time, but we have decided on this speaking time before. The 8 minutes are exhausted. [[Abg. Brosz: This is really incredible!]] [[Further calls to the Greens.]] I see here, my Ladies and gentlemen: The speaking time is exhausted. The next item is the speech by Mr Vetter. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-11-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00003_d8e6225	God, Mr President! Salute God, Minister! Say hello to God, Mrs. Minister! High house! Since this is my first speech, let me briefly imagine: My name is Georg Vetter. I am a lawyer in Vienna, especially taxpayers and so far “legislators”; in the Stronach team I am constitutional, judicial and defence spokespersons. First of all, I note that no one Austrian member of the government – well aware of the current state of information – is not a single Austrian member of the government! – has become the victim of an NSA hearing attack, and I will not draw a public conclusion from this fact. What I think about intelligence is that they overestimate themselves – that we overestimate them and that they overestimate themselves. At first, 90 percent of what intelligence services provide is primarily important and the confirmation of their own right of existence. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber.]] Given what's going on here or what's going to happen, we're pretending we're still a world power. If the debate were to take place a hundred years ago, so in 1913, when there was still the monarchy, yes, I would have much more understanding of it. [[Abg. May. Kogler: Yes, but if all Austrians...!]] 1913, that was four years before the President of the United States of America declared war on the emperor of Austria. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber.]] The year 1913 was the year when the Affaire Redl was discussed in this House, where plans of the K.u.k. army were then betrayed to the Russian Czar Empire. At that time, such a spy affair actually had dangerous consequences. I have the stenographic protocols, for example, the House of Deputies meeting of 30. In 1913, the Redl affair was first mentioned in the House. At the time, the Member of Parliament, Wassilko, suspected of the consequences of this in such a serious case on the battlefield – a year later, it was so far. Today, ladies and gentlemen, the great danger of terrorism, as can be read in the Strategy Paper in the Ministry of Defence, and today such a criminal offence, as we have already heard, is probably more of its own sense of importance, so to speak, according to the almost Cartesian motto: I'm calling the prosecutor, so I'm a good person. [[Abg. Wheeler: Exactly!]] What is the poor prosecutor to do, ladies and gentlemen? – First, he will probably grumble for two or three weeks, then he will order some experts, the whole will cost 10 000 €, 20 000 € and then it will be shubbled. In times of rigorous austerity, that is, I would say, quite a waste of money. But imagine, ladies and gentlemen, the prosecutor comes up with the idea and issues a warrant against any employee or head of the NSA, and he comes sometime to Austria. And imagine he's going to be arrested! What happens then? - Well, the same thing as if we were arrested by a Russian general who is being sought for murder. Then, at 3 o'clock in the morning, there's an ambassador's call to the attorney's office, and at 5 o'clock in the morning, the prison gates open. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Walter Rosenkranz.]] Now you have to imagine how difficult it is to reach an official like the Chief Prosecutor in the ministry, but reaching someone at 3 o'clock in the morning is a very special achievement. And who of us believes that in the event of such a arrest it would be somehow different? – Madam Minister for the Interior, ask the Minister for Justice how this works. [[Abg. Dr. Jarolim: But this is already very cynical!]] Let us also be concerned about the consequences of such criminal charges, which are safely read by the employees of the NSA in our media! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Walter Rosenkranz.]] The most harmless thing would be for a section head of the Ministry of the Interior to wait half the night with his family on entering New York. But what's less harmless is that the NSA might think: Well, that with international cooperation, as Mrs Minister has mentioned before, this is not really so important to us in a country like Austria! And then there is a terrorist attack in our country, and then there are dead and injured, and we say: Maybe that wasn't really so smart what happened back then. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek.]] Ladies and gentlemen, such things as they happened here are not resolved by criminal law. This is a diplomatic solution, which is resolved at international level. That's where the ambassador is quoted, but that's not the way to solve it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-11-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00003_d8e6318	Mr Klubobmann Dr. Strolz is next spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-11-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00003_d8e6340	Mr President. Estimated Minister! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear spectators, citizens at home or on the go on the screens! I have promised that I will always start with a word of appreciation, so I want to keep it today. I think it is good, Mrs Minister, that you say that Europe is also part of the solution, not part of the problem. We see NEOS the same way. These issues we are dealing with today have a European dimension, and we can only resolve them at European level. The second praise goes to Europe, goes to the European Parliament: The Liberals, together with the Greens and together with the Socialists, have shown up in Parliament and have said: We must, and we will be offering the Americans – in all friendship – the foreheads, and we also want to be a symbol that we do not allow ourselves to be treated in this way, to suspend the bank data, the SWIFT agreement, on the basis of the realization that bank data has obviously been stifled, so we have to take steps there. – I think it’s brave, I think it’s right. I am sorry, Mr Spindelegger, that the ÖVP did not go with it in the European Parliament. And why is it courageous? I can explain to you shortly on the basis of an example why this is important. – Front: It's important because it shows that we're not out of power that we can do something. We have the feeling: I can't do anything anyway! Citizens who have the feeling: I can't do anything!, politicians – even entire federal governments! – have the feeling: I can't do anything! Clearly guided by this feeling, the Austrian Federal Government is also brave and indignant in these questions. The Federal Chancellor is not here now – I think the SPÖ is just on a business trip... – Well, it looks a bit empty in the sector. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Arbitrator.]] So I think the inaction is, of course, already guided by a lack of courage. We demonstrated before the American Embassy in June. We have done this together with those who are important citizens' rights, to whom freedom is important. And do you know who came? – The pirates have come and NEOS have come – and nobody else. [[Abg. May. Arbitrator: The Liberal Forum!]] – The Liberal Forum, yes, in our community. It was Niko Alm there, it was Beate Meinl-Reisinger there, also Michael Pockwar there, and we demonstrated. I was not myself in Vienna on that day, and I was also glad that I was not in Vienna, because somehow I was free from the question: [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Schönegger]] I'm going too?, because it's not that easy to demonstrate before the American Embassy. And then I sat on the train, came back from Salzburg and thought to myself: What is going on in a country, in a free democratic republic, where I actually have fear and an ungood feeling when I perceive my right to freedom of expression in front of a foreign message? Where did we arrive? [[Abg. May. Arbitrators: We already had this knowledge at the age of 20!]] And then three things came into my mind as an association, namely, Herbert Grönemeyer – I don't know if you know him; I am a fan of him – with his CD, his album “Bochum” from 1984, where he screams: America! – Of course, America has done a lot for us and America is our friend, but he sings: “America / Don’t do that to us”. We also have to say this quite clearly to our friends: Don't do this to us! “I’m afraid of your imagination,” America, he sang. That was in 1984. [[Abg. May. Schieder:... better „Born in the USA! Bruce Springsteen: “Born in the USA”!]] That was the second association, Mr Schieder: 1984 – Mr. Strache has already referred to it; he is not there either – 1984, Orwell, who painted this horror scenario in 1949. If we continue this way and if we continue to have such unpopular federal governments in Europe, then George Orwell will be right – not with the year, not with the date, perhaps he has been 40 years too early, but then we land in 2024 where he described this world, and I do not want it. And the third thing that came to my mind in this train when I went back to Vienna, freed from the decision: Do I also want to demonstrate before the message or not? because I had other dates is a reminder: When was the last time I had this fear personally? And you know, in the 1990s I supported the Indonesian Student Movement. They have demonstrated against dictatorship, they have demonstrated for freedom. And I was there too, I also demonstrated with Indonesian students. I was in Yogyakarta, I marched with them into military units. On that day there were 18 dead in Jakarta, and I was in the middle of it, and I experienced what it means to demonstrate for freedom. I've had this feeling in a train back to Vienna from Salzburg, not in this intensity, but it's all about being caught up with such feelings in one's own country. That is why my appeal: I call for courage from you, from the Federal Government. [[Abg. Dr. Hübner: But what are they supposed to do?]] Guy Verhofstadt, the head of the ALDE, the Liberals and Democrats in the European Parliament, today asked: John Kerry, come to Europe, come to the European Parliament and apologise for NSA! . And I would also like this request from you, Mr Foreign Minister, I wish you the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany, I wish me from the Federal Government. - First of all. Secondly, In Germany, the SPD, the CDU and the CSU – not really known as the Hort of Liberality and Freedom – discuss a renegotiation of the SWIFT agreement. In Austria: Pause, nuts, nada, nothing! For you, this issue does not exist because it is not important to you. You didn't understand what it was all about. It's about freedom and it's about personal responsibility. And we are friends of self-reliance. Federal Chancellor! Mr Vice-Chancellor, you in particular! Christian social doctrine, self-reliance, a core value. There is no responsibility without freedom. And there is no freedom without responsibility. But we have to fight for them – every day. And that needs courage. Have courage!
ParlaMint-AT_2013-11-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00003_d8e6433	The next item is Mrs Grossmann's speech. I would draw attention to the fact that from now on a speaking time limit of 5 minutes per speaker will apply, as we decided at the beginning of the sitting. Please, Mrs Grossmann.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-11-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00003_d8e6460	Mr President. Dear Members of the Federal Government! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! So with some speeches you really have the impression: Whatever evil happens in this world – and unfortunately there is a lot happening – is always the Austrian Federal Government’s fault. There is really no opportunity for some to beat political change, whatever happens in this world. Thankfully, the Minister for Defence has made very clear the role and functioning of our constitutional instruments and democratic instruments and has also clearly worked out the difference to the US and Great Britain's now infamous intelligence services. And if you go here and make an equation, then that's an infame understatement. [[Abg. Dr. Hübner: Nobody's doing that! We are just saying that the Minister does not comply with his constitutional mandate!]] This is unfair, unfair and does not bring us another inch, Mr President. However, we urgently need to continue here when it comes to effective data protection. The challenges for modern data protection are indeed immense. Today, we are living in an age of seemingly unlimited means of communicating, informing ourselves, sharing information. There are online shopping, social networks, all this has fundamentally changed the lives of people, the lives of all generations. You have friends all over the world, you are looking for the cheapest bargains across Europe, doing banking business from home with your smartphone at any time of day and night. [[Abg. Dr. Hübner: What does this have to do with the NSA?]] And, of course, one leaves behind a small amount of data, and one leaves, above all, a digital trace, which ultimately lets the entire human being reconstruct, habits of life, strengths, weaknesses, political attitude, health condition. All of this may be lost of itself, far more than one would like to give up. That's what people do because they've trusted the systems. And this confidence was shaken by the revelations of Edward Snowden in the fundamental festivals. However, this confidence needs to be restored by really putting forward every effort to make it effective, especially internationally, efficient data protection instruments. Especially when you look at the methods used – Klubobmann Schieder has mentioned in detail – that personal data from US companies such as Google, Yahoo, Microsoft are processed here, if these are used by the intelligence services in mass, without occasion, or if glass fibre lines are even tapped, you can already see that you need appropriate international protection systems here. When data, telecommunications channels are managed internationally, mostly through the UK and the USA, even if national people communicate with each other, one can see that one does not get far with the best national instruments. That's where you're always limping behind. There is a need for international agreements that are binding and enforceable. And here, the snowdrops have brought a dynamic into the negotiations for the EU General Data Protection Regulation, which is going absolutely in the right direction, but which will be incredibly difficult to enforce at European level, because it is just the conservative and economic-liberal forces in the European bodies that show a blockade. So perhaps Members on the right of the political centre of this House could act accordingly on their sister parties, finally abandoning this incomprehensible blockade and at least allowing for European data protection effectively. It would be more useful than to hit political change here. The negotiations on efficient data protection between Europe and the USA have also come about. Here, too, Edward Snowden put a stone in the roll, thus breaking up fronts, as one hardly thought possible so far. It is the duty of the hour to really ensure efficient data protection internationally. That's essential. Data protection is a fundamental right and belongs accordingly protected by the state, by the state community, by the companies, of course, who do good business with the data processing, which use their customer data most comprehensively. These also have to take the technical arrangements for the best possible data protection. And, of course, it is also necessary to have the corresponding level of responsibility.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-11-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00003_d8e6502	Madam honourable Member, please excuse me! We have a technical problem, and the red lamb does not light up. I just wanted to ask you to come to the conclusion, because the speaking time has already passed, but unfortunately the system does not indicate this. I'm so sorry!
ParlaMint-AT_2013-11-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00003_d8e6518	Let's fight together for an efficient data protection! – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-11-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00003_d8e6565	The next item is Mrs Schittenhelm. Again to the memory: 5 minutes from now on for everyone. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-11-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00003_d8e6587	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr. Federal Minister! High house! Of course, the protection of citizens in our country goes far beyond personal security, we know. We also know, however, that we need protection and security in the public sector, such as the economy, science, but also for private companies. This protection and this It is important to ensure that there is a level playing field. All these areas must be protected and must not be undermined by illegal intelligence activities or exploited by this knowledge and know-how. The fact, however, ladies and gentlemen, is that, as a result of the various revelations in recent weeks and months, we also had to work in Austria. Austria, of course, has been very concerned about the recent media reports on the possible NSA hearing, and has repeatedly stressed this by our Foreign Minister, and calls for full information from the USA. At the moment, you have to say that, however, there is no secure information about a ban on SWIFT from the USA. It is therefore necessary to wait and work on this – here a group has been set up at European level – to obtain detailed information from the USA. Ladies and gentlemen! In spite of that, our vice chancellor and Foreign Minister Michael Spindelegger took place on 9 May. In November, it was announced that the local constitutional protection has returned an advertisement on the possible NSA hearings. This means that the Republic of Austria has become active against possible U.S. spy facilities in the context of hearing activities. It was an important and correct step, because we need not only to face up to the circumstances but also to respond accordingly and take action. Perhaps it takes such events and developments as we have experienced in recent months in the negative sense to wake us up that the law of action must be taken by ourselves. Of course, we have known for a long time, I suppose, and not only since the NSA activities have become known, that there is no 100% protection of our data. This has already been reported in great detail by Mr Amon today. Just as each individual mobile or computer user is responsible for protecting his personal data and should do everything possible to protect his or her private data from illegal access, so we, as a state and as a political authority, need to do everything we can to protect the data of the state and its institutions. However, we also know that in the end we will only be able to achieve data security in a common European approach. Only together will it be possible to raise, improve and also achieve appropriate independence for the European area and especially for Austria vis-à-vis the USA. However, in the focus of all our considerations, data protection violations, by whoever, through organisational and clear legal regulations, including draconian criminal provisions, must be kept as much as possible to make it much more difficult. Because, my dear ones. Ladies and gentlemen, data protection violations – here I am with my predecessor – not only violate the fundamental rights of individuals, but also threaten our rule of law. High house! As our Federal Minister Johanna Mikl- Leitner has already done, in Austria we have proven organizational units with the BVT, the Federal Office for Constitutional Protection and Terrorism, established at the BMI, and the Heeres-Nichrichtenamt and the Defense Office located in the State Defense Department. They have proved themselves in the past. And precisely these institutions – one must always point out this – work on clear legal bases such as the Security Police Act, the Criminal Code and the Military Power Act. But of crucial importance to me – we all know this here in the House – is parliamentary control by the relevant subcommittees. The fact, however, ladies and gentlemen, is that, in order to protect our citizens, both domestically and abroad, cooperation with domestic and foreign organisations is appropriate or necessary. For example – I recall this – is in the event of crisis-related developments abroad when Austrian citizens are in danger, the evacuation of Austrians from crisis areas, such as those from Libya at the time. The Austrian soldiers employed abroad are also dependent on international cooperation and cooperation. This is vital and vital for our soldiers in their efforts. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! Just as the cooperation of the three offices I mentioned earlier is regulated in an administrative agreement, cooperation with foreign institutions must also be based on clear agreements corresponding to the Austrian legal system. [[President Head gives the bell sign.]] As our wife, Minister of the Interior, has already outlined: There is a need for a European data area here. It will be difficult, but above all there will be a framework agreement such as the one presented by Commissioner for Justice Viviane Reding. I hope that we will do this together and with full effort.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-11-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00003_d8e6666	Ladies and gentlemen, you see that even with Mrs Schittenhelm, who has fully exhausted the time, the flash mark has now, after I have pressed the stop button, but has not worked before. I will therefore allow myself, if it still does not work, to give a sign with the bell one minute before the end of the five-minute speaking time, so you know you have a minute of speaking time. [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: This is an electronic problem or what?]] – A technical problem here. [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: An electric one?]] Mr Vilimsky is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-11-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00003_d8e6711	Mr President. Now I already wanted to donate a lampel to the house; I do not know how tense the situation through your grand coalitionary budget hole is indeed. It would be very helpful, however, if house technology were to change at least the lamperl here, so that one has an orientation how long the respective speeches take or when they are to end. Ladies and gentlemen! What has happened today has not yet been my experience in recent years. Both government groups were motivated to convene a meeting of the House, together with all the costs and logistical needs, with the aim of informing us of what it actually looks like with all the leadership in the country. However, what is being offered here today is even more ridiculous than what happened a few days earlier in the German Bundestag, where Minister of the Interior Friedrich Gelächter was brought to the attention of the Minister of the Interior, after the basic statements about the services in the respective countries were made here, and it is done as if there were not all of this, despite statements made by top agents, not only by Mr Snowden, but also by Drake and others, through which it was very clear and aware that there was also a comprehensive hearing here in Austria and is probably still going to be. In essence, there are few possibilities. – Option number one: The Federal Government knew and tolerated these interception measures by the Americans. That would be a smooth breach of justice, would result in a ministerial anchorage, and you would have to clear your armchairs. Option number two: The ministers did not know, but the respective officials in the services knew about it – then you would have to change something in the official apparatus. Variant number three: Neither SPÖ nor ÖVP nor the competent ministers knew anything. I also agree with these two political groups, since both have not noticed the billion hole in the budget either. However, in view of the fact that the public here has grown, I would ask myself whether the Minister of State's defence would not discover a rosarotic elephant even if he were placed directly in his field of view. It's a scandal how to deal with this house here! [[Accompaniment with the FPÖ and the Abg. May. Korun.]] It is a scandal to say here that it was not at all heard that the Americans had not implemented any security measures at all, without even having carried out a qualitative examination which could or could not have led to such a conclusion. They recall this tragic case of the Bolivian President, who was practically committed here in Vienna, after the Americans probably gave the Wink to friends of the EU states that no overflight permit is granted. It was clear, of course, that immediately an official of the Constitutional Protection was knocking on the aircraft door, according to the motto: Can we see if Mr Snowden is a secret on board? And it was very well looked up because the Americans wanted it that way. But at the Pötzleinsdorfer Villa, where it is obvious, what happens there at 5,000 square meters with all the antenna facilities, and a guarding by the interior resort takes place, no one comes up with the idea of going to the establishment of a friend state and saying: We have serious suspicions, so we would like to look at them. Let's get some coffee, let's check it out. – Nothing has happened, and yet here is pretended to be a schmair and the whole without the appropriate background. Let us not pretend that the security of several states would be completely new in the course of a global monitoring network! We had this at the beginning of 2001, when Echelon came into the broad discussion, the European Parliament even set up its own committee of inquiry in this regard, and it was very likely that five states in this world, the Five Eyes, as they are often called, have implemented a global monitoring network, the Americans, the British, the New Zealand, the Canadians and the Australians. At that time, when it was discovered, Bad Aibling had to be locked in Germany because it was also a surveillance facility of the Americans. Only in Austria, where one would have more than clear clues to be able to show backbone to the Americans at last, is one not doing so. In every normal country where people are transferred to show out information, it is so – the rule is – that they are declared persona non grata and have to leave the country. Do we really want other countries to listen to our phones, monitor our Internet, and also use completely different monitoring technologies to make fun of us? Are we not going to do anything about it, and are we saying that this is all right anyway? – Please, the Austrian National Council must finally defend itself against all these monitoring methods! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] The National Council must defend itself against data storage, against this passenger directive, and from my point of view, it would be desirable to put pressure at last to announce that this SWIFT agreement is being announced, in which thousands of data from the Austrians are made available to the Americans. – A scandal of the special class! Please, no longer close your eyes to these misunderstandings, do not pretend that all of this is not happening, and you also have the courage and the backbone to put appropriate defence reactions within the meaning of our Republic of Austria! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-11-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00003_d8e6792	You've seen the plant seems to work again. It flashed a minute before the end of the speaking time and then again permanently lit. Let's assume that this will now be true again. Next speaker: Mr Mag. Steinhauser. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-11-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00003_d8e6817	Ladies and gentlemen! At today's meeting, I would have expected at least clear words from the government bank, namely that the surveillance practices of British and American intelligence services are the largest secret service scandal, the largest surveillance scandal of the recent history of our democracy. They are an immediate attack on the rule of law and democracy. And what was the reaction in the declaration of our federal government? – Violation and an introduction to the Austrian intelligence services, which may be helpful to young delegates. Ladies and gentlemen! I think I speak to the citizens of the heart when I say: We're tired of these misgivings! We are tired of experiencing a policy of conflict prevention against the United Kingdom and the United States! And this is detectable. The supreme primacy of the total reconnaissance of this scandal is the prevention of conflict. We do not want to engage with the services of the United Kingdom and the United States. ==References== In June of this year, the Guardian wrote for the first time about the revelations of Snowden. I put a question to our Foreign Minister, who is attending our meeting today as a Member of Parliament, 11 days later, and I wanted to know how the Republic has responded to these serious accusations. In this parliamentary question, dated 18 May 1988, the Council adopted a resolution on the implementation of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. June – It’s clear, name-named go. [[Abg. Dr. Spindelegger leaves the meeting room.]] [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: He's going now!]] There's no way to escape here, it's free to escape from the Chamber of Deputies. [[The speaker points to the government bank]] It doesn't matter; the thing will catch him. That's so hard! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I've got the answer to the question, and it's got it in itself. ==References== In July, the Foreign Minister held a conversation with the American ambassador. I remind you: This is three weeks after the surveillance scandal has become known, and about two weeks after I filed the request. That is, for three weeks there was no protest at the American Embassy and at American politics. There was only a protest when this request was made and it was known that EU institutions were also being heard. As long as the citizens were in the sight of the services, this was completely no matter what our Foreign Minister. Only when it became known that institutions may be affected did it slowly become active. In this reply, Minister Spindelegger also provided information on what the American Embassy has answered him, namely nothing. He is still waiting for an answer, and I say he will wait a long time, because the United States knows that a foreign minister who needs three weeks to protest against the biggest surveillance scandal in our democracy also has a lot of time to wait for answers. It is no coincidence that one behaves so passively, because the role of Austria in the international network of services is just spoken small. There are still relatively few primary documents on the role of Austria. They'll all come, and then they'll collapse. There is, however, a document – and this has been published by the Guardian – a primary document of the NSA, in which Austria is also mentioned. The document sets out several groups of countries and describes the corresponding intensity of cooperation. There is the most important group, with which there is extensive cooperation. These are Great Britain, Australia, Canada and New Zealand. But then comes the category B, which is the group with which there is a focused cooperation, and there is Austria in the first place. This has to do with the fact that we are at the front of the alphabet, but this also has to do with Austria already appearing in that group with which the two-intensiveest collaboration is being plowed, at a stage with Germany. We know the debate in Germany. What our Minister of Defence is talking about on the point of cooperation is a focused cooperation for the NSA in a primary document. There are many questions that need to be asked: What role does Austria play in international data exchange? This can only be clarified if you disclose the primary documents, namely the contracts. Secondly, How did Austria react to British intelligence? Britain is a member of the European Union. What are the activities of Austria within the framework of the European Union on the British Intelligence Service, which operates similar practices? Why did the espionage defense fail? Who is responsible for this? How to protect the fundamental rights of citizens? It's about that! It's not about the phone of the woman Merkel, it's not about my phone, it's not about the phone of Faymann or Pilz. It is about the citizens! Austria's activities in this area are quickly summarized: Consequences – no, notification of the Safe Harbor Agreement – no topic, no education. – I almost forgot: There's already an act of heroic Enlightenment. After five months, the BAT filed an ad against unknown perpetrators. I'm impressed! We do not need to talk about protective measures at all. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-11-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00003_d8e6878	The next word to speak is Mrs. Klubobfrau Dr. Nachbaur. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-11-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00003_d8e6900	Ladies and gentlemen! The whole world is talking about data monitoring, NSA practices and hearing actions. Only in Austria one actually speaks relatively little of it, seems to me, at least from the official side. To that end, I would like to thank Minister Klug, who has answered some questions here today. [[Call:No! You really can't claim that.]] However, there have also been several left open. In particular, I would like to know why the actions of our intelligence services are not actually under parliamentary control, which is actually being lived. My colleagues from the Defence Committee tell me that, although they are defended and subject to full silence, they will never be properly informed. It is an important fundamental right in democracy to get answers to his questions. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] The second issue, the cooperation with the NSA, of course also interests me. The extent to which the flow of Austrian data into the USA is worked together, the estimates are widely dissociated. It is clear to us that it is possible with today's technology to intercept any electronic communications. The whole thing is done under the title “Terrorism Fighting”. My colleague, Mr Vetter, has already said: Austria is not a world power. The more interesting I find why and to what extent the Austrian population is being heard and spyed out. The population has a claim to know what the suspects are against them. I see the central task of the state as ensuring our freedom. State surveillance, the interception of government representatives and, above all, the suspiciously independent collection and storage of data is a threat to this freedom. Of course you also need safety. It is important to balance freedom and security, that we have heard today, but this balance is quite out of balance. In this context, I am very concerned about industrial and economic espionage. In my opinion, this plays a very important role and can mean billions of damage to our entrepreneurs. Whether the quantities of data collected by the US intelligence services are not also used for competitive advantages and competition espionage, of course we do not know that for sure. Already in 2000, the former CIA chief James Woolsey in the “Wall Street Journal” in his article “Why We Spy on Our Allies” said the following – I say it in German this time so that everyone understands me –: [[general hustle and bustle]] It is true that some European technology is better than American technology, but I can assure you that these technologies are very rare. Most European technologies are not worth stealing. But I'm not so sure. Many local entrepreneurs think differently; we have many world market leaders in Austria and in Europe in general. This debate is not only about security interests, but also about economic interests. Fair competition must not be undermined. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] It is still intended to determine the economic success and not unfair competition and economic espionage. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-11-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00003_d8e6955	Next, Mr Magistrate. Alm in word. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-11-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00003_d8e6992	“Without sieve?” I hear. - Yeah, that's right. And – dear FPÖ, please listen! – my sieve is currently in the Jewish Museum in Munich on a hiking exhibition. [[Congratulation with NEOS-LIF.]] [[Call to the FPÖ: Why should the liberals listen away?]] What we are discussing here today is just a facet of the gradual erodement of privacy. Mrs. Minister, Mr. Minister! I am glad that you also recognized the problem we are facing. You have explained in a word what you do, but you have also discussed what is not done, what you do not know, and that also allows us to know a form of knowledge. I do not want to repeat the accusation of Mr Pilz, because I do not want to negotiate the earliest call for order in history, but it is already the suspicion in the room that not only privacy will be hollowed out, but that violently a hole will be dug, at a “private space hole”, which should overtone something that we all hold very high, and that is just this privacy that there is known more than admitted. [[Abg. Brosz: That would actually be record!]] Privacy is a fundamental right, even if we sometimes undermine this fundamental right very much, ourselves. We also help our part to easily disclose data, but this happens voluntarily. If you, ladies and gentlemen, sit in front of the TV screens or sit in front of the TV library ORF live stream, then the NSA knows exactly where you are sitting, and we don't even need an NSA. You get this with very little technological know-how to spy out where you are. This may be a problem, but this voluntaryness with which we disclose our data must not be used as an argument for using this data for other purposes. No one has acquired the right to do so through this voluntary publication of the data! We are talking about data collected systematically, without our consent, whether it is movement data, connection data or communication content. We don't know who is spying on this data. We will be monitored, we will be heard, our data will be stored on stock without any occasion. If we tolerate this, we are really soon after the Orwell era in 1984. Governments and intelligence services jointly remove this hole in which they sink our privacy. Why do they do that? – To prevent terrorism, to prevent crime. We have committed ourselves to an evidence-based policy, and if we look at the effectiveness of these measures, we must also consider what the cost-benefit comparison results from. On the one hand, entire populations are suspected of being generalized, on the other hand, hardly anyone is taken, except a few small criminal hendldiebes/hendldieinnen. Who won't be caught? – terrorists, terrorism. Who wasn't caught either? - The state enemy number one. The U.S. had the opportunity to catch a state enemy on the serving tray. And what's he doing? – He's moving to Russia! Edward Snowden fled to Russia. He has brought light into this hole, and at the same time he has shown the impotence of the methods that these intelligence services want to use. Instead of having a serious discussion about giving Edward Snowden asylum, we are moving here at a level where we discuss basic privacy requirements, privacy protection. Asylum for Edward Snowden would be an important signal that protection of privacy is important to us in Europe! [[Congratulations with NEOS-LIF and MEPs of the Greens.]] And that's what it's all about! In privacy, opinions are expressed, and especially in the political field, this process of opinion formation is necessarily influenced by views that should also be taken away from the public. And so privacy is also protected in the exchange of information via distance. I'm talking about letter secret. Today, one would rather speak of a telecommunications secret or a telecommunications secret. These are fundamental rights, and we do not deal with these fundamental rights carefully. That must be done! We have to get the secret to the 21st. By the century, we have to suspend the storage of data, we have to guarantee net neutrality by law, because the violation of net neutrality is nothing but modern censorship. We must protect our citizens from unfounded surveillance by intelligence services. This is one of the tasks of the state, for otherwise the question is no longer what the network, which contributes to modern technology in democracy, but what role democracy can play in supervised networks at all. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Mr. Minister! I ask you if you already know: Open up what the agreements with the intelligence services really look like, and let Parliament carry out its control function! If you have nothing to hide, you have nothing to fear!
ParlaMint-AT_2013-11-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00003_d8e7056	The next item is the speech by Mr Pendl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-11-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00003_d8e7077	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! This is certainly a very delicate, also very difficult to lead discussion, because it not only comes to a total mixture of all the topics that are on the table here, but also is consciously playing a political game. So to break down an international problem now so that two ministers of the Austrian Federal Government are guilty of it, so no, nobody believes that at all. I hope at least we agree. Of course, through the technical development that has taken place in the world, we have developed technically to ensure that it is not only very easy for the intelligence services of this world to get to data, but also in parallel to this, of course, this data problem needs to be worked out in the truest sense of the word, because it is strictly opposed that comprehensive hearing actions take place, no matter which. I'm sorry, but I think that's where everyone agrees. More than that, I mean, not to say. [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: There is too little present!]] - I know. Listen to me, then you'll know! [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: That's not the point!]] On our own, ladies and gentlemen, this must also be clear to us: Where's the hardware, the electronics? Where does the software of today come from? All these questions must, if we take it seriously, be included in our considerations. We do not know how carelessly the citizens not only in Austria, but also in the world voluntarily deal with their own data, we do not know that even since today. If we break it down to the intelligence services, we already have to say one thing: This too is very difficult. We have already experienced in the discussions how difficult it is to break things apart and to keep them apart. The positive achievements of the intelligence services – and I do not say now that I approve of these interceptions, I have condemned them –: We would not have gotten any Austrians or Austrians injured, the Austrians who were hostages abroad, no one from the disaster areas without a secret service at home. [[Abg. Dr. Hübner: I can't do this without NSA!Unknown term type: "%s".?]] These are the only ones who have the logistics, the only ones who have the knowledge, the know-how. That's why you always have to be careful... – No, I didn't say that; I specifically stressed that you should not always mix everything together. [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: And do they get this by listening to the Austrian population?]] It is difficult to hold the discussion where the benefit is for citizens and where the disadvantage is. You have to keep it apart. [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: So total surveillance!]] - No, I didn't say that either. Here, however, the child is always poured out with the bath. I'm warning you. We cannot make it so easy and say that there are two ministers who we cut down quite one, they are to blame for what has happened in the international community. [[Abg. Kickl: You wanted the report!]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! In reality, we need to have a very correct discussion – I hope at least – on this subject in the future. It means that international diplomacy and foreign policy are generally required. The Community of States must therefore anchor data protection, as we imagine it to be, in national law and European law. I am with all the critics who ask: Why do we as individual states or as the European Union every time we think of flight data history, get to the knees? Why? – Because everyone wants to go there on vacation or have their business connections. A self-confidence, ladies and gentlemen, we must also show. I believe that here we are called upon to speed up and implement in the interests of our citizens in terms of data protection at national and European level. I invite you to do so – I hope we will make an appointment today – that we shall convene the Subcommittee of the National Defence Committee as soon as possible. I've tried the 3rd. In December, the Commission adopted a proposal for a I do not yet have the approval of the other political groups. Let us try to discuss all of this in the relevant committees! That's where it belongs. [[Abg. Kunasek: But with quality!]] Let us try together to really discuss these issues objectively! Where we need it, we need it. What must not be. I think then we have a serious and clean treatment of these issues. Let us avoid beating political little money by putting two ministers with a must on the Pranger! This is an international problem. I hope we will make our contribution to this. I would like to invite you very cordially.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-11-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00003_d8e7200	The next item is the speech by Mr Höfinger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-11-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00003_d8e7221	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Federal Minister! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear guests! When we discuss information, data, intelligence, we know that this is an issue that we should face unafraidly on the one hand, but that we should also consider consistently. As mentioned today, it is one of the most important tasks of a state to protect and defend itself and its citizens comprehensively against attacks of any kind. This concerns, in addition to military and internal security areas, the defence of terrorist acts, the protection of our economy and science, the safeguarding of state institutions and critical infrastructure. But, of course, it is also the task of a country to protect itself against illicit data spying against its citizens and to defend and further protect them when it comes to citizens who carry out important tasks on behalf of the country worldwide. I am thinking, above all, of the members of the Austrian Federal Government, when they are on the road in peacekeeping measures. They too should be protected. As already heard, we have three state institutions that provide information and the basis for fulfilling and fulfilling these tasks. Due to the complexity of the links, due to the ongoing comprehensive surveys in the international field and the difficulties of relevant information, it is also important to maintain cooperation with intelligence services or security institutions of other countries and to conduct this work constructively. That, I think, is also important. This is exactly the point we are discussing when there are reports that there may have been data flows that have not taken place within the meaning of our cooperation bases. It is important to clarify and clarify this, because I think that this is very important in future for constructive cooperation and the basis of trust with friends. Here must be the intersection: a clear yes to cooperation to protect our country and people in this country, even if they are out of our state, but a clear no to pioneer our own data and institutions, even when it comes to private data from our citizens, without cooperating with our own security institutions and without knowing what happens to these data, what they are used for and whether this is perhaps beyond our legal basis. I believe that this is the important task that we must focus on in the future in order to be able to restore the security of our people and restore confidence, partly shaken by individuals or public institutions. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-11-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00003_d8e7260	Next speaker: Mr Kunasek. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-11-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00003_d8e7282	Mr President. Estimated members of the Federal Government! High house! Mr Hoefinger, I would like to give you the right if you insist that we should deal with this issue in an unscrupulous manner, but we should also deal with this subject in terms of content. I say this quite openly, and I think I am speaking here for some of my colleagues in this Chamber in this House. In terms of content, we have not heard today from this Federal Government and from the two competent ministers here. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Mr Klug, I cannot spare you to point out that we could have taken advantage of the opportunity to speak on matters of content, and that we can also use this meeting today to address the subject of parliamentary control seriously and to consider whether we, as a self-confident House, would also have to do homework here. I'll come back to that later. On the other hand, we have learned that we have services that also cooperate and cooperate with foreign services. - Great! I don't think that's what anyone really knew here. That's a great news. We have learned from Federal Minister Klug that it is necessary for the European Union to take a stand against the major players. However, we have not heard what is to be done, and we have not heard what the initiatives in Austria in the national Parliament, but also those of the Federal Government, look like in order to achieve this objective. We would also have had the opportunity – and I will do so, as I said – to discuss the opportunities we have had in the subcommittees, in the standing subcommittees dealing with this issue. Mr Federal Minister, I would like to use this current discussion to improve the quality of the discussion in these bodies, as has already been done today. I'm saying that quite openly. It must be our goal as a parliamentarian if we have bodies to control our services and also to review cooperation with other services, to serve these bodies properly, to discuss everything there, and not to fear that you will somehow carry secrets outside. By the way, they are non-public, so secret committees. Every Member sitting in there must also comply with rules. Mrs Bundesminister, your opinion was actually the best, because the word “NSA” has not even come to your lips. [[Federal Minister Mag. Mikl-Leiter: You didn't listen!]] We haven't heard from you about what it looks like to protect the critical infrastructure. Mr President, Mr Klug, only a few months ago – and that is why I do not want to let Mrs Grossmann and our group change policies, because FPÖ does not do this in the field of national defence – adopt a security strategy, namely SPÖ, ÖVP and FPÖ, in which critical infrastructure, such as electricity supply, water supply and the like, are also natural. I would have expected this issue to be addressed today. What about the critical infrastructure in Austria? How do we – MP Pendl is not here right now, but we have recognized it correctly – with the software that we used as the Republic of Austria in the public sector – I look at the Foreign Minister very consciously – when we find out today in the newspaper that we are using NSA-near IT companies in the public sector? [[The speaker keeps a copy of a “Kurier” article entitled “NSA-near IT-Company received orders in Austria” up to date.]] Well, perhaps it is surprising for all of us today, but what measures do we take to change this accordingly in the future? Are these companies being checked? When I read that the same IT company, which has been active for the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and has also collected data from people, is now again engaged in the ELGA project for the main association of social security institutions, I wonder if this issue is really taken seriously. I would really like to take to heart the appeal of Mr Pendl. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! There are a wide range of areas to be addressed, not in five minutes, but in the relevant bodies. I would just like to give an example, because today the question has also come as to how the protection of our data is at all possible. Today you don't have to be a hacker or have any additional training. One can get online screenshots of power plants, from water supply facilities without extensive knowledge because there are search engines that find these gaps. Technical journals call this search engine – I don't say the name now – Google for hackers. [[The speaker shall keep a copy of an article up to date.]] We must ask ourselves what measures we are taking as a Republic, what measures we are taking as a High House and what measures we are taking here in the future to protect our citizens in Austria from such things, but also to ensure the security of the Republic of Austria and of our institutions at home and abroad accordingly.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-11-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00003_d8e7351	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Musiol. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-11-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00003_d8e7373	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Just because you're not paranoid doesn't mean you're not being persecuted yet. . On this sentence one could smile when one has let him simmer and understood, but it is a sentence that, in recent months, but also beyond, has naturally won to Ernst through the events that have happened, through the revelations of Mr Edward Snowden. It has already been mentioned several times today that he deserves the greatest thanks and recognition for it, but there have been other events that have become apparent by other people. Against this background, I find it very strange that the two still-ministers of the Austrian Federal Government deliver the idea here and how they get a second on the part of their parties. Mrs Grossmann and Mr Pendl are no longer here. If they say here in an almost pitiful form that the two ministers are not to blame for all that is happening in this world, then I must tell them, yes, we know, but they are trying quite clearly to sidetrack them from being here in a position, namely as Minister of the Interior and as Minister of Defence, and in this function have certain tasks and responsibilities. One of these tasks and one of these responsibilities is to enable Parliamentary control and not to make it difficult for the committees and subcommittees set up in Parliament for these matters. They have not fulfilled this responsibility so far. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] What they have done is, for the Members of this House – yes, a third of the Members is new – to hold almost a lecture on how they could be needed in the democracy workshop. They have explained to us how, so to speak, the situation of the Austrian intelligence services is. There was also a lot of excitement for me, but I do not expect a Minister of Defense to do so, I expect, if you are invited to the democracy workshop, that you will explain this to the students there. What we have expected of you today is that you explain why you have reacted so hesitantly, which is really the problem here with the relevant subcommittee to exchange the necessary documents and really to go into the investigation in the joint act. Mr Steinhauser has already said quite clearly: What didn't work for your own espionage defense, and who has political responsibility here? Mr Pilz asked: What about these white spots on the buildings in Austria, which are aimed at the Exelberg and elsewhere? Do you know about that? What about the official of your ministry, Mrs. Minister, who is holding kids and students there to take pictures? Why does he do that? What do you know about what's happening in this building? – You have remained guilty of these questions and many more. But this is no surprise, because your reaction to the revelations was from the beginning a very hesitant, but not only yours, but also those of other countries. I personally, as a media consumer, have already found it strange that only the heard phone from Chancellor Merkel – in Germany called this case yes mobile gateway – has led to the fact that the first steps have really been taken here. That has already been said today: It is not only about whether the phones of government members and politicians are monitored, it is about citizens' rights. It is about protecting the privacy of citizens. If you think about why you behave like this, you only have to look back about a year and a half. This is where the Federal Government has decided to store stocks of data. At that time, together with civil society, we fought against it in a massive way, because this is about intervention into privacy by individuals, because you are here to collect preventive e-mail contacts, telephone contacts, without having any concrete suspicion, in order to be able to evaluate them at some point. Mr Steinhauser has made a request. You argued at the time that we need this to fight terrorism and defend serious crimes. And what happened? – Mostly it is used to explain any thefts. It's like shooting cannons. It's in no proportion. There is on the one hand the so-called terrorist defence, which then becomes The defence of thefts has been highlighted, on the other hand, for decades protected rights have been increasingly eroded. If Klubobmann today were to produce co-ordainers and others and quote Benjamin Franklin or anyone here, I would have liked you to have already entered the storage of data in this debate. In other words, you know very well that you do not have a white vest here, because you too implemented the EU directive in excess at the time. [[President Head gives the bell sign]] In all future debates, I wish that You are concerned about what you have said today about Benjamin Franklin and much more, and you are also really acting in the sense of privacy, citizens' rights.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-11-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00003_d8e7442	Next item is the report by Mr Hagen. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-11-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00003_d8e7463	Mr President. High house! ‘George Orwell described in his novel ‘1984’ in 1948 a scenario in which the company is placed under full supervision by the authorities. The citizens are monitored and spyed out from the so-called Big Brother to the most intimate areas of their lives. The slogan 'Big Brother is watching you' is being issued here." – Ladies and gentlemen! That was the beginning of my speech on the urgent question concerning NSA of 5. July 2013, 4:08 a.m. to 4:13 p.m., in this House under another National Council. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Vilimsky.]] Ladies and gentlemen, the question now arises, what has happened in almost half a year and after a German Chancellor-Faymann-Witz on this matter. – The exact answers stand out. Do we want to put some light in the dark? . Previously, we heard from the Federal Minister for Defence that we have three intelligence services, two domestic intelligence services and a foreign intelligence service. [[Abg. Pendl: There are no three secret services!]] – He said that. We have the army news service, which is on the feet of the BAT, which is so heard from insiders. This means that there are always overlaps here, which sometimes lead to major problems. I got that from insiders. Now you can also re-examine who told me that when the installation of arrow transmitters, which was not fully SPG-compliant, changed the law to my suggestion. In this case, you couldn't find out where I had the information. I'm not going to give it to you this time either. But she's right, ladies and gentlemen. The problem is that we have a red and black intelligence in this state. That is, the country is divided between red and black in all areas, including in the intelligence sector. If I can come back again to my suggested German chancellor-witz regarding the pioneering by secret services – I don't know who doesn't know this joke yet: Mr Faymann complained to Mr Obama about NSA that he was the only head of government who had not been spyed out. – Ladies and gentlemen! Federal Chancellor Faymann! I can assure you that you will surely be spyed out by the in-house intelligence services. I can assure you. Now I already have the question – you have seen it differently – why we need two or three intelligence services in Austria, ladies and gentlemen, who are Signatory to each other's work. Wouldn't a single man be enough? - No, no! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Amon.]] Yeah, you're familiar with spying, I know. But the point is that I think the homework should be done here. That is to say, these intelligence services are a little illustrious, in the right committees, as has already been mentioned here. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] I myself was in one of these subcommittees, which are committed to secrecy, and I also know that the Members of this House have not been attached to the public bell and we have adhered to this requirement. The problem in these committees is always that, as a Member of Parliament, as a control body here, we are only under-informed and informed by the government, if at all. Ladies and gentlemen, this has to stop. I think there's a lot to do here. We will see who is setting up the new Federal Government, but I would like to tell the future ministers in this area – if you, Mr Klug, are again, or Mrs Mikl-Leiter – the task of having a different style here and to inform us, as a control body, as a people's representative in this Parliament correctly and in detail. You would do something good for the Austrian people, I think. However, you should not pass on our data that you have been spying out to foreign countries, which is the wrong way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-11-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00003_d8e7518	Mr Magistrate is the last person to speak in this debate. Vavrik. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-11-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00003_d8e7539	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! Minister! High house! Dear fellow citizens on the visitor gallery and in front of the TVs! There are no intelligence services in Austria. There's only one thing like that with the great powers. The US, the Russians have intelligence services, and also the Former major powers. We don't have such a thing! We have offices. Just as we have a social office, a building office, a municipal office, we have a military news office, a military defence office, and a federal office for constitutional protection. [[Ironic hustle and bustle of Abg. Dr. Pilz]] Only the choice of words or the change of words – formerly the state police, and that sounds a bit threatening – testifies to a perhaps disturbed relationship with the subject of news or intelligence services or perhaps an attempt to detract from their activities; and that is just as bad. In reality, it is not enough for a comprehensive security policy to achieve diplomacy, border protection and internal security. Of course, it also needs military capacity as the last means, and of course it also needs intelligence activities – it would be naïve to shut down. And of course these services work secretly, which is in the nature of the matter. But we need them in order to obtain information, to analyse, also in the sense of defending economic espionage, as some colleagues have rightly mentioned. A European dimension is also part of the comprehensive security policy. And that's how it looked: Of course – Mrs Minister, you mentioned it too – we will not be able to do it alone, there is a need for cooperation at European level, there is a need for an exchange – sometimes even beyond Europe, even with friendly countries, and the US is now a friend country. But this cooperation, this cooperation, this exchange also have limits. And the borders lie where friends do not follow the agreement, Federal Minister, and perhaps behind their backs, the Austrian citizens massively stifle and do not, as before, at the time of the Cold War, only one or two pioneer or listen to a radio call, but simply tap off the whole of all telephone or e-mail connections of the whole country by plugging a central server and store them somewhere in the Nevada desert for later use. There are the limits then reached. The borders are also reached where their own citizens are being stifled. Mr. Federal Minister, you promised at the beginning that you would bring light into the dark, but I must say that I am still quite in the dark, perhaps also because I am new here in the house – but you have not answered some questions. What is the extent of cooperation with these intelligence services in the country? The villa in Pötzleinsdorf was mentioned. I also mention the hearing station on the coral. Are there only Austrian officials or citizens employed there, or do other foreign citizens also have access to this station? To give just one example. How far are these cooperations? Do they still go back to a handshake, a gentlemen's agreement from 1955, or was further worked here? I have the feeling – and I think everyone here – that there are failures. The Cold War is over, we're in 21. At the end of the 20th century, the type of cooperation was still based on an agreement that was based on the State Treaty. Who else is cooperating with us? – It is always only the speech of the NSA, but there are other foreign services. We are committed to intelligence activities, we are in principle in favour of cooperation and we see the need for confidentiality, but even more important than confidentiality is parliamentary control. I'm new here in the house. In a few hours, the Defence Committee will establish itself, I will take part in it, and I hope, Federal Minister, that We will meet again very soon in the Standing Subcommittee and you will be able to restore confidence in the citizens with the answer of my questions, in spite of all suspicions, in spite of all the suggestions, with the right things to do. - Thank you many times.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-11-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00003_d8e7621	No one is reporting on this. I will close this debate. Before we go to the 2nd place. I would like to make one more point on the agenda: Ladies and gentlemen, today is the International Day of Children's Rights. Yesterday evening, our three public prosecutors presented a book entitled “Young People and Their Rights” by Gertrude Brinek – one of our national lawyers. I had the honour of representing our house at this book presentation. In the meantime, all of you should have a copy of this book in their mailbox. I can put this work to your heart – to the reading and also to the critical reflection. [[He welcomed SPÖ and ÖVP as well as MEPs from Greens and NEOS-LIF.]] [[12:58:07]] 2. Point First reading: Request by Mr Ing. Norbert Hofer, colleagues and colleagues concerning a federal law with which the Federal Law of 8. ==References====External links==* Official website No. 140/1979, amended (8/A)
ParlaMint-AT_2013-11-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00003_d8e7669	We're now on the 2nd. Agenda item. We are going into the debate. First of all, Mrs. Dr. Belakovich-Jenewein has been reported. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-11-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00003_d8e7696	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Hofer's current request is that a care-related ruling should be inadmissible to the family members of the persons to be cared for. Ladies and gentlemen, you all know that there is still a federal state in Austria, namely the Styria, in which the care rules against the children still exist. This is a bit unpleasant in that it often comes at enormous cost to the people concerned, especially the children. [[President Ing. President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats).]] There are currently over 5 000 people in Styria, with an average of 160 €. That is, that is to say, for the Styrian budget revenue of about half a million euros; in fact, what is called a drop on the hot stone. For those who have to pay this, however, this is often a threat to existence. For families with children who have to pay for this, it is often a survival struggle. The injustice in this law to and for itself is that in people who have children, the children must be drawn and paid, while childless persons are replaced by the state, the community or the country. Let us now look at this in a practical example: A woman who has been a mother for two or three years, who has raised two or three children, has also given up much, thereby also providing a much lower pension, which has always been concerned for her children throughout her life, who have had sleepless nights, then, at age, becomes a burden on her children, which in turn makes her worry. And with the neighbor who may have been the wife of a Director-General, who has remained childless, a very large pension, the state is 100% in favour of it. This is an injustice that finally belongs to annihilation! [[Accompaniment with the FPÖ and the Abg. Ing. Dietrich.]] We know that in the Styria before the last country election, namely in 2009, the care rules have already been abolished. However, after the election took place in autumn 2010, the care administration was reintroduced in 2011. That means, of course, it is quite possible that a electoral sugar will soon be presented in the Styria, but it will be withdrawn after the next country election – and that is exactly what it is to prevent. We want people in the federal states to be given legal certainty in this area. Let's see what local politicians have said about this. The competent councillor Edlinger-Ploder speaks of a ‘pedagogical measure’. – Yes, please, to whom would she like to take educational measures? To the family? 80 per cent of all caregivers in Styria are cared for at home by relatives – and the other 20 per cent, where this is not possible, would they like to train in education? That is an outrage! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I think, therefore, that the Federal Government is now also required to create a uniform legislation to prohibit this, once and for all, so that there is real legal certainty in all the federal states, for we know that it can always come to a budget hole in a federal country – we are now suffering from it; what the Federation can do can be done for a long time – and then we try to get money from the poorest and weakest, because that is the easiest thing to do; you have to see that too. The people who are in need of care cannot defend themselves, they have no way or lobby to defend themselves there. So to say, in response to the Styrian choice – you all, my Ladies and gentlemen, the two partners of the Styrian reform government, namely the SPÖ and the ÖVP, in Styria, have been drastically chosen and the Freedom Party has been elected the strongest party – then came the answer from Mr Schützenhofer: The Styria has now chosen this way – not because perhaps this reform government would not be good, no, but because the Steirs were so spoiled and disappointed by the German government and demanded reforms. I only take the very last approach: Yes, as you may be right, Mr Schützenhofer may be right, reforms by the Federal Government are most urgently required. In this sense, I would think that this injustice is really done at last and that once and for all, one really deletes the rules of care in all countries. He is unjust and, in fact, he is something that is no longer time-conform and contemporary.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-11-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00003_d8e7770	Mrs Königsberger-Ludwig has now come to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-11-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00003_d8e7793	Mr President. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mrs Belakovich-Jenewein, I think that the request you have made is quite discussive, since I am entirely of your opinion. I'm not happy with the children's rule in Styria either, no question. I am just not quite sure whether this federal uniform scheme you have referred to can actually be done through the Consumer Protection Act or whether there are other ways to find it. I mean, that's what you just have to discuss. They all know that the recognition of the Constitutional Court, in which the Styrian Social Assistance Act was recognized as a Constitutional Aid Act, refers to the ABGB, namely the ABGB principle, which requires children and parents to be entertained. The VfGH and also the Styrian Social Assistance Act called for this. That is why I do not know exactly whether, through the Consumer Protection Act, the ABGB can be eliminated, I say now, or whether it is necessary to find other ways to create a uniform federal regime. I am of the opinion that there are many points that you have to look at when you are in the care area. You know very well, Mrs Belakovich-Jenewein, and everyone else also that there are very different types of rules in the Länder of care. Everyone resorts to the heritage, it is only quite different how high the asset protection is, how long you have to hand over before so you can't be attacked. After all, it's almost a science to know when you need to be properly handed over so that you can't be used for regress payments. I think that should be discussed together, because how people can finance the care of their parents should not depend on where these people live. Again: We simply need to discuss this – it is now the first reading, therefore a good occasion – whether the Consumer Protection Act is the right law for it – I don't think it – or whether we need to find other ways to make – you know, ladies and gentlemen, this country competence, which is given in the care, actually a federal competence, where there are many other ways to talk about. I would just like to say one more thing because this is also very different, namely, like parents for their minor or full-time children who are in need of care. That's quite different, too. In some countries they are not used at all, in some countries parents have to pay until the end of the life of the children, if they die before their parents. It is really a very impenetrable regulation at the moment, which should be discussed simply. I am excited about the discussion, and whether it is the right law, we will still see during the discussion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-11-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00003_d8e7836	Mrs Mag. Aubauer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-11-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00003_d8e7858	Mr President. Honourable Members! Yes, we are really on a very important issue, which we cannot take seriously enough, because many older people in Austria are concerned about whether they can afford care at all in the future. At present, the Federal Government has provided € 1 billion from budget resources for the care fund. This means that the care is solidly secured by 2017. I think there's no need to worry about this. Of course, it takes concepts to ensure longer-term care, as I am entirely with you. Surely not a concept of the future is from my point of view the children's rule, because it is not fair and not timely to take care of the parents in a home. By the way: The abolition of child rule also calls for the overparty seniority council, which represents more than two million pensioners. Very concrete: As will be financed in the coming decades, this will be an important issue in the ongoing coalition negotiations between ÖVP and SPÖ. That is, if the new government programme is in place, then we know which choices are set for the highest quality of the long-term care. One thing is important to me to say: There are all kinds of forecasts that speak of a cost explosion in the care sector, of an enormous increase in the number of those in need. What we certainly don't need are alerts, because the forecasts say there will be a large number of caregivers in 2060. What bothers me, however, is that there are people who are 13 years old today – for whoever will be 60 years old in 2060, today is 13. They can still change their lifestyle, so we have to start somewhere else, in the prevention, in health care: healthy life, healthy lifestyle at all ages, with boys and, of course, with the elderly, because many studies also know that dementia can be avoided or moved further into the future by means of healthy lifestyles. What I want to say with it: We have two goals. The first goal is to avoid the need for care as much as possible, and the second goal is to give the best possible help to those in need of care. This issue will continue to concern us all for a long time. I hope for good common solutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-11-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00003_d8e7906	The next item is the speech by Mrs Mag. Schwentner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-11-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00003_d8e7927	Mr President. High house! Ladies and gentlemen! Unfortunately, no minister – neither behind me on the government bank, nor anywhere in the ranks of Members. [[Abg. Oh, yes! On average, we are at least as many as you are!]] If, on this issue, all of us were as united as we are here in the House today, then we would probably have abolished this huge injustice, namely the care regime in the Styria. I can do the FPÖ's request – unusually! – in so far as it is fully supported in terms of content. What's not clear to me – yes, unusual! – but we will now discuss this at the first reading, whether the Constitution and, above all, consumer protection are the right way to go. [[call to the FPÖ]] I mean, you have to be able to put off this injustice by other means, too. It is a huge injustice; You already mentioned it. How is a young family with two children whose children are subject to schooling, who are puberty for whom they have to pay, who need a lot of money, if on the other hand they also have parents in need of care and have to pay full length – up to 10 percent, as we have already heard from you? How are these people doing? How is a man – I have heard of a man in such a situation – who is alimentary, if he still has to pay 10 percent for his in need of care in the home, and also the Christmas money and his premium for the last 25 years of service? How are these people doing? [[Abg. May. Schönegger shakes the head in a demonstration.]] - You don't have to shake your head! It is an immeasurable one, and it is also a testimony to how the reform partners – the so-called reform partners, whose paint has at least gone a little away after the last election – work. Whoever saw the ORF Landesfunk Styria last week or two weeks ago knows: A “report” was deleted, in favour of the two heads of state who were able to spread over their so-called reforms. [[Abg. May. Kogler: Landesführers-TV!]] One of these so-called reforms is a social enormity: The Styria is the only federal state in Austria where there is still the care rules. It is also necessary to mention – you have already mentioned it – how much money it is. It is €5.7 million that the country is recovering in a very unfair way. It is not to be seen why only the Steirers have to pay for why the postal code is crucial to whether you have to come up for your parents or relatives who are in need of care or not. – This is a monsterity! [[Congratulations and congratulations with the Greens and congratulations with Members of NEOS-LIF.]] [[Abg. Dr. Königsberger-Ludwig: Because it is a country matter, Mrs. Colleague!]] I am just expecting you from ÖVP and SPÖ, who have the Christian and Social Democratic programme, or the Social Democratic programme – in both cases – that you put pressure on it. I expect this from our minister, too. Unfortunately, he is not here now; he was just present. I also believe that there are legal possibilities other than those that raise the whole story of the Constitution. We can still discuss this. To return to the sum again. It's about €9 million in the care regimen. 5.7 million was the country of Styria – so much to the reform partners! –not in a position to recover from the federal government, namely from the Federal Care Fund, because many measures have been missed – measures in the field of case management, in the field of mobile care, in other words all the measures needed to create very, very important and good jobs in the social field at the same time. So much about what so-called reform partners mean by so-called reforms. [[Abg. May. Kogler: Because they only promote the big homes! People are supposed to be there...!]] - That's it. The reform partners do not intend to make reforms as well as to engage accordingly. I expect from both parties, from both sides more pressure on our country's princes, as we now call them, who obviously perceive the country only through the slices of their service weights. I have the impression that people are no longer talking to people in the country – at least not in Styria. In the already mentioned radio broadcast on the ORF radio, it was quite clear that it was just more about going over it and implementing so-called reforms. I expect more pressure to be made. I would like the Minister to have the Constitutional Court established what is happening in this case, and that pressure is being exerted in the country-wide. On the following point I am with you: We also need to find a federal regulation for this. That's a huge theme. There are a lot of people in this country who are in charge, and we are happy to take part in finding common solutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-11-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00003_d8e8036	President. — The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-11-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00003_d8e8057	Mr President. High house! Thank you and thank God! No wonder that people in this country no longer have children when you look at what is happening in the Styria. [[Abg. Bayr: Moral... will not be fulfilled!]] [[Abg. May. Steßl: Ah, that is the colleague.]] This is sheep liability in pure culture – at least in a financial way. As families are punished, families who have small children – we have already heard examples – are punished. They have to make financial contributions to their old progresses that they have raised. Their money is missing in the back and front. It will be dried up on the weakest – in a country that is always famous for the great social justice. This is a key word in politics, “social justice”. I see in the Steiermark: When the ceiling is torn away and it is about white money, social justice is gone – out and over! [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] In order to get out of this dilemma, namely that the state punishes the families that the need for caregivers is financed through private payments, that caregivers are at all in situations where they are no longer well and therefore their families are punished – that is, financially – one has to lift the whole at the federal level. It cannot be that in individual federal states families with children, the need for care, the elderly or the sick are treated differently than in other federal states. This is unworthy of a state like Austria. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] From our point of view, from the perspective of the Stronach team, it is very important that social funding and health funding be considered in an inclusive way in the future. It is the task of the National Council and the Government to develop a new model in the future, away from the contribution-financed systems, away from the separation of social and health resources into a common integrated financing model, bringing together health and care. It can't be that this is paid out of different pots and then individual state governments go here and just get that from the private. This is unacceptable from my point of view. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] We also see that, in addition to ensuring external and internal security, the guarantee of health care is definitely a state task. The state should take over the basic care of individuals, the basic care of the citizen in terms of health. We also need to get away from this fragmented, federalist, chamber-controlled, self-manageable, strange, extremely expensive system to a central – and I am in doing so the distinction between central and centralistically important – control of the basic supply of the Austrians. Only that is fair, only that is – I don't like the word especially – socially just: If all are treated the same way, by the state and by the legislator. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] In addition, I believe it is important that we also open private spaces, namely that we think about taking a private care insurance, considering ourselves as a single person, if you are still young to go into private pension models and not to be financed by the state. This is another important point. These two points can be very well combined if we want to continue living in a Republic of free and thinking citizens. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-11-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00003_d8e8132	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Loacker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-11-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00003_d8e8153	Mr President. High house! One can be quite shared about how the country of Styria deals with this question. Nevertheless, we see the request of the liberals somewhat critically. Matter is national, and just as I criticise it if the land days stop for hours to discuss federal issues, which would not be their subject – exactly, they are not paid for, right – so we should not discuss country issues of long and broadness, because this is not our job; for that, colleagues in the federal states will be paid for. [[Abg. Mölzer: They won't be paid for it!]] [[Abg. Dr. Belakovich-Jenewein: That's not a country thing!]] I also find it difficult from the point of view of access when we say: There are federal states that solve this differently than we imagine in the National Council, and then we measure it with a constitutional provision in such a way that they have to stop it. For me this is also a question of how to understand federalism. If there is federalism and it is said that the federal states are allowed to regulate it in their own sphere of activity, then one must also live by the fact that they regulate a matter differently than one would have liked. This is a question of access to federalism. Secondly, What has this provision lost in the Consumer Protection Act? The Consumer Protection Act, according to my modest understanding, is about protecting the weaker from the stronger in such a way that the one we consider to be the weaker one is not overwhelmed by a hidden contract provision. It is a matter of ensuring that no one uses Terms of Use abusively for his own benefit. – That’s not why it is on this issue. They tried to put it somewhere in the homes, but it really only seems to fit there. In fact, it doesn't belong there. In principle, NEOS welcomes the access of the federal states to take care of their own finances. Whoever spends money should take it by himself. I think this is better than if the Bundesländerfürsten go to Vienna and try to extort money from the Federal Government, which the Federal Government has to repress the citizen again. I would like to support those speakers who have said yes, the topic of care and care financing is a big one. I am not satisfied with this, Mrs Aubauer, if that is under the roof and the subject until 2017. This is a little short-term, anyway for my generation – and for you too. We need to find something longer-term, and we need to work on it, but not by giving federalism a straight face. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-11-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00003_d8e8206	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. I agree with Amendment No 8/A to the Committee on Budgets. [[13:21:50]] 3rd. Point First reading: Request by Members Anneliese Kitzmüller, Members of Parliament concerning a federal law with which the Family Allowance Act 1967, BGBl. No. 376/1967, as last amended by BGBl. I No. 163/2013, amended (9/A)
ParlaMint-AT_2013-11-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00003_d8e8252	We're now on the 3rd. Agenda item. We are going into the debate. First of all, Mrs Kitzmüller is speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-11-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00003_d8e8279	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! If we already have the day of children's rights today, I believe that is a very special request, which concerns the annual value of family allowances. The current situation is as follows: Family aid has already been increased and valorised in 2002. We have experienced an actual 25 per cent loss of value, and it is not even intended to make an inflation adjustment. Ladies and gentlemen, the spa master in Austria are the families. Who does it always meet with the different savings variants? - The families! But when it comes to automatic valorizations to increases in fees, it looks different. The budget is now being decided in the local authorities everywhere. What's going on? – After logically it is automatically valorized there! The fees for canal, water, electricity and so on are valorised, but families are not supported. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] I know you say these are fees. Despite everything, they're at the expense of the families. Who pays that? The families pay that! However, the families are not supported and the corresponding value adjustments are not available to the families. The newspaper “today” says that 31 percent of the loss of value has occurred since the introduction of the child allowance. Ladies and gentlemen, here we are talking about the fact that we want to do something for families on the day of children's rights – and nobody does anything? Have you read? The family association also supports the adjustment of inflation, the adjustment of the value of family aid! And here in the high house? I am curious whether the ÖVP will agree to this request for valorisation. - I'm afraid: Of course not! What else do we have? Public transport increases ticket prices. In Vienna, for example, an increase of 1,80 € to 2,20 € is taking place. That's 5 percent a year. [[Abg. Lueger: For a ticket for the tram, but with the annual ticket you pay € 1 per day!]] Who's driving the tram? - Families too. To whom does it come? - Of course the families! Or: Today on the radio, for example, has been asked why so many families no longer go on a ski holiday, why families can't afford a ski holiday. - Because the lift cards are getting more expensive! The holiday is getting more expensive. From last year to this day, a 3 percent increase has been made. Why can't families afford this? – Because there the prices are increased! But when it comes to doing something in favor of our families, nothing happens. It does not valorize family aid, it is not even remembered. Things will be moved and moved on to the Sankt-Nimmerleins day, one hopes that sometime it will be forgotten – and nothing will happen at all. They have said that the family compensation fund is disintegrated and can be done more for the families. – That’s not true either! Minister Mitterlehner, who will of course no longer be responsible, I guess, has said in a conversation, of course the families belong to more thought, of course the family promotions are also valorized. In the same breath, however, it is said, before 2018, 2019 nothing can happen. What does that mean? And now we've heard, at the moment it can't happen because we have a budget hole or a breakdown of incomes and expenditures – whatever that should mean, a hole is at least there. Now it says: We would have done it anyway, but we can't. I think we have to look at the value of the family, the question of what the family is worth, quite differently. We need to keep the value of the family high and think about it: What's the family worth? Who Is Supported? – The families are supported and the children are supported! This is our future, ladies and gentlemen, and not savings, and not all possible other excuses, why we cannot promote families. We have to distribute differently and ask ourselves: Where do we start with the allocation of the budget? Where do we put more into a pot? It's always the pot for the families who get hollowed out where nothing happens. That's where we have to go! On the very day of children's rights, I hope that you will finally start to consider at least a rethinking and to support the families, to valorise the family allowance at least annually, because if that does not happen, then the families in this government, as we know, are poorly removed and poorly advised.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-11-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00003_d8e8328	Mrs Lueger has now come to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-11-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00003_d8e8349	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Dear listeners at the gallery! Mrs. Kitzmüller, I do not think that the families are those who buy a ticket in the tram itself, because very, very many have an annual ticket in Vienna and can use all transport for one euro per day. I think this is an essential contribution. [[Ironic hustle and bustle at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Walter Rosenkranz: Well then we do not need to increase the family allowance anyway!]] [[Abg. Dr. Belakovich-Jenewein: What about the water price in Vienna?]] [[Further calls at the FPÖ.]] But before I come to the subject of family aid: This request that the family allowance should be valorised every year has not been submitted for the first time in terms of content, but we have discussed it more often in the Family Committee during the last legislative period. Nevertheless, you must also note that the financial disbursements for the Austrian families in the EU ranking is very, very far ahead. [[New calls to the FPÖ.]] So monetary achievements are very high in the European ranking, even if you are excited now. Therefore, we focus not only on family support, but also on cash benefits, benefits and care. [[Abg. Dr. Belakovich-Jenewein: But nothing happens!]] These are three important components that complement each other, and you cannot take out and discuss one alone. Half of the amount we have in the family compensation fund is the payment of the family allowance alone. I am right to say that the current model of family aid is difficult, because it is simply opaque, because it consists of deposits and fixed amounts, and therefore it becomes unclear for people. In 1955, when the family allowance was created, it was not so complicated. It has also been changed more often, but I give you one right: Since 1996, it has not been changed significantly, as far as the amount is concerned. Therefore, there are now also several ideas and several positions on the table on the part of the government groups, which are simply discussed. I simply wanted to present to you once again our position, which we have as Social Democrats. Two-thirds of the children have nothing to do with the amount of redundancies that are now available, because it has been shown in the answers to questions in this regard that they are not being picked up. And with this amount, which is not now collected by parents who cannot claim a withdrawal amount, because they simply make too little money and because they can't stop anything, we could put up with the family allowance differently. For this, family minister Gabriele Heinisch-Hosek – I have already corrected myself, thank you for your speech donation – has considered a model. [[Abg. Dr. Belakovich-Jenewein: We don't have a family minister in the Republic at all! The families are not important!]] And this model is meant to be the following: to take this money from the deposits and to make a clear increase in the family allowance, which makes it possible for the families to raise it and get rid of the amounts of the deposits, so that it becomes transparent for the people on the one hand. [[Abg. Dr. Belakovich-Jenewein: And why doesn't it happen?]] Nevertheless, there is still an amount above for the other module which is also needed, namely for the housing of children, when they are employed, for the extension of childcare facilities. But there are all there, from the day mothers to the extension of the childcare facilities. In my opinion, the economy is also required to ensure the economic provision of kindergarten facilities also within the premises. That too is an important aspect. If this is a proposal that would also be worthy of discussion for you, then we will simply discuss it in the next Family Committee. It would be a rise-neutral model where I say: There is therefore an increase in the amount of redundancies, just into the family allowance. And there would also be an increase for disabled children – who certainly need every cent, I give you 100 percent right – and also an increase for single and single educators. That would be the model we remember. That would certainly be worth a discussion. We must find a variant, and we will also have to discuss and negotiate this issue within the framework of the budget, which then represents us, in the sense of the families.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-11-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00003_d8e8460	Mrs Tamandel has now come to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-11-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00003_d8e8481	Mr President, I should like to thank the President-in-Office of Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen! The proposal put forward here by Mrs Kitz-müller is in part in line with the family package which the government had already blessed in the Council of Ministers before the summer. I do not know why our government partner has agreed on this package, which we will probably be able to afford in the next few days, and the Minister of Women – I believe it was a Freud’s promise or a wishful promise from you, Mrs Lueger, when you called Mrs. Heinisch-Hosek as a family minister – I have proposed this package that you have presented today. We can't do anything about this from the ÖVP. First: They called the child drop-off amount. This is paid out with the family allowance. So you've been wrong before. Secondly, the deductibility of child care costs. This is important to us, because this testifies to the freedom of choice for families that they can also choose what they want to do with the children in the holidays. Thirdly, I would like to say to Mrs Kitzmüller's request that it is very important to us that family support be valorised in the future. [[Abg. Steinbichler: And it wasn't 15 years?]] However, it is also important to us that we reform the family aid, which is currently being paid in five different stages, with a child drop-off amount being paid in addition, which is very confusing for citizens, for families. Ask She once on the street a mother, a father with a 10-year-old and a 15-year-old child: What is the amount of family aid per month? - People won't be able to tell you. [[Abg. Steinbichler: Because she's so meaningless!]] We therefore also believe that there must be a reform here in three stages. But you also know very well that on the part of the EIA we are also thinking of other measures if, in the near future, I hope that in the next or next legislative period, we can also make a tax reform, because we can also create a way for families with children to pay less taxes, because we believe that very much and very high amounts are paid in the tax pot, and they should also have something of that. I am perfectly of your opinion, Mrs Kitzmüller. I simply believe that we do not know, first of all, at the time when this is being discussed, what the government partners are actually going to agree on. I hope that I tell you quite frankly that in the foreseeable future we will at least agree on a family package, which also includes the valorization of family aid, but also a simplification of stages, so that families can know and expect to know. What I really do not understand, Mrs Lueger, is that you are always insisting that, for example, single teachers are also being supported. This has also been said last time in a discussion in the Chamber of Labour. I would like to stress one thing: that we never include the fathers, who make a large amount of abduction payments, in this debate too, but that we are always talking about the fact that single parents are generally disadvantaged. I think we have to look here, which single parents are really in money trouble and at risk of poverty and which are not. I believe that this too will be a bit of a rethinking during the next legislative period in the discussion we should have in the family sector. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-11-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00003_d8e8535	Mrs Mag. Mag. is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Musiol. I'll give it to her.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-11-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00003_d8e8556	Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs Tamandel, I thought you were part of a group which is currently conducting government negotiations. In this respect, I assume that the club and the persons present here can influence what is set up as an objective and what is then agreed. The sad thing is that I could have prepared my speech, which I am holding here today, in June, when you made this Council of Ministers decision, because somehow it was clear, there will be some turning around again – and as the Amen in prayer comes. It's exciting, then, how you can get the story straight here. If you, Mrs Lueger, criticize the agility and all these, so to speak, fiscal achievements of the so-called family relief package of 2009 here, then I am full of content with you, you know. We already criticized this at the time. Only: You have also contributed it, and it will now also be your responsibility to take back this story. Of course, it is a matter of perspective whether this tax package is considered to be positive or negative. The ÖVP has not yet learned that there are not only families that have a medium to good income and therefore are taxable and can benefit from deposits, but that there are a very large number of families – different types: Single-parent families, families with equal-sex partners, patchwork families, father-mother-child families, such with several children, single-child families – which not all deserve so much that they can benefit from these so-called achievements that you decided to do together in 2009. We see what this led to: At the beginning of the legislative period, we talked about child poverty, and at the end of the legislative period we had to talk about child poverty again, not about declining numbers and successful measures, but about the fact that poverty of children, of families, of young people in Austria has still not been achieved. This is the result of your government policy over the past five years, and it is nice if you are now planning to make changes here. Only: We could have done that for the last five years! Mr Kitzmüller, this request should ever come to the vote – we never know that in this House, because of the fact that requests are regularly postponed – then we will agree to this request, because we also believe that it is not a matter of the fact that this family benefit, the family allowance has not been adjusted for ages, while that happens in the case of other benefits, of course, whatever we stand for. But we will still give you the opportunity to vote or reject it today, because we do not simply want to accept it in such a way that you decide something in June – in the case of the Council of Ministers and not in Parliament – and then, as soon as first missing financial plans become apparent, the families will be the first to believe in it, because then the decided family benefit will be cancelled immediately. That is why Mr Rossmann then makes a request to the Dringlich, where this is possible, for the vote you will have the opportunity to vote in your decision of 17. To stay June. We'll see how you behave. Yes, there have been many models on the table of colleague Heinisch-Hosek for a long time – models of the Industrial Association, of the Chamber of Workers, of the Greens, of the FPÖ, of the remaining family minister Mitterlehner. But that doesn't help us if we've been talking about models for years. Let's put them on finally! From our point of view, an important criterion of family benefits must be that it is a good, balanced mix of cash benefits and benefits, not either, but cash benefits and benefits, because families, as it were, need the money to be able to decide what they are doing in their autonomy, but of course they also need the support in the form of childcare, afternoon care and much more. And it is not up to us to take this away just because, as with education policy as a whole, any ideological barriers or any copyright of any models would be in the way of common agreements. That's why I'm appealing to you: Please note that at the end of the legislative period, we will not make any decision in the Council of Ministers – in that case you, not us – which will then not be decided again in Parliament, but we will ensure that families will soon have the opportunity to live a truly manageable life, and do not have to consider themselves daily: Can we still afford the apartment? Can we still afford to spend on education? Can we afford heating and much more? The topic of family aid is not only a matter for families, but also for young people and, above all, students. This is about a very large group, which is anyway in precarious situations, which one has announced something in June and which one now leaves in the rain. And we won't take that silently.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-11-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00003_d8e8614	Mr Steinbichler. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-11-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00003_d8e8636	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Appreciated spectators to the TV sets and here in the hall! On a number of points, Mrs Colleague, I can agree with you – we need to talk about the same sex family again. But that the family at Weitem is the most important cell of the state, I think that's undisputed. I can clearly say that I was delighted to see the importance of the family during the discussions during the pre-election period, as pointed out by the necessary improvements for the families – probably a little voters were counted together. I was not so excited when this week the family was already mentioned during the reporting of the savings planned during the government negotiations. I do not think it can be possible to save families, that is, to continue the thinning of rural areas, to strengthen the thinning of the functioning economic areas and to support the loss of regional purchasing power. I believe that this is the main problem: it fully recognises the economic strength of the intact family, which client it is in the regional area. At this point, it is also necessary to mention the performance of mothers who are at all willing to give birth to the abandonment of leisure planning and leisure activities of such mothers. And one thing is also said – and that's what's already happening today. It was very well expressed – if you look at the urban area on the one hand and see the situation in the rural area on the other hand: Do you know what a mother with several children is in rural areas? - A professional taxi. It starts at the music school, football training or football and reaches the ballet and karate training, where children have to be brought and picked up in an hour's time by car and there is no way at all to put them on a tram or use other public transport with an ID card. Such a mother is in constant use! Respect and recognition of all mothers who do this – I can say so. And I am also really disappointed that the government parties, who have been responsible for it so far, have forgotten 15 years of this inflation adjustment of child support. It has already been said here: minus 32 percent of the purchasing power! Another story confirms how the families that are actually treated by mothers are: In the hackler scheme, the most valuable activity of a mother, child rearing, is expected to be 50 percent, ladies and gentlemen – so that we know the old saying: By the deeds you will be measured!, has its meaning here as well. I think there is once a proper step in the right direction. It is not enough to give of itself only beautiful words and statements of intent, and when it comes to implementation, then we call budget reasons, then we have other things that are important. The most important cell in the state is the family! [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] In this discussion, I would like to ask for support that this step, the inflation tax, be implemented at last and perhaps in view of the achievements and problems that have not been done in recent years, this issue family gives all mothers with children a single payment per child, so that they can see that this performance is recognised as such. This is one of the fundamental achievements of this state! – Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-11-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00003_d8e8687	Mr Pock spoke as the last speaker on this item on the agenda. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-11-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00003_d8e8708	Mr President. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Before: Today, our clubman has renewed what we have done here from our group: that we also want to attach a sign of appreciation before every word report. This appreciation applies today to the liberals for this request, which we, NEOS The New Austria and Liberal Forum, will support in terms of content. In our view, an important point is also the question of why we now save on the annual adjustment to inflation, on family aid, while the cost of living from month to month and from year to year increases. It is not to be seen that we always save on the back of the families, while we have not yet exhausted many savings potentials. I can only say: Where a will is, is also a way! I would like to add three examples here. The first point is: It is possible to think through, discuss and move backwards already decided infrastructure investments. It would also be possible to discuss whether we are privatising energy suppliers to a far greater extent and setting up a corresponding fund from the proceeds. And last but not least, there is the point that we can also tackle overdue reforms for a long time. An important point I already see here – and there I fully understand for the families – is: How can it be that we have not adapted the family allowance for more than ten years, but we automatically increase the promotion of the party year after year? [[Congratulation with NEOS-LIF.]] I see a point here, and I am talking about social democracy: It would be a sign of solidarity if social democracy were to refrain from the automatic increase in party support until families were given more money again. I would also see it as a Christian-social measure on the part of the ÖVP, would also not increase the promotion of the party until there is again money for families. Here's another important point: Of course, we would support the government in this measure, but we must not forget that it is also about childcare places which are completely excluded throughout the discussion. There must be no austerity measures here, there must be further investment, and here we also expect a commitment from the next government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-11-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00003_d8e8766	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. I agree with the motion 9/A to the Committee on Budgets. [[13:48:22]] 4. Point First reading: Request by Dr. Eva Glawischnig-Piesczek, Members of Parliament concerning a federal law amending the Federal Constitutional Act and the Federal Law on the Rules of Procedure of the National Council (12/A)
ParlaMint-AT_2013-11-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00003_d8e8805	We're on the 4th. Agenda item. We are going into the debate. Mr Magistrate is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Kogler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-11-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00003_d8e8832	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! The topic is known. Only for the Protocol once again and with reference to the Federal Republic of Germany: It is remembered that democracy and the value of democracy and the mechanisms that exist there, and the strength of democracy, are also dependent on what minorities in the democratic system – or in this case also in parliaments – can achieve. They are already very advanced in considering that the Committee of Inquiry can be used by 20 percent of Members. This is because there is the really great coalition, which will come – ‘Groko’, as they lovingly call it there – which has a quite veritable majority, so that in the Federal Republic of Germany now appears to be the following: The majority there in the Bundestag also regard it as very, very good that the minority can set up an investigation committee. That is why the majority, without which, of course, it is not possible to reform the Rules of Procedure, is trying to do so. From a low quota of 25 percent of Members' votes to 20 percent, to maintain that the establishment of an investigation committee can become minority law. That's what I call an exemplary attitude. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] If you have always taken a bond to Germany – or very often, which is quite comprehensible and is always welcome from a green point of view – then it would be a reasonable procedure here too, especially since I will come back to it – we have already agreed on it, but with the signatures of the ex-Klubobländer Cap and Kopf, that we want to follow exactly the German model here. Now the Germans are doing this even more rigorously in this sense than the obstacles to establishment are being reduced, but we still do not have it. And we should take this to heart, but at least let more go into the brain. Why? – Because research in Parliament is ultimately a major contribution to confidence in democracy. This itself has an economically reasonable character, as corruption control can also be credible through such investigations for the future. We must not give in to the hope that in ten or 20 years we will have fewer occasions for such committees of inquiry, because the current information work, no matter at any level – through civil society organisations or even now, thanks be to God through the public prosecutor's office or also through Members here in Parliament – shows that we can be successful. But a contribution to success will also be that these investigations can take place. And the education is always in the first place when it comes to getting better. The ranking losses we suffer in the transparency indices and in the corruption indices are based on the fact that more and more of the impression is being made that the studies in Austria are either never started properly or, at their height, are being turned off. Thank God the prosecutor now does more than a few years ago. But this impression remains true here in Parliament. And we need to know that these international indices are less set up in such a way that one can hold so without further objective criteria, where you write exactly any numbers, count them together, come out a sum and then see who has the highest and who has the lowest number of points or anything, and then you have a place in the ranking. - No! These are usually surveys. Austria is standing there – rightly, I fear – ever worse, because we are giving this impression. But we don't just give him something, but we're also fellow perpetrators, especially here in the house. Now, unfortunately, I have to come back on a topic: The question of hindering and suffocating investigations is also a question of majority and minority. You know the examples: More would have been inside the Eurofighter theme. We would have been easier afterwards. With regard to the Banking U Committee – you know the example, we may hear it again today – it is to say: We would have saved ourselves a lot. Interestingly, no one ever responds to the arguments. I claim that it would have been much more reasonable economically if we had been able to carry out the investigations. It would certainly have come to another or even no re-nationalization, at least in the form it took, if you had let us know before – that was not so long before – what happened in the Hypo-Quetschn was finished. There would have been much more possible. [[President Ing. Hofer gives the bell sign.]] We had a similar problem with the last research committee on Telekom. Just when the Enlightenment was conducted where the ÖVP and its employees around the black money scandal and the black accounts had come into being, the Committee was no longer allowed to work on it. And, gentlemen, it can't be. Mr Klubobmann Spindelegger, Mr Klubobmann Schieder, I am good to say that you want to continue this differently from your predecessors.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-11-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00003_d8e8905	I call Mr Pendl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-11-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00003_d8e8926	Mr President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! This is certainly an important topic – but always these headings! I was surprised when a delegation of this house went to Berlin in the German Bundestag to discuss with colleagues on site – and it was not a greener. I'll tell you that. I already told you that at the time. The title is continuously “German Model”. But if you look at the German model, it will come about that it has nothing to do with your ideas and your request. I'm just saying it. We have, I believe, been negotiating this matter for two years in the past GP. We were pretty far. And if you look at what this failed to do, you have to say – and hat off before agreeing; I am not here willing to thank my colleague Rosary and others – we have had some experiences that simply do not belong to a modern democracy or to living parliamentaryism, even if it hurts. I'm saying that quite openly. It started with how to design the schedule. But I say that perhaps we will have a reasonable discussion in the Committee on the Rules of Procedure. I've always wanted that. But I also say: Let's look at the German model when it's always quoted! Now I ask you the minority about this: Why is there lowered from 25 to 20 percent? – Because those in Germany will have a three-quarters majority when this coalition comes. And everyone knows how much percent the opposition has. Therefore: Let's also leave the church here in the village! In the Federal Republic of Germany, there is the request of the minority to set up a committee of inquiry. The majority shall decide. It cannot decide only if it is against constitutional provisions. And if she does not decide, the Federal Constitutional Court will decide. Now I am telling you one of the most interesting decisions of the Federal Constitutional Court in recent times. The opposition wanted the Federal Chancellor to come right at the beginning of the committee. CDU/CSU wanted the Federal Chancellor to come to the end of the committee. Should I tell you the outcome or the knowledge of the Federal Constitutional Court? She's supposed to be in the middle. - Everyone is supposed to think about this. We often argue here, I can really say it for Emperor Bart. [[Abg. Brosz: We are fighting for the establishment! Not for the beard!]] I'd just ask for one thing: I believe that a self-confident Parliament should give itself rules of play, but also live, stop these pre-conceptions and stop suspecting God and the world under the protection of parliamentary immunity. The courts are responsible for this. We should control the political processes. Then we'd all be easier together. I would like to have an objective and open discussion in the Committee on Business Affairs. Then I'm sure we'll bring together a result.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-11-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00003_d8e8963	Mr Magistrate is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Gerstl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-11-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00003_d8e8984	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Kogler, when you started to talk about how you would like to have such a model as you do in Germany, I thought you have another request in the background. You spoke of 20 percent as in Germany, but your request does not represent 20 percent, but 20 Members. [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: The Germans are currently reducing to 20!]] Ladies and gentlemen of the Greens! What do you want? You really? Do you want a minority right with 20 Members or do you want a minority right with 20 percent? That's a little difference. [[Abg. May. Kogler: I have discussed the debate from the German Bundestag! That can't be true! That's incredible!]] And you should agree on that in your group. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Secondly, Mr Kogler: You say you want to have a model like in Germany, but don't say about how the procedure is going in Germany. I am very grateful to my predecessor Otto Pendlshon. First of all, the criminal code applies in Germany. That is, a fair procedure is ensured there. And with us in Austria, the situation is such that the investigative committee is used to quote parts of files where journalists sit next to them and then colleague Pilz goes out and sets up his theory on this one sentence. This is not a fair procedure, ladies and gentlemen. If you want information, we also change the rules of the game! That's what I'm gonna have for now. [[Abg. Brosz: Finally make a proposal!]] Ladies and gentlemen, I am a police officer from my professional training, but I have never experienced such an unfair procedure in my entire life as a police officer or a lawyer, as I have experienced in the last investigation committee. There is no respect for the rights of sacrifice. There is no distinction between the accused and the witnesses, but all who appear there are immediately presented as accused. [[Abg. Kickl: But turning off is! A little unfair when it becomes delicate for your own group!]] If we do not come to a fair trial here, then we do nothing good for democracy as a whole. I think it is a matter of course that we – thank you for the suggestion. [[Abg. Brosz: Then finally make a suggestion!]] Yes, this is our proposal; a proposal that we have, as in all other procedures, a fair procedure under the criminal procedure. [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: Yes, please!]] Then we can discuss everything further. Otto Pendlhat said: If we sit down in the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, we do a fair procedure, we talk about it. But without fair procedures, democracy is more damaging than it is useful. And you must be aware of this, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I'd like to clean up with one more: You did so, Mr Kogler, as if the opposition had no control rights in Parliament if there was no minority right in the event of the establishment of an investigation committee. - I just have to make that clear. [[Abg. May. Kogler: No! I just talked about the one!]] Okay. Good. But then let me point out how many control rights there are, control rights of the minority and control rights of the majority. All in all, we in this Parliament have 71 control rights, 55 of them for the minority and 16 for the majority. [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: Pick it up!]] You can't say that this is a minority-enemy parliament. On the contrary: If you compare this with other European countries, you see, we have an absolute top priority there. We're far ahead. There are few countries that have such rights. And I would like to give you two examples of minority rights, which are not available in any other country in Europe, which are very crucial, namely the desire to bring the Court of Auditors to an examination in certain areas and to enforce them. That is not in any other country, is a minority right with us, it is enough 20 Members. [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: Has proved itself very well!]] – It has proved itself very well. Thank you, Mrs Glawischnig, you even admit it. [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: Control is always proven!]] A minority right, with which we can control it very clearly; already today. And the second minority right, which does not exist in any other country, allows a quarter of the members of the National Council to have a certain operation examined by the Subcommittee of the Committee on the Court of Auditors. Ladies and gentlemen of the Greens and also of the other opposition parties: Take note that this Parliament is one of the most minority-friendly parliaments in Europe and that we have one of the strongest control rights in this country, as there is hardly any other country.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-11-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00003_d8e9161	Mr Rosenkranz has been reported to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-11-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00003_d8e9183	Mr President. High house! Well, minority-friendly, what Mr Gerstl has now told us is really fantastic. And, interestingly, it proves itself exactly where the minorities have been granted rights. So you have to conclude now because of your own list: Yes, where minority rights are missing, it can get even better there. I think that's the right approach. They have said that the minority has 55 control options and the majority 16. I think that from the basic accounting methods, the 55 are expected to be the majority. Or are these exclusively minority rights? [[Calls to the Greens.]] Only so that we can leave the church a little in the village again with the basic accounting methods, even if your head of state haslauer as a negotiator in the coalition negotiations at the educational debate of bad luck. But now, in concrete terms, to the request. Of course, it is necessary at the beginning of this legislative period, especially at the beginning, where the government negotiations are taking place and where there are certain objectives that one is finally addressing this broken project reform of the Committee of Inquiry as a minority law. Signatures and the question of whether they are still clubmen or not – historical debates have no place on this issue. That must go into the future. We now have this request from the Greens in front of us, which in fact is only about setting up U-committees. This is clearly too little for us from the FPÖ. At the same time, there is a need for clear rules on how such an investigation committee is to be set up. All of this has to be regulated in one. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Gerstl.]] I come to it, my speech begins and ends, and then the content comes in between. [[Abg. Wheeler: Most!]] - You can listen. No, a hundred percent of me, my colleague. You can be assured I'll send you the protocols. The question is first of all about the establishment. The Greens' request reads: '() the request of 20 Members or of all members of a club'. – What would that mean? That all clubs could convene an investigation committee without any limit at any time in each National Council meeting. We have already made a proposal that goes very far beyond what the Greens want, namely, on individual procedures. What happens, for example, in disputes? How do charges take place? What happens when, for example, legal abuses are done? – That goes in the direction of the question: Is that the criminal order? What rules of procedure are being made? We have experience from the last committee of inquiry. – What can a chairman do, what can he not? Is there an arbitration agency? And more like that. All of this has to be taken into account. It is not only possible to say that every club can apply for an investigation committee on each subject, no matter when it comes to it. And in addition, you say: Each member of this Committee of Inquiry then has the right to request the loading of information persons, to load experts, to request documents, documents, files and so on. So everyone can do that. I'm just telling you one thing: If the reality – and your group, I am speaking now of the Greens, Mr Pilz, the scenario is not far away, that he would prefer to put in a field bed here and do 24 hours, day and night, only investigative committees – if you imagine it and lead the mind, then we probably have committees of inquiry in a number that would sprang up the technical capacity of this House. [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: A Standing Investigation Committee!]] For example, we liberals have proposed that each club of 20 Members should apply for a U-Commission once per legislative period, such as, for example, clear rules on special sessions, urgent requests and so on, with quotas, so that, on the one hand, the minority will, of course, be granted more rights, but then, if the pendulum goes to the other side, it will not be inflationary with this right and there are clear rules in this regard. To regulate the establishment alone, as this proposal says, is too little for us. We want procedural rights to be clearly regulated, too, and the question of who can load persons with which majority or minorities. And: Where can they be intervened, should these charges serve, in a sense, legal abuse, just for the guild of my colleague Pilz or the journalists? – We clearly lack the instruments. The question also arises: How can we be involved in the Constitutional Court if no agreements can be reached or where abusive action is taken? The rights and, above all, the duties of the Chairman of the Investigation Committee must also be clarified. It is important that this request has been made here once, that a first reading takes place and that a corresponding change in the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the other materials is now taking place very quickly, so that examination committees are not the one, that is, a majority instrument, which is turned off at any time, or that Parliament is somehow put out of force in an inflationary manner.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-11-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00003_d8e9260	Mr Vetter has been reported to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-11-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00003_d8e9281	Mr President. High house! We are mainly concerned with three things. The seriality of minority law must be safeguarded. As has already been said: If you pull this into length when it becomes inflationary, it is no longer taken seriously. We want a minority right, which is really taken seriously. Three points are essential to us. One is, of course: What quota can be used to assert this minority right? Are 20 Members the right thing or is one third of the National Council the right thing, which has already been said in the room? – It is important anyway, it cannot depend on the majority. It has to depend on a minority. And there we will have to get together, of which quo we believe it's all right. - That's the first point. The second point is that we need to see that these committees are not called up too often, so that this instrument is no longer taken seriously. So a certain number per year, for example, a subject per year, or a certain number in a legislative period, because Parliament as such is not to be affected by an excessive number of committees of inquiry. There must also be the ability to work. The work is in the first place, and perhaps only then the control. So a certain restriction, a certain order must be there too. The third question, which is very important, is the question of procedural rights, which has often been addressed. If you make a tribunal out of a committee of inquiry, you're probably no longer on the right path. We have laws, we have criminal laws, we have civil laws. And we have the investigative committee in Parliament, which has its very own quality. If we put them in the vicinity of a criminal court, we do nothing good to parliamentarianism as such. We need precise rules of procedure. The expression “information person” alone – I have to say honestly – bothers me a little bit. From my profession, I am used to it differently, either you are “accused” or “pigs”, and so the rights of persons are defined. Also dealing with the people, the treatment of the people must of course be appropriate. In addition, we have research committees outsourced, as has already been the case, by quoting countless negotiating points and then finding out to the banks. So, as I said, we need proper procedural rules here, and these are the three points that are important to us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-11-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00003_d8e9324	The last speaker to speak is Mr Magistrate. Scherak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-11-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00003_d8e9346	Mr President. High house! As for many of us, this is the first speech for me today, and I am very glad to be able to speak on such a fundamental subject. The Greens' request to set up a U-committee as a minority right can only be accepted if Parliamentaryism is taken seriously. Of course, we can discuss the appropriate procedural rules for a long time, which is perfectly correct, the previous speakers have already said, but purely on principle, I believe, one can only agree with this. Today, as has already been said, we have the day of children's rights, and it is also to be said that the Austrian Parliament is more than sparse. We still haven't made it, the 3rd. To ratify optional protocol, which in the final effect means that it is not possible to enforce the rights provided for in the Convention on Child Law. Similarly, I see the situation in connection with the Committee of Inquiry. In addition to its legislative function, Parliament has also had a control function, and, of course, in connection with this control function, the opposition, that is, the minority, is in particular called for. In my view, this incident is particularly due to the fact that in recent years the government parties have shown little interest in controlling their own government. In my opinion, this is not only sad, but also embarrassing in many areas. The final effect is that there is little interest in the control of the own government by the coalition parties. This is not only a bad sign for Parliament, it simply shows the importance that Parliament should have in this regard. We only need to think back to the last U committee when the Federal Chancellor – who is now present – has repeatedly said to the media that he would like to come to the committee, but no one invites him. It should therefore be possible for individual Members or members of the Committee to be able to invite information persons. Especially as NEOS, living parliamentarianism is a heart concern, the broad discourse is part of our political identity. I believe that the involvement of opposition parties and the joint work one should force would also be very good for the House. We have already heard of the discussion in connection with Germany, of using the approach in Germany as an example. If you look at this, you have to say that it is not only about committee of inquiry, but also about how the model of the committee of inquiry is handled. It offers the opportunity to look at problems together for a longer period of time and to try to find solutions. It is precisely this joint work, and also the willingness to occasionally put the joint before the parting party, that also plays a very important role in the Committee of Inquiry, not only in order to address things such as corruption, confusion and various other violations of laws when they have already happened and thus it is already too late, but also in order to point out in advance preventive means that such things cannot happen. There is also the possibility of preventing these things – if you have strong committee of inquiry – from being involved. It is also very important, I believe, that, if Parliament wishes to have an investigation committee, it will not be discussed by the government again on the subject of the negotiation or the subject-matter of the investigation and something will be changed by intervention. It is generally important that the Committee of Inquiry can also do its work independently. I think, as mentioned earlier, that it is totally unexplainable why, despite the broad agreement of all parties to this novel, in 2009, that is, four years ago, we are still not so far. It is, of course, right, we need to discuss the individual things, but that we find this basic good, we have said that before. I think it is now finally time for this agreement to be followed by actions and to do something. Thus, Parliament can also demonstrate its independence and its employability – even if we do not yet have a government. Finally, I would like to say that this is very important because I believe that independent committees of inquiry can strengthen parliamentaryism and also make important steps towards cross-group cooperation possible. I simply think it is inexplicable that we should continue to deny Parliament this right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-11-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00003_d8e9406	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. I agree with Amendment No 12/A to the Committee on the Rules of Procedure. [[14:15:23]] 5. Point First reading: Parliament's motion for a resolution (Doc. Albert Steinhauser, colleagues on a Federal Constitutional Act amending the Federal Constitutional Act (B-VG) (18/A)
ParlaMint-AT_2013-11-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00003_d8e9445	We're on the 5th. Agenda item. We are going into the debate. Mr Magistrate has spoken on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Steinhauser. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-11-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00003_d8e9473	Ladies and gentlemen! Following this request for a Constitutional Change, an application is hidden, which will reorientate the future of official secrecy or, more specifically, bring away from official secrecy. The official secret is a relic from a completely outdated administrative understanding. There are three strong arguments that we are starting from the principle of official secrecy; “departing” means that in the future, not the secret is the rule, but the information to the citizens. What are these three arguments? – The first is anti-corruption, the second is democracy, and the third is close to modern administration and citizens. Word of anti-corruption. What does anti-corruption mean? – Detect, sharp laws and prevention. And transparency is the best prevention in the fight against corruption. This is a general wisdom that not only represents the Greens, but is the international standard, has not yet been recognized by us. Already in 2008, five years ago, the Group of States against corruption in the Council of Europe delivered a clear opinion on the Austrian situation. In the report, the following were written at the time: “Secretary is the exception, according to the impression of GET, the basic principle and the provision of information. It makes it difficult for citizens and the media to exercise control of the administration, which would prevent corruption". This clear opinion comes from the Council of Europe and is a clear recommendation to the legislator in Austria to change that. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Freedom of information, the abolition of official secrecy, also regulates the relationship between citizens and state. The knowledge of the state is not the knowledge of the authorities and the officials, but the knowledge that exists in the state is the knowledge of the citizens. Therefore, citizens also have a right to access this knowledge. I am thinking of citizens' initiatives that want to be informed about feasibility studies. This is a profoundly democratic question, that there is equal opportunities here. Therefore, by abolishing official secrecy, transparency would also define a new relationship between citizens and state, which is modern. Our request, which proposes a redefinition or a departure from official secrecy, is not an invention of the Greens, but in agreement with the initiative www.transparencygesetz.at, we have tabled this proposal, which is not formulated by us, but rather by my knowledge, Franz Fiedler has formulated this proposal for this initiative. There is the promise of SPÖ and ÖVP to also address the issue of official secrecy. We will take a close look at how seriously this is taken during the government negotiations. When I hear that this chapter is being negotiated by old school representatives like Niessl and Khol, I am not very optimistic that much will come out. The fact is, however, that State Secretary Kurz is in the name of voters and that the official secret must be abolished during this legislative period. There can be no departure, this is a clear mission in the sense of anti-corruption and in the sense of a modern administration. Of course, there will continue to be areas which will not be subject to a comprehensive provision of information, and our request will also address this. Of course, it is clear what the courts in criminal proceedings, which the prosecutors determine in criminal proceedings, will not always be transparent at any time, there are personality rights, there are other authorities that deal with sensitive areas. But we want to turn away, we want to say that in principle the provision of information is the rule and that the exceptions are to be defined, first on a constitutional basis and then in implementing laws, in so-called information freedom laws, which are very precise, in which areas no information is to be provided. It's clear. This is not new either, there are countries that practice it. Slovenia has a sensational freedom of information law with an information agent with a large number of rights, up to the confiscation of documents from non-published authorities. We should take this as an example. There is also the transparency initiative in Hamburg, which has implemented and enforced it. Hamburg has a comprehensive transparency and information freedom law. Austria is lagging behind, and our task is to resolve this abuse over the next five years. I say it again, it's about combating corruption, it's about democracy, and it's about modern administration. That's what we're gonna do. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-11-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00003_d8e9534	Mr Wittmann is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-11-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00003_d8e9555	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Steinhauser, I am here with you. I also believe that it is time to make such an information freedom law. I should be thanked again in the Constitutional Committee as one of the first points to make this happen. I think it should consist of two parts. One part is a constitutionally standardised obligation for the authorities to provide information and the other part a constitutionally standardised right to provide information, so that they are determined in both directions and a duty to provide information for the authority and a right to information for the individual. The real difficulty is to deal with this conflict between information obligation and information law and the right to data protection. It will be our duty here in Parliament to make this compensation. I don't think you can throw the child out with the bath. We are more involved in the Hamburg model, and the Hamburg model provides for a very comprehensive obligation to provide information, but data protection must not be abandoned. I believe that the duty and the law must be particularly strong where the individual is vis-à-vis the State and does not dispute with one another, such as in court, for there is a level playing field, where the public is subject to the court procedure. It is not necessary to be obliged to publish it in the newspapers, for example, to read about divorce procedures for individual people in the newspaper. We must pay attention to this or also ensure that, for example, Fritzl's victims are not included in this law by the obligation to publish. So, basically, yes, but I think that court proceedings must be excluded. With everything else you will be able to agree to a large extent. If it is not about military protection and foreign affairs, I think we will soon come to a solution. This is certainly one of those points – and you know that we have implemented relatively much in the Constitutional Committee during the last period – that we will accept. This is about my personal opinion, in which direction it should go, and it covers very, very much – I would say once, 80 percent – with your request. We need to talk about these cases because in this case there are equal persons or legal persons and not the state appears to the citizen. That, I think, should be defined.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-11-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00003_d8e9595	Mr Magistrate is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Nice to meet you. I'll give it to him.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-11-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00003_d8e9616	Mr President. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Let me say clearly at the beginning: We from the Austrian People's Party very much welcome you to start the parliamentary process today in order to create an information freedom law in Austria. However, it is also important that at the beginning of this debate, we stand firm and do not dispute what it is about. I think we have to ask ourselves how we deal with the changed society. We have developed into a modern information society – how do we deal with it, and how do we adjust the legal system? I believe that Mr Steinhauser's motion for a resolution shows how it can work. For us as the Austrian People's Party, it is clear that we want informed citizens. We want to get the greatest possible, even greater transparency in the administration, and we also want to meet the challenges this information society presents to the state. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, it is also about achieving greater acceptance of state action through increased transparency, which also benefits all of us as decision-makers. It is essential in our time that citizens have the right to know how and why authorities, public administration, act in this way or so. However, it must also be clear to us that this issue is a highly sensitive issue, that we have a great responsibility here. We make it clear: The aim is to get a law to ensure freedom of information at the end of this debate. We would like to introduce a duty to publish, we would like on the other hand the right to access information. In between, there is a tension, namely – Mr Wittmann has already discussed it –: maximum transparency on the one hand and protection of sensitive data on the other. We must also provide for a certain period of time. I believe that we really need to be time-consuming and to debate and prepare this very thoroughly and thoroughly, then at the end we will have a very modern and very ground-breaking information freedom law in Austria. If, in the forthcoming debate, we do not suspect the Austrian administration to be a general one – that is, I believe, important – if we do not create an inflated administrative apparatus by means of the Information Freedom Act, we do not raise a red tape sample if we jointly ensure that the important and legitimate concerns of transparency do not result from a law on sniffing, then, I believe, we will end up with a very modern and transparent Austria.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-11-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00003_d8e9655	Mr Magistrate is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Stefan. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-11-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00003_d8e9677	Mr President. High house! When we talk about the Freedom of Information Act, first of all we have to think about what the collection of data in today's society has in itself, whether it has effect or can be effected or effected: In fact, a cave-out or almost destruction of the rule of law, as we understand it so far. As a result of the data collections, decisions are always taken, which we cannot influence at all and in which we do not know at all what basis they are based. Why don't you get insurance, why aren't you accepted as a tenant, why don't you get a job? This and much more is based on the fact that in the meantime data is collected, passed on, in part legal, in part illegal, then calculations are made, forecasts are made about the individual and then appropriate decisions are made. This concerns the sovereignty of individuals in a very strong way and the sovereignty of the state on the other hand. So this is the state that we must always think about when we are talking about freedom of information. On the other hand, in Austria, we have the special situation of official secrecy, which has been a bit outraged by the mandatory information law, but also only theoretically, because the exceptions in turn are so extensive that, in fact, no information is given on the basis of this law. This silence in the current form is simply not to be maintained. That is why we also support the initiative that there is an information freedom law, which actually takes place in return. In other words, the principle must be that the information is given by the authority to the citizen, There must be exceptions. Of course, we will discuss precisely these exceptions. I have so far heard from all the representatives of the parties that they are all in favour of this, so we will be able to discuss it in detail. It must, of course, ensure the security of the State in sensitive areas, and the very essential are simply the fundamental rights, the civil rights and, above all, the data protection. I am convinced that we can only discuss the Freedom of Information Act together with a revision of the Data Protection Act and, in fact, will only be limited here, because one without the other is not effective. In this sense I am very excited about the second reading, because it will only become really interesting. There will then be a meeting of the questions as to how far the exceptions go and how far the principle that information is given is in the foreground. In any case, our principle remains: We want a glass state, but no glass people.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-11-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00003_d8e9719	Next item is the report by Mr Dr. - No, no, no, no, - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-11-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00003_d8e9740	Mr President. High house! Everyone who has pursued our election campaign knows that we have three values. One of these is transparency, and that is why it would be a lie if we were to refuse this idea in principle. We too, of course, are in principle in favour of an information freedom law. As has already been said, how to protect individual and civil rights, how to deal with data protection, how to protect individuals. A glass state must not lead to the realization of the glass people by detour. On the one hand, it has been mentioned by the applicants that criminal proceedings must be exempted, but, of course, as has been said by this side, civil proceedings such as divorce procedures must also be excluded, because they do not concern anyone. [[towards SPÖ]] About 15 years ago, I was at the club's office and wanted to see there an act of an association that I myself represented about things that happened between 1920 and 1930. I was rejected at the time with the argument: Official secret! – Of course, such things are absurd and must not happen. On the other hand: There are many slanders, there are many criminal proceedings that do not concern anyone at all, and if we get there on this track – and if it is not criminal proceedings, it is something else; if nothing matters to us – then we will have to debate very violently. Also concerning – what I know – funding: Is everyone concerned about how high are the unity values of the properties that exist in this country? The police must also be excluded from their investigations. 15 or 20 years ago there was once a politician who said very proudly on Sunday on TV that on Monday the first house searches could take place, which of course made the house search completely pointless and as such in Realism has been an abuse of power. So that's where we have to think very carefully about what we're going to do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-11-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00003_d8e9789	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Meinl-Risinger to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-11-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00003_d8e9810	Mr President. High house! Right ahead: Of course, we could have taken away our proposal, which is almost verbatim with Mr Steinhauser's request, the Greens' request, today. - Please apologise! We have not yet arrived quite here as far as the Usus is concerned, but this may result in us discussing the issue that is very important to us once again. [[Interlocutory call to the ÖVP]] At the first meeting, we made a request for the abolition of official secrecy, for the creation of an information freedom law. That's the first step. It is now about initiating a paradigm change, as has already been stressed several times today. It is a question of reorienting the relationship between citizens and the state in such a way that the public is not required to publish and access public documents under a law which is very inadequate, which provides for a lot of exceptions, but, in the opposite case, to the public authorities. I would like to stress that it is not quite right if we say that we are here at the beginning of a debate, because this freedom of information law has already been promised, Mr Steinhauser has said it. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Nice to meet you.]] . Well, but the government, first and foremost Mr Kurz State Secretary, has fully stated that there will be an information freedom law. [[New call for tender of the Federal Republic of Germany May. Schönegger]] I also know that there are two designs that are located on the table, only the Klubobmann head at that time did that again before the summer. All right, then we say that we are now at the beginning of the parliamentary debate, and I hope that the issue will also be taken into consideration in the government negotiations. Obviously, all political groups agree, I am very pleased. That means you could assume that this is going to be a quick thing. Of course, it's not easy. As always, the devil is in detail, on the one hand – quite right – as far as the exceptions are concerned: Data protection, protection of personal rights, criminal proceedings, civil proceedings have been addressed here. I'm sure it'll take exceptions along the Data Protection Act. This is also very important to us as Neos: that there is no glass citizen. However, I would like to draw attention to a second aspect which would concern us: We would like to have an information freedom law at federal and national level. Why is that so important to us? – The right to information, the right to access public documents, as provided for by a Convention of the Council of Europe, is a human right. And to divide this human right through ten different information freedom laws, which ultimately leads to different interpretation practices, may be different pay schemes, we do not consider it very useful, so our wish would be that there be an information freedom law at federal and national level. It has already been mentioned today, also by Mr Steinhauser – it has to do with anti-corruption, also with Freunderlwirtschaft –: I recall the proceedings surrounding the call for proposals of the Schubhaftzentrum Vorderenberg, where documents were only published on the basis of the media pressure. This is also an example of how an information freedom law can create a genuine control right on the part of citizens and make it more transparent and public. The second aspect, however, seems very important to me: that such an access to information and such a paradigm change in a modern, living democracy are urgently needed in order to restore people's confidence in this state to the administration. It was already in the context of the NSA hearing scandal today the talk of a loss of confidence, even of a feeling of powerlessness of citizens, and I believe that such an information freedom law could certainly reduce this feeling of powerlessness. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-11-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00003_d8e9892	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. I agree with the request 18/A to the Constitutional Committee to be elected under item 7 of the agenda. [[14:37:44]] 6. Point First reading: Request from Members Dr. Rainer Hable, colleagues concerning a federal law amending the party law, the Party Promotion Act and the Income Tax Act (5/A)
ParlaMint-AT_2013-11-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00003_d8e9932	We're on the 6th. Agenda item. We are going into the debate. I call Mr Hable. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-11-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00003_d8e9959	Mr President. Dear High House! Estimated citizens in the gallery and in front of the TV sets! We're European champions! We are not only European champions, we are also vice-world champions – unfortunately not in football, unfortunately not in a discipline in which we wish for such titles. We in Austria are European champions and vice-world champions in the discipline Party promotion. We have a thirteen times higher party funding per capita than Germany and a twenty times as high party funding as Switzerland. This cannot be explained by citizens. No one understands! If someone says we need this high level of party promotion, that is necessary to eliminate and prevent corruption, I say: Not at all! If we came to the level of corruption in Switzerland – and that says a study by the University of Linz that I like to quote because I come from Linz myself; that is my university – then we would save € 2 billion a year. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kickl.]] So I'm sure it can't be. We have also – and we have heard this today – not increased family support for 11 years, but every year the promotion of parties, every year quite reliable. This is also not understood by citizens. We therefore want to cut the funding by 75 percent. [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] This means a reduction of €100 million from € 133 to about €33 million. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Kickl.]] This means, instead of the previously known funding corridor between €3 and €11, a promotion of up to €2.50 per voice delivered. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wheeler.]] Yes, you have heard correctly: €2.50 per vote cast, because only for votes cast, ladies and gentlemen, and that is our conviction, parties deserve a promotion. [[Abg. May. Darabos: (in the direction of Abg. Herbert, how do you see that?]] [[Abg. Kickl: I'm for a cut!]] This also encourages us to make a policy with the widest possible participation, and we also create an incentive for a positive policy, a positive policy with a capacity to shape, in which citizens in this country share and participate with joy. Furthermore, our request contains an estimated €20 million savings by abolishing the deductibility of club and party taxes. Absorbability always means that all other taxpayers pay. Nor does this mean that no citizen and no citizen is supposed to pay taxes on the club and party taxes of all parties. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kickl.]] In addition to this drastic reduction in the party budgets, we also call for greater transparency. [[Call the ÖVP:Haselsteiner!]] In the future, for example, grants of interest to political groups, to their institutions and to be considered to be party donations – that is, the well-known group funding – and we also want revenue and expenditure from district and community organisations to be no longer presented in the accountancy report, but broken down. This too is a provision against camouflage and sluggishing and hiding of donations in cumulative numbers, which no one can understand. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! The Neos have taken place to pack and implement. It is up to you to take this path of necessary reforms. You are cordially invited to go along this path. Have courage! Come with us! As the last point, I say that we will pay very close attention to whether the government parties take part in this reduction in the promotion of the party and take the right steps. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Belakovich-Jenewein]] If they do not take place, we will continue to increase the pressure, we will maintain it, and I can promise you one: With regard to the reduction of party funding, we will stay there until this claim has been implemented. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-11-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00003_d8e10060	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Darabos. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-11-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00003_d8e10082	Mr President. High house! Ladies and gentlemen. You will probably not be surprised that my opinion is diametrically related to my predecessor, because if that is implemented, what the Neos, who are now new to Parliament, are demanding, then we are going away from parliamentary democracy, towards a big donor democracy. [[Call the ÖVP:Genau!]] There are two parties in the house that are quite close to it: the Neos, who have financed their election by a large donor, and the Stronach team with an even larger donor. [[Call the FPÖ: Frank's not here at all!]] [[Abg. Dr. Belakovich-Jenewein: Where's the Frank?]] Where he is, I don't know. Anyway, I say quite openly, even if it doesn't sound popular: Democracy costs money. A democratically formed system costs money. Democraticly legitimated parties should reflect society – social policy, social policy and in all other areas – and in so far as I only understand this request as an attempt – today, in a different context, a lot has already been talked about American conditions – to introduce American conditions in Austria, namely that only the one who has the money that has the gold makes the rules and not the people who carry the democratic system as well. That is why we are quite clearly saying no to this Neos proposal. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] I would like to say quite openly: I have now read in the newspapers, the Neos bring fresh wind, they bring neoliberal politics to Parliament. They are bringing a democratic approach to Parliament, which is not understandable to me, and we will have to deal with it in the next few weeks and months. I would like to say that last year, in Austria, a renewal was decided in both the party sector and the transparency sector, and that it was also internationally recognised that Austria has now become a pioneer. If we were to implement this neos model, then this would result in us falling back again and let ourselves be ruled by only a few billionaires or millionaires – there can be quite different opinions on the question of definition. In any case, we would have a return to democracy policy which we do not need. That's why I say quite openly: We are quite clear about a state party promotion, also due to the majority relations in this country. We believe that democracy will cost money in all areas and that money will have to be spent, and in this respect this path, which the Neos have set out here today in the first reading, is from my point of view vehement. We want to be independent in our work, regardless of big donors, from large corporations. [[Abg. Steinbichler: Independent of ORF! very important!]] This would also have an interesting effect, for example, when you make yourself dependent on lobbys, how you may be dependent on lobbys – I don't know exactly, but I assume – on workers' rights as regards consumer protection, on environmental rights and so on. That is why, from this pult today, I also say clearly yes to a state party promotion, transparently set up how it was agreed here in the House in 2012 together!
ParlaMint-AT_2013-11-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00003_d8e10161	I call Mr Lopatka. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-11-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00003_d8e10182	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Of course, you can become smarter and improve laws. When we passed the Party Act, we did not actually close a gap. What is missing from this law is an oligarch clause, so that something like this cannot happen, which has now happened in this National Council election campaign that rich older gentlemen who can buy a lot of things hold a party here. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of SPÖ and Greens]] We should close this gap. That is why I am grateful to Neos for having started this debate here. We actually have something in front of us. It shouldn't be that way. But what has previously been criticised by the Council of Europe in the other areas, we have already legislated by this law. There has been this GRECO report by the Council of Europe, and what were the accusations against Austria? – Lack of control, no sanctions, no disclosures of party donations, no uniform rules throughout the country, no rules for mandates, no ceilings on the costs of election campaigns. We then—it was the clubmen cap and head who took this into their hands at the time—to create these rules. That's where we've always had critical trailers. I am thinking, for example, of Franz Fiedler, Transparency International – the recognised specialist when it comes to issues of transparency when it comes to the fact that the rule of law is not correct. Franz Fiedler, when we passed this law, said literally in a “ZiB 2” interview that he saw this law as a law that brought a huge progress. He has meant that with this new regulation, which we have in the Party Law, we have achieved with this declaration duty from €3500, with clear guidelines on donations, the prohibition of donations from abroad, the prohibition of anonymous donations and so on, a progress that must be recognized. I could also call you Hubert Sickinger. He is the political scientist in Austria, who is most intensively concerned with issues of party funding. He has also said quite clearly that there is great progress through this law that we are, in summary, very good. There is a third expert, whom I would like to mention, who has already dealt in book form with issues of party financing after the decision-making of this law, namely Professor Zögernitz, President of the Institute of Parliamentaryism and Democracy. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Brosz.]] Dr. Zägernitz concludes: These rules represent a major improvement in the admissibility of party donations, including the revenue from sponsorship and advertisements, as well as the new control and publication obligations, so that one can say – and I ask you to hear that too – that Austria now has one of the most modern and strict laws for the work and funding of the political parties in Europe. - Quote. I repeat: “one of the most modern and strict laws”. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Steinbichler.]] – Yes, you are a representative of the Olympic Party, I know. You can speak later. We have a different concept of democracy than you. It's your right to have one at the top you always have to mention, because otherwise he'll forget because he's never here. [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. Plessl.]] [[New calls from the Abg. Steinbichler.]] We maintain a different form: We say that a parliamentarian should do his work here and not conduct people from far away who have to fulfill his orders. That's the big difference! My speaking time is almost over. I would ask you to support the request if we want to create this olive oil clause. We are in favour of public party funding. We are also in favour of the possibility of making donations to parties – but transparent, comprehensible, according to clear rules. It could also be thought that a ban on donations should be introduced. [[Abg. Brosz: single donations!]] I am an accountant of the European People's Party, and at European level we have that. At European level, political parties must not accept donations. I don't think that's right. [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] If I can donate for sports clubs, for culture, why should I not, if I wish, be able to support a political party that has a very important task in society as well?- Oh, my God! Therefore: We have adopted a good Party Promotion Act 2012, but if changes are necessary, as in the Oligarchen clause, we are happy to make them.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-11-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00003_d8e10258	I call Mr Kickl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-11-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00003_d8e10279	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! I am not going to get rid of the suspicion that this request by the new group in Parliament, the Neos, is more proof of the correctness of the statement that the opposite is well meant of many times, and that one can also do it in such a way that one tries to improve something, then the famous child also keeps pouring out with the bath. I have come to a donor list, available on the Court of Auditors' homepage, where you can see which parties in the past have received what sums, and I find there at the big entrances only two names: Haselsteiner, Stronach, Hazelsteiner, Stronach, Haselsteiner, Stronach, so this goes down all the time. [[Oh-Rufe at the ÖVP]] And if you consider this model to be the politically sustainable one for the further development of democracy, then you are not prepared to do so. [[Congratulations with the FPÖ as well as with representatives of ÖVP and Greens.]] I think the whole thing has nothing to do with democracy. This did not mean democracy in ancient Greece, but Plutocracy, that is, the rich create and make up their minds what they would like, and keep inside a few puppets, which then have to do what they want out there. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Steinbichler.]] This has nothing to do with parliamentarianism and independent parliamentarians, but it is lobbyism in pure culture. And I think of lobbyism we already have too much and not too little as you might imagine. [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: Where are the Neos at all?]] I must say one more thing, however, because there has been real praise from the SPÖ and the ÖVP on these new rules of the Party Law: Of course, you can't do that entirely! We liberals have been criticizing from the very beginning for good reasons. We have said that it makes sense to change the system, it makes sense to convert the different pots, whether they are a electoral refund or party financing, to a system. This is indeed a good thing to support, as has been the case. But what we did not want is what the Greens have made possible, namely an authorisation clause for the Federal Government in a very, very broad spectrum, I say now, of two said sums in a very, very broad channel, that the government can then, by simple majority, decide relatively generously for itself the level of party funding. That's what happened. And if the Greens now act as if they had nothing to do with it, then it is simply and decisively wrong because they have given this empowerment to the simple legislator with the draft law, knowing well what is coming. [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: That's wrong! It was also a simple majority before!]] So the Greens are contributors in this context and anything but a child of innocence. Ladies and gentlemen! We have criticized this, we have said that there will only be a regulation with us, where we can make a system change, but where no additional costs will be incurred for taxpayers. I have already carried out several times in the past during the debates on this issue, that additional costs have been incurred in several respects, for example, because the election costs refund, which each party has received for the full period in 2008, has been paid again for a year and a half. From my point of view, that's a double checkout. One has argued with a system change, we raise it in the federal government, but the countries are going back to it. In between, half a year of gap, double-financed. So that's also the extra cost you've caused. That is something that goes against the intention of the liberals. And I still remember with shudders today that this federal government has always refused us to confirm with letter and seal that the changeover of the system will no longer cost us a cent. Now we know why – because of course it has become more expensive. But we can't do it the way the Neos here suggest. A 75 percent reduction is about the stupidity shifted to the other direction, now the pendulum of uni-intelligence beats off to the other side, because if you think that to the end, I tell you to go back 90 percent, that would be even cheaper, and it would be best at all if we didn't have it all at all. [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: There's no one there from the Neos!]] So if figures such as Mr Stronach and Mr. Haselsteiner sit together, make up what they are interested in, and here inside they raise their hands, which are then in the soldiers of these reigns, and then you pretend, as if Parliamentaryism were – we don't want that, that's a blasphemy imposed, and that's why we won't agree to such an oligarch model. I mean, someone who gets as good as any construction order in Austria has easy talk. With the famous full pants it is easy to smell, but which social and other interests he pursues, that is another matter. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Steinbichler.]] I believe that the model you have runs out of a model of the ability of politics, runs out to a model that there is a dependence of politics on the economy, and it runs out on a model in which politics becomes an aid to the economy, and we cannot do so, precisely because today a lot has already been talked about an independent and self-confident Parliament with effective control rights et cetera and all have said how important it is. This is absolutely impossible with your model, but that's exactly the opposite of what you're trying to get out of the bottle. And I guarantee you, if you did, you'd regret it because you couldn't catch that spirit anymore. But we will already know this with a broad majority of reason to prevent here. [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Steinbichler and Mr Hagen.]] And then I also advise the Neos: an internal vote. It is very interesting if you are excited here and say that the so-called club contributions should no longer be seen as advertising costs, but Mr Strolz in the “press hour” demanded that donations given to a party should be deductible from the tax. So I don't know what the usual model is anymore.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-11-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00003_d8e10394	I am speaking on behalf of Mr Brosz, but if the time is too short for you to be until 3 p.m., I could interrupt the sitting by 3 p.m. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Brosz.]] The sitting was suspended.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-11-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00003_d8e10434	I'll start the interrupted session again. [[15:00:02]] Request for urgent procedure Mr Heinz-Christian Strache, colleagues, to the Federal Minister for Finance concerning the disinformation policy on the budgetary situation of Austria (34/J)
ParlaMint-AT_2013-11-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00003_d8e10473	We come to the urgent debate on the written question 34/J. As this has now been done to all the Members, there is a lack of reading by the author. The urgent question has the following wording: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2013-11-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00003_d8e10665	I give to Mr Klubobmann Strache as the first questioner on the grounds of the question referred for a preliminary ruling pursuant to § 93 para. President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-11-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00003_d8e10688	Madam President. Mrs Finanzminister! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! A little prelude: We have here three hours in this high house, all of which go differently. It should at least be levelled so that we can at least have a common orientation aid in terms of time. [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: Speak for Parliament renewal!]] The urgent question, which has become necessary today, has therefore become necessary because we find a very concrete disinformation about the budgetary situation of Austria. What has happened in recent weeks is quite interesting, but it seems dramatic. Otherwise, the behaviour patterns of SPÖ and ÖVP cannot be explained in the course of the government negotiations. I think if you let Revue happen, what has happened in recent weeks, then there is already an exciting one, namely, that it has been said before the elections by the Minister of Finance: Everything under control! The budget is excellent in the grip, well positioned, zero deficit in sight soon! That was the starting point before the election, and then suddenly everything is different after the election. Suddenly, there is a budget hole, where you can still argue how big it is – 28 billion to 40 billion €. The experts, as well as the parties SPÖ and ÖVP, argue about this. And suddenly there is a crisis that should not have been identified before, which should not have been visible before, which should have been seen for the responsibilities of the Federal Chancellor, who is now sitting in the Members' Series, or for Mr Vice-Chancellor, or also for the Minister of Finance and the members of the Government. The question is: How is it that suddenly such a budget hole appears and then, like the well-known monster of Loch Ness disappears again and again, suddenly is re-snipped? How can such mechanisms exist? I think it's obvious that there's been an operation with untruths. I find it particularly immense if, as one has to adopt today, in recent years and especially in the run-up to the National Council election, before the 29th century. In September the people in charge of the population and the Members of Parliament here in the House said the untruth. It's not just terrible, I say it's also bad to act like that! [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the Greens.]] This is the concrete presumption that one must have, because of course one must assume that those responsible in her department, from the Minister of Finance to the other departments, can read budget figures, judge them and therefore also judge them: Is there a deficit? Are there failures or not? - Or you're consciously tricking. This is also said in the space that conscious budget trickery has taken place, that one has deliberately tried to talk away a few things or not to make it appear in the budget and ultimately to present other figures with other invoices. So to speak, the bird shot down Mayor Michael Häupl, who had been invited to the “press hour” and said that if there was no budget hole at all, he had no problem at all, unless only a break-up of forecasts! That was his statement: a breakdown of forecasts. I say, indifferently, what the real figures look like, it is definitely a fact that people have been told the untruth and that before the elections people, yes, have been deceived. You can't call it otherwise. As I said, the Minister of Finance held the meeting on 6 June. September first, that's not so long ago, sulphurized by the zero deficit – zero deficit in sight! I would like to know about you today, Mrs Financier: How could you handle it? September such a prognosis? And how can they look so blatantly different in such a short time? So we already have before the 6th. September shows that there are very dramatic developments, that we have dramatic numbers in the field of outsourced companies, ASFINAG, ÖBB, other areas into the communities, and, if you honestly deal with them, an incredible hole is present. But you did talk and talk about it back then. We have drawn attention to this. It is therefore particularly unbelievable if political leaders in the Ministry of Finance and also in other areas – but in this case the Ministry of Finance as the main responsibility, from the Minister of Finance Fekter to the new Klubobmann Schieder, who was also the State Secretary and could not have acted as if he had not been able to deal with it and could not have done so – as if they had not known anything about the budget hole. And that's why one is particularly interesting: Today it is about other functions, but I say, in the private sector, with every small businessman who is the managing director and who sets up such actions, he will not somehow be praised away, but will be expededed from the company if one finds such developments, Mr. Klubobmann Schieder. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] So it is interesting, as you will also try to explain and present it to the House in your responsibility. But there are two possible explanations in this respect. The explanation of one is that: They deliberately tricked, deliberately said the untruth, so that in the run-up to the National Council election people were deliberately led behind the light, because those who are rightly outraged today about this procedure and therefore also made another election decision. So if you are on the streets today, across Austria, then talk to the citizens, what opinion the two parties responsible for SPÖ and ÖVP have on this question today! There is one possibility, but there is also the second possibility, which is equally bad, namely that you have any competence in this area and you have no competence in this area. There is no other possibility how such a thing can come about. And so this is something which, if the second point were the case, is evidence of incredible incompetence and where there would be as much need for action as in the first case. One can of course go here and say that one now tries to bring the whole of the SPÖ and the ÖVP back into line with argumentative distractions by saying, in terms of old figures or forecasts uncertainty of economic researchers, of course, economic researchers are also mistaken in their forecasts, and of course this is also a coffee study up to a certain point when economic researchers produce forecasts, no question. – That can be an argument where you try to talk out. But it's the damn duty of political leaders to question forecasts and even start from the worst case and not, as you have done, always to start from the best case and even to charge taxes that are not at all feasible in real political terms, such as the financial transaction tax and other areas, or revenue from the Swiss, where you have calculated revenue, and many other areas more. That's your responsibility. And I say, Of course, there are experts, and there are institutes like the WIFO, the IHS, many more. Yes, but it is your responsibility to put all scenarios on the table and take them seriously, according to best knowledge and conscience, even in the sense of a proper businessman of the Republic, and to take them seriously – and to take third parties seriously, who have seen the figures differently. And you've tried to wipe it out again and again in advance. None of the two parties, from SPÖ and ÖVP, need to be cleaned off. That's not necessary either, because they're both deep inside. And with regard to the Federal Finance Act, which is presented as a government proposal and is finally to be whipped through in the Council of Ministers with unanimity, you both face the same guilt. There is no need for anyone to act as if he had less responsibility on this question. All that the coalition seems to bring together here is to agree right now that it seems to be trying to burden the population again. That is now, after the budget hole has become obvious after the election, one goes here and already has the approach: How can we cope with our own failures on the back of the population? We are not prepared to turn on the necessary screws, namely, finally the Court's proposals – to hope there are these, 599 if I have that right in mind – and thus ensure appropriate efficiency and finally eliminate unnecessary extra expenditure in these areas with an administrative reform. No, it is only thought about how people can be burdened with new taxes – where we are already a top tax country in Austria today, where the companies in society already suffer in all areas, whether small or medium-sized entrepreneurs, whether employees or employees, all of them suffer from this maximum tax burden. This goes down to the development of unemployment, which we find today, where, of course, if you strangle the economic engine through maximum tax burdens, you cannot assume that the economy will recover in the crisis – on the contrary – and therefore, of course, another increase in the budget problem must be on us. That's even absurdity! New taxes, new burdens, which are to be met again by the citizens, the workers, the service providers, of course, also the pensioners and, of course, also the Austrian families, who have in fact experienced a robbery from the SPÖ and the ÖVP in recent years. In the case of pensions, there has been no corresponding inflation index adjustment in the sense of inflation development, and no adjustment has been made for families in the area of family and child benefits for years. Then you want to continue to clean up exactly with these groups of people. That's just fatal, it can't be at all! On the contrary, one must finally turn on the screws where money has been simmering in red-black administrative bacon structures for years and decades, where perhaps the party friends there or there can be used with a double leadership tip. We have such models in many areas, for example, when we look back at the National Bank, where we find the most incredible privileges that you are finally not ready to stop until today. That's where it belongs! That's exactly what people expect from us today, and you're not ready for that. It can be said with fug and right that it is before the 29th. September 2013 has never given a election movement in which a SPÖ and ÖVP government in office has made an election as terrible as it has. There is no more blatant example for me from the Second Republic in which one has tried to hide a vote with such falsehoods! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] There can be real fear and fear for you when you think that to a large extent the same people who have been responsible over the past few years are in the process of wanting to continue this responsibility and working with the same mechanisms. That is why I say that every number that we are presented by you today must, in principle, be judged with the utmost caution and criticism and also with the highest distrust, because we now know this from the past. That's exactly your pattern. I do not believe anything more after this procedure, which has become apparent. It is particularly entertaining if one has to recall the SPÖ, that is, the very political area that is ultimately responsible for the billion hole, then the red poster propaganda in the election campaign. [[Abg. Dr. Jarolim: I would look at Carinthia!]] I remember: Work – in reality, we have record unemployment in Austria. Or: Pensions – in reality, we have billions of holes in the ASVG system, but the great privileges at the National Bank, the great privileges in the old politicians' pensions and in many areas that are not yet available. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] The written or documented word at the SPÖ does not fit with reality, up to the topic of justice. What does justice mean? – That those who do something that brings something in will also be rewarded accordingly. I understand that, and not that if you are diligent and work something, you have to pay more taxes in the end, and others who may not be willing to do so will eventually get something from it. You don't understand that. That's not justice, but right there, you're just trying to do the opposite of what you put on. Basically, the dramatic consequences must be – I say quite consciously –: We are therefore also calling for the resignation of the Minister of Finance Maria Fekter today, but also for the resignation of the entire government! There is no confidence in this rule anymore! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] A request for distrust is the command of the hour, and we will therefore also be submitting the motion for a reluctance today. But that's not the only way it's done. A new proposal that we are going to make today is exactly what the Austrian population is really expecting, it says: That's all dishonest! The politicians have been dishonest to us, these are quite different conditions, including for decision-making reasons! We would have had to go before the 29th. September knew how to lead us behind the light, then we would have made our decision differently too! And that's exactly what it's all about: The most honest and justest would be to ensure a new election, and we could do it together with the election to the European Parliament. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] People are content to experience such practices and untruths, they are content to experience a development where political leaders are constantly trying to raise their voices with such methods, and at the end of it, they have not meant it honestly. Honesty is the decisive thing to also mention the truth by name and also to admit that one has made mistakes, people expect that. You'd also be grateful if you had lived this honesty. But the dishonesty will not be thankful, with such mechanisms the citizens are definitely getting out. It is therefore necessary to counter this. Of course, it is also important to note that we have a crisis – no question, even on that one can push a lot. Of course, we can also say that the euro and financial crisis has led us into this dilemma. That just doesn't logically fit your argument that you've been living in recent years, because since we've got the euro, everything must have gotten better. It is also seen that these arguments, which have been brought back over and over again for years, are disproved: what benefits people have through the euro, that they are supposed to earn more than ever before, although the opposite has already been proved. The reality is that real wages for lower incomes have fallen by more than 30 percent since the introduction of the euro in Austria. This is also denied by you. It is not true that people have so many benefits through the euro. In reality, there was a cold expropriation for all savers, where the Austrian savers alone lost €3.5 billion. You can wipe it out again, that's done by you. And you tell us every time how great this achievement of the euro is, but at the same time coming They then turn out and blame the euro for this budget development. This is exciting, and I wonder how you want to resolve this contradiction. Sometime you need to recognize an argumentation page as the right one for you: Either the euro is good and has brought us the great and great – or it is not so good and is with a reason or perhaps even the main reason for this development that we have today. And it is precisely what we should be talking about, not always encountering false, different, contradictory arguments. Yes, my dear ones. Ladies and gentlemen, the European Union and, of course, monetary union also have a major role to play in this development. That is our knowledge, we stand by it, and we hold it firmly and say so. We want to discuss how we can get out of this misery and also think about different ways to which there should be no bans on discussion. All the measures we have experienced up to date are purely superficial cosmetics. And it's far from over. The damage that was done is there. The question that will arise and which today also arises is: Do we want to limit the damage and prevent further damage in the future, or do we continue cosmetic operations? It can be assumed that the damage already incurred and existing will be further expanded, further potentated, that in the end there will be quite different mechanisms in the ESM and that people will be left to the vein with Zigbillion Euro, in addition to the other budget hole mechanisms and many other failures that we have already experienced and defined in our own home. I'm saying there's little room. Finally, we need to ensure future investment in the country, we need to ensure tax reductions for performance providers so that the economy is boosted especially in times like this, so that entrepreneurs can also invest and secure and create jobs so that they have a chance to bring about economic growth again, and not continue to stifle the economic engine, because then the disaster of the budget hole would hit us twice and triple. In fact, we will also have a further reduction in the tax revenue already in place today. That is exactly what needs to be avoided. We will have more unemployed people who cost us even more. That's exactly why you have to counter it here. I say quite consciously: Tax increases do not come into question for us, we must finally start with the reforms proposed by the Court of Auditors, not with the middle class, not with the service providers, not with pensioners and not with the families. That's the hour's commandment. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] It must now be over with the mystery, ending with budget tricks, ending with a situation in which one tries to cover up everything with cover-up actions, to get over it again for a few years – and then in the next five years the disaster breaks out when reality is no longer to hide and no longer to hide! It is necessary to make public debt at all levels, at last transparent in all areas, to stop the budget tricks, and there is a need for a case-by-case collapse! People now expect you to act here at this level, and we ask for a list. We say that it is now necessary to ensure the following: Disclosure! How high are the liabilities from various bank rescue packages in recent years? How high are the liabilities from various euro rescue measures as well as obligations to the Euroreturn umbrellas EFSF and ESM? How high are the debts of all publicly owned companies, the ÖBB, the ASFINAG? How high are the debt and liability of the countries and communities? How high are the obligations for the Marod banks in full or partial state ownership – in the end Hypo Alpe-Adria, ÖVAG, municipal credit – and others, other burdens of these institutions that can be expected in the future? There is a need for a complete restart in budgetary policy. [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign.]] – I conclude: The Austrians deserved a solid, honest, open and transparent presentation of the real budget and an honest budget policy. That's the commandment of time. And the time of cover-up and trickery must be over. If you have a stand-by and character, then you agree to the re-election request in the Constitutional Committee, we shall, together with the election to the European Parliament, also make a national election so that citizens can make a decision in view of these misdevelopments and untruths.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-11-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00003_d8e10802	In response to the question, Mrs Federal Minister for Finance, Dr. Fekter, spoke. The speaking time should not exceed 20 minutes. - Please, Mrs. Federal Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-11-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00003_d8e10823	Madam President. High house! Values Advisors on the ranks! Values Watchers in front of TV screens! I would like to thank you very much for having the opportunity to clarify the facts and figures once again. The current budget as a whole shows stable finances. There's no money missing in this budget. And you could have looked at all the reports on the 2013 budget implementation here in Parliament – monthly reports, quarterly reports, the full implementation report on the first three quarters – Mr Strache. Then you knew that we didn't trick, that we didn't hide anything and that we didn't keep anything behind the mountain. We are very transparent here. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] We are very transparent when reading the reports. They show that we're better on the plan than everyone expected. They show that we have a significant downward trend in expenditure and that we are better off in revenue than in the same period of the previous year. We have therefore been able to improve net financing by 24 percent. That's 1.7 billion euros. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen, and although the forecasters of the Economic Research Institute have reduced this year from 1 per cent to 0.4 per cent, we have nevertheless succeeded in making the budget performance so positive for this year. It is the result of the measures taken. Austria shows that the economy has grown better, although not intoxicating, both in 2012 and 2013, in relation to our neighbours and the EU average. We have shown resistance to the difficult economic conditions. That's no reason I'm gonna break into jubilation here. On the contrary: In the coming years, the consolidation effort we have made must continue with our 2012 consolidation path. And we will also need further measures to achieve the overall debt crisis. However, I am confident that the future Federal Government will not leave the way with our 2012 reform path, so that there is a solid foundation and that this reform agenda will continue to be implemented. It is therefore unsavory to speak of a budget gap or even a budget hole if the current budget is better than in the plan. [[Abg. May. Kogler: It is a financial framework gap!]] My venerations Ladies and gentlemen, it is legitimate to look at coalition negotiations as well as what the roadmap should look like for the next few years. And, of course, it is also legitimate to see how much revenue we will have for our actions, and to look at whether revenue development is in line with expenditure development. This was done because of the forecasts we have now received. It is in the nature of forecasts that they are constantly updated. We do the budget once a year, the forecasts come quarterly. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen, in the strategy report, we have pointed out how the trend and the forecast are. That means that even if you could have read this, you would have really considered the documents we provide to the House. In the present case, the outlook has now seen significant changes in key key figures by 2018. For example, the pension forecast is intended to increase the cost of the pension by 2018, while at the same time reducing tax revenue. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen, Please imagine that you have to tell me now what income you have in 2017 and what you will spend in 2017! [[Abg. Kickl: What do you do the plans for?]] Of course, everyone will say: I do not yet know the increase in wages, and I do not actually know inflation either. And precisely for this, ladies and gentlemen, we get the forecasts. They are estimates of how revenue developments develop, estimates of how inflation could be, estimates of what prices are like, for example, unemployment. [[Abg. May. Stefan: What are we talking about then?]] We then build our plans on this, and this is of course always at the beginning of the legislative period in view of a period of five years. [[Abg. May. Stefan: Is everything okay anyway! When's the government's fishing?]] The last Federal Government has shown that budgetary policy works with an eye, in particular the last consolidation package in a volume of €27 billion, which has been decided here in the House. Of these, €22 billion were expenditure reforms to reduce expenditure. And of these €22 billion, €16 billion have now been implemented and processed. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen, it is simply wrong to say that we would not have done anything to have stable finances. Of course we did something. This has also been decided here in the House. These expenditure reduction measures work well. And the measures we adopted in 2012 are effective. This also shows the 2013 budget. Granted, we still have measures in front of us. However, we are also in a four-year path of consolidation, and in the first one and a half years we have already reached two thirds of the expenditure reduction. Since, ladies and gentlemen, we were very happy about reform. Not of about there was confirmation of Triple A by the credit rating agency Fitch and also a recent positive assessment of Standard & Poor’s. The EU and the OECD are also currently confirming our professional access and national efforts. This is the result of the commitment to a consolidated, balanced budget, to stable finances with our budgetary discipline, to the Stability Pact that we have concluded with the countries, to the debt brake that you did not want in the Constitution, to my dear ladies and gentlemen of the opposition, therefore we have simply anchored it and also respected it, and, above all, to a balance between expenditure reduction and offensive measures so that we are fit for the future. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP]] [[Abg. May. Kogler: For good reason!]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! This lays the foundation for the fact that Austria will continue to be stable in the future and that the finances will not only be stable but will also remain stable. Now on the questions. Questions 1 to 3: There's no budget hole. [[Abg. Kickl: That's incredible!]] [[Abg. Strache: Did the hole of Ness dive again?]] [[Unrest in the meeting room.]] There is no money in the budget, as I have just told you in detail. The 2013 budget implementation is running well and will not only keep in mind, but rather a little better than originally planned. [[Abg. May. Kogler: Now the head is making the word for the ÖVP!]] This shows that all Austrian local authorities are working successfully to keep our budget path. Questions 4 to 6: Each new economic forecast, including the quarterly one, has budgetary implications, which the Federal Ministry of Finance naturally includes in its assessment of budgetary developments. However, we do not change the budget quarterly, ladies and gentlemen. [[Abg. Brosz: These are concrete questions!]] The latest medium-term economic forecast of the WIFO has been transmitted to the Federal Ministry of Finance in October 2013. By the way, my venerations Ladies and gentlemen, WIFO has only today – today, in November! – this forecast published. [[Abg. May. Stefan: Which one?]] After we knew the medium-term data, the Federal Ministry of Finance estimated the corresponding impact on the future consolidation path. [[Abg. Brosz: Questions 5 to 6 have not been answered! When did you get the current bills?, stand there!]] [[Abg. May. Kogler: The newspapers today are full of that...!]] [[Abg. Street: Question 5 answers: When did you know about the bills?]] [[Abg. Dr. Belakovich-Jenewein: Hello! Answer question!]] Questions 7 to 9: International investors know that they can rely on the sustainability of Austrian budget policy. The markets are therefore completely unimpressed by our Austrian discussion. The interest rate situation in Austria is stable at very low interest rates. We can all be proud of that. This also helps in budget creation. Question 10: The calculations took into account relevant information and principles for the development of the budget, in particular the current medium-term economic forecast of WIFO for the years to 2018, which was drawn up in mid-October, and, most importantly, the current opinion of the end of October on long-term pension insurance on the expected delivery of the statutory pension insurance funds according to § 108e Abs. 9 Z 2 ASVG in the years 2013 to 2018. Similarly, Council of Ministers decisions were taken, which were only adopted in accordance with the Federal Financial Framework Act 2014 to 2017. Of course, a possible need for restructuring was also taken into account for national banks. [[Abg. May. Kogler: Where?]] In the calculation of the structural need for consolidation of €18.44 billion for the years 2014 to 2017, those values were set as targets for the general government structural deficit, which were decided by the Federal Government in spring 2013, were published in the Strategy Report on the Federal Financial Framework Act 2014 to 2017 and, of course, also present here in Parliament as parliamentary materials. In 2018, the general government structural deficit should not exceed 0.45 percent of GDP. This is in line with the Stability Pact that we have concluded with the countries. The EU's fiscal rules provide that one-off or temporary burdens, such as disaster aid or possible bank assistance, are not taken into account in the structural budget. The calculation of the structural deficit must also consider whether the economy remains below or above its potential. The current estimates of the WIFO have also been used for this purpose. These show that the economy remains below its potential in the coming years, and this output gap is around €9.2 billion. On the question 11: The two economic research institutes IHS and WIFO were included in the calculation of the foundations as well as the Oesterreichische Nationalbank. Questions 12 to 14: Each estimate is subject to uncertainties that can go in both directions. [[Abg. Kickl: I'm going!]] Question 15: The need for consolidation in order to achieve the planned structural deficits is around €18.4 billion over the period 2014 to 2018, which means around €33.1 billion in Maastricht. The difference between these two amounts: bank aid with €5.8 billion, the economic effect, as mentioned above, the output gap with €9.2 billion, flood and drought damage with €165 million and the billing tax Liechtenstein also as a single amount of €500 million. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Vavrik.]] On questions 16, 17 and 19: As the economic research institutes have confirmed, these are very well-founded calculations. As in any forecast, the actual development can vary in both directions. On the question 18: When preparing budget planning 2013 to 2017, the Ministry of Finance may only take into account information on future needs from the banking package – and they have been taken into account in this way – as actually announced by the banks concerned and as well as sufficiently concrete. The Federal Ministry of Finance, the dedicated task force and numerous experts are working to keep the expenses for the bank package as low as possible for taxpayers. For national banks, a total of €5.8 billion has been committed in the calculations over the period 2014 to 2018. Questions 20 to 24: The decision on the measures, the nature and content of the tax reform, the consolidation path and the priorities for the tax reform – for which I have always taken place if we can afford it – must be taken by the coming Federal Government. On questions 25, 27 and 28: The concrete measures to ensure that the path is respected will be presented to the public in a timely manner and, of course, will also consult you here in the House, my honourable Members. [[Abg. Strache: Such unclear statements!]] On the question 26: Higher unemployment means higher disbursements for unemployment support and, at the same time, fewer payments from taxes and social contributions. The corresponding forecast values of WIFO have been used. On question 29: Sustainable protection of pensions and greater harmonisation of pension schemes in areas with special pension rights, such as the National Bank, ORF, social security funds and chambers, will continue. The Federal Government is therefore planning to a maximum of 31. To give the National Council an appropriate government template to the National Council to take further steps to achieve sustainable and enhanced harmonisation of pension schemes in the field of the Austrian National Bank, in particular in the fields of service provisions I and II. The following target groups should include in particular: Active staff of the National Bank in accordance with the provisions of the Services I and II and former OeNB staff who are entitled to retirement and survivors' pension under the pension regulations of the Services I and II. Further steps will be taken with regard to the provisions relating to the additional pension contribution according to § 460b ASVG, for example, an increase in the additional pension contribution for pension parts above the maximum contribution basis by at least 2 percent, for pension parts above the maximum contribution rate by 4 percent – this increase in pension contributions should not increase in performance – and the increase in pension contributions for pension parts over 70 percent of the maximum contribution amount from 6 to 9 percent. Thirdly, Further steps to ensure the sustainable reorganisation of pension funds in the area of individual special pension rights falling within the federal legislative competence, in particular the redeployment of pension contributions for old-age workers: For pension parts between 100 per cent and 150 per cent of the maximum contribution base, a pension contribution of at least 5 per cent shall be paid; a pension contribution of at least 10 per cent for pension parts shall be paid; for pension parts over 200 per cent of the maximum contribution basis, a pension contribution of at least 20 per cent and for more than 300 per cent a pension insurance contribution of 25 per cent should be paid. Steps to cover maximum pensions related to special pension schemes: The maximum maximum pension shall not exceed the reference of the National Council President in accordance with pyramid – that is 210 percent of the starting amount. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen, you see a lot of things planned here – also for politicians: A sustainable guarantee of the financing of pension schemes related to old-age pension schemes is expected. Questions 30 and 31: I am a determined follower – but this is now known – of a uniform nationally uniform accounting system for the federal government, countries and municipalities so that the comparability of public budgets and transparency of public budgets can be ensured. [[In the case of ÖVP and SPÖ, members of the FPÖ and the Agg. May. Kogler.]] [[Abg. May. Kogler: This is now against black and red country leaders!]] We have 400 000 companies in Austria. If, therefore, 400 000 companies are able to submit their numbering work in accordance with uniform accounting and accounting rules, it must also be possible for nine federal states and local authorities to agree on a regulatory system which is comparable and, above all, transparent. [[Abg. Kickl: Then talk to your partner!]] I am very confident. [[Abg. May. Kogler: Bravo!]] You know that the Federal Government already presented proposals to the House in this spring, but unfortunately, although the opposition was for that, there was no constitutional majority. I'm sorry! I am confident that this might then succeed in the new composition of the House. I am also confident, therefore, that the financial statements of all the federal states have now taken a decision that the proposals for the harmonisation of accounting should be on the table by the middle of the year 2014 and also because they have agreed that the decisions for this harmonisation will then be taken in the country days in 2014. In this respect, it is, I believe, high time. It should not fail with the members of the Federal Government or with the new Federal Government. However, we need, for some provisions, the constitutional majority of the House, and I hope that this constitutional majority can be found. On question 32: After the election, I proposed a legislative budget procedure – on the one hand, to signal to the EU that we do not leave our consolidation path, on the other hand, to have sufficient time in the government negotiations to create the legal budget base for the 2014 budget and not put us under time pressure. This proposal, and I regret it today, has not been taken up by me, because it has also been considered sufficient in accordance with the constitution of the automatic budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-11-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00003_d8e11244	We are now going into the debate. I would draw attention to the fact that, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, no speaker may speak for more than 10 minutes. Each club has a total speaking time of 20 minutes. First of all, Mr Kickl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-11-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00003_d8e11271	Madam President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! I hope that you have all listened carefully and carefully now; not in detail to what has not been answered – but it has been answered, but it has not actually been given real information about the budget – but to the only decisive sentence on the part of the Minister of Finance, to which everything can be reduced: There is no budget hole in Austria. There's no budget log! All of us are hallucinating: All the experts in this house and outside this house, they're all hallucinating. And there is probably no unemployment either, there is no euro problem, there is no inflation. [[Federal Minister Dr. Fekter:... is wrong!]] There is no such thing as a budget hole. Ladies and gentlemen! I did not know that our wife is the youngest member of the “New Vienna School of the National Economics” with the president, Chief, the mayor of Vienna. [[Cheerfulness and applause at the FPÖ.]] There is, by the way, a single condition for entry into this “New Vienna School of National Economics”, which is the unconditional refusal of realities. That's the only condition you have to bring. [[Cheerfulness and applause at the FPÖ.]] In the case of Mr Häupl, I knew that the mathematical knowledge of this gentleman is essentially limited to the percentage and to the promille accounts; however, it is already so far with the Minister of Finance, that has, quite honestly, surprised me a little. My wife, Minister of Finance, behind me! If you could only count half as well as you print G’schlahln as you have now proved it again, then today’s session would be superfluous, then we shouldn’t have organized these urgent ones at all. – Alone, it’s not that, and that’s reason enough to deal with you and your way of making policy in a highly sensitive area of this republic. I say to you that this government, which is now once again intertwining in order to get the Austrian population into its pockets for another five years, has a huge problem to overcome them. She has not even started this huge problem since this debate around this billion-billion-budge hole – which is of course there – has already been much, much longer, it has it sustainable, and it has it chronically. I would like to say this: It can be articulated in such a way that this government is characterized by ongoing hustle and bustle. This government suffers from a swindling attack after another. The ladies and gentlemen of this Federal Government are tumbling from an untruth to the next. That's how it looks. And if you look at the excuses that are being brought there and have just been restored by you, ladies and gentlemen, it will be very bad for you to think that you want to be the ones who want to manoeve us out of this difficult situation. There you can only say: God forbid!, and I can only thank our Federal Partyman and Clubobmann if he says, please re-elect immediately so that the damage you have already fabricated to a huge extent does not increase! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I must congratulate this Federal Government, in a ranking for inability you take from the first three places equal all three. This is an achievement that no one has ever succeeded before you. You should not be particularly proud of this, because, I tell you, it is not only our liberals, but also the Austrian people who have been here in the meantime. If I have to sum up the policy of this Federal Government and also the Minister of Finance, then we have an ingredient, that is a permanent constant in this government drive, that is the post-achiever; he always comes to light in new variants, which is a fixed component. The other is nothing other than a series of untruths or of swindling cases and swindling attacks of this federal government. But there is no doctor, and there are no medications, ladies and gentlemen, there is only more to withdraw, and in the ideal case, new elections help to bring about political hallucination in this country. That's necessary. The electorate will punish you, without any probation, ladies and gentlemen, and bring you the necessary time off from the government responsibility. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Mrs Minister, we have long lost our confidence in you, which has now been just the last occasion, so to speak. However, we have lost our confidence in the entire federal government, because such a barrage, in good German said, does not bring it together alone, that is already a concerted action, a co-production of the horror of the entire federal government. What you have fabricated here is not only a financial policy and an information disaster, but above all a moral disaster that you have produced here, for which you are responsible. And that will not be better if you increase the refusal of reality in ever new dimensions, ladies and gentlemen. For this reason, I would like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I hope, of course, ladies and gentlemen, that we will also find the necessary majority in this House. However, I am afraid that the representatives of the ÖVP and of the SPÖ, who have themselves been led behind the light in this election campaign, which has been sent out with arguments, of which those responsible have long known that they are not voting in the back and front, but will once again make this government the wall and unfortunately we do not find a majority. That is why I would also have a concrete proposal on how these things can be handled in the future. I already know that we have to save, in Parliament's reconstruction, in the necessary renovation work here in the house, but I would put a purchase very, very dear to the plenary, and that would be the one of a powerful - powerful - the device has to be powerful! – Lie detectors, ladies and gentlemen. It's supposed to be installed behind me on the government bank. This lie detector is relatively cost-effective in the acquisition, and it would have saved us from great damage in the past if every time something was softened in the back, which falls into the category of hustle and bustle, this lie detector would have alerted us. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] After all, you did not believe it when we said that the economic forecasts you expect from are the wrong ones are much worse. You did not believe that the euro could not be said that we are above the mountain, but that the thick end is still coming. You have not believed it if we have said that unemployment is not yet under control in the case of Western Europe, but that it will continue to rise. You'll always be a backwalker, then you'll always be a black painter and an incorrigible pessimist. We were the only ones who were right. And that's why I put my hope on this device and on the acquisition of this lie detector. He will save us from great harm. Because the whole thing, ladies and gentlemen, what you are doing here, including the example of this hole, has system. It was you, Mrs Noch-Finanzminister, it was you and nobody else who promised by this government bank from the Austrian population that the Greek aid would be a business. Not only do we get our money back, but we get interest, you said from above. – Töh, töh, töh, töh, töh, this lie detector would have made at this point, and he would have done it right, ladies and gentlemen! [[Cheerfulness and applause at the FPÖ.]] It was you and no one else, Mrs Finanzminister, in co-production with the ad chancellor, who is no longer in this House, because we might ask him something critical that has been talking about a protection mechanism, at the first edition that will be enough to get the euro crisis under control. Once you have to help, then Greece is saved and the euro is above the mountain. – Töh, töh, töh, töh, töh, töh, öhne, öhne, would have made this lie detector behind me, and he would have done it right. [[Cheerfulness at the FPÖ.]] And, ladies and gentlemen, it was you and the entire Federal Government, which is why I am today also seeking an approval of this mistrust request, which has listed a huge swindle before this election, which has explained to the people that the budget has been renovated – töhne, töhne, töhne, töhne, öhne, öhne, öhne – which have explained that the financial transaction tax will only enter into this budget and they have immediately been awarded. – Töh, töh, töh, would have made this device at this point. And it was you who explained that the previous victims of the crisis, who paid the token for something for which they can nothing at all, will now face justice, that there will now be something for the families, that there will now be something for the pensioners, and that the economy will be unleashed by a reduction, for example, in the cost of wages and a reduction in bureaucracy. – Töh, töh, töh, töh, töh, would have made this device, ladies and gentlemen. And I think it would have been a permanent tone that we had heard from there. So you should not make a reality refusal, but you should go into it. What you have done here before the National Council election and today in the declaration of this procedure is a single fraud against the Austrian population. Your time is over, it's fixed, even if we have three watches here that show different times.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-11-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00003_d8e11394	Ladies and gentlemen, at the beginning of this legislative period we had some very constructive presidential meetings. At these meetings we agreed that, as before, we will be holding very hard, fierce debates on the content, because it is a lot, but never with personal differentiations. [[Abg. Kickl: Where is there a personal diffamation?]] And I think we should stick to this agreement that we made at the beginning of this legislative period. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Kickl: You should report once again when it comes to billions of fraud!]] I am therefore going to distance myself from the calls for orders today, but I would like to point out once again that it makes a difference as to whether one is keenly dealing with the subject matter or whether one is making personal additions. [[Abg. Kickl: What was there personally? Tell me what was personal!]] I say it only for everyone to think and with the request to take this into account in the choice of words. The motion for a resolution by Mr Strache, Mr Kickl and other Members has not yet been tabled. However, thanks to an excellent stenographic protocol, I can see that it has been put in word identically. I would also ask you to put forward the requests in advance, so we can avoid misunderstandings afterwards. This motion for a resolution is part of the debate, because it is also sufficiently supported. The next item is Mr Klubobmann Mag. Arbitrator. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-11-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00003_d8e11460	Madam President. Mrs. Minister! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! In the last few days and also in the last speech, a lot of things have been said wrong and a lot of uncertainty has been contributed, which unfortunately is not based on facts. I can admit that there has been a mistake in communication here, and I can accept my share of responsibility for it, but only in communication, not in the facts. I am glad that we have the opportunity to correct a few myths today with regard to the facts and the material reconnaissance. The first myth and the first impression that unfortunately came about falsely is the following: There would be a gap in the budget. To do this, you have to say: Although economic growth has been forecast by 1 percent at the time of budgeting and in the meantime has fallen to less than half, i.e. to 0.4 percent, the current budget will be fully planned. The budget implementation so far, the months to October show exactly that the budget implementation is in the plan and holds the budget. That is, we have no gap in the budget, but we have implemented exactly what we have budgeted. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] In 2011, the budget was 0.7 percentage points better, i.e. € 2 billion better than planned. In 2012 the budget was again €2 billion better than in the plan. We already see that, despite economically difficult times, the budget has been carefully budgeted. Or to destroy another myth: In 2010, the Economic Research Institute for the past year, for 2012, predicted a deficit of 4.2 percent. A deficit of 2.5 percent has come. This is €5 billion difference, i.e. €5 billion, the budget in 2012 was better than the economic research predicted two years before. I do not want to give the economic researchers the responsibility, because in economically difficult times it is also difficult to draw up precise forecasts, but I would like to introduce one thing to the audience and the discussion participants here: We have the Wifo, we have the IHS, we have the OECD, we have the Monetary Fund, and we have the European Commission, which sometimes publish every three months or even more common forecasts, all of which differ and differ. This is also the story that has now been discussed in a financial plan for 2018. Or to say it differently: In this context, an economic forecast is even comparable to a weather forecast. Tomorrow's weather will be relatively reliable – relative. You won't be able to predict the weather for next and next week. This is exactly the same thing: The economic forecast for next year will show less growth than the economic forecast by 2018. We expect that the 2018 economic forecast will never come true, for two reasons: because it first has a great inaccuracy, but secondly because there is a policy factor. This is the only significant difference in accuracy to weather forecasts: You can't influence the weather. Whether you put on a raincoat or not, it will rain or not rain. [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: The climate but already!]] In the field of economics, however, we will be able to look at measures, growth measures, labour market policies, reform measures, that we are better off predicting the gloomy forecasts. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] To the next myth I want to destroy, to the accusation that you would have kept something quiet: This government is the first to present a multi-annual financial forecast based on the new budgetary right and is thus also the first direction facing the fact that there is a great prognosis over the next few years. I was very unhappy about the discussion, but I think it's basically also right that you stand open and say that within the bandwidths you can threaten us, but don't have to, so that you do the right thing in the political programming and in the decision you make, so that it doesn't come that way. That is political responsibility. What does that mean for the future? – It’s not all wondrous, we know. The economic and financial crisis and its effects are still noticeable. We will have to continue to be economical, and certainly there and there we will have to put in place individual measures, some of which are still turning around, because there is still something to improve. We will have to continue to implement reforms consistently. And precisely the topic of teacher service law, which was decided yesterday in the Council of Ministers, or the question of the capping of luxury pensions, because they represent a social injustice, also shows that this reform is going on. We will have to continue to support growth. We will have to look at where economic growth and structural improvements can arise for Austria. I say very consciously here: Developing childcare facilities, increasing financial support so that all day school forms and afternoon care can be implemented more effectively – and, and, and. It is also an important infrastructure measure, which also means a great deal to the economy: The flood protection programmes that we have decided on in the face of the devastating destruction of floods are being further implemented because this benefits the economy but, of course, will also benefit people in the future, because they are no longer threatened by floods. And the most important factor from my point of view is employment and labour market policy, which is to continue the way for us to fight for every job in this country, to make an employment policy that also allows unemployment to be as low as possible, because that is the secret of success for the budget. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Finally, let me say a very open word, even because the Minister is behind me. It is known that the Maria and I have differed in many tax policy and distribution issues. This is also true because we come from two different parties and two different ideological directions. But what neither Maria Fekter nor I nor anyone else would have allowed in this federal government is that one does not look at the budget. And that is exactly what I want to convey to the Austrians in all openness: Our budget holds, our budget is fine, and we will continue on the road that we also have a balanced budget in 2016.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-11-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00003_d8e11520	Now Mr. Klubobmann comes Dr. Spindelegger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-11-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00003_d8e11541	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Ladies and gentlemen! I thought at the first regular meeting of the new National Council there would be a different style at the beginning – but unfortunately: It's just as it was in the past, and I really think that's a mistake. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Ironic hustle and bustle with the Greens.]] [[Abg. May. Rossmann: It wasn't bad!]] It is a serious problem to discuss, yes, but it must not be true that only a scapegoat will be sought again, in the case of Maria Fekter. She didn't deserve it, ladies and gentlemen. This is a bad start for a National Council. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. May. Rossmann: She has been the Minister of Finance!]] Let me also make a few comments on the facts! Number one: We're really talking about a serious problem. The serious problem is that when a new government is formed, one naturally wants to know what the stable factors are for the next few years. And what did we do? – We have invited the Economic Research Institute, the IHS and the National Bank to present an extraordinary forecast for the next five years in October 2013, after the election, as the medium-term forecast will normally always come in December of a year. This is the usual procedure. If you see the figures now, for the next five years, how economic growth is being reduced, you can see the change. It is obviously a serious problem with our growth, yes, and that is what we have to face, and it is probably the right thing for every federal government before one forms a government to know what the framework conditions are for the next five years. [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: Who was in the government? That's incredible!]] This makes every company so of course also the ÖVP and the SPÖ do so. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] To do this, we have to put out figures, which we expect, and these figures have shown that we are expecting something powerful, namely structural measures in the order of 18 billion € by 2018. And that will call for us, namely, to be creative in the direction of how we can put up something to improve the situation properly. - So much about the facts. But now I come to the second, that's what's being discussed today: Where are your proposals, ladies and gentlemen? Where did the FPÖ, with two speakers in one word, put forward a proposal on how to deal with the structural deficit? – Nothing, not a single proposal! Ladies and gentlemen, the Court of Auditors is referred to the Austrian Court of Auditors on a flat-rate basis. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Yes, please, let's take a look at the measures! If you had read the 599 proposals, you would know that half has already been implemented. [[Abg. Strache: (the hands collapsing) Mamma mia, half implemented!]] That was the previous work. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] And as far as the other measures are concerned, ladies and gentlemen: If you had just published this book and studied it a little closer, I would like to know if you would agree to bring the billions in health policy. That's where I tell you and I'm predicting you: The FPÖ is the first party to say no, no, no to all these measures. But we will ask you if we propose measures and then see whether you agree or not. This will show whether this is a creative opposition policy. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Street: Watch, move, move!]] Yes, ladies and gentlemen, and thirdly: How can we solve the problem? - I'll tell you how. It is only through sparingness, in every resort again as we did in the renovation package for Austria. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber.]] It is only by raising the growth path properly, including with measures, that will be necessary, also with incentive systems. [[Abg. Slight: Tax increases are therefore measures on the growth path?]] Only structural reforms will take place, but that requires – number one – creative ideas. I didn't hear from you! [[Abg. Blow: Minority law!]] This requires people who are also involved in such measures, because we are still in the crisis, and we will need five years to get out of the crisis, but that must be the goal of a new government. Until we will be there in 2018, Austria must make structural reforms, Austria must be economical, Austria must also be creative towards growth, otherwise we will not make it. Today, I call for an opposition that it is also creative that it goes along with a two-thirds majority in structural reforms. And I'm already excited about who's brave. [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: Let's work!]] Mr Strolz, I hope you will be courageous and participate so that we can get proper reforms on the road. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] And then, ladies and gentlemen, you will also be wise: Are we a parliament in which great responsibility is shifted to individuals who are really looking for scapegoats, or are we a parliament that works, namely, that Austria is going better in 2018? We'll take care of that! You can rely on that.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-11-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00003_d8e11751	Mrs. Klubobfrau Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek is the next one to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-11-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00003_d8e11772	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Mrs Finanzminister! Mr State Secretary! I think that the people who are now pursuing this debate in front of the television screens are again unscrupulous. [[Congratulations with Greens, FPÖ, Team Stronach and NEOS-LIF.]] One somehow gets the impression that one has to start with the definition of what a hole is, once make a definition exercise. Let's take another look at what actually happened: A red and black government, under the guise of a healthy budget world, has made the family relief packages in the election campaign grow ever bigger. That was a real rosarot horizon! Tax reductions, tax reform 2015, everything is possible, really a healthy budget world. It was partly even precipitated to us until after the election. Then weeks of silence and at once – it must have been a natural disaster, otherwise I can't explain – became a billion-black hole from a healthy budget world. One can argue about the definition of what is now a hole. But I'm of the opinion that a defined deviation of €24 billion, cumulated over the next few years, is a hole. What else is that? [[Congratulation with the greens.]] At the same time, the Minister for Finance speaks of a Maastricht deficit in the order of €33 billion. What's this? - I'm trying to do this with a division that you've chosen yourself, namely: It's a barrel without a floor. As such, you once called the hypo. And then we hear from you: There's no hole. Mr Spindelegger! Mr. Faymann! What have you measured for days? I thought you were measuring the size of this hole and came to €24 billion. According to this Minister of Finance, you did not measure anything, because there was nothing to measure, because there is no hole. I must also ask you, Mr Spindelegger: So if all that is right today is what the Minister of Finance has said and we have a stable orientation for the next years and there is no problem, but everything is fine, then it would be extremely negligent for the Republic, a threat to Triple A, that this Minister of Finance does not also remain Minister for Finance. [[Abg. Yeah, that's right!]] Then we would have to set up an investigation committee immediately, why this negligent action is taking place not to continue this success course. So that's really absurd! [[Congratulation with Greens and FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Strache: A wishful candidate!]] I think that the federal constitutions are actually very clear. It was now also a trail polemic. I would like to return to my starting point: Many people don't understand that. For many people who have to look at exactly what a liter of milk costs, which costs a kilo of bread, it is not understandable what has passed over the past few weeks. That is no longer understandable to them. And it is not, in fact, understandable against the background of the legal requirements which we have secured in Austria under constitutional law. There is an article in the Federal Financial Constitution, Article 51(8), which requires the Federal Government to establish the Federal Financial Framework Act on maximum transparency and, as far as possible, to give a faithful presentation of the federal financial situation. If changes occur, there are also detailed specifications to make adjustments. We have already experienced this in this House with this Federal Government, that is to say with the old Federal Government, in order to be precise. It was in 2010. There was evidence that the federal constitution is completely no matter when it comes to election campaign tactics. Because of the Vienna For no apparent reason, municipal council elections were not subject to the obligation to submit a budget to the National Council in due time. That was an open breach of the Constitution! [[Abg. May. Kogler: Right!]] You've proved it before that you're able to do it. And I suspect the same in the present context. I say that clearly. For a faithful presentation as possible: Since when do we have economic forecasts pointing downwards? – Since 2012 at the latest. This is shown in a single footnote and does not correspond as closely as possible to the financial situation of the federal government. It would have been necessary to realign and re-price expenditure and revenue estimates, in particular the tax revenue estimates in accordance with these economic forecasts. And this has been at the table since 2012 and not only since October 2013! It's also detectable. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Mrs Finanzminister! You yourself said: Hypo is a barrel without soil. If this sentence is true – and you said it in spring – then this budget is a hole without the floor, because this hypo is a part of this budget. I say to you that this is incomprehensible for the people, especially for a population that has trained a large part of the savings package during the last legislative period. I remember the cuts about students, the cuts into the families, the cuts in the multiple child allowance. All these things have trained people. Real wage losses, real pension losses, all of that they have trained. And then that! It's really impossible to explain. I think we need something in the area that we also urgently need on other issues, namely control, education and also a restart. Today, as a Green Group, we will support the motion for a reluctance against the entire Federal Government. [[Call the FPÖ:Bravo!]] This is an unusual process, but it is an expression that the population now needs. The population is rightly outraged. With me, the letters are stacking – with you, too. It's incomprehensible. [[Congratulation with greens, FPÖ and NEOS-LIF.]] However, we also reserve further measures. Our colleague, Mr Kogler, has shown it to be the point in the debates again and again, and I would like to quote it again: “The Federal Government refuses any statement on how to deal with the foreseeable billion hole in the budget.” A budget lie will be presented once again. - That was on 25 May. May. Last June. Again the attempt to deal with this threatening hole. Again the quote: ‘Bush lie will continue to be maintained’. In July then again. On the other hand, there are quotations, also from the Chancellor of the Federal Republic and from the chancellor of Vice-Chancellor, who hold fast to this denial of reality until the election day. ‘The foundation stone is laid. Austria is also stable in the future.” – A quote from October. I cannot explain why there has not been at least a minimum degree of honesty and transparency. I'm on the stand – there's a very wonderful literatin, a Carinthian literatin, and I quote her over and over again; although the context of her sentence is much bigger, he fits here as well: “The truth is reasonable to man.” Also the Austrians!
ParlaMint-AT_2013-11-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00003_d8e11878	Mrs Klubobfrau Dr. Nachbaur. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-11-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00003_d8e11899	Madam President. Dear Minister! High house! I would like to begin by quoting three people I have met recently. One was a simple worker, and he said: Those up there, you don't have to believe anything more. They're not honest, and I'm not listening at all. A medium-sized entrepreneur has said that he must respect every millimeter of requirements and, if anything is wrong, he must immediately fear getting something from the labour inspectorate or from the financial office. And if he makes a mistake, he gets a penalty and maybe even has to go behind lattices. [[Abg. May. Arbitrators: As entrepreneurs, however, you don't have to plan five years in advance!]] A journalist said to me: Everything has become so complicated that you can hardly follow. First Maastricht budget, then structural budget. And he also said: These politicians themselves are not competent and actually do not know what they are talking about. And that's why there are new criteria again and again until the bill goes out somewhere. This is what the voices of the people say; people feel betrayed. That's no wonder if you first hear about a budget deficit, cumulated over the next five years, of €40 billion, then it's €30 billion, then it's €18.5 billion plus €5.7 billion for banks, and then you agree. I never actually understood how to agree on such a thing, because I think: It is what it is, and now it is called structural deficit. I'm sure if you ask people on the street, no one knows what a structural deficit is. As a result of this kind of representation, the need for savings does not change. The actual deficit cannot be reduced by rhetorical or creative budgetary accounting methods. Together with all the election promises, we remain at €40 billion, without them at €30 billion and with the help of the new accounting rules, just €18.5 billion. The government officials say that this was a major communication problem. In my opinion, however, the government has not a communication problem but an expenditure problem. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] In Austria, I have already said this in the morning, we have a problem of political culture. It seems that many government leaders do not have the necessary competence and then try to bet through rhetorical skill. Transparency looks different. I say that all the figures must be on the table, the right ones, because with wrong figures it has already begun to go downhill in Greece. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] It is also not foreseeable for me, but perhaps there will still be documents on how to cut down the large debt mountain. On the contrary! If you keep only a fraction of the election promises, there are other debts, and I see the sovereignty of Austria at stake, because excessive debt always means a loss of freedom. My proposal is: The new Minister of Finance should be no one from the SPÖ, no one should be out of the ÖVP, no one should be out of a bank that lives on state money and has been saved with state money and is therefore dependent on it. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] We finally have to let experts run, we obviously need more expertise. [[Call the ÖVP:Frank Stronach!]] - Yes. Thank you for the good idea! Even what the FIMBAG is about, even there, specialists belong, not a Mr. Wala with a megaluxus pension of €32 000 a month and also not a Mr. Liebscher, the former chief of Raiffeisen and National Bank. These are certainly very nice people, that's not the point, but these gentlemen pensioners have already proved in recent years that they have not achieved anything with the FIMBAG that nothing went on at all. We need top people who know how to clean up and how to run a bank. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] Since the Republic became the owner of the banks, everything has actually become even worse. The managers of before, for example, when I think of the Hypo Alpe-Adria, who are sitting in front of the judge now, and the Republic has been the owner of the Hypo Alpe-Adria for five years. In fact, this would have to mean: Do they have to be in front of the judge now? I simply demand more competence in the government, more expertise, less rhetorical artists, but real sanifiers and managers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-11-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00003_d8e11970	Mr Klubobmann Dr. Strolz is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-11-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00003_d8e11991	Madam President. Estimated government members! High house! Dear listeners to the TV sets and here in the hall! Forwarded again a word of praise: I think you, estimated government, have made a right decision on this corner yesterday. [[The speaker turned to the government bank]] [[Abg. Vilimsky: A sacco wouldn't be bad!]] Please? – Yes, I noticed I took it off. [[Abg. Vilimsky: Please, no more!]] You made a good decision yesterday by deciding to learn – you bring me out of the kick with your calls about my clothes. [[Call the FPÖ: Keep talking!]] May I? Thank you. So: You made a right decision yesterday, saying: Yeah, we're cutting in at luxury pensions. That was a real decision. I would also like to say words of recognition for this decision. I brought some of my office equipment, because I can take out two requests we wanted to make today with NEOS. On the one hand, we wanted to submit a request to cut the pension privileges to the Oesterreichische Nationalbank. This is unheard of, for years, decades unheard of, and we have always accused it in advance. You decided yesterday that you'll do this. We would also have introduced a pension solidarity law because we believe it is unheard of if we no longer take pensions over €5,000, and they go up to €30 000, into duty. Why is it unheard of? – There are some young people sitting on the top of the gallery. We can assume that the young people – and I count all under 45 – will only get something like a people's pension. Nothing will happen about the ASVG maximum board. So we're talking about €3,000, a little more, and that's why it's a command of the hour that you cut in there. My appreciation for this too! That's not necessary anymore. [[The speaker holds two papers in height and puts them together.]] If I take this off today, I tell you quite clearly that we are not going to put it in the roundtable, but in the drawer. And if by April 2014 these projects you decided yesterday in the Council of Ministers are not implemented, then we will take out these papers again and increase the pressure. [[Abg. May. Arbitrators: They will take them out and throw them away because we will do this!]] I am pleased that we already have a first issue of NEOS in implementation. This shows that we can also move a little bit as a small group. I know we won't stop the budget hole, but I think it's an important symbolic gesture. And I also say: If you're not forced to your luck and actions, then don't do it. I remember, Mr Hundstorfer, after a conversation in Alpbach in the summer, in August, that I have just opened up the subject to you and you have said so in the way: Well, you explain the pension system to me at times, but we don't need it all. [[Abg. Hundstorfer: That was a conversation at 1:00 a.m.!]] Yeah, but now you do. Why? – Because we have increased the pressure that the media have increased the pressure, you do it. If we do not lead you to the solution at the nose ring through the political management, it obviously does not take place. The same thing: Mr. Khol, Andreas Khol, said to me last week: We can't do that, we don't need that, we don't want it. And this week you're doing it. – You just have to want to, then a lot goes, but you want a lot too little, and that's why I brought you a little bit from our office. We have been very provisionally set up so far, but we do not need these two erasers. They're for big mistakes, and you've obviously had big arithmetic errors in your previous budget planning. I agree with you that, of course, one can discuss how the forecasts look, and that they also change, Mr Vice-Chancellor, I agree with you, including you, Mrs Finanzminister. No question! However, we NEOS have no ministerial bureaucracy in the background, we don't have thousands of people in ministries, we don't have chambers in the background, we don't have thousands of people in chambers who count and are experts, but for us, of course, it was crystal clear, even before the election day, that you don't tell the truth on two fronts, and that's, first of all, at the Hypo Alpe-Adria. It was quite clear that there would be a much larger hole there, and it was not for me to see, Mrs Federal Minister, that we were not able to deal with the subject differently as the Republic, because everyone said all the experts: If we wait for the institutionalization of a decommissioning bank until after the elections, we will lose 1 to 2 billion €. We lost those, seeing eyes! Everyone who has five senses and looked at them knew that. The second building site, where everyone also knew that this would never happen, is the pension. That's never going to happen! That was clear, and say today. You yourself: We miss 8.7 billion €. So Hypo Alpe-Adria and pensions alone are over €10 billion, and that's not a "learcherlshas". Over €10 billion, do you know what that is? – This is the budget for 1.2 million students, i.e. the entire teaching budget and the science budget, 300 000 young people still have to do so! This is what you have estimated at just two positions, although it was clear to everyone with a house mind, and I do not yet praise anything else. And that's why these two eraser gums. If you once again meet beautiful numbers and you would have to notice that this can't be true, because you also have home sense, then take the eraser gum and say: That's a mistake, and we're gonna fix the mistake now. The two are for you. [[The speaker gives a giant radiant rubber to Federal Minister Dr. Fekter and State Secretary Dr. Ostermayer.]] [[State Secretary Dr. Ostermayer: I work on the computer! What do you want me to do with it? Can you explain that to me?]] - Then you just don't have the computer program under control. However, this bill could have been made on a note, you don't need a computer. Okay? As you say, Mr Vice-Chancellor, you also want to hear proposals from us: Yes, you will hear suggestions. You will also always get the offer from us that we will provide a majority if we can make a contribution here with our small part of Members. We said: In the pension area we have to do something! and They're following our advice now. I have therefore brought with you the following further proposals: First: Pension area. We need a pension automation. If politics fails in an area for years and decades and does not create sustainable solutions – that is why I am also a fan of a debt brake in the constitutional rank – then it should commit itself. Other countries have done this. Sweden has a pension automatic system. Other countries have done this, we should do it. We have tabled a motion for a resolution today, but you only have to follow him. You just have to want it, then it'll come. Secondly, Increase in the age of women's retirement. – Dear ÖVP, you have a decision, if I remember correctly, in all its six volumes, that you want to prefer it. Your Federal Party observer said it in the election campaign – and then this Mr. Khol comes back and whistles you back! I'm gonna get such a neck! Because it's not okay that gentlemen sitting in the club of the 10 000-€-plus-pensionists are straping the young generation the way these gentlemen do. Do it, please! And we do other things that are correct and important for women – for example, a reduction in the tax rate on entry. This would be extremely important for increasing part-time work. Furthermore, for example, the expansion of family care to keep the range of services wider. Another proposal: Social security. Let's get her together! 700 million € Administrative costs in 22 social security institutions. You've tried it before, and you'd almost succeeded. It is a failure, if I do not remember quite, to the power of farmers and economic operators. But I call the farmers and the economic operators again: Go on! If we make a gradual merger, we can save hundreds of millions! We're moving ahead gradually and we're getting together. What else will we bring in? . We will, my colleague Rainer Hable will comment on this, make a change in the accountability of politics. It must be over with camouflage, deceit and falsehood before the election day. That is why we want to establish the Prime Minister's name as a minority law. This is also a question of control here in the house. We'll bring this in. In this sense, of course, we will also support this vote of distrust, because our trust has not been nourished. [[Interference of Federal Minister Dr. Fekter.]] Secondly, we will also support the request for an investigation committee to be set up at the end of the day. You just need to want, ladies and gentlemen of the Groko, but you lack the will!
ParlaMint-AT_2013-11-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00003_d8e12141	Mr Themessl has now come to terms. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-11-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00003_d8e12163	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! First of all, to the previous speakers of the coalition parties: So now to do so and to be angry that the “evil” opposition takes the word “luke” or “budget hole” into the mouth, that’s a bit far away. Let's think back: Who broke the fence? - That was you yourself. One of the first to come out of the financial negotiations from the so-called financial negotiating team was Mr. Wallner from Vorarlberg, who spoke clearly of the lack of between €6 billion and €8 billion per year in the financial framework for the forthcoming legislative period. Then the experts immediately jumped on to invite your experts from WIFO, IHS, who invited you to this case crash – the opposition parties have deliberately not invited you to this cash crash. Obviously, the opposition is not what the financial situation of this Republic looks like. You missed that. And these experts then immediately began to make proposals, from increasing the oil tax to increasing the unit values, so that the basic charges, the basic tax can be cut up accordingly, up to an energy tax on electricity and gas, and, and, and so. Then we talked about a savings package. If you had been honest, you should have been talking about a load package. Mrs. Federal Minister! I do not blame you for not knowing how the economy will develop in 2015 or by the end of 2014 or how the number of jobs will develop. That's not the point either. The thing I am blaming you is that you – and you have proved this again today in your reply, I will tell you – are constantly saying the untruth and are not actually responding to the changing economic conditions and are not correcting the figures accordingly, not in time. [[Interference by Federal Minister Dr. Fekter]] On the question 5 have She replied today: The Ministry of Finance is constantly responding to changing economic data, be it economic growth, unemployment, and, and, But you admit you don't change the budgets in the quarter. – I agree with you, that's all right. [[Federal Minister Dr. Fekter: Eben!]] But you don't respond either. And that's where you said the untruth again today. I'm telling you now why. [[Federal Minister Dr. Fekter: We respond!]] - No, I don't. I'll tell you exactly why. In April of 2012 – which is now a year and a half ago – the 2013 financial framework has been adopted. A year later, in April of this year, the Federal Financial Framework for the years 2014 to 2017 was decided. Mrs Federal Minister, in case you do not yet know: This Parliament has its own budget service in the meantime. And this budget service has prepared an analysis of the Federal Financial Framework 2014 to 2017, dating from May of this year. There is written literally – I read it to you so you can believe it too –: Compared to the forecast for the previous financial framework – that is, one year earlier – the values have changed. [[Abg. May. Arbitrators: Eben!]] In the current financial framework or – eben, yes. [[Abg. May. Arbitrators: Eben!]] Listen to me, then you will already know why “even” and why you are constantly telling us the untruth! So: However, in the current financial framework or in the strategy report, these changes have not been found in budgetary terms. [[Abg. May. Arbitrators: Because it's about spending limits!]] So, now, between the presentation of these two federal financial frameworks, exactly one year has passed. A year! And this year, at least three consecutive times, the forecasts have deteriorated, and you have not been able to take that into account! I also say to you why: because this federal financial framework was decided in April of this year half a year before the election. If you had already taken that into account at the time, you would have been aware that your numbers did not vote in the back and front elections, and you could no longer have proved it with a printed paper that is not true. That was precisely the reason why you gave up on it – I say quite consciously – that you did not comply with these changed framework conditions. Now I call you only two key figures to which you should place importance – that will be confirmed by every economist in this House; also by the budget service of this House –: There are two benchmarks to consider. First of all, economic growth. You yourself have admitted that in this year, it is not one percent as you have it in your federal financial framework, but only 0.4 percent. That means you lack several billion euros of revenue. The second point you didn't take into account – no, no! – is the increase of the unemployment rate. [[Interference by Federal Minister Dr. Fekter]] If You have more than a hundred thousand unemployed people, then that means more than €2.5 billion in expenditure for the budget. If you alone have the €2.5 billion more expenditure already in the first year of the Federal Financial Framework and then add it up for five years, that alone is €10 billion that you will miss. That's exactly the point! And then to say that you did not know before, I do not take this away from you, because – unfortunately he is not here – Mr. Labour Minister Hundstorfer said already at the beginning of this year – he is so honest – that it is not expected that by the end of 2013 the unemployment figures will improve. No, he even assumed that the unemployment rate was increasing. In the Meanwhile, we know the following: According to AMS chief, we will reach an unemployment rate of 450 000 in January! If you add all the early pensioners, we're over half a million. – Not even you have responded! Mr. Hundstorfer even admitted that this would probably not change in the first half of 2014. You have nevertheless assumed in your values, in your numbers you continue to use, an unemployment rate for 2014 exactly the same level as for 2013, although you have known since the beginning of the year that this will not last. They have also failed to correct the economic growth figures, not even for the year 2014 – let us put it aside in 2013 because that was probably no longer possible – although it is already clear that they will not vote! The thing that inspires me most is that your so-called experts from IHS and WIFO, who are paid out of taxpayers' money, always correct the numbers with two to three months' delay when they get worse.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-11-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00003_d8e12275	Mrs Mag. Steßl is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-11-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00003_d8e12297	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! High house! The urgent question, my dear friends Ladies and gentlemen of the FPÖ, is very interesting designed. When reading the same thing, I wondered in particular when you wrote it. In the second paragraph, for example, you quote the Court of Auditors Moser, and you also call for the abolition of luxury pensions. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Deimek: He is President, so much time must be!]] . I should therefore like to remind you that such measures were already adopted in the Council of Ministers yesterday. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Deimek: Council of Ministers doesn't count anything!]] At any rate, I am eager – if then these discussions can also be held here in the House; since we are moving in the area of the two-thirds majority matter – whether you, my honourable gentlemen of the FPÖ, give your consent and vote in favour of a two-thirds majority rule. [[Abg. Kickl: But this is already done in here! Here we will see how sustainable your approach is!]] [[Abg. Kickl: If you really put on comprehensive!]] The same applies, of course, to the ladies and gentlemen of the NEOS, who have left the cat out of the bag here, so to speak, because I have always asked myself, Mr. Klubobmann Strolz, how you mean it with the “pension lie”. I remember you standing in front of the TV cameras with pride after the election debate and saying: Let's stop the pension lie now! Today you presented a first proposal to the House, namely the increase in the age of women's pensions. That is why I would like to ask you: Faith Do you really think that the increase in the age of women's pensions will make it possible to keep women in employment longer? For women aged over 45 or younger, there are often no adequate jobs! We from Social Democracy are in favour of creating adequate jobs for older workers, as well as the necessary framework conditions to ensure that the actual retirement age is a higher one. This is not only achieved by increasing the age of women's pensions! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Strolz: 64!]] What has also happened to me is this uncertainty, an insecurity of the people, in which fears of you are horrified, ladies and gentlemen of the FPÖ! [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Deimek: Exactly! Head of State Pühringer's doing this!]] Unfortunately, now Mr. Klubobmann Strache is not in the hall, because I would have liked to ask him about his interview of 13. ==References====External links==* Official website Do you really believe, Mr Klubobmann, that such statements of the population convey the feeling that you are familiar with, and indeed you, my very dear friends? [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Deimek: Do you believe that your statements still give you so much confidence? You don't believe that! You're so hot! That won't happen!]] Ladies and gentlemen of the FPÖ, so would you like to speak of ‘competence’?- Oh, my God! In this interview, you will also discuss the Court's 599 proposals. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Deimek: You don't want them, gal?]] Have you actually read these before, Mr President, and have you ever checked how many of the Court's proposals have already been implemented? [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Deimek: Yes!]] A proposal is particularly interesting, namely the proposal with the number 106, where the Court of Auditors – with all due respect we have before the Court of Auditors and its employees – calculates on the basis of the example of the city of Steyr, which it then converts to the federal government – how much savings there would be in terms of remuneration and overtime. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Deimek: Are you saying the same thing as Mr. Schieder?]] [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Deimek: This has already been mentioned by Mr Schieder!]] If, then, serious arguments, but it is so with the FPÖ that unfortunately this is not the case.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-11-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00003_d8e12485	Next speaker: Mr Auer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-11-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00003_d8e12507	Thank you, Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! It is remarkable when some colleagues here call out for experts and think that the truth should be put on the table. We have such experts, in the budget service of Parliament, we have the experts in the ministry, and if one has made the effort – one or the other has perhaps done this – to read a little bit, then one has seen it. That was there. There was nothing to shake, there was nothing to change, ladies and gentlemen! You could also check the development of the federal budget from January to September, how the history of budget control and the outlook has changed. You would find that the budget has been respected that the framework conditions exist as well as budgeted. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Those who are new here today cannot know anything about it, but those who were here years ago know that at that time the budget lie, the non-compliance with the forecasts, was spoken of as false figures. It's called: All the real estate, everything wrong, back to the start! – The fact is something completely different! Check how 2011 was budgeted and how it was completed! It was completed by €4.2 billion better – in 2011. Check how it was completed in 2012! Almost 2 billion better than budgeted, ladies and gentlemen! At section head Steger, you can find out if the budget of this year holds. He'll tell you: Yes, this too! And then you trust the Minister of State and the Secretary of State that they would not have said the truth! – Ladies and gentlemen, the two have made an excellent budget policy! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the SPÖ.]] In one case, I would like to tell my colleague Themessl: It is really annoying if the so-called experts always know a quarter of a year or six months later how it would actually have happened. [[Demonstrativ accompaniment of the Abg. Themessl.]] But this is no different from the Court of Auditors, and it always checks afterwards. [[Calls to the Greens.]] If the Court of Auditors is asked to accompany Parliament's reconstruction and, so to speak, to draw up an expertise, he says: No, that's none of my business. – After that, everyone can, I don’t need any experts, ladies and gentlemen! Just to read how it went out, they're too paid for it. Mr Rossmann, your colleague, Marterbauer, who has often been an expert with you during the budgetary negotiations in the Committee on Budgets, has explained to you the following: It is not appropriate, on the other hand, to have a budget hysteria, as it has been staged in recent weeks with the help of economic researchers. [[Abg. Dr. Moser: Look into your own rows! It was her head of state Wallner!]] [[Further calls to the Greens.]] In view of its own forecasts and its enormous uncertainties, the profession of economic research would be a little bit more sensible – and perhaps also a statement of how it came to an amazing change of mind, which occurred between the beginning of October and the beginning of November. [[Abg. Dr. Moser: Ask Wallner!]] Ladies and gentlemen, the professors know a little better afterwards! Exciting is something else: ==References== This year, Professor Keussnigg presented a medium-term forecast. It predicts a budget deficit of 1.5 percent of gross domestic product. It also predicts that it will fall to 0.3 percent of GDP by 2016. His colleague from Wifo, Karl Aiginger, even in the January of this year said that next year the budget deficit would amount to 2% of GDP and would fall to 0.8 in 2016. ==References====External links== In October, he published his new forecast, in which he presented the budget deficit of the coming year even by 0.4 percent better, that is, lower. So much for the so-called experts, ladies and gentlemen, who obviously only know something when it is already present. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kickl.]] Mr Kickl, it is not for me to hold something before you, but you would really be advised to watch the television broadcast so that you can see how you put yourself here today at the speaker's desk! If you look at the record, otherwise Mr Faul could tell you, if he were still here, what he said to Mr Grosz. Mr Kickl, it is not for me – I am here in Parliament for 30 years – but for what you have offered here today with the “töh, töh, töh, töhne”, you should knock on your own forehead!
ParlaMint-AT_2013-11-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00003_d8e12608	Mr Mag. Rossmann is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-11-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00003_d8e12629	Madam President. High house! [[Abg. Dr. Mitterlehner: “Professor” Rossmann! “Can I fake?” And that in all situations of life!]] I have been dealing with public budgets for more than three decades, but such a debate as here today – I have not yet experienced it! So Mrs Finanzminister, the art piece, to say that there is no budget hole, and then to say a few sentences later, there is a budget hole – 33 billion € between 2014 and 2018 – is already impressive! 2014 to 2018 – Maastricht! [[Federal Minister Dr. Fekter: This is not a hole!]] [[Call the ÖVP: He didn't pay attention again!]] [[Federal Minister Dr. Fekter: He didn't pay attention again! He didn't understand!]] I already understood, Mrs. Minister! Mrs. Minister, I already understood. [[Federal Minister Dr. Fekter: Well, he didn't understand!]] [[Rejoicing with the greens.]] [[Abg. Head: Did he understand?]] That's where I have to wonder, honestly. If you, Mrs Finanzminister, and also Mr Klubobmann Schieder, refer to 2013 and say that 2013 will be better and will not have a budget hole, I would like to use the Wifo forecast, which has been published today and which is also forecast in 2013. [[Call:]] [[Abg. Podgorschek:... didn't even know?]] Better weather forecasts or economic forecasts? – I think economic forecasts are a little more precise. [[Abg. Steinbichler: There's no difference!]] But Mr. Professor Aiginger was in the negotiation team, am I assuming, or am I cheating? [[Abg. Ing. Mr Höbart: There is also Mrs Finanzminister and the Secretary of State.]] I think the figures on the budget hole or the budget gap have been agreed there. But the forecast made by the Economic Research Institute for 2013 does not predict a budget deficit of 2.3 percent, but one of 2.6 percent. [[Abg. May. Arbitrator: That's what the Wifo automatically expected!]] So by 0.3 percent more than what the government says and what it says on 15 May. October on the budget for the following year and for this year sent to Brussels – at least almost € 1 billion derogation! What should I ask myself now if I want to represent the population? What's the matter now? So these negotiators, the Minister of Finance, the Secretary of State, the Vice-Chancellor and the Chancellor of the Federal Republic tell us different numbers every day! How are you supposed to know? Who even knows what a structural deficit is? Who knows what a Maastricht deficit is? But one thing the population already understands: She was deceived! [[Call the FPÖ:Right!]] [[Abg. May. Arbitrators: That's not true!]] – I will tell you now, Mr State Secretary! The population was deceived in the spring of this year when the government presented the Federal Financial Framework 2014 to 2017. The government has assumed forecasts that have not been the current forecasts of the Austrian Institute of Economic Research. [[Interference of Federal Minister Dr. Fekter.]] – I have the figures here, Mrs Finanzminister. [[The speaker keeps a few pages of paper in height.]] You can read with me if you want, but you don't have to. You can believe me like that. But in any case you have used old figures on this federal financial framework. If one bases on the budget development, revenue development and expenditure development, then what comes out of the bill at the end of the day cannot be true. To know this, you only have to have knowledge in basic accounting modes – no more and no less. Let us look, for example, at the tax estimates. The tax estimates you presented in April of this year are practically hardly different from the tax estimates you presented a year earlier. How can this be the case in the case of changed economic forecasts? Anyone who understands a little bit of economics knows that there is a link between budgetary development on the one hand and economic development on the other. It can't go out! So you should not be surprised if the government comes up with a tax assessment in relation to the budget gap, which somehow – I don't know how precise it is yet; of 14 billion euros – in this budget gap of 33 billion euros – is too much as I would say. Let me give you a second example regarding the Federal Financial Framework 2014 to 2017! They have also negated the existence of the opinion of the Committee on Pensions in relation to the development of pensions and therefore have too low a pension development, the Federal Pensions Insurance grant in the Federal Financial Framework. Now you need to correct it and screw it up in heights – 8.7 billion €, by the way, is not true. Based on the recent opinion of the Pension Commission of October and compared with the Federal Financial Framework, a pension gap of €5.8 billion is calculated, i.e. €3 billion less. That is where the government has to present the exact figures! I am still of the opinion that what has happened in the Committee on Budgets and today is at least a scratch on what the government of the population and this House owes for information – in order to explain how much needs to be saved in the next few years. Mr Vice-Chancellor, if I listen to you, I do not know, it seems to me that growth would somehow fall from heaven. You said you'd save and save will stimulate growth. So what we are experiencing in Europe over the last few years is a breakdown that has done exactly the opposite. In fact, the forecasts have been reduced precisely because Europe as a whole has been reduced to death. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] And where did you commit a breach of the Constitution? – You have committed a very clear breach of the Constitution, Mrs. Finanzminister, at the Hyperdesaster, the billion-dollar hypo. In the Federal Constitution, there is the principle of the fairest possible presentation of the financial situation, and the Federal Budget Act states that you have to take appropriate corrective and control measures to comply with the ceilings. However, you only pay € 133 million per year – and now you're confessing a gap of at least € 5.8 billion for the first time. Where, then, are these measures, these corrective and control measures to comply with these ceilings? – You are not present! Why are they not present, Mrs. Finanzminister? Because you have persistently refused to develop a plan for the national banks, first and foremost for the Hypo Alpe-Adria. If there had not been the European Commission that forced you to act in the area of Hypo Alpe-Adria, you would probably not yet admit that we have a gap at Hypo Alpe-Adria. In addition, I believe that this gap must not be filled by savings in social budgets, especially in the case of an election promise that you have made, namely in increasing family support and their ongoing adjustment to inflation. In this context, I would like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Finally, Mrs Finanzminister: ==References====External links== In June, you will be quoted with the following statement: We can afford this package. – And you also refer to record employment, which is a good way to balance family loads. These measures, namely those of the family package, would not burden the tax pot, you say. Therefore, in terms of increasing family allowances and indexing of family allowances in the years thereafter, research further! – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-11-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00003_d8e12873	The motion for a resolution which has just been tabled is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows:
ParlaMint-AT_2013-11-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00003_d8e13015	Next speaker: Mrs Schenk. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-11-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00003_d8e13036	Madam President. Mrs. Minister! Mr State Secretary! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! The uncertainty and loss of confidence in the population of this government, generally against politics, are very great. I cannot, above all, spare you from red and black the accusation that you are to blame for it. [[The President-in-Office of the Council shall take over the Presidency.]] Let's see what was promised before the election! We have debated the 1.2 billion family package here. What is it now? – It was said that when red and black come back to a government, it will be implemented. We have heard more often today and in the past days and weeks that this cannot be implemented, since it needs to be saved. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, whether there is a budget hole or not, that is the population, I think, quite no matter. People are concerned about what is done with their tax money that they make hard. They want this to be used for useful measures. And people are also concerned about whether they are concerned about their incomes, ladies and gentlemen. Notable experts – Agiger, Felder, Schratzenstaller and, last but not least, President of the Court of Auditors Moser – have been criticising this budget, which is your budget policy, ladies and gentlemen. To your self-imposed silence: Even if the proverb “Red is silver, silence is gold” applies in many cases – in this case it was not true. As you have done yourself a bear service, you have so much forbidden the negotiation teams to speak on the subject as the budget now stands, as the official figures now look. That is how you become unbelievable, ladies and gentlemen. A previous speaker has already mentioned it today: The truth is reasonable! - I'll join him. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] President-in-Office of the Council, Moser, has repeatedly called for a uniform account of the countries not only in the last few days, but also in the context of the ban on speculation. It called for comparable figures, as well as a regulatory framework which also allows comparisons in relation to the debt and revenue levels and what is in line with the outsourced debt. – There is no such thing as that. The camera music still used in the federal states, ladies and gentlemen, dates back to 17. ==References== No one of the national leaders who block there can really explain to me why they are blocking and why they are blocking this camera-listic from the 17th century. ==References====External links== There's another good saying: Whoever doesn't go with time goes with time. – But this has not been found here, because otherwise some of the blockers would have already gone among the red and black national leaders. Unfortunately, they are still there and block further. [[In the case of the Stronach team as well as the Abg. May. Loacker.]] I am glad that the Federal Minister, although she will leave the government, has today announced that she is a great champion of a uniform budgetary law. Well, in the evening the lazy will be diligent! Then: What has happened over the past five years? Why didn't anything go on? Now you have proposed that, in the middle of next year, perhaps a solution will come and there may be a uniform budgetary law. [[Federal Minister Dr. Fekter: At the federal level I changed! ...!]] - I'm talking about the countries. You can also act here, my dear Mrs. Minister! [[Abg. May. Kogler: She does! That's what she's doing.]] So much for it. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] We need this uniform budgetary law. We need these regulations. I will then also put forward a motion for a resolution on this subject and I am already excited about the voting behaviour of your group, Mrs Minister. I would also like to address a subject that I think is particularly perfid, namely the ideas and so-called proposals of the IMF for the reduction of debt in the EU countries. In fact, it is about 15 EU countries, and these austere ideas have been teased as a theoretical game of thought. What's this about? – A one-time tax of 10 per cent for all households – for these 15 EU countries. What does that mean? – That means that it is up to the people involved that it is about the savings deposits, that it is about the savings book and that it is about a expropriation of the Austrians, ladies and gentlemen! We certainly say no to that. Hands away from the Saving Book of Austrians! [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] In this context, I should like to make the following motion for a resolution and seek broad support now because, as a politician, we owe tax payers, savers and savers that we are committed to doing so. We see ourselves as the protector of the savers that their money is not being affected, is not used for debt eradication, nor, in the future, as has happened so often, is sent to pleite banks in the EU countries. [[Quoted print version removed]] The second request: Motion for a resolution by Dr. Nachbaur, Schenk, Members of Parliament on constitutional protection against ‘compulsory measures’ by the Austrians for crisis management’ The National Council wants to decide: "The Federal Government is asked to send a draft law to the National Council as soon as possible to protect Austrian citizens from, for example, state "disfellowshipping measures" in the form of a one-time special tax or a compulsory tax on assets." I'm asking for support. – Thank you very much for the attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-11-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00003_d8e13136	The two motions for resolutions which have just been tabled are properly tabled, sufficiently supported and are therefore under negotiation. The two applications have the following general wording: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2013-11-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00003_d8e13315	The next item is Mr Ostermayer's speech. Mr State Secretary, your speaking time is up to 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-11-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00003_d8e13336	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Rossmann has now asked me to speak. He has said that he has been involved in the financing of public budgets for 30 years. Granted, I'm not that long. However, I have, of course, repeatedly dealt intensively with the subject in recent years. We have negotiated consolidation packages. There is always an important difference to be taken into account, namely between structural measures affecting the structural deficit and other measures affecting the Maastricht deficit. Then there is a big difference between the budget and the federal financial framework. In your speech by the Federal Minister, you assumed that she said we have no budget hole, and then we have a budget hole. The budget is the 2013 budget. That is what we have decided, and this is currently in operation. We have also decided on federal financial frameworks, but we have not yet adopted a budget 2014. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Rossmann.]] Since you are still working in the Chamber of Labour, I would like to quote two of your colleagues. Markus Marterbauer says – to read in the “Falter”: “I myself have been responsible for the Wifo forecast for 17 years. The realization of this experience is quite simple: What can at best be predicted half-way is the economic development of the coming year." It is his recommendation that one should deal with 2014 because what is even further in the future is just like a weather forecast for two months, i.e. imprecisely. It notes that there are currently several deficit forecasts for 2014, i.e. IHS, WIFO, EU Commission and National Bank. This list could be extended to include the OECD today. These forecasts range from 1.4 per cent to 1.9 per cent. The demand, which currently exists, is 0.5 percentage points, i.e. 1.5 billion € plus or minus. But I can also tell you how it was in the past. For example, there is the WIFO – and your colleague Zuckerstätter has blogged this over the last few days – that there was, for example, a medium-term forecast in 2010, which predicted a deficit of 4.8 percent in 2011. In fact, a deficit of 2.5 percent came out. For 2012, a deficit of 4.2 percent was forecast and a deficit of 2.5 percent was achieved. If you convert this to absolute numbers, we are talking about amounts in the order of €5 billion difference. But this is not a criticism and no accusation to the economic research institutes. It's probably been easier in the past. The world has become more volatile, probably even since the financial crisis, and it is our job, as it were, to create it for the next year – and in the forecast also for the years after – orientation aids – more can be called it. The budget is, of course, not the guidance aid, but the federal financial framework. There will be 20 quarterly forecasts until 2018. If you look at what we have set in the BFRG 2014 to 2017 for 2014, i.e. a GDP growth of 1.8 percent, a Maastricht balance of 1.5 percent and a structural balance of 1.3 percent, the medium-term forecast – I apologise that I am now boring you with figures, but when we talk about the budget, that is very essential – the WIFO, which is now the current one from mid-October, is 0.1 percent of what we have in the Federal Financial Framework for 2014. The European Commission – and this is the biggest deviation – has published its forecast last Friday, I believe, in the Maastricht balance by 0.4 percent and in the structural balance by 0.2 percent. That's 300 times 2, so 600 million or 1.2 billion. This is the delta between the BFRG and the current forecasts for the year 2014 – only so that all this is set in the right framework. As you have, as it were, expressed doubts as to the fact that the WIFO is forecasting a higher deficit for 2013 than we have foreseen in the budget: That is where I refer simply and simply to the budget implementation, because reality is the note of the prognosis, and reality shows how precise the prognosis was. The reality, i.e. the closure of accounts, also shows how precisely the budget has been made. And then I'll call you three final numbers: In 2010, we were 0.2 percent better in the financial statements than in the budget, 0.7% in 2011 and 0.7% in 2012. And, as Mrs Bundesminister said, it looks as if we were going to cut off better in 2013. I'm sorry when many numbers have been mentioned, but I think it also arranges, so to speak, how on the one hand, forecasts work and how actually the implementation has worked in relation to the budget. And in the past he's always got a lot. It's working well. That is, we have budgeted more carefully than the reality actually was. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-11-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00003_d8e13406	Thank you, Mr State Secretary. The next item is the report by Mr Hable. Speech time: 8 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-11-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00003_d8e13430	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! High house! Dear citizens on the gallery and in front of the televisions at home! Of 100 €, which an Austrian earns, an average of 45 € must be delivered to the financial office – an average of 45 percent! The average Swiss handover is €28 from €100 to the financial office. [[Call:Frank! Franc]] 45 to 28 percent, I call that a difference. And everyone who knows Switzerland knows, there are schools there, there are streets there, there are hospitals there, there are also universities that are financially well equipped. Now you're wondering: How do they do that? And above all, you're wondering: How can the Swiss achieve balanced budgets with a tax rate of 28 percent? – 2011: balanced budget, surplus. 2012: Budget surplus. – And how can it be that Austria has not achieved a balanced budget since 1962 with a 45 percent tax rate? For 50 years, we have only been making debt, taxes are increasing, and the budget holes – even if we have heard today that they are no longer available – are getting bigger and bigger. A particularly large hole opens at the Hypo Alpe-Adria. The Federal Government now calls €5.8 billion in the current survey of the budget hole as an additional financial requirement for the banks, for all three non-state banks. And in the restructuring plan of Hypo Alpe-Adria, the EU Commission was called €8 billion as a financial requirement, for the hypo alone! The question is whether the numbers will not be properly counted again. Managing Directors and Boards in private companies, those who are in charge of the private sector outside, could not act in this way. It has already been mentioned today – Mr Strache and Mr Nachbaur are not here now, but they have already addressed it correctly, because they are right –: This is not understood by people who are in charge outside the private economy. But the question now is: Shouldn't there be consequences in this respect too? Is it enough if politicians who before the election represent facts different from after the election can be elected again at the next election? No, no, no, We're saying that's not enough. That's not enough. At least in a similar way, a liability which affects private sector managers must also apply to ministers. This is a high office with responsibility, and accordingly the responsibility of ministers must also be. Infringements such as the scientific publication of false information, incorrect presentation of accounts and financial plans are not tolerated in the private sector, but can be landed on the indictment bank. It doesn't make much sense now, I think if we play the ball here for hours, when the opposition expresses allegations and the government wipes everything out of the table. Such accusations shall also be made legally clear, if necessary also in the context of a ministerial settlement before the Constitutional Court. This is an instrument that already exists – Article 142 of the Federal Constitution – but it has never been used so far. [[Abg. May. Kogler: Oh yes! To the heads of state!]] You can calculate why: Because you need the majority in this house for that. That is why we today, as a club of NEOS-LIF, have tabled a request to make the ministerial contribution to minority law. That is to say, a third of the Members of this House should be able to set up such a ministerial basis, that there should no longer be a need for a majority. We have already heard today – I think Mr Gerstl of the ÖVP has said this – that we have a minority-friendly Parliament. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP, but also of the SPÖ, you can prove here that we really have a minority-friendly Parliament, and support our request to make the ministerial anchorage a minority right. [[Interference of Federal Minister Dr. Fekter.]] This is a first step towards higher standards in terms of political responsibility. This is a necessary step towards greater responsibility towards greater responsibility for politicians. Finally, let me give you an example: Our Federal Constitution requires that 10 weeks before the beginning of the new financial year, the Federal Government will have to present the budget of the next year to the National Council – that is, to us as the High House. This deadline for the 2014 budget expired at the end of October without the government complying with this constitutional obligation. We already know this, it happened in 2010 when the Federal Government did not present a budget for the country elections in Styria and Vienna. This year, too, we did not trust ourselves again on the occasion of the National Council election and we did not present a budget. In retrospect, we know why. But one thing is clear: The government has again, for the time being, taken up a constitutional breach. The breach of the Constitution seems to have become a tradition. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Politics – this is our understanding of NEOS – is the place where we make up how we live together. And our constitution is the ground, is the foundation of this place. If we treat our Constitution so badly if we do not appreciate the Constitution, we are damaging the foundation of our policy, we are damaging the foundation of our co-existence, and we must not allow that to happen. I therefore invite you to support our initiative for greater responsibility and liability for politicians in the future parliamentary process. This is a provision for camouflage and fraud, and it is thus also a provision against the budget holes in the future. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Have courage and take this path of necessary reforms with us! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-11-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00003_d8e13486	The next item is the speech by Mr Podgorschek. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-11-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00003_d8e13507	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Yes, Austria is a beautiful country and has many diligent and skilled inhabitants. But Austria has not deserved one thing: that its inhabitants are so badly governed. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] This discussion on the development of the budget or on the question: Do we have a hole now or do we have a crater?, is basically a mirror- This policy is an example of this. And, very interestingly, It will be disputed today that we have a budget hole! I mean, it's clear to me, Mrs. Federal Minister, I know the difference between a budget and a budget path, we don't need to discuss it, but on 17th. For example, our vice chancellor has still said in the “Small Newspaper” – he has been quoted there –: “There is a Maastricht deficit that has a gap of 31 billion,” So it's a gap now, isn't it a hole now? Or is this a crater now? Or what is it supposed to mean? – It doesn’t matter in principle. The fact is, we have a problem. And if Mr Vice-Chancellor says that we are not making any proposals, I understand that because he has never been in the Financial Committee or the Budget Committee in the past, and has not heard our proposals. The Federal Minister knows that we have often also discussed on the basis of a similar opinion. I am now thinking only of our both vehement demand for a uniform accounting system or of our consistent opinion where we are concerned with the realization that we are taxing work much too high. The labour factor is too high in Austria, especially where it concerns small and medium-sized incomes. This has long required a correction, namely in the form that the entry rate is reduced to 25 percent and above all the progression levels are increased. But it is perfectly clear to me that this is not so easy, because we already have a 43 percent tax burden, and more is no longer acceptable to the population. So you have to think about where else you can save. If I keep in mind the whole debate and discussion of the last few days, it is interesting, because it is always thought that the representatives of the opposition are those who always take up the issue of the budget gap. No, it is the “New Volksblatt” in Upper Austria – and this is anything other than a liberal leaf, I would rather say that is the central organ of the ÖVP Upper Austria – which writes: ‘Status quo in finance becomes ‘no good number’’. That is to say, the ÖVP itself has taken this up, and the ÖVP itself has spoken of a case crash. As a political-thinking person – perhaps a bit unnecessary, because I am a libertiest – I could already come up with the suspicion that parts of the ÖVP want to shoot their own minister and say more or less that the Federal Minister was not appropriate to do that. I think we should think about it: how it actually happened. It wasn't our liberals! We have only found that there is a gap and that is why we have to oppose it accordingly. And we agree with many economic researchers, or the President of the Court of Auditors Moser has always indicated this. We can also discuss how many of the proposals have already been implemented. That's one thing. We have a problem. This is also the demographic trap in which we are stuck. We are in a demographic trap, and not for nothing, we have the problem of future pensions. And we need to think about how we can increase the rate of birth again so that more children can come to the world that can finance our pensions in the future. This, of course, requires massive support for the family. The families are the germ cells of our society, and we need to invest in them. Therefore, on the day of children's rights, I should also like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, we need extensive state reform – I say it again and again – because we do not know what we are: Are we a federalist republic or a centralist republic? On the one hand, everyone follows the two heads of state – you know, those who are in the East; these are the real bosses – and on the other hand, there is a federal government that is unable to work out this reform. Finally, I can only say one thing: Not Austria has been sent down, as Mr Leitel said in the summer, no, the red and black system has been sent down.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-11-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00003_d8e13605	The motion for a resolution which has just been tabled is sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2013-11-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00003_d8e13659	Next speaker: Mr Hechtl. Voluntary speaking time limit: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-11-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00003_d8e13680	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen of the House! If we talk about the budget, then it is tradition that the opposition of this budget, one can say, crushed and broken up, in the truest sense of the word. But it doesn't belong to tradition, I mean, that you handle arguments there and you go to the public, for example, that you call the budget a hole, meaning that this money is missing in the cash register. [[Abg. Kickl: Where does that come from? – That must not be true!]] [[Abg. Kickl: Tell me, where have you been for the last 14 days?]] Dear ladies and gentlemen! I believe that there have been enough opinions on the basis of this budget forecast that this budget has been drawn up in certain areas on the basis of these forecasts, which are assumptions. And if you look at the past, you can see – and it has also been established in writing – that the forecasts have affected the development of the policy and that these budgets have kept each one. Yes, it can even be seen that the budget has been better off than we have decided. [[Abg. Kickl: You keep riding in!]] Dear ladies and gentlemen! Let us remember 2008 when none of us knew that an American financial crisis will affect Austria, which will also have an impact on the economic situation in the form of an economic crisis. And it was precisely the policy, this House with this Federal Government, which was exemplary in responding to these developments, for which we were also credited by the President of the European Commission. I am thinking, for example, of the first steps in the banking package, which we have ensured the stabilisation of the financial area as well as the guarantee of deposits to give the savers confidence, but also of the labour market packages to keep as many people as possible, including young people in employment. Today, we can see that these measures have resulted in the lowest figures for the unemployed in Europe and in the second place among the youth unemployed. However, I would like to stress that every unemployed person and every unemployed youth is one too much. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] We have also decided, ladies and gentlemen, a tax reform – in May 2009, retroactively with 1. January 2009 – which was the largest tax reform in the Second Republic with a volume of €3.2 billion, a tax reform that affected around 90 percent of this tax distribution on the beneficiaries of small and smallest incomes. In addition, in this budget, based on these forecasts, we have, of course, kept our health care system stable, the health insurance funds have been rehabilitated with the resolution of the reserve fund, with the health insurance fund structure fund, and today we can find that the health insurance funds generate a positive balance. Dear ladies and gentlemen! I would like to say that forecasts are assumptions that are subject to constant fluctuations. And depending on whom the forecasts have been drawn up, there may also be corresponding deviations. And the policy, I have already said, has the task, if necessary, of fighting against forecasted developments, I would like to say, and of taking the necessary measures. Dear ladies and gentlemen! I am confident – even the budgets of recent years have also been respected – that the 2013 budget will also comply with the budget framework, perhaps even better than we have decided by law. I am also confident that the financial framework for 2014 to 2016 will bring the result we have hoped for. I am also confident, ladies and gentlemen, that we can strengthen and also achieve the measures of the Federal Government, which have been very successful, growth, employment, full employment. In this sense a warm thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-11-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00003_d8e13750	The next item is the speech by Mr Haubner. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-11-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00003_d8e13771	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Estimated Secretary of State! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Yes, Austria is a great country, is a country with many innovative entrepreneurs, with hard-working workers, but also with a responsible and competent Minister of Finance, who enjoys my and our full confidence and also accepts these great challenges in difficult times. Ladies and gentlemen! I think the discussion today and all the expert discussions show that there are different viewpoints. I am allowed to quote colleagues Rossmann, also mentioned by us as Professor, who spoke of a number of pensions in the years 2014 to 2017 of €5.7 billion and accused the Minister of Mrs. Minister that she had a wrong number that they had given 3.6 billion too much. We have spoken from 2014 to 2018, and if you include the figures for 2018, this figure is correct again. So you can also see how, in different starting situations, you can take different positions in different periods of time, of course. I think that is probably one of the problems that is being discussed today. When we come to the 2013 budget implementation, it must be clearly stated that we can rely on the experts in the section in the Ministry of Finance. The reports show: The 2013 budget implementation is fully in the plan. And if we realize that expenditure is still going down and revenue has increased and we have improved net financing by more or less by a quarter, exactly by 24 percent, then we can say: Okay, that's right. I think that is a good thing if we also confess to success and not always criticize it. Even in general – if you look at how the Austrian economy develops, if you look at growth in recent years – we have developed better in the last 12 years than many others. Many components are responsible for this, of course, hard-working entrepreneurs, hard-working workers who pay taxes as well as, of course, a good policy. The last five years have been equally good, and in this respect I think that we should be able to achieve a result again quickly and soon at the time of the government negotiations. One thing is also quite clear: A budget – and this has already been mentioned by many today – stands and falls down with growth. And if growth is lower, which is forecast by the economic researchers again, then we have to take measures to stimulate growth a little. And I already think that growth needs more impetus than new additional tax or wage increases. That is why we are not allowed to cut down on the site – and this has been mentioned more often today. In this sense, I would like to stress: A proper budget with a proper growth needs impulses – impulses to stimulate the economy in order to give businesses the opportunity to create new jobs. If we do, we will continue to succeed in the next few years. To conclude, Mr Hable: Yes, Parliament is a parliament equipped with very good minority rights, but democracy is still called, the majority is determined. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-11-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00003_d8e13819	The next item is the speech by Mr Magistrate. Kogler. Voluntary speaking time limit: 8 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-11-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00003_d8e13841	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! Mr. Klubobmann of the NEOS – he is not here right now – has something to do with making positive progress, and I can do the good conscience. Although it does not fit the core of the urgent request made by the FPÖ – she has once again been quite excited about the Federal Minister, as I mean right in many places – but it has been shown in the debate on budgetary law and similar issues that I really need to hold before I now address the urgent and the exchange of arguments. The Federal Minister is back within the Federal Government, and generations of finance ministers, I believe, the most consistent – even if the success is not yet final – struggles most consistently for a comparable and uniform budgetary law in the Republic – federal government, countries. I haven't found out yet. [[It is in favour of Greens and ÖVP, as well as SPÖ Members.]] That we don't have that, you won't be involved in your applause by SPÖ and ÖVP, is basically less on party borders, but – I don't know how to say this – on a misunderstanded federalism. That's a nice expression, I think. [[Interference of Federal Minister Dr. Fekter.]] – Financial autonomy. This is always confused with the fact that you may not be allowed to decide for yourself about the money, that you should point out the accounting uniformly. On the other hand, the ladies and gentlemen in the federal states defend themselves, because perhaps we could consider how we can all work better together. But I did not really want to concentrate on that. In any case, this is something very, very honourable, which is often too little said by the opposition. As far as the ban on speculation is concerned – perhaps we have not gone so far as to think, Mr Rossmann has finally negotiated – it is to say that we have had proposals – because you mentioned this, Mrs Federal Minister – which would not have led to the fact that we have the same rules in all the federal states. It is true that the proposals, which are probably still in the circle of negotiations with the federal states, leave open interpretations of St. Pölten via Eisenstadt to Bregenz. We do not want to, because only that head of state in St. Pölten is unclear to this day. The report of the Federal Court of Auditors on speculation with the residential boom billions of the Lower Austrian taxpayers – people who had the right to housing support – was the subject of the report of the Federal Court of Auditors of the Austrian Federal Republic (ÖVP). [[Intervocations at the ÖVP]] Lower Austria is always being attacked, probably for these reasons, that, after today, just under 2 billion are gone. We'll never pick that up again unless we're going to speculate again, but then: Toi, toi, toi! So much for the introduction, which has now been relatively long. Otherwise, the debate reminds me very much of Daniel Kehlmann and his novel “The Survey of the World”, which appeared in the Rowelt publishing house in 2005 and which has the content of the fact that mathematician Carl Friedrich Gauß has opened himself with the later research-driven natural scientist Alexander von Humboldt to discover the world. Whether you like this “budgetbone”, that’s the new vocabulary – the Gaussian distribution curve describes another phenomenon and solves other problems, not budget questions, but thanks for the cooperation. [[Federal Minister Dr. Fekter: The Gaussian distribution curve!]] [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Cheerfulness at the FPÖ.]] This is a topic of probability calculation, which could also have something to do with forecasts. But at least they open up to discover everything in the world. If I present the government negotiations over the last few weeks – so Mr. Kehlmann would be delighted. If we were to re-adjust the novel and its protagonists a little bit, something well-selling would come out – in contrast to your budget policy. In this respect, Mr Gauss would also be a useful helper on this question. He has already been called Prince of Mathematics at lifetimes, while I am currently, honestly, the Feeling – I don’t know if only you are yourself or if they are your consultants, because there is always applause in the government series when, as it were, even a little dark light falls on the economic researchers – Princes of mathematics were not there, rather princes of darkness. But I guess they're in your own ranks because you have something to hide. That is why we are at the heart of the debate. It is not only that there is a so-called hole, which is then demented, that is adjourned, but the It is also – and that is why this debate is followed by our request for the setting up of an investigation committee; therefore, I can now show myself a little more kind – that a few points have been scrambled, and I want to address this already in spite of the subsequent debate. In the statistical field too, which is really difficult, as was discussed here. Economic forecasts, how something has impacted in four or five years, and anything else can already be given; political countermeasures, for which one has these forecasts, could change reality if one wanted to counter-tax and would – even if I give you right, you say, it would be more sparse and it would already go out in some way; one could also take other measures, invest more or anything else –; but it is not possible, even in the field of forecasts, to keep the forecast of 2011 or 2012 as regards growth, in the strategy report accompanying the Federal Financial Framework Act, as if one would already operate in 2013, but the actual figures that need to be changed, unchanged. This one appears in a footnote, which is why you wanted to sit down next and say that we have always taken the latest – I want to leave it with this simplicity now – but it is not true if you look closely, at least not when it comes to the conversion of tax revenue. That makes sense. This is understood by every first semester not only by one economic study, but even by a natural science study that, if the forecast growth rates are in part significantly lower over five years than originally assumed to have an impact on revenue. This would not even be an accusation at this point, because it is not possible to do so at first, if that is the prognosis. On the other hand, the accusation is that you did not give up these changed assumptions which would have had to reduce revenue. You did not want to because you would have had a different debate before the election. It is equally dramatic and clearly more detectable by the banks. That's where the thing really gets rough, disgusting and therefore serious, because you can't sell it to anyone. I address everyone at this point, including the Vice-Chancellor and the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany, because in this year we have not left the question of Hypo alone in the Ministry of Finance. We have seen that there is a different opinion there – but above all it was about establishing a resolution bank, there is a different opinion; the Minister of Foreign Affairs is, by the way, obviously in opposition to the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany and to the Vice-Chancellor – we have seen that there is nothing more to help us to achieve that in this year alone – and you will not be able to challenge this – one-and-a-half-billion less equity, because we do not have to do more than do the Hypo Alpes-Adria as a bank that does fair business and the devil knows what. The best thing would be if the new business were to be run down in certain areas and we would no longer have to finance the capitalisation from tax money. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] That is why Mr. Vice-Chancellor and Mr. Chancellor were also informed that this will cost several billions alone in the hypo. But these are the lower limits. If you involve the municipal credit and the public banks, it will become even more. You have decided here in May, against our recommendation, on our commencing, also the leaders of the Federal Government: 133 million per year. That's for every five years 600 something million, according to your own data, and that's after the election, when you get mint and suddenly set 5.8 billion, an undercover around tenfold. But that's really enough! You might as well know and know that before. We have drawn your attention to this. You, also the Members of Parliament, but under the leadership of the Heads of Government, have committed a breach of constitution – this is nothing new – you have already done that at the 2010 budget, but we are no longer going to stop, about which we have been talking for 12 hours 42 minutes – you have committed a breach of constitution. They have also maximized the damage, which, by the way, leads to our accusation that the mutilation of these bank loans, the problem banks, the cellars, also causes costs. That's why I can't save you, whoever wants to take over this house, and I'm supposed to: You take over a morgue, the largest of the Republic! – That's the hold. But now you will at least have to confess color for the future and have this thing examined. Shortly thereafter, we will have to talk about it – thank you, that is the right keyword – and then we will have to talk about why this matter is actually being examined and heard in the light of the request for an investigation committee to set up. [[President Head gives the bell sign]] Otherwise, there is a threat of a Prime Minister's charge, otherwise it can't be.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-11-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00003_d8e13927	Next word is reported to the executive club Dietrich. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-11-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00003_d8e13949	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) High house! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr. Spindelegger, you meant: Let's talk about facts! They also said that it was all transparent that all the figures had been put on the table, there had never been any budget hole. [[Abg. Dr. Spindelegger: Please don't misinterpret my speech!]] Your colleague, Mr Hermann Schützenhofer, from Styria, who is in the government's negotiating team, took part in the negotiations. In November, it was said to the “Small Newspaper ” that it was time for an end to painting. What do you mean, ladies and gentlemen? – The government, the negotiators have very well colored. That means, the numbers that were delivered to us were beautiful, were colored, if even Your own colleague confirms this. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] Ladies and gentlemen! If you now agree on a budget hole of 24 billion, I ask: How credible is that? How credible is this if people who have not yet known in September that there will be a budget hole – “presumptuous”, under quotation marks – suddenly agree on it in November, there will be 24 billion? – I honestly tell you, we do not believe you! It is time for experts to finally look at the fact that at last experts will analyse and devote themselves to the budget, because from our point of view you have lost all expertise. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] But not only the ÖVP negotiators criticize that here was beautifully colored, even within the SPÖ there are experts, colleague co-ordinators. Ferdinand Lacina believes that there must have been some political ruptures, because when he was Minister of Finance, of course, he knew half a year or even earlier in medium-term budget planning how the budget will develop. If we have top-notch people who can't estimate how the government will develop, then these are the wrong people, then we need people with competence who know each other and know very well how the budget is how the economic situation will develop, how the labour market will develop. I am already very excited – as you are now talking about the zero deficit – from when we can actually achieve this zero deficit. I do not think that the forecasts of the rulers have the value they should have. I believe that it is time for our government leaders to be equipped with more competence and, above all, more honesty. I would like – and this is what we call for – courage to the truth. This has been mentioned several times today: The truth is reasonable to people. I think it's the wrong way to paint, speak beautiful and ask people to check in. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] From the government one hears only in the last days and weeks: Log, hole, hole. We have a budget hole, we have a pension hole, and I trust to say today that this family package, which is supposed to be tied for the families, will be beautiful, black and red packed, with a mesh on it – and when we open it, only hot air will be in it. We no longer believe in this government, and we demand more courage and more honesty, because the voters deserve it! I shall now make the following quick request: [[Quoted print version removed]] We ask for acceptance of the request, because from our point of view this is the only way to bring Austria back into a secure future.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-11-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00003_d8e14029	The motion for a resolution which has just been tabled is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2013-11-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00003_d8e14088	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Scherak. Speaking time: 7 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-11-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00003_d8e14109	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Mr. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! We are faced not only all day today with this question of the budget hole, but also daily in the media and the media. It is, of course, exciting if the members of the government do not face this budget hole because they simply do not want to talk about it or say that there is no such thing. From my point of view, this means a huge loss of confidence in Austrian politics, which has been mentioned many times today. However, it means a much greater loss of trust in Austrian politics, that the consequences for the young generation, that is, for my generation, are never addressed in this context. The massive increase in government debt per capita is a fact and not to discuss it away. If the representatives of the government parties obviously do not see a budget gap, I think only one thing is: Please stop selling the population for stupid and selling us for stupid! Of course, there is this budget gap, and it is a very obvious result of misplanning. And who will have to do this mistake again? – We will be boys, the young generation. Mr Haubner mentioned earlier that we need new impulses to grow somehow. – I can already imagine how this will look: The usual infrastructure measures will come, i.e. we will normally invest in the usual infrastructure possibilities. This is convenient, it creates jobs in the construction industry and can simply be sold as growth – but this is not a growth with structural underfloor. Of course, it is necessary to have an excellent infrastructure in Austria, but it is much more essential that we have well-trained young people that we have know-how, excellence in education, in science and research. We will not achieve the objective of creating 3.76 percent research quota by 2020 in the current figures as they exist, nor will we create the 2% of gross domestic product for the tertiary sector. That is where we have to start, because Austria has hardly any natural resources compared to other countries, but rather it is the only chance that we can invest in the know-how we have in the minds of the population and create a secure competitive position for us in the long term. So it is about making forward-looking policy. Although this should be uncomfortable for some here, it is about representing the interests of citizens. These citizens also include young people. You have to live by the decisions that are being made here. These are very often young people who are not even eligible for election and whose voices are not heard on principle, because it does not matter anyway and the votes accordingly do not count as much as those of other interest groups. This very generation is the generation that will affect those mistakes that are being made. That means we are the ones whose pensions are not insured. We are the ones whose health care can no longer be financed. And we are the generation that will have to work up to well over 70 and have no possibilities or any loopholes to escape. Therefore, all these short-term decisions concern the young generation in particular, and I do not believe that politicians, when they think about them, always have to think about it until the next legislative period, if at all so far, and think of the next election and consistently ignore these interests of young people. Of course, I also see good opportunities for a rethinking to take place here. We have never had so many young Members, so many Members under 30, in my knowledge, and I think we have to understand this as an opportunity to actually make policy that is forward-looking and not just to maintain the status quo. It's so nice. Going to crises, coming for a chance. That is why it is up to our Members - and above all to the young Members - to see this budget crisis as an opportunity for structural change. Let's make politics together and make decisions together that make Austria fit for the future and also allow young generations to grow up in a country full of prosperity, in a country that offers them all the possibilities for unfolding and does not put a huge backpack full of debt on them at birth! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-11-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00003_d8e14176	Next item is the report by Mr Haider. Speech time: 4 minutes; this also corresponds to the remaining speaking time of the club. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-11-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00003_d8e14198	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! High house! Indeed, it is a rather hopeless effort to speak to the Causa finely for the last two weeks, without any danger of entering into a call for order, because one cannot help but use the words “inability”, “disgusting” and “lying”, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] But I'm saving it. [[Call to the ÖVP: Would be appropriate!]] You can read in any newspaper, in any article, in any comment in this country, as that means what you have done here. We also have it in the 204. Last May's meeting of the National Council, when you decided to vote against this financial framework against our votes, that this financial framework will not last. There is nothing to do with it, Mrs Bundesminister, if you speak here in the form of a distraction maneuver in a tour about the figures of the 2013 budget and that the budget has no hole. – Of course, an up-to-date budget has no hole. A current budget has a surplus, or it has – and that is exactly what it has in Austria – a deficit of 6 billion. That's what it looks like in the 2013 budget! But that's not what it's all about. It is about the 2014 financial framework, and with what you have written in, you decided in May, you want to achieve a zero deficit in 2018. This target zero deficit is at risk because you have used the wrong forecasts. That is what all the experts tell you, and not only the experts, but also your own people tell you that your own negotiators in the financial group at the coalition negotiations, because you owe them this debate over the last two weeks. [[Interlocutory call to the ÖVP]] You can also thank yourself very much for that. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] But it has not only told you the opposition back in May that the figures will not hold, no, that has also told you the budget service of this House. Dr. Berger, the head of the budget service, wrote in his analysis in May – Mr. Themessl has read it to you literally, I am saving myself – that you are wrong, because outdated WIFO forecasts have been used as the basis of this financial framework. This is also confirmed by Mrs Schratzenstaller from WIFO and Mr Schuh. That's where you need it. You really can't be surprised when Josef Urschitz writes in the daily newspaper “The Press” – I quote, because of the call for order –: “The government’s budget path was a smooth lie to increase the promise not to continue the tax rate,” he said. The need for renovation is much greater than we are told.” – That’s exactly what comes to us. By the way, I congratulate you, ladies and gentlemen of SPÖ and ÖVP. They have managed by this suffrage to have another five years to provide their own people and to occupy the last open posts in this country with party soldiers. I congratulate you, but people will not forget that. We will also remind people. For another five years, the Republic's feed ropes, another five years standstill, another five years of post-chachers and another five years of down-to-earth politicians provide high gage – that is what really holds this coalition of SPÖ and ÖVP together. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, I think you feel that red and black belong to the past anyway, and in reality, you are only concerned with caring for your own people. Step back! Let's decide new elections! Give the population the chance to make mistakes in order to prevent you from suffocating for another five years!
ParlaMint-AT_2013-11-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00003_d8e14256	Mr President, it is an elegant form of avoiding a call for order, by using quotations from others for formulations which, if they are used directly, would be a direct call for order, so I will not give you a call for order, but I would point out that we should not exaggerate this form either. [[Call the FPÖ: Elegant is always good, isn't it?Unknown term type: "%s".?]] The next item is the speech by Mr Wimmer. Speech time: 4 minutes; this is also the remaining speaking time of the club. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-11-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00003_d8e14285	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Mr Kickl, I am not surprised that you are so well aware of the liars, probably you will need the more often – but in your ranks, at committee meetings, because your group is not too confident as you hear it now. [[Abg. Kickl: I have long enough!]] [[Congratulations with representatives of the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I understand, of course, when the opposition often criticizes the budget framework and the federal financial framework law and all that has to do with the budget. That's in the nature of the thing, that wouldn't be the first time. But these horror scenarios, which were drawn here today, are simply not right. Many things have already been resolved in the discussion, and we must always point out this: That is not so true as the opposition formulated today. I think it's more about the opposition simply trying to insure people. It wants to badden the Federal Government and, above all, distract it from problems that lie in the most immediate area of some opposition party. Ladies and gentlemen, as a liberal, I would be very careful to deal with wording, because if there is a budget hole, then this budget hole is called hypo-card disaster, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. [[Subsequent calls to the FPÖ.]] I'll tell you one thing: These were your blood brothers who caused this disaster, and there will still be a lot of people who will have to pay for us to solve this problem. [[Conjugation with the SPÖ and the Abg. Auer]] [[New continuous calls to the FPÖ.]] This hypo disaster in Carinthia has the name FPK, BZÖ and FPÖ. [[Abg. Kickl: We're making an investigation committee!]] [[Further calls at the FPÖ.]] Yes, I'm hard to believe that I'm saying the right names, ladies and gentlemen, but we have different parties with the same faces, and I think you have to keep pointing them out. In fact, ladies and gentlemen, the 2013 budget is in the plan, even positive. The planning for the next five years depends exclusively on forecasts, we have heard this many times today, and we simply have to say that if the forecasts offer other conditions, then of course the Federal Government is asked to change the budget framework accordingly. This is happening at this time, and therefore I believe that the excitement of the opposition must simply be limited. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Today we have talked about youth employment and the labour market. Let me add one more theme because it is very important to me as the Upper Austrian. What is happening in Lenzing, what is happening with the chemical fiber Lenzing, is really a disaster; what is happening there is absolutely not to be understood. We were allowed to attend a huge event in June – Mrs. Federal Minister, you were there, you gave a nice speech – as all the advantages were put in the foreground. More than 3,000 people from all over the world have attended this celebration, and the competent Chairman of the Board, who now puts 700 people on the street, has said – I have noticed the sentence quite well – that the people are the most important capital for a successful company, they are the most important capital of a company. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Steinbichler]] Ladies and gentlemen! This cannot work if 700 people are put on the street a few weeks or a few months later – this story about Lenzing is a success story. It's not like it's a poor company. In 2011, there was a record result, with €250 million, €180 million in 2012, and this year it will still be €80 million. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, It's about maximising profits without taking into account losses, and we're not playing with them anymore. I say this quite clearly: That's not how it's done! [[Congratulations to Mr Heinzl and Dr. Jarolim.]] In the report, ladies and gentlemen, the Chairman of the Board meant that fat was put on. – Using this term is, in principle, a gruesome one. He has to react now, because there is no money from the government, there is no money from the dear God and there is no money from the union. I can confirm this: He doesn't get anything from the union. But he did not say who paid the bonuses he collected in 2011, namely more than € 1 million, my very valued ladies and gentlemen; he forgot to say that. It was the colleagues who are working hard, who are working day and night, and who are only making the results of this wonderful company possible. [[Abg. Dr. Mitterlehner: Wrong speech caught!Unknown term type: "%s".?]] - I'll be right there, colleague. If we know how this is going to happen, then we'll resist, and people won't like it either, I'm allowed to say. We will, of course, do everything we can from our trade unions to help people and help them. This is a business policy, ladies and gentlemen, which is really despicable. And now the circle is closing because you, Mr. Federal Minister, said that this is the wrong speech: You probably have a bit of a bad conscience, but here the circle closes: [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Mitterlehner]] Every job lost is missing in the budget, we know. We need high employment, which is really the basis for a solid budget. We need high employment, which also ensures our pensions, which is so vehemently discussed. Consolidated by growth has been announced, and your former boss in your time as Secretary-General, Dr. Leitel, made this very clear yesterday: Growth has been announced, and it has been given priority. [[call to the FPÖ.]] I would therefore like to say: As social democrats and also as social-democratic trade unionists, we fight for every job and for fair, decent wages and salaries, and that was not always easy. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Singer.]] [[Abg. Kickl: Apparently not particularly successful!]] [[New call for tender of the Abg. Singer.]] [[Counter-call of the Abg. Podgorschek.]] The last wage negotiations have also shown that it is very, very difficult to insist that people are at least compensated for inflation. [[Abg. Kickl: Yes, it hasn't done that in recent years!]] – Yes, there you need to talk to your employer representatives who always write us something different than you say here. I simply believe, ladies and gentlemen, that we need proper wage increases to make people feel something in the wallet, because there is no economic growth without purchasing power. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kickl]] And, Mr Kickl, as a conclusion, because you have made the motion for a reluctance: I'm afraid you won't find a majority today, and that's good!
ParlaMint-AT_2013-11-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00003_d8e14471	Next, Mr Magistrate. Zakostelsky to speak. Residual speaking time of the ÖVP club: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-11-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00003_d8e14492	Mr President. High house! Ladies and gentlemen! There are many new faces, many young, but also many not so young new faces in the National Council. I too am a new one and look forward to working together very much, to constructive and objective cooperation with all of you. I would like to work on matters and content for our country. However, working in content means that facts must count and not unfounded accusations. And again today: Let us not confuse the budget with forecasts for the future! The 2013 budget implementation clearly shows that there is no budget hole. [[call to the FPÖ.]] If all the parties had agreed, it would have been possible to do so. November 2013 to present this budget implementation in the Committee on Budgets last Monday. Unfortunately this was not possible, therefore the question has already been asked: Is this topic really to be discussed seriously, or is it for the show? Ladies and gentlemen! I think the budget is too important to be exploited for political small and medium-sized enterprises. The 2013 budget – which has been said more often, but obviously not fully understood – has been drawn up on the basis of WIFO's forecasts: Economic growth 1 percent. Effective growth is 0.4 percent. Nevertheless, the 2013 budget holds. And maybe a point that has not yet been raised: In terms of content, international credit rating agencies also understand that we do not have a budget hole. And that's why the top ratings that our country has are still stable. I am in the National Council for the first time and therefore I want to look at the work of the government objectively. And I think we have to say: Despite the biggest economic crisis since the 1930s, our Federal Government has managed very well to steer the country through this crisis – better than most, better than almost all European countries! [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I think back to the constituent meeting of the National Council a few weeks ago, in which the representatives of the opposition parties, too, really called for constructive attention and called on us new ones that it is Parliament's task to control the government – right, to control the government, but not to harass it and not to drop a show here at all! [[Mr Pirklhuber and Mr Zanger.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I ask you very seriously: What is the point of making a mistrust against a government that is likely to continue in office for a few weeks and has been ordered to do so? [[Abg. Kickl: Yes?- Oh, my God!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Walter Rosenkranz.]] We should be discussing with each other on a subject-oriented and constructive basis, doing what the public expects of us, namely bringing the political culture back where it belongs, namely discussing each other objectively and constructively at the same time.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-11-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00003_d8e14551	Deputies! I told you earlier that the remainder of the ÖVP club's speaking time is still 3 minutes. But it's still 8 minutes. So you can hurry, but you don't have to!
ParlaMint-AT_2013-11-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00003_d8e14572	Thank you. The sentence comes to my mind that all the arguments have already been said, but not yet by everyone. Of course, I do not want to take advantage of this. Rather, I would like to point out once again that the Austrian Federal Government has worked very properly in recent years and in truth deserves our thanks. And in this sense I am seeking to express confidence to the Austrian Federal Government!
ParlaMint-AT_2013-11-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00003_d8e14603	As the last speaker to speak, Mr Vetter, I should like to say a few words. 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-11-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00003_d8e14624	God, Mr President! Estimated members of the Federal Government! High house! Whenever a government goes out of the money of foreign people, it increases taxes. And obviously we are now being psychologically prepared for once again to increase taxes. That the forecasts are not true, I think, I must honestly say, not really so surprising after we have three national banks. And the argument why these banks are nationalized was always that it would have inevitable consequences if one did not do so – and exactly the opposite happened! It has simply had the inevitable consequences of nationalising these banks. And what these banks really cost, you simply don't know, and with every forecast higher numbers come out. The teaching of these three nationalizations must be simple: Never again state a bank! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-11-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00003_d8e14654	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. We shall now proceed to the votes. We shall first vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Strache, colleagues and colleagues on the failure of confidence in the Federal Government in accordance with Art. 74 para. 1 of the Federal Constitutional Act. In view of the fact that such a decision is taken by the National Council in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this paragraph. I expressly note the presence of half of the Members of Parliament in the terms of the Constitution quoted above. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are voting in favour of the motion for a reluctance to accept it. – This is the minority. The application is therefore rejected. [[Abg. Dr. Belakovich-Jenewein: That's very scarce!]] [[Abg. Bitch: Get tight!]] We shall also proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by the honourable Members. Rossmann, ladies and gentlemen, on increasing family aid and on-going adaptation to inflation. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who are voting in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority. The application is therefore rejected. We shall also vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Nachbaur, fellow Members, on 'Conformity and development of budgetary law'. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who wish to vote in favour of this request to be a sign of approval. – This is the minority. Nor does this request receive the necessary approval. We shall also vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Dr. Nachbaur, colleagues and colleagues on 'Constitutional protection against 'compulsory expropriations' of the Austrians for crisis management'. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority. The application is therefore rejected. We are now voting on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Kitzmüller, ladies and gentlemen, on the introduction of an automatic annual adjustment of the value of family allowances, child care and child care allowances to inflation. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this request to have a sign of approval. – This is the minority. This request is not approved either. Finally, we are voting on the motion for a resolution tabled by Dr. Nachbaur, colleagues and colleagues on 'Sudden convening of a budget summit with non-party experts'. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority. The request is therefore rejected. [[18:17:01]] The continuation of the agenda
ParlaMint-AT_2013-11-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00003_d8e14765	I now take the negotiations on the 6th. Agenda item again. Mr Brosz is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). I'll give it to him.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-11-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00003_d8e14790	Mr President. Mr Ostermayer State Secretary! It's a good thing you're here right now, because we've also negotiated the party law together. Return to the Party Act: This is the first reading of the NEOS Members' request for changes to the promotion of the parties. There are several points, but above all there is a clear reduction in the promotion of the party – which is not really true with the 25 percent or by three quarters, what you can see when you look at them in detail, especially with regard to the promotion of the parties of the federal government, if I read it correctly, because there it is expected to go down to €2.50 per vote, and there we are now at €4.60. So here we are not at a reduction of three quarters, but at a much lower reduction. But be it. The point is, of course, that we can do a good fight about political promotions. It was very interesting that the applicant made several comparisons, such as comparison with Germany. It would only happen if you compared the system in total, because what is true with Germany is that the promotion of the parties is significantly lower than in Austria. - Correct! What you have not said is that the promotion of political education in Germany is a multiple from Austria, that Germany has agencies or institutes, especially foundations around the world as educational institutions, from all parties, and thus comes to quite a different sum from Austria. It is certainly so that the German Bundestag around Eckhäuser, but really about Eckhäuser, is better equipped than Austria that the working conditions of the delegates are much better, with work opportunities. You'll leave it all out. They take out a part – only then should you make that clear – and there they make the request to significantly reduce it. I particularly liked the comparison with Switzerland. With Switzerland we looked at this when we looked at Parliament in Switzerland when we were there with a parliamentarian delegation. I do not know if you know the working conditions in Switzerland and if you consider them desirable, but perhaps you should talk to my colleague Strolz about what posts we are negotiating here. The Swiss Parliament looks like all Swiss political groups together have about as much space as they currently have in the provisional room. In Switzerland, the Green Club – which was about the size of the percentage of us – had a single employee at the time! – not for every green Member, but one for the whole club. Whether this is an example of parliamentary work, I dare to doubt. You can always negotiate down, you can come down. The other fits: parties, clubs fit, the academies also fit. [[Abg. Dr. Strolz: Strengthen Parliament!]] Then you should also look at what countries that have relatively little party funding and who work a lot with donations. They usually have an element inside, including in America, which are the so-called PACs, namely the restrictions on individuals to give massive donations. This is missing from your request. This is very serious, because your election campaign funding is showing, and it is clear that there is an extreme dependence on election funding. And what you've had wouldn't have gone to America. In America there is a limit of 2,500 dollars, among other things, on the question of what simple people can donate. However, Mr. Hazelsteiner should have had a nice piece so that he could have come up with it. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber.]] And if you look at this with the Lord Stronach, you have to say: He probably would not have found so many Austrians who could have donated it individually, so that the sum of €25 million would have been spent on donations. The question then arises whether this should be the future of party funding in Austria. The large, the stronachs, the less large, perhaps the hazelsteiners, and those who can get this in donations have an unevenly different competitive advantage over other parties. So if you take this seriously, you must at least limit massively in large donations. But you don't do that, it's not in the request. - Good. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Strolz.]] Then the question arises which level is appropriate. And now you can discuss whether every election poster needs to stand. There are simple ways to limit. Let us discuss a limitation of large space posters! Let us discuss a restriction on poster advertising, which brings clear reductions! By the way, as a green person, we have also opposed to increasing the promotion of the parties last time. By the way, we have made the corridor in the Constitutional Provision – contrary to what the FPÖ has presented – which has been a restriction on the countries. Some countries have had to reduce because of this corridor. There was then an extra decision by the government parties to increase the promotion of the party, but also not to the extent that it has been co-ported, for it is fair to say that the electoral costs have been abolished. They have not been available since then, and the election funding is, as it were, from the current funds. One can go back to the previous level, taking into account the electoral cost refund. That's all inside. What I do not think is to get to a level where de facto political work is dependent solely on major financiers and would no longer be possible without the financial background of Mr Stronach or Mr Hazelsteiner. We will certainly defend ourselves against this. By the way, there are – five minutes have passed, quickly passed – a few demands for change and needs under the Party Law. I assume that we are very quick to close the gap, namely that the decisions of the Transparency Senate should not be published. It is an end because this, of course, also affects decisions for the future, and precisely the questions relating to the national elections should be published as soon as possible in order to clarify what party funding is possible or possible and what is forbidden.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-11-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00003_d8e14840	As the last speaker in this debate, I should like to say that Mr Vetter is speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-11-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00003_d8e14862	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! In principle, I can well gain something from the idea that the parties are less deeply involved in the state fund. But if you act as an old-party, as if this grip in the state bank is the only blessing, then I would remind you that this has not only done your parties through the way of party financing by law, but also through interest representatives and, in the last legislative period, has also financed itself through quite different ways of party financing – I do not want to call a large telecommunications company by name. [[Call the ÖVP:Stronach!]] If there has been a more or less fun requirement of an oligarch clause in connection here by some Members – not for fun, but for serious reason?- Oh, my God! [[Abg. Wheeler: Don't be fun!]] Then I would like to remind you: At the beginning of my activities at the Angelobung, I got such a chocolate, where a clause on human rights is on the table, namely that all people are born equally and freely. And I think this also applies to people who have been very proficient and have earned a lot of money in their lives. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] [[Call:Yes eh]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Brosz.]] If, two years ago, with the help of the Greens, we finally got rid of this Habsburg law and created equality, then the same must also apply to people who have invested their money in order to participate in democratic competition and perhaps have also been successful. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-11-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00003_d8e14952	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. I accept Amendment No 5/A to the Constitutional Committee to be elected under item 7 of the agenda. [[18:25:15]] 7. Point Choice of committees
ParlaMint-AT_2013-11-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00003_d8e14989	We're now on the 7th. Agenda item. There is a proposal for the election of committees after consultation at the Presidential Conference on the basis of the agreement between SPÖ, ÖVP, FPÖ, STRONACH and NEOS-LIF, as well as a request from Members Dr. Strolz, colleagues, and a request from Mr Dr Glawischnig-Piesczek, colleagues. I have the request, according to § 59 para. 3 of the Rules of Procedure on this item in the agenda. In this debate, a maximum of 5 minutes will be given by each club. I therefore put this request to the vote. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of holding a debate to be a sign of approval. - That's unanimity. This request was therefore adopted unanimously. We are going into the debate. It is the first Mr. Klubobmann Mag. Arbitrator. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-11-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00003_d8e15044	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! The discussion which we are now holding here in plenary is one that we have already held in several Presidents, and where we have also agreed that once again, at the level of the club directors and perhaps at the level of the Presidents, we are trying to reach agreement, as far as possible, to reach consensus. In fact, there is the proposal of some to use fewer committees in the future than in the past. In the discussion on which these are to be less, the spectrum is so wide apart, as far as my impression is now that very difficult consensus will be to make. My group, and I myself, tends to re-establish all committees in the same way as in the last legislative period. What we're doing today... Ben, it's a half-way. If we implement the decisions that are now being taken, namely the committees which are planned and which have been discussed in the Bureau, we will have 14 committees, with the corresponding subcommittees. I am therefore saying this because it is always very much said that Parliament is not able to work because there are no committees. There are then 14 committees, including the subcommittees, and of course also the possibility to carry out the discussions that we have had at the first readings today and to work together on solutions. I really want to stress this so that the public do not feel that nothing would happen here in the house. The second is to look at the last GP. In the last GP, it was so that on the 25th of November the committees were first elected and then formed only in the middle of December. So here too, we are quite right in the timetable compared to the last GP. That is why I do not understand all the requests that have been made, because some want more and more, but we will continue to discuss them. I just think that an agreement here in plenary is difficult to reach, especially one that has already been borne by the mind, that everyone can somehow join in the end. That would be the opinion of our group on this subject, and I am now excited about the other opinions.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-11-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00003_d8e15086	Mr Haubner. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party. Also 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-11-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00003_d8e15108	Mr President. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Yes, Mr President Kopf has presented a document in the President-in-Office, which has almost been a suitable negotiating document for all. The position of the ÖVP is well known. That is the fact that we want to reduce the number of committees of at present 39 by at least one quarter. We would like to see more meetings of the committees and, above all, a fixed meeting calendar of the committees. This will certainly make committee work more efficient, and we will be more likely to plan for the ministries in this model, as well as more planning for Members. If we are talking about how we want to become more efficient, we should also question the processes in Parliament and modernise ourselves accordingly. So it makes no sense for us to choose all the committees now, because those we need we have already chosen the last time, and those we still need we make up today. And committees, once elected, are valid for the entire legislative period. That is why we want to continue the discussions on the list of committees first and carry out the elections and the constitutions on the next occasion. The agreement of five parties – not the Greens – was today to elect the following committees: Internal, national defence, Court of Auditors and Constitution. In this way we can also use the corresponding subcommittees, and this also ensures that Parliament continues its work, including in the field of teacher service law. We therefore reject all further requests as ÖVP. There is no urgency either. It is common to choose and establish the committees for government – Mr Schieder has already done so – as was the case in the last legislative period, so we have the good practice to define the committees, the number and the size of the committees. I think we should continue this good joint exercise. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-11-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00003_d8e15147	Mr Brosz has now come to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-11-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00003_d8e15168	Mr President. From my point of view, it's about two different things. It is relatively easy to explain why the Greens today propose to set up all the committees: Parliamentary operation has only to do with the government itself. We now have the situation that we have hardly had committees since June, because we have an election campaign behind us, and in some areas there would be a great need to deal with the competent ministers who are still in office to deal with current developments, including in the committees. A few points come to my mind. It would probably be interesting to talk about the results of the climate conference next week in the Environment Committee. It would be interesting to discuss the issues of the sports competition in the Sports Committee. All of this is not possible now because the committees are not being constituted. And there's no need for government plans so that the committees make sense. It would also be useful to strengthen the involvement of the committees in certain current political issues in the future. By the way, “rerule” is such a story. Because if “new governance” is taken seriously, it would be precisely this strengthening of Parliamentary operations, where one can react more acutely, where one can really hold debates – even more often – which would be extremely desirable. And there the reference to the past is not particularly helpful, for there one did not “rerule, ” but there one“ ruled old. ” If you “rerule, ” you could take this step. But I do have sympathy for the position of the ÖVP, which is not the point. One could discuss streamlining committees, discussing what committees are being put together. The only problem is that there are precise diametric positions between ÖVP and SPÖ and that the Committee work cannot take place in many areas because this position is not clarified. Not later than a month, she'll have to be there, but that's pretty unsatisfying. We could also have established committees and re-established them. This, by the way, must be summarized even in the proposal which I consider to be very useful, namely the Rules of Procedure, Immunities and Incompatibilities. There too, we have established the committees and, if we do otherwise, we have to make a re-constitution. So that wouldn't really have been the point. But from this point of view we must move and say that if there is an agreement on fewer committees, we will do so. This has nothing to do with the fact that the committees cannot meet now. That is why we are proposing that everyone should be constituted, not only those who are proposed, but also those who will be involved. I would also like to take up Mr Haubner's argument that we agree on a fixed calendar of meetings for the committees. It was one of the major problems of the last period that could hardly be quickly found committee dates. And in so far as there is a fixed plan, then at least the chapter Current debate is something that is necessary and can be carried out. There will always be a reason for that. And if there are no major government documents in the committees, there will be no disaster either. So from this one: Parliament called for more parliamentary work and the committees to work, even without waiting for government to be formed.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-11-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00003_d8e15220	The executive club, Ing, is spoken of. Dietrich. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-11-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00003_d8e15241	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) High house! We reached an agreement yesterday in the President-in-Office on which we are of course. We believe that it makes sense to re-distribut government competences, also to think about the committees. This time we want to give ourselves, that makes sense. That is why we are going to decide on these four committees today, but not anymore. We look forward to the negotiations and hope that we will bring in more efficiency, a clearer system, that the committees can work better, that the periods can actually be better divided in advance. In this sense, we do not want to cement ourselves somewhere in a semi-good solution today, but we look forward to an optimal solution that we hope to achieve together.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-11-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00003_d8e15268	The last speaker in this debate is Mr Magistrate. Loacker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-11-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00003_d8e15290	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! We share the concerns of several sides on this issue. On the one hand, we understand the concerns of the government parties to set up committees, that the committees are congruent with the ministries and that you are not yet so far in your negotiations. On the other hand, we share the impatience of the Greens to advance the constitution of the committees. That is why the proposed committees are a little too little for us, and we have proposed four more committees for the constitution, of which we believe that they are safe: We will need the Committee on Foreign Affairs, the Committee on Justice, the Committee on Culture and the Environment, anyway, so we could take them with us, regardless of what you agree in the government negotiations. That is to say, with our proposal, we would excuse the government parties, and we would offer the Greens a case-back variant if it were not likely to continue to establish all the committees. Now it is because of the order of the vote that the Greens' request will be our caseback variant. That is, if this does not happen, we are happy to support your concern to establish all the committees. And let us join us in the purpose of a fixed calendar of meetings. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-11-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00003_d8e15323	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. We shall proceed to the vote in the order of applications already made at the outset. Following consultation at the Presidential Conference, the following Committees were proposed to be elected, given the agreement between SPÖ, ÖVP, FPÖ, STRONACH and NEOS-LIF: Internal Affairs Committee, National Defence Committee, Court of Auditors Committee, Constitutional Committee. According to § 32 para. 1 GOG-NR shall determine the number of members and alternate members of each committee. The members and substitutes will be: Parliamentary clubs shall be distributed according to the principles laid down in § 30 of the GOG-NR in proportion to the number of Members to whom they belong. The clubs shall make the members of the committee and alternate members of the President, who shall be deemed to be elected. Following consultation at the Presidential Conference, a number of 24 members and replacement members were unprejudicially proposed for the Committees mentioned, each with 7 members and replacement members each to the SPÖ and the ÖVP, 5 members and replacement members to the FPÖ, 3 members and replacement members to the Greens, 1 member and one replacement member each on STRONACH and NEOS-LIF. We shall vote on this proposal. I am looking for those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this, to be a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. The names of the members or substitutes announced by the President's clubs and thus as elected Members are listed in the Stenographical Protocol. [[Not all lists were available at the time of printing.]] [[The members and substitute members and the elected functions are available on the Internet under the heading ‘Parliamentary Events’.]] I shall now vote on Mr Strolz's request for the setting up of committees in accordance with Article 32 of the GOG-NR. It is proposed that the following permanent committees be set up: External Policy Committee, Justice Committee, Cultural Committee, Environment Committee. A committee size of 24 members and replacement members is proposed. These are distributed to the political groups as follows: 7 members and replacement members each to the SPÖ and the ÖVP, 5 members and replacement members to the FPÖ, 3 members and replacement members to the Greens, and 1 member and replacement member to each on STRONACH and NEOS-LIF. Whoever stands for it, I ask for a corresponding sign. – This is the minority. This application is therefore rejected. I shall now vote on the request made by Mr Glawischnig-Piesczek, colleagues on the election of the National Council committees for the preparation of negotiating items in accordance with § 32 GOG-NR. The National Council wants to decide to elect the following committees: Committee on Labour and Social Affairs, External Policy Committee, Building Committee, Family Committee, Financial Committee, Committee for Research, Innovation and Technology, Health Committee, Equal Treatment Committee, Justice Committee, Consumer Protection Committee, Cultural Committee, Committee on Agriculture and Forestry, Committee on Human Rights, Committee on Petitions and Citizens' Initiatives, Committee on Sports Affairs, Tourism Committee, Environment Committee, Education Committee, Transport Committee, Public Prosecutor's Committee, Committee on Economics and Industry, Scientific Committee. The number of members and substitute members of these committees shall be set by 24 each, which shall be divided among the political groups as follows: 7 members and replacement members each to the SPÖ and ÖVP, 5 members and replacement members to the FPÖ, 3 members and replacement members to the Greens, 1 member and one replacement member each on STRONACH and NEOS-LIF. Whoever gives his approval to this proposal, I would like to ask for a sign. – This is the minority. This proposal is therefore rejected. The agenda is exhausted. [[18:42:39]] Request for the establishment of a Committee of Inquiry
ParlaMint-AT_2013-11-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00003_d8e15457	We shall now proceed to the debate on the request made by Mr Dr Glawischnig-Piesczek, colleagues and colleagues for the establishment of a committee of inquiry to further examine political and legal responsibility in connection with the accusation of a budget lie of the Federal Government. This request has now been distributed to all Members. The application shall have the following wording:
ParlaMint-AT_2013-11-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00003_d8e15623	We are going into the debate. In the sense of § 57a para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure is the speaking time in this debate for 5 minutes, with the first speaker having a speaking time of 10 minutes. Statements by members of the Federal Government or by State Secretary-General shall not take more than 10 minutes. As the first and founder of the motion for a resolution, Mr Mag. Kogler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-11-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00003_d8e15653	Mr President. Now I was a little careless and could not understand whether you have fully presented the title of this request: on the establishment of an investigation committee to investigate political and legal responsibility in connection with the accusation – with the accusation that so much correctness must be – a budget lie of the Federal Government (Budget Lie Investigation Committee). Now it would probably be funny if you would give yourself a call for order at this lecture. We didn't know.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-11-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00003_d8e15674	Mr deputies, may I ask you what you have missed? [[Abg. Brosz: An order call!]] What have you missed in my statement on the title of the application? I can't understand.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-11-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00003_d8e15701	At first, I didn't listen so closely and tried to draw conclusions. Thank you for supporting me now. But I assume that the title of the committee of inquiry, which we have introduced here, is not worthy of regulation, and may therefore continue to speak of the budget lie of the Federal Government and of a budget lie investigation committee. And if not, I'd do it, too, because it's just like that. That's exactly what we're looking at, so we're going to get to the point. A lie, of course, exists only in connection with a budget hole when a budget hole is first established that may exist. That is right, the Minister for Finance has also done so in the Committee. For we do not simply make the request by jux and tollery, but because of their persevering statements. If the government were careful, we could still talk about it. But now there is no reference to this. You insist on it. We heard: There's no budget hole. [[Abg. May. Hammer: Then everything already fits!]] - Yes, everything fits in your world. But the point is – that will have to be the first finding – of course, there is what is called the budget hole here. That's what I'm going to do. The second, but much more relevant question – because that was partly the subject of the urgent request – is yes: Has then and in this context, in all cases, been said the untruth? And, knowingly, has the untruth been said, especially before the election? These questions are closer to the request of this Committee of Inquiry, and it has also formulated very precise questions on the subject of the investigation. – I ask you, take it – most of you are already away from the ÖVP. I think this is a tactical escape, otherwise you'd learn something here. I would ask you to also inform your colleagues about this and to go through these questions. Then you would insist that you, too, have dim before the election and have been sent to your constituencies with completely wrong behaviour, from your own – I would almost say now – Federal Government. But at this point one can only talk about the extended workbench of the party headquarters, and no longer about a government bank. It would therefore be interesting for everyone, because it might require the political hygiene of the house, that Members be informed clearly and correctly here, and especially if there are already many indications. There are even unbeatable arguments and evidences that, as in this case, the federal financial framework can no longer vote on the Federal Financial Framework Act. Nevertheless, it is brought here by the Federal Government, which is why you have been led behind the light yourself, so that you should have believed it. “Bundesfinanzframe” is the right keyword. Why Loch? – You always argue here: The 2013 cash register is great, it has no hole. First of all, we're sitting on it, there's nothing going on down there, and at the end it's going out anyway. - That can be so. That can be the case in 2013, but it doesn't have to be that way. But neither do we refer to this – and I do not believe those of the other members of the opposition – but they refer to the federal financial framework. And the federal financial framework – please read it, if you decide on laws – is a federal law, which actually has great constitutional significance, this is the Federal Financial Framework Act 2014 to 2017 – to be taken into account again – and is a four-year financial perspective. There are limits to expenditure by law, which are just a preview, but at least so important that we have gone through the process of carrying out the whole legislative process, as well as an annual budget. That is why, of course, certain budgetary principles apply to the Federal Financial Framework, which cannot simply be thrown overboard, just because one does not fit differently into one's arms before the election. That's the hold. Here too – and this is already true of the first question and is insinuated – of course Article 51 (8) B-VG is the same, the question of the faithful presentation of the figures, the question of transparency. Of course! Now, in retrospect, we are experiencing at least that this is a deviation. Now I'm not saying any more hole so you can follow better or at least want to, because you might. But there's nothing left to you. Let's say it very well, neutral, technical: We have a plan that has a legal form at least. And then there's a plan deviation. – Now the hole is a plan deviation in the next few minutes. – This plan deviation does not happen by chance. It has therefore arisen because you have, knowingly – and this is the second accusation – wronged the federal financial framework, and here you have also made a wrong decision. Just wrong! And we will go through a few titles in this category of expenditure, which is essentially the federal financial framework. Secondly, and corresponding to that: the Strategy Report. There you will find more information on the revenue page. But the whole thing has to be understood as a unity. That is what we have decided here, and this has been referred to by Members for years. Mr Steger, Head of Section of the Ministry of Finance, has held working groups on this for many years, in particular with representatives of the opposition, who always want to know a lot and participate in particular, the importance of this new budgetary law, this federal financial framework. This is also part of the strategy report, because it has been called for. The Strategy Report is an essential part of this rolling process of planning over the next four years every year. One useful thing, I would like to say, is that we have also agreed to this – with a lot of other changes, for example, with the fact that we have finally introduced the budget service for Members. By the way, it was the budget service that pointed out that these revenue could no longer be voted on at all – and that is why I come to this very point again. In the strategy report – and now I say: knowingly – the wrong revenue was also presented. Otherwise, it is not possible to explain this type of gap that a completely changed economic growth forecast should not lead to any change in revenue. This has already been the more difficult exercise. There are then the much, much simpler ones at the top of the expenditure limits, namely the ones at the banks. And that's not why we're going to find out that you first presented the wrong thing, and second, knowingly. Why? – Because it was clear that the Hypo Alpe-Adria and the municipal credit will cost much more. All of this you have in subheading 46, financial market stability, marked with € 133 million. We pointed out that at the time. I have to reflect these quotations of Parliamentary correspondence – that is not a dark body of opposition – so that we can have that in the Minutes, too. “The scandal surrounding the non-state-based bank Hypo Alpe-Adria is not only in the enormous double-digital damage, the first speaker of the current hour (...), but also, above all, in the fact that, by the next election, nothing is obviously done, so that the budget lie can continue to be maintained and the backgrounds of the Causa can be concealed.” – 12. June. ==References== May is again said to be “when the government bank is trying to measure Members”, it is bad because “the government refuses any statement as to how to deal with the foreseeable billion hole in the budget. A budget lie will be presented again.” – And so on and so on. What were your answers, Mr Chancellor, who is no longer in the hall, and Mr Vice-Chancellor, who is already on the run? – “We have a balanced budget in 2016. More: We can achieve a tax reduction in 2015. - A tax reduction! Not a tax reform, as has always been shown, with more wealth taxes – three weeks before the election you have already approved of the reasonable claim – no, everyone is promised a tax reduction. And Mr. Vice-Chancellor did not want to stand back and spoke of it at all, that is because everything is such a super-budget path that is full of lot. – Now, three weeks later, €33 billion is missing, because we have to take the Maastricht deficit. And stop the structural deficit! This is a reasonable size for economic governance, but not for what we have to pay here – or actually the taxpayers. [[President Head gives the bell sign.]] The Vice-Chancellor – in conclusion, so that we all have nice in the box – believes that it will not be necessary, because everything is so great, that you take countermeasures. - That's how it looks! If this is not knowingly the untruth that is also being clarified, and the best thing in this committee of inquiry, then I do not know! Then you miss the restart of the Republic, which you have already “snuggled” before, but then vote At least now, because all the improvement begins with clarification – the same is true as in the fight against corruption. Get intelligible! Only for the protocol: There are more and more ÖVP delegates on the run, just as before their responsibilities. [[the speaker points to the ÖVP bank series]]
ParlaMint-AT_2013-11-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00003_d8e15758	From now on, a speaking time of 5 minutes applies to all Members. Mr Jarolim is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Yeah, that's true of you, too. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-11-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00003_d8e15782	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen. I myself – and most of us – support the fact that the Committee of Inquiry is being set up as a minority law, but if I look at what this is supposed to be for a request today and if I have already followed the whole day discussion, where there is really a sharp attempt to mix different aspects with one another, I think that there is no really good service to this concern. [[Abg. May. Kogler: A much more precise!]] And I am surprised that we are dealing with this discussion today because it is clearly ignored that in the last period we have created a completely new budgetary regulation which – and I am now saving myself – really removes us from all other countries in Europe, in so far as we, in addition to the normal budget, are also planning a budget over four years, which, of course, can be considerably unfair than a one-year budget and which, of course, is much more important – no, Mr Kogler! – must be guided by expert and expert opinions as necessary in the annual budget. [[Abg. May. Kogler: You just need to talk about the financial hole!]] And to confuse one with the other now – knowingly, I would once think of my colleague Kogler – is negligent from my point of view and this house is simple and simply not worthy. [[Abg. May. Kogler: No, the bank hole!]] And I'm really sorry that a country captain, who is obviously only slightly informed, but who needs a hideous speech, started the whole discussion by talking about a budget hole that is de facto none. [[Abg. May. Kogler: Talk about question 1, bank hole!]] No one can do anything for this, and we can now empty this soup. So I think that only the fact that another head of state has apologised for the fact that the whole sad discussion has begun with this misinformation from Mr Wallner, in fact already rounds off the whole subject and shows where we are now. [[Abg. May. Kogler: Yes, but he did! There are 33 billion in your own...!]] Ladies and gentlemen, I think one thing has to be recognized: We are in the budget framework – I am referring to the budget framework, which is the four-year plan – due to the last opinion of the Wifo with a deviation of 0.1 percent. Now I would have liked to know one thing: What is the real scandal that in a four-year prognosis, which means that there is a lot of uncertainty in it, we only deviate 0.1 percent in a law we have passed? The fact that we have achieved positive results in the budget even over the last three years from the proposals has already been said. [[Abg. May. Kogler: That's partly true!]] So I don't understand the whole excitement at all. If I look at what is now in there – namely the whole of the Hypo Alpe-Adria, which was nothing but a serious criminal case, where we are now being told for the first time in a partial aspect due to a confession, what actually happened there, namely, what Mr Culterer has broken there – then we can also be clear about the following facts: [[Abg. May. Kogler: You didn't budget it!]] If one were to follow this up and the head of state Haider was still alive, he would now be in court and would probably have been condemned as a criminal. That is the real reason why the whole country is now suffering from this Carinthian dilemma – and, colleague Vetter, I am surprised that you say so – of this Carinthian dilemma: Because it is logical that even though Carinthia is indebted under a head of state Haider, that is, at €23 billion, we cannot really see the fact that this country is in bankruptcy and the whole Republic is suffering because, of course, our overall lending capacity is at stake. [[Abg. Podgorschek: Let's make an investigation committee! Now!]] And that the very ones from whose rows Haider comes out are the greatest, I think is simple and simply not comprehensible. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Podgorschek.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that the Bear valley, which still exists, should be liquidated and included in the damage recovery. That would be my proposal. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-11-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00003_d8e15931	Next, Mrs Tamandl is speaking. She too has 5 minutes of speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-11-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00003_d8e15952	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen! I have assumed so far that, if not Mr Pilz, but for example Mr Kogler, he is talking about setting up a committee of inquiry, he is also serious. But by asking why the President did not really read out what title this committee should have, or then referred to the examination of these matters, because of the fact that you were still asking why the President did not really read what title this committee should have. You are always talking about lies – what I simply think is unscrupulous – and I must tell you quite honestly, you are already going to the level of Mr Pilz, as far as this criminalisation of all operations is concerned. I also believe that a committee of inquiry should be set up in cases that are not correct or which are inconspicuous. In this case, Mr Kogler, I would like to say to you, however, that: We have held a meeting of the Committee on Budgets, on the basis of an agreement in the President's office, at which everything was explained by the Minister, including in terms of different economic forecasts, and also in terms of the preparation of the Committee on Pensions. [[President Ing. President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats).]] In addition to the fact that, for example, the reports on the budget implementation have not been debated in the Committee on Budgets, I must say, although I very much appreciate you, Mr Kogler, because you are always doing very serious work, that you are totally unaware that the budget implementation for 2013, just as in previous years 2011 and 2012, was better than the estimate every time, even as far as tax revenue is concerned. I can remember that we held budget hearings at each meeting and made a budget for one year in addition to the financial framework. The experts we have invited – each group could invite an expert – have never questioned the forecast based on the budget figures. In here it has always been called by the opposition, of course also by the BZÖ, which are not so innocent to the entire miser of the Hypo Alpe-Adria in Carinthia: The figures will not keep, the revenue will not flow like that! I can recall what it was like when it came to the tax agreement with Switzerland and Liechtenstein. Now, however, everyone realizes that it is very likely that there are tax revenues, that there are also a lot of self-admissions and that there are also a lot of shifts. If you look at the whole thing and discuss it, you must of course also include such points. I simply believe – Mr Jarolim has also said it – it will always be – yes, of course! [[Abg. May. Kogler: Yes, but it is about the years 2014 to 2017!]] – Compared and it is said what it would be like for an entrepreneur to create his budget in this way. First of all: An entrepreneur would not create a budget for four or five years, because this is simply not possible. [[Abg. May. Kogler: Of course we have a strategic economic plan!]] He would set up a budget for one year, based on the annual accounts of the previous year – and would not then, for example, make any reserves and forward the expenditure et cetera. We have, however, made a new budgetary right. We have agreed on an upper limit on expenditure. We have also agreed on the formation of reserves, because we have said: We do not want the “November fever” to break out and the Ministries to believe that they must, as it were, make expenditure with all the violence that we have granted them. [[Abg. May. Kogler: Hot!]] – This is happening, yes, and that is why I cannot understand it at all, if you ask 9 for information on it in your point, “which role senior officials of the Ministry of Finance played in the beauty of the budget figures in the context of the preparation of medium-term budget planning (...)”. Honestly, Mr Kogler: We are both sitting in here for so long; I have been sitting in the Committee on Budgets for ten years. [[Abg. May. Kogler: Subdivision 46, Mrs Tamandel!]] We know Mr Steger as a very serious and really careful budgeter. And if you take this into the investigation committee's proposal, I wonder: How far do you want to go, and who do you want to take responsibility for that? [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Belakovich-Jenewein.]] Not with us, and that is why we do not agree with the request.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-11-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00003_d8e16051	Mr Podgorschek. — (DE) Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-11-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00003_d8e16072	Mr President. Mr Jarolim, I am perfectly right to say that all the processes at Hypo Alpe-Adria must be examined and that the true causes of the crisis or dilemma of the Hypo-Alpe-Adria need to be brought to light, because it is still not clear to me why the Hypo-Alpe-Adria had to be declared stateless or how this whole process happened and how the whole process was created. That is why I do not understand why you always reject the requests for the setting up of an investigation committee on the activities of the Hypo Alpe-Adria. We will make a request again and again the next time, for so long, until once light comes to the end of the tunnel and until we finally know what really happened. However, I do not want to have a detailed discussion on the Hypo Alpe Adria, although, of course, it is also a part of this issue that we are discussing today, because the whole banking sector will have a significant impact on the forthcoming budget path at the end. We have not only the hypo, but we also have the municipal credit and the ÖVAG, which is not quite correct. There will be something to do with us, and it is therefore quite right to set up a committee of inquiry and discuss what the budget framework will look like in the future. What we can only find out again and again and again and what I almost find interesting is that it is presented as if the opposition of this budget hole had been raised at one time. [[Abg. May. Kogler: The Wallner wasn't there at all!]] This budget hole has not been created by us – I have already carried it out in my previous speech – which is a coalition-internal story, perhaps it is also an ÖVP-internal intrigue. I don't really know, but I now have a lot of newspaper articles here – starting with 6. ==References====External links== November – on the basis of which one sees how the whole thing has developed in this way, and in view of which I wonder: Does the coalition tactics have reasons? Would you like to put a little pressure on the coalition partner? For example, with all these articles, the opposition does not occur at all. She almost doesn't happen at all! Only when we found out: Hello, something happens; in this respect we also have to give our opinion!, the opposition is mentioned on the verge; otherwise, only the heads of state always act. I already said this today: “Status quo in finance becomes “no nice number”” – Pühringer. Then Pühringer is quoted in the “Oberösterreichische Nachrichten” again: ‘The three problem areas are known: Pension age, banks and economic development.” – No, we know that anyway. Then the press: “Millionhole threatens the red-black re-issue.” – So interestingly, the opposition is not quoted once. Then: ‘financial planning with some unknown’; „Neues Volksblatt“, ÖVP-Zentralorgan Oberösterreich. [[Abg. Dr. Mitterlehner: Baver Reader!]] – Yes, I read it all, of course! You have to know what the competitor writes. Then “Austria”, of course, a little more dramatic: ‘Land is sinking in the budget hole’. – Not even we as the opposition party would claim that! Then: ‘Budget-Loch: Has the government ignored bad predictions?” – “Oberösterreichische Nachrichten”. Then: “The situation is very serious”. – And then, interestingly, a supplement or a supplement follows: “Secretary negotiations with FPÖ? Rumours that in view of the difficult coalition negotiations with the SPÖ, the ÖVP is preparing in parallel secret negotiations with FPÖ and Neos for possible cooperation, ‘belongs to the realm of fairy tales’, says Pühringer.” – Et cetera. So that means that the card FPÖ, NEOS or maybe Stronach is played at once. I think the whole thing is just a theatre in the internal coalition poker, but the following is very interesting again – the “profile” has also brought great quotes again –: Mr Mitterlehner on 10. July: “There is economic backwind. We will develop well in the autumn.” – Yes, we will see what comes out at the end of the day. [[Abg. Dr. Mitterlehner: Yes, good! Then read the forecasts for the next year!]] Then it continues to develop: “early pensioners are supposed to pay for the reorganisation of the budget.” – So now it’s up to you, now we have to think about how to prepare the pensioners for them to pay with them at the end of the day. [[President Ing. Hofer gives the bell sign.]] Long speech, short sense: My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, it is certainly appropriate to think about how to process these whole processes. Of course, we will also vote in favour of setting up an investigation committee.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-11-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00003_d8e16143	Mr Magistrate has now come to speak. Rossmann. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-11-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00003_d8e16165	Mr President. – Yes, Minister Mitterlehner. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Mitterlehner.]] Let me now come to Mr Jarolim, who calls our proposal “failing”. So I think that this is grossly negligent if you call this request “negligent”. Why? [[Abg. May. Kogler: Conversely it is negligent!]] - Right! It is very important for the budgetary policy of the next five years to see how high this budget gap is. [[Abg. Dr. Mitterlehner: A gap can’t be “high”, that can only be big!]] Is it zero or is it €40 billion or, as we have heard today from the Minister of Finance, is it €33 billion? The Minister for Finance has told us that what is lacking due to other economic developments in revenue must be saved in expenditure. Yes, but just last year, we decided on a savings package that has been strongly involved in the lives of certain groups of people, be it the students, whether it be the old people or the like. The higher a budget gap, the higher, of course, is the need for consolidation and the deeper, of course, the cuts will be on the expenditure side. Since revenue increases for the ÖVP are not in question and the SPÖ and the Federal Chancellor Faymann have already adopted more or less the issue of the taxation of assets, it is likely that a large part of the consolidation, which is now clearly needed, as we have heard today, will be carried out over the expenditure side, i.e. to the detriment of large sections of the population. It is therefore crucial to clarify the level of the gap. If you, Mrs Tamandl, say that this special meeting of the Committee on Budgets, which we have held on Monday, as pious as that is, has clarified everything for you, I must say that on the contrary, everything has been left open on Monday. What Mrs Finanzminister told us about this was very little. We already knew that with the €24.8 billion, she called the output gap, then she sent her Mr. Steger, the head of section of which she said he was now going to explain to me exactly why the tax estimates were maintained in spring 2013 and no changes were made compared to 2012 and the only thing he has explained to us was based on the calculations of the financial gap that emerges, the forecasts of the Economic Research Institute. That's all! With regard to pensions, section head Steger has informed us that the pension opinion of the Pension Commission is being used. However, he has not explained whether the €8.7 billion, which have always stood in the room here, are too high or not. I think they're too high, they're at least €3 billion too high. What has the government done in the 2014 to 2017 financial framework? – She simply ignored an old opinion of the Pension Commission, which was then revised. However, it has simply ignored the most recent assumptions in the tax estimates. And it was particularly colorful in the financial framework with regard to expenditure in the subdivided financial market stability, where it concerns the hypo-alpe-Adria, but also the other national and sub-state banks. Mr Jarolim, this is not just a problem of Hypo Alpe-Adria! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] In my memory, we have already had to pay considerable sums from the budget for municipal credit and for Volksbanken AG – that is, not us, but the taxpayers. That's why I'm surprised when you get out of here and say, well, you can be a little unafraid there. This financial framework cannot and must not be unfair, because we are already dealing with an inaccuracy, namely the forecasts. For a good reason, from year to year, it will be possible to make annual adjustments to the changed economic forecasts under a new financial framework. If we already have a new budgetary right and if we already have a section head in the Ministry of Finance who travels around the world and says that this is such a great thing, I can and must resist it: It is only when it is really lived and when there are no constitutional breaks in the current band – and in the Hypo Alpe-Adria and the other problem banks, that has definitely been the case. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-11-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00003_d8e16229	Mrs Ing. Dietrich. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-11-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00003_d8e16251	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) High house! We will not agree to the request to set up an investigation committee because we believe that political responsibility has already been clarified for us today in the context of the budget lie. We know quite clearly that SPÖ, ÖVP “swimmed” – under quotation marks – who deceived voters. And we have supported the strongest means of parliamentarianism, namely a request for distrust. That's why it's from the table for us. But I am telling you exactly where we want a clarification and an investigation committee: That's in the area of hypo. We want to know: Who were the beneficiaries? Why has this nationalization been carried out? And: How did this come about? And then we're going to stick to it, and we're going to take a hard look at where the responsibility lies. In this sense, we shall also make an appropriate request.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-11-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00003_d8e16286	Mr Hable has been reported to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-11-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00003_d8e16307	Mr President. High house! Estimated citizens at the gallery and in front of the television sets, if you've been holding it at this marathon meeting so far. [[Cheerfulness with SPÖ, ÖVP, FPÖ and Greens.]] If you've endured, I'll say, Congratulations, all respect, my respect! On application for the establishment of a committee of inquiry: Yes, we support the request to set up an investigation committee. If you have to choose the title of the committee of inquiry, it's on another paper, you can argue about it. As you know, appreciation is a central core value of NEOS. The value of dealing with each other, even if you feel different, is very important to us. Therefore, we do not think we should necessarily choose a title that prejudicates the result. Nevertheless, it is necessary to clarify facts. It is clear why everything was in order in September at the TV discussions and shortly after the election the financial planning is completely out of the row. I also agree with the view that the meeting of the Committee on Budgets on Monday was not very informative, which has actually left more questions open than has been answered. But I also say quite openly to the setting up of an investigation committee, the necessary clarification of facts, that is not enough, there must also be consequences! If, as I have already said, legal infringements have actually occurred, then we must also install the ministerial credit as a minority right. It cannot be that we only clarify facts, but do not follow from the facts any consequences. In any event, I have my doubts that this request, which can already be read out from the speeches, is a majority, so I would like to make a fundamental appeal to SPÖ and ÖVP: Create It is indeed a living Parliament, a Parliament capable of exercising its legislative and control functions! As long as the essential control rights, such as the establishment of an investigation committee, such as ministerial support before the Constitutional Court of Justice, are majority rights, this is not possible. Therefore: Have courage and trust in parliamentary democracy! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2013-11-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00003_d8e16357	No one is reported in the word anymore. The debate is closed. We shall now proceed to the vote on the request made by Mr Glawischnig-Piesczek, ladies and gentlemen, on the establishment of a committee of inquiry. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent to show this by a sign. – This is the minority. The request is therefore rejected. [[19:20:20]] Reading of a part of the Official Protocol
ParlaMint-AT_2013-11-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00003_d8e16393	There is a written request from 20 Members, the proposed version of the Official Protocol with regard to the day-to-day procedure. In order to ensure that these parts are deemed approved at the end of the meeting, point 7 concerning the election of committees is to be read. I will therefore proceed in this way and read the corresponding parts of the Official Protocol: ‘TO point 7: Choice of committees There is a request for the setting up of committees pursuant to § 32 GOG-NR by Dr. Strolz, colleagues and colleagues, Supplement VII/2. There is also a request to set up committees in accordance with § 32 of the Glawischnig-Piesczek Deputies Dr. Glawischnig-Piesczek, Members of the Committee VII/3. There is a request to hold a debate supplement VII/4. The request for a debate is adopted unanimously. The speaking time of a speaker per club should not exceed 5 minutes. Votes: The application for Supplement VII/2 is rejected (F, G, N). The application for Supplement VII/3 is rejected (G, N). The National Council shall decide unanimously to set up the Committee on Internal Affairs, the National Defence Committee, the Court of Auditors and the Constitutional Committee, each of which shall lay down a committee size of 24 members and alternate members, and shall distribute to the political groups as follows: SPÖ each 7 members and replacement members ÖVP per 7 members and replacement members FPÖ per 5 members and replacement members GROUNDS per 3 members and replacement members STRONACH per 1 member and replacement member NEOS-LIF per 1 member and replacement member There is a desire according to § 51 para. 6 LEG, the proposed version of the Official Protocol of the 3. Read the meeting of the National Council on agenda item 7 (Annex VII/1).’ Are there any objections to the version or content of those parts of the Official Protocol? - That's not the case. These parts of the Official Protocol are therefore applicable in accordance with section 51 para. 6 of the Rules of Procedure as approved at the end of this sitting. [[19:22:58]] Inflow
ParlaMint-AT_2013-11-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00003_d8e16491	I am still announcing that self-employed requests 34/A to 67/A(E) have been tabled at today's meeting. Question No 34/J to 124/J has also been received. The next meeting of the National Council, which will concern business communications and allocations, will be convened at 7.23 p.m., immediately following this meeting. This meeting is closed.
