ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-27-0.u30697	Dear Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. The Croatian Government has arranged salaries in state and public services and the rights of state and public servants as a result of collective bargaining that we have concluded with union representatives of both services. As a result of collective wage bargaining in state and public services grew at a high rate, they grew at a rate sometimes higher than the growth of gross social product in Croatia, and thus we had a rise in the standard of part of the Croatian population, but also social peace. But times have, unfortunately, changed, a crisis that began as an energy crisis that has turned into a crisis in the financial sector, and now a crisis in the real sector that is of global scale, according to some analysts, still unseen. It has been spilled in Croatia and, unfortunately, filling the state budget is not as expected, as was planned, and the Government, as you all know, has also proposed budget rebalancing in a way that reduces the income side so expectations of filling the state budget, and it is also necessary to reduce the expenditure side in order to balance the state budget and not be irresponsibly accessible to state finances. When it was seen that the global crisis as I said is being overrun and in Croatia, the government launched a dialogue with the social partners and wanted to make it clear that in the year in which public revenues fall, the year in which there is an impasse in production, in which there is a redundancy in the real sector, there is no basis for the growth of salaries paid from the state budget. Before the 2009 budget, we offered social partners wage retention in 2008, so it was not accepted. After that, we offered a rise in wages at the level of expected inflation growth, so over the year to pay inflation with salaries. It wasn't accepted either. It has insisted on a solution signed, and what the government is holding on to, has insisted that even in a difficult year of wages paid from the state budget rises at a rate of 6%. Ladies and gentlemen, that's not real. This is not realistic because if it were to insist on these solutions then the alternative would be to fire and reduce the number of jobs, and that certainly is not a measure that is popular, and that is not the measure that this government wants. The government wants to fight for every job, the government wants to ensure the stability and security of employees in public and state services, and the government thinks that we must all share the fate of the current moment and we must all participate together in the stabilisation of public finances. Social dialogue with civil servants and tenants was continued. We were able to reach an agreement that the base for salary would return to the level of 2008 with the return of the gross social product, in two consecutive quarterly periods, by 2% of the pay bases as it had been in early 2009. Public service trade unions refused to agree to such a solution and tried to put the government before the final act, tried to provoke the break-up of a collective contract. Ladies and gentlemen, collective agreements prescribe many, many rights concerning individual categories of employees, of night work, of overtime, of transportation rights, of free days, of vacations, and the government did not accept that suggestion. The government has not broken collective agreements because it wants to respect all agreed rights, but is proposing the law that has been passed solely because of the severe economic consequences of the global economic crisis and which will only last two years. This law proposes that in the future, for a period of two years, the government be empowered to establish a basis for salaries in public services, while all other provisions of the collective contract continue to apply. However, starting with its commitment and faith in social dialogue, the social partnership it implements through active participation in the Economic and Social Council, through social negotiations with representatives of the union of state and public services, the government is still open to dialogue, either today or tomorrow, within a month. If a different agreement is reached, the government is also ready to consider a proposal to put the law out of effect before the two-year deadline. Since the Croatian Parliament will discuss the State Budget on Monday and since it is in the State Budget, we propose to the Parliament on 1 April 2009 that this law be discussed and adopted by an urgent procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-27-0.u30698	Thank you. A few corrections. Mr. Representative Antun Vujic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-27-0.u30699	Mr. Vice President of the Parliament, I'm correcting the next incorrect allegation. The quote “Government fights every job. ” First, if the government were to fight for every job then that labour law that was to be passed by an emergency procedure that we asked to be adopted in two readings would be at least in two readings. However, he was completely withdrawn from the procedure. And as the government struggles for each job confirms best the following, which is that at this point thanks to the overtime that was unregulated he could 50 million overtime hours and more only in the store. That's 20,000 jobs, by the way. Therefore, the government's struggle for every job is quite hypocritical to speak. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-27-0.u30700	Mr. Representative Zeljko Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-27-0.u30701	In his pathetic introduction on recession and the need for everyone to participate equally in crisis resolution, Mr. Palaric rated an arbitraryly unprofessionally malicious legitimate union struggle as the goal of provoking the break-up of a collective contract. This kind of statement from Mr. Palaric is for every conviction, because in this way...
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-27-0.u30702	Please correct the incorrect allegations, not the estimates of their allegations. One is grades, and the other is correction.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-27-0.u30703	Mr. Palaric said the goal of the union struggle was to provoke the break-up of a collective contract. It's an incorrect quote and very malicious and unprofessional which is true.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-27-0.u30704	Mr. Representative, peace please! Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-27-0.u30705	Thank you very much. I am correcting Mr Palaric's allegations that the government is ready for social dialogue. Dialogue usually, I'm saying he's not ready. The dialogue usually implies that the two sides present their arguments. With this statement now repeated by Mr Jovanovic, where the government has accused the unions of fighting for their rights wanting to unilaterally break the contract, it says that they are not ready for dialogue, but all of them want to transfer to the burden of the workers in this country. So, budget savings are mostly to be made on the burden of working people in this country. What wouldn't be disproportionate is that we all have to give up something this year. But when it comes to a bad employer like the government that raises salaries two months ago, and after two months, it lowers them normally that people have no understanding and I support them.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-27-0.u30706	Legislative Committee, Constitution, Rules of Procedure and political system, for work and social partnership. The chairman of the board, Mr. Boris Kunst.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-27-0.u30707	Honorable Vice President, Secretary of State, fellow MPs. The Committee discussed the proposal for a pay base law in public services with the Final Proposal for a Law in accordance with Article 75. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament as a parent working body. In the opening statement, the applicant's representative pointed out that the envisaged changes in the relationship in the current way of determining the base of pay in public services. Rather than establishing the basis of the collective agreement, it is proposed that the basis for public service wages is determined by the Government of the Republic of Croatia by a special decision, with the fact that the law proposed is limited to a period of two years from the date of its entry into force. The debate stressed that the proposed law's priority is to preserve jobs in public services, as well as to preserve social security during this period of economic crisis. Since the Government of the Republic of Croatia was unable to reach agreement with social dialogue, part of the social partners in public services on the return of pay base to last year's level. The government had to withdraw these unpopular measures due to the growing economic crisis. Namely, the Government of the Republic of Croatia did not want to derivate agreed rights under a collective contract relating to the payment of jubilee awards, Christmas, regression and other social rights. Therefore, the proposal only returned the basis to last year's level, and the other benefits of the collective agreement will continue to be paid by the Government. It is pointed out that a signed collective agreement guaranteeing and increasing the basics, which is signed under better economic conditions, requires the solidarity of all employees in both the state and public services in the emerging economic crisis. The government of the Republic of Croatia has been stressed that it is ready to continue social dialogue with the social partners at any time. It is also an opinion that calls for all savings opportunities to be exhausted from other users of the budget as well as concerns that underpaid civil servants will leave state and public services anyway. The board members agree that this reduction is a reduction of the basis, i.e. the return of the base to last year's unpopular level. But at this point, it is necessary to preserve jobs and maintain social rights. After the discussion, the committee unanimously decided to propose to the Croatian Parliament to pass the Law on the basis of salaries in public services. I must also say, in the end, because I was asked to bring it out here from outside board members, and these are trade unions, it is very incorrect that no representatives of the opposition came to the meeting of this committee and took part in the debate over this bill. In this way, the trade unions also said that it was obviously more important for the opposition to be recorded there, to manifest their social sensitivity, but not on the parent board.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-27-0.u30708	Mr. Kunst, no, no. You can't be asked. There will be no request, but the report of the board you should have read and presented, and this is the supplement that was excessive. Please! Don't throw it away. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Representative Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-27-0.u30709	Mr. Vice President, the Rules of Procedure have been injured where Mr. Kunst has used his position as chairman of the board to promote his political views.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-27-0.u30710	Please, peace!
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-27-0.u30711	You did not warn him, and Mr. Kunst used a pay phone instead of reading only what was concluded on the board he gave his position and shared lessons to the opposition in another extremely incorrect way, where he was in what situation anyone motivated to discuss. The work of the board is as public as Mr. Kunst and the work of this session. The media can get there, and it has nothing to do with each other. And you shouldn't abuse your position and I'm sorry that the vice president isn't using his ability to sanction this kind of behavior.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-27-0.u30712	If you'd listened to me earlier, then you'd have heard that I said that the board president came out of the loop. I'm opening a debate. HDZ Representatives' Club, Mr. Representative Boris Kunst. What? You came here later. Why don't you put it in there? The Committee on Health, Labour and Social Policy, President Andrija Hebrang.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-27-0.u30713	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President, I'm sorry I'm a little late. We just finished the board three minutes ago, so we had to write the conclusions. At its meeting today as an interested working body, the Health and Social Care Committee discussed the proposed law. In the debate, the board members supported the need to pass this law in view of the economic situation in which we are in the face of a 2% decline in gross social product, it is not possible to maintain a 6% salary growth. However, the board members also expressed satisfaction with the fact that the Government of the Republic of Croatia did not unilaterally break the collective agreement, which would be a very bad solution for both negotiating sides. Therefore, the government's efforts to continue negotiations with union leaders are also welcomed and, according to the proposal's representative, proposes that the law be repealed in the event of a subsequent agreement. The board members agreed that the law did not reduce salaries in public services because the negotiations between the union and the public services started at the end of 2008 before the 2009 budget was adopted with a proposal to retain certain collective agreements rights at the level of 2008. During the debate, it also drew attention to the fact that most health care professionals, as noted in this debate, believe that salaries in the healthcare system should be higher, given comparisons with other countries. However, they feel the moment in which Croatia is located and want to solidarity and share fate with all employees in the Republic of Croatia. After the debate, the board members decided to propose to the Croatian Assembly, by a majority vote, for the adoption of the Law on the basis of salaries in public services. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-27-0.u30714	Thank you. There are no more committees that filed the report. We're going to a debate. HDZ Representatives' Club, Mr. Representative Boris Kunst. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-27-0.u30715	Honorable Vice President, Secretary of State, fellow MPs. So the proposal for a pay base law in public services falls under those difficult decisions that need to be made in a situation where the seriousness of the problem requires the adoption of unpopular measures. I recall that already in November and December of last year, so in 2008, there were signs that due to the impact of the global crisis on the Croatian economy, it would be questionable to fulfil the obligations made by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of agreements with trade unions, state and public services. Economic experts have already advised then to give up 6 per cent salary increases since 1 January 2009, but since no agreement was reached with the trade unions then, the government did not want to unilaterally break collective agreements, thus giving both the public and the trade unions a clear message that it is not behaving arrogantly and that it is aware of the responsibility for what it has signed. Since the negative trends in the world and Europe, and Croatia, we are aware, is not an isolated island, continue and tighten, we are now forced to reduce the pay base for all the payers that are provided from the state budget to save jobs in the public sector and preserve regularity and thus reduced wages. Each of us is aware that there is insufficient justification for a public or public service official to reduce wages, an explanation of why such a measure is being taken and why such a measure is necessary. Although I must stress that part of the unions representing state employees and also public services have accepted the justification of the proposed measures of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Between two bad solutions, we are forced to choose what is less bad for public sector employees. I can't help but remind myself that employees of the economy are already back several months faced with wage cuts, turning full-time into underpaid, and the number of layoffs is growing. There are many examples of sending workers on forced unpaid leave. Jobs of workers in education, health, social care, culture or in state services are still safer than jobs in the economy. I believe we'll all agree on that very easily. I almost dare say, the salary will be reduced, but it will certainly be paid. This is not the case in any number of companies. It would be irresponsible to stick our heads in the sand like an Noah and still not see the reality of our economics. Therefore, the Government of the Republic of Croatia has offered social partners the most optimal solution that is only possible today, which is that the basis for the 2008 salary calculation will be applied until further notice until the growth of the real gross social product is officially announced at an annual level of 2 per cent and more per cent for two consecutive quarters, and then the basis for the 2009 salary calculation will be automatically applied, meaning this increase of 6% that followed on the 1st month. and that social partners continue to monitor and agree together all measures in view of economic and economic developments. What is proposed by this law that is before us? So it is proposed that, within a period of 2 years, a decision on the basis of salaries in state and public services, be made by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The government has not cancelled collective agreements for state and public officials that it is intended to impute someone on purpose, because there is no one who does not understand that, as employees in this sector continue to guarantee the achievement of all salary supplements and all other material rights. This fact proves that the Government of the Republic of Croatia continues to retain social partnership and collective bargaining as a way of regulating the rights of public sector employees and agrees to respect agreed social rights as far as possible in this situation. I remind you that in a certain way, the government is obliged to ensure equality in the exercise of the rights of all pay-out employees, meaning they are financed from the state budget. It would be, I believe that we would all agree if we were to objectively think, extremely inappropriately, that one part of the employees of civil servants and public servants in social security offices who signed an agreement with the government would be reduced to the pay base and that public service employees would continue to be paid an increase of salary for another 3 months. The adoption of this special law which, as a forced regulation, takes precedence over collective agreements and provides an equal base for salaries and for civil and public servants is not only a question of the application of rights but also a question of justice. Justice is always needed and at the time we save on it we are particularly sensitive and it is from this club of the Croatian Democratic Community that proposes to the Croatian Parliament to pass this Final Bill on the basis of pay in public services. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-27-0.u30716	Correction of the incorrect allegation, Mr. Representative Marin Jurjevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-27-0.u30717	My colleague Kunst said, quote, "The government has offered the most optimal solution possible." That's an incorrect claim. There are other solutions, they are brought out publicly. They're being carried out by part of the union, out of the opposition, they're going to be out today. This is one of the worst possible draws. On the contrary, the government is doing bad things and it is also logically unacceptable and you want to claim that this is the only possible solution.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-27-0.u30718	HNS representative club Mrs. Vesna Pusic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-27-0.u30719	Vice President, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the government. The law of four articles certainly is a difficult situation no doubt. We all know that we may not agree exactly on the gene, so the cause of the difficult situation, but that the heavy one is no doubt. The fact of the problem of providing money for salaries in state and public services now brings regrettable and difficult to bear the consequences of the lack of reform in the state administration and in public services. Therefore, the lack of reform in those segments where government or taxpayers finance salaries and where, on the one hand, very probably in the state administration with one rational reform could reduce the number of employees and, on the other hand, raise the level of qualification and efficiency of those employed in this type of service. The result is that it was employed by grandmother and uncles and that it tried to solve various problems in such a way that it was employed in state and public services and now, of course, there are too many people and too little money and it cannot be paid. It's just a genetic problem. Of course, we're where we are now, and we can't help ourselves much, but we kind of have to solve this situation. Let's see how this situation can be solved first. So it's about saving. Here it was said in the introduction on behalf of the government that it is a difficult and certainly move that the government would rather not take but has no choice because it must, because it must be saved. Let's see who the public servants are first. Somehow, in this public talk about public officials, a picture is being made as if it were some gray bureaucrats with these sleeves sitting here in different offices and pecking benches. Public officials are nurses, kindergarten aunts, school teachers, high school teachers, college teachers. They're public servants. Therefore, it is not about some faceless bureaucrats who need to create an atmosphere in public that it is not bad for them to get a little cut off. No, it's about teachers who learn, our children are learning, it's about nurses and doctors in hospitals who every once a year and the older and the more they talk, the more they expect some help. So it's about people who defacto make the life of a society possible. And now it's said to cut their salaries or worse, to say that what they agreed on, signed and signed by the government to forgive it, but I'm sorry no longer valid. Now, in such conversations in the opinion that the government might enter, you could say the real situation is nasty, we have to try to figure out how to temporarily save it a little bit. But the minimum legitimacy for the government to enter and demand such a thing from public officials would be to first cut those costs that are part of political propaganda, which are part of the promise now seem to be and not quite certain and different strange investments that these promises have caused, such as in such a difficult situation keeping the topic and keeping the building of the Peljega Bridge that began as a pre-election promise, but it seems to have become a much wider promise since it has been invested by many millions of 35 million euros, for example, in that region, no one knows why or from anywhere from private investors. So obviously there are some far more real than pre-election topics on the agenda. It's definitely something that would be nice to have. It is certainly something that everyone in Croatia would be happy to have, but at this moment, the connection of Dubrovnik with the rest of the country by the road that connects the entire southern Hercegova West-East would be much more appropriate in this difficult situation when the government feels it is necessary to cut the salaries of aunts in kindergarten and teachers at school, nurses in hospitals must be able to build roads to connect Dubrovnik and it is not necessary to build the Pelje Bridge. There'll be time for that, as it will be time not to cut the salaries of aunts in kindergarten. But at this point, I'm sure it's no time for such projects. When the government isn't ready to say, people it's an important project, a good project all the best in life, but if we're looking for an aunt in kindergarten, a teacher to cut their salaries, so I guess we'll just give up for a while at least from the Peljega Bridge. Then I guess we'll give up some time of confiscation and withdrawal of dividends from state-owned companies, i.e. companies in which the state is part or majority owner, thus allowing these companies to reinvest rather than withdraw money from them. Then, in that way, we'll probably also try to bring down the bonuses that managers have in state-owned enterprises, try to make sense of what's going on in companies in the economy. The idea that goes through here is that people who do public work, so like us here in the Parliament, they should be able and able to trouble one part of society against another and argue that these civil servants won't cut off their salaries, so they don't want to show any solidarity with the rest of the society, shame on them, but we, of course, as Government, do what we have to do and we think that we want to realize no matter what the moment, no matter what the jobs that produce are incomparably smaller than those that produce, other types of investment and projects and economic stimulation, no matter what we don't want to do, we're going to be plowing one part of society to that part of society that are public employees. Or geographically one part of Croatia on the other. It's irresponsible and it's not the time. The moment is that the government says, we've made these cuts, which we don't like, but we'll file that reduction, and then, of course, from other segments of society, we'll say now we're coming with you before what we cut, so now we're either asking for it or we want to agree with you that you're going to submit your controversies, or you give that contribution. There is another problem with this four - article law. According to HDZ representative and former traditional unionist, this Law on Public Services does not break or derogate a collective contract. So I quote Article 3 of this Act "On the day of entry into force of this Act, the provisions of Article 5, etc. shall cease to apply. The law on salaries in public services and the provisions of a collective contract which is the basis of pay." So, we have one legal phenomenon, which is that they are derrogated by law, so they end agreements and signed agreements in a collective agreement. It's like in the middle of a game you change sports or game rules. So we started playing football, we made a deal, and now we're going to do a little synchronized swimming. To abolish the provisions of the collective agreement by law means to amend the rules under which you signed the contract and say, "Sory, we signed it," but now we've changed the law, so what we signed doesn't apply anymore and we don't take responsibility for it. This is not only incorrect, legally unacceptable whatever you want, but it touches the most sensitive part of the construction of Croatia, which is legal security. We have sworn so much, so important to us is the reform of the judiciary, and at all the functioning of the rule of law, the most common proverb of an institution, doing their job, saying that the state is changing the law to derivating the provisions of the contracts it has signed, is such a message of legal uncertainty, so why would someone else stick to any contract. Why would someone else respect any obligations he signed by contract? The state can tell. Listen, the situation is like this, we're breaking up a collective contract. And that's the move, that's what the consequences are for. But he can't say we're not breaking the collective agreement, but the sory has changed the law, so you have no right to what you thought you had, because we signed it for you. So it's an impossible approach. It is not possible to destroy any trust in legal certainty and change the law in order to hide behind it and justify the fact that what is signed is respected. So, in every respect, this law is absolutely unacceptable, it's unacceptable on the legal side, it's unacceptable from the idea of what's a state and what's legal security, it's unacceptable on the side of access, because if you're looking for victims of people who teach your children and treat them in hospitals, then I guess I might first show you what you're willing to do about your promises and what brings you some popularity, but you don't have to go and unwarrantedly hide behind that it's the connection of Dubrovnik or the south of the country with the rest. There's a road. There's a road to be made. And we'll bridge when we don't cut off our aunts' salaries in kindergarten. The HNS club won't support this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-27-0.u30720	Thank you. A few corrections. The first is Mr. Representative Boris Kunst.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-27-0.u30721	Thank you, Vice President. Well, there's a lot of false allegations from MP Pusic. Obviously something from a lack of understanding about collective agreements, but something out of ignorance. I'll just talk about ignorance. The point is that MP Pusic should know, that the government does not in any way reduce the collective contract rights or salaries of kindergarten aunts. For the simple reason that the collective contract for public and civil servants does not apply to aunts from kindergarten. They have collective contracts concluded in local administration and self-government units. That's what you should know. Every unit, and not at all. And since you don't know, then all the time you're talking about kindergarten aunts, because you like them the most. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-27-0.u30722	Peace please, so don't throw it away. We're not going to shut up like that because we're going to scream and disagree with him and then we're just going to try to outsmart him and take away his right of speech. Madam Representative Dubravka Shuica. Next amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-27-0.u30723	Mr. Vice President, I want to correct Mrs. Pusic's incorrect allegations that Dubrovnik does not need a bridge at this time. I will explain in a way that it is easy from Zagreb heights to say that Dubrovnik does not need a bridge at this time, should be in Dubrovnik, live in Dubrovnik and then know that the bridge is necessary. The road you're talking about is also being built but the bridge is necessary at this point because that road cannot pass through Bosnia and Herzegovina at this time and that is a key problem. I would expect a little solidarity from all Croatian citizens compared to Dubrovnik. Because I think Dubrovnik has earned it with its near history and its further history, and I expect it to be unpolomished on the subject of a public servant on the Peljesk Bridge. And when it comes to the second incorrect quote about kindergarten aunts, they get paid from local budgets.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-27-0.u30724	Infringement of the Rules of Procedure of Ms. Vesna Pusic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-27-0.u30725	In 209, my colleague Shuica did not correct my incorrect quote or any quote, because I didn't tell Dubrovnik he didn't need a bridge. But I said that at this point, it's enough to connect Dubrovnik with the rest of the country, along the road, which, of course, was already agreed, don't shut me down and I didn't say Dubrovnik didn't need a bridge. So don't correct what I didn't say, and on the other hand, this idea that one part of the country is being bullied against another, so as not to understand one part of the country, it's extremely irresponsible of every politician. Everyone here understands what's going on and everyone understands what you're doing.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-27-0.u30726	It is not a fellow member of the Pusic on the injury of the Rules of Procedure, because counsel Suica said very precisely that it is not only about this, the need for building a Dubrovnik bridge, so it is not about hurting the Rules of Procedure. ... This second part is, yes, yes, please. [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-27-0.u30727	I said I'm correcting the assumption that Dubrovnik isn't at this point.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-27-0.u30728	But I said that, so I'm explaining.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-27-0.u30729	But, Mr. Vice President, the same story was when the Dubrovnik Bridge was being built, that the dentor didn't need a bridge. It's the same story, and today it's happening again.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-27-0.u30730	Third Amendment, Mr. Representative Krunoslav Markovnović.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-27-0.u30731	Well, with desire, I must correct the incorrect quote of a colleague who repeated here at least 7, 8 times that this law applies to aunts in kindergarten. Namely, the aunts in kindergarten won't be in this law, they won't lose a single lip. And I'm sorry that someone pays so much on kindergarten aunts, kindergarten aunts fully funded by local self-government. As she builds kindergartens, she builds kindergartens. And fellow Pusic, ask around twice, and then cry over someone's fate.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-27-0.u30732	Correction Mr. Kresimir Gulic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-27-0.u30733	So I would also correct Mrs. Pusic's incorrect quote that she said that aunts in kindergarten are being paid off by the government. Mrs Pusic, we should know that, and we know that not partly, Mrs Pusic, because we who run local self-government units know that kindergartens are fully funded by local self-government. So part of the local self-government, and part of it is co-financed by parents themselves. For this responsible call, these are not kindergarten aunts, but they are educators who do valuable and responsible work and who protect our children. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-27-0.u30734	Next correction, Mr. Representative Boris Matkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-27-0.u30735	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Vice President, I expect colleague Pusic to be as patient as we have been listening to her. I want to correct the same thing that my fellow mayors and commissioners have obviously seen, and that is that the government and the construction of the Peljega Bridge and the money that is intended to have absolutely nothing to do with aunts, or kindergarten educators. The kindergartens are financed exclusively from units of local self-government and their budget, i.e. parents are participating in a particular section of counterpart Pusic. And the money intended for the Peljek Bridge is dedicated money and it should go for purpose. If it's not going for purpose, then someone's breaking the law, you should know that.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-27-0.u30736	Mr. Representative Andri Hebrang, correction of an incorrect allegation.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-27-0.u30737	I am correcting the incorrect quote of my colleague Pusic who said that this law abolishs the provisions of a collective contract although it is clear that they are not being abolished. She also said what is incorrect and what I am correcting is that it does not comply with the existing regulations of international and customs. So I'm just going to quote it that in its framework, the International Labour Organisation in Articles 8824 to 8 has identified exactly the situation we are in. And that's where it's said. Where the government takes measures to limit wages to impose financial control and stability, it is necessary to ensure that collective negotiations continue. The government respected and announced the union's ability to continue negotiations. A second incorrect quote. The Pelješki bridge is not needed at this time, it is needed at this time, Croatia is the only country in Europe with its territory inhabited, i.e. divisions with another state, territorial, transport and every other economic integrity is of equal interest to Dubrovnik and Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-27-0.u30738	Infringement of the Rules of Procedure of Ms. Vesna Pusic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-27-0.u30739	Thank you. 209 again. So I didn't mention a single word about international customs and international standards where my colleague Hebrang was correcting what I didn't say. So, I did not in any way bring this into contact with any international customs, but I only said that what is written in the law and directly quoted that this law ceases to apply to the provisions of a collective agreement that has been agreed on. What the law says. And I never mentioned international standards and international customs at all.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-27-0.u30740	It's not Mrs. Pusic again about hurting the Rules of Procedure. Agent Hebrang explained why it was legal and disproved your claim that it was legally wrong. And he gave an explanation that it was in line with certain international standards. And therefore, it's not about hurting the Rules of Procedure. IDS representative club, Mr. Representative Marin Brkarić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-27-0.u30741	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and fellow MPs. Here, while respecting this, I would say, a moment of severe economic crisis, a recession that we said a month ago would only make us tick, and today the Government of the Republic of Croatia says that the economic crisis, which is also more intense than expected, is that the decline in trade in the first month is about 13.7%, that industrial production has fallen by 13.3%, and exports are also down 26% and imports by 31%. The fact is, the economic crisis, the recession, it hit us, they'd say to the end, what they'd say in the srid. And normally, the Government of the Republic of Croatia proposes to the Parliament such a law which, I will agree, is legally asked, I would say legally unfounded for one reason that the basis for the wage calculation is determined as well as in the Law on Payments in Public Services by collective agreement. Also, the Government of the Republic of Croatia concluded on 23 November 2006 an agreement on the basis of public service wages, with trade unions in public services and this Law on the basis of salaries de facto proposes a reduction of salaries in public services. What I would say is that both public and public officials are underpaid. The fact that so far, and it has been a long time, reforms have not been implemented, neither state administration reform nor full health reform, it is financial reforms, nor in other services, and we can certainly say that this is one of the reasons, because one quality, rational administration needs to be paid. We still have, to put it this way, one part especially in state services negative selection because employees highly educated hardly at this time can work for five or six thousand kuna salaries and seek jobs normally in the private sector. What is also being imposed is the need to continue negotiations, because as we have been media monitoring the negotiations, the fact that the trade unions have also shown their willingness to cut wages or return payments to the 12th month of 2008, but are seeking guarantees. They ask for guarantees that when we leave the crisis, that is, when gross social wages are increased and wages are returned to the base that was in January 2009. Such guarantees are not given, and that is the reason, in my opinion, that no deal has been reached with the unions. Here, the IDS club will not support such a law for all these reasons that I have mentioned, and my suggestion is to continue negotiations and find a solution, because what Mrs Vesna Pusic said also works in health care workers, school workers, means both in primary and secondary education and higher education, culture or social care. They are all employees who are underpaid today, but also workers who understand the moment of this crisis in the Republic of Croatia, who are willing to bear the burden of the crisis, but surely in a way that guarantees them the return of the foundation as soon as this crisis prevails. It is safe and I am standing at the point that some projects that may not be necessary at this point, I will not say are not necessary, but they are not necessary, we can postpone for some better time and all together direct and the resources towards the economy into incentives and other spheres to get out of the crisis as quickly as possible. Because what's in the very explanation that's been given here is certainly not a good message, and it's not a good message through the very proposal for a pay base law that he, in this way, will, we say, offend the work of public service officers, regardless of what the civil service officers have signed with the government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-27-0.u30742	Thank you. One notice. The meeting of the Committee on Economy will be held today at 11 am in Janko Draskovic's hall, 202, II floor. SDP counseling club. Mr. Representative Nenad Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-27-0.u30743	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Things are pretty simple. There is a collective agreement between the government and public workers. Who are they? Doctors, nurses, teachers, teachers, cultural workers, social workers. The contract guarantees these workers 6% annual salary increases. First of all, it's not an increase. It's just covering last year's inflation. It is a collective agreement that guarantees them that their standards will not fall, that they will be maintained in spite of inflation. The government, realizing it ran out of money in the state register, tried to negotiate with the unions, but those negotiations failed when it came to the Civil Service Workers' Union. They have succeeded, though, when it comes to the Union of Civil Service Employees, but looking at the fate of certain union leaders to believe that the leader of this union will continue the union career of Mr. Kunst. The objective of the union struggle, says the legislator of this law here, was to provoke the break-up of a collective contract. That's what the secretary of state said. It insulted the unions, but it insulted 180 thousand workers working in these trade unions. These are our fellow citizens. They teach our children, they treat us in hospitals, they play us theatre plays. Because these 180,000 people have nothing better to do than provoke the government. That's the Secretary of State's position on them. The government realised that there was no money to break the collective agreement, and then it would have to be followed for another 3 months because such a provision was a collective contract. The government didn't do it, it offers the law. What's the government doing with that? She transfers her responsibility as one of the parties to the Parliament, because the parliament will pass the law. So, one of the contractors is getting out of the contract and he says give it to you in the Parliament to break up that contract. This shifts responsibility to Parliament. Of course, the SDP will not be involved in this, nor will it assist in this kind of work fraud of 180,000. The parliamentary majority obviously will. I warn you colleagues from the parliamentary majority you will be responsible, you take responsibility for the government cheating on 180 000 workers and not break the contract, but transfer it to your hands. What is still achieved by not breaking the contract, but by passing the law, and preventing the judicial protection of 180,000 workers. If a collective contract were cancelled, they could press charges, exercise their rights in court. This isn't gonna work. Who are they suing? Law, legislator, Parliament. So this move, in the rule of law or in a state that calls itself legal, deprives them of the possibility of judicial protection. This law is an example, an eclectic example of abuse of rights. So there are two parties to the contract. Are there? There are. And then one when her contract doesn't fit, when she decides not to respect it, then she doesn't even use the instruments in that contract to cancel it because they're meant to. The contract also provides for the termination of the contract, rather than going by force, it goes by force of the law. So he changes the rules during the game. And that changes them from the position of force, from the position of strength. Well, the parties weren't parties to the contract when they signed the contract. The unions were naive when they signed with Sanader's contract because they didn't know then, they naively believed. They didn't know Sanader was going to take advantage of another option, so they were going to derogate the contract with the law. They didn't know that his signature on that contract was worth absolutely nothing, that it was worth less than the paper on which the contract was written. Now they have a chance to make sure of that. So the second time they sign something with Prime Minister Sanader's government, let them know what can happen to them and what the word and signature of the prime minister in this country means. Why are we even in this situation? Why do public servants' salaries even go down? Was that pay cut even necessary? When the SDP budget was adopted, it was warned that it was unrealistic, we didn't want to put any amendments on that budget because that budget was a fairy tale, and fairy tales were not given an amendment, because we said it was completely inconclusive. Unfortunately, we were right, that the government was deluding consciously or unconsciously, perhaps they could not calculate. Even that is possible, as Minister Schuker first said that GDP growth would be 4%, and then the prime minister said five days later that it would be 2%, and on the basis of that 2% budget. Rohatinski said about 2% a long time ago. It's going to be zero. They were even warned, not by anyone, by Governor Rohatinski. They purposely made an unsatisfactory budget to show themselves to the better managers of this country than they are. And now, of course, there's no money. Well, that kind of budget doesn't come true because it couldn't even happen. And was that supposed to happen? The SDP warned and offered solutions. That they were accepted, and we offered them well. Today, it would not be necessary to pass this law and reduce wages to workers. What were we offering? We offered for the economy to cut wages, to cut taxes on reinvested profits, to make the economy grow, to breathe. We cut down, we proposed reducing parafiscal duties for the chamber, for the water contribution, for the memorial rent, for the municipal contribution, for the contribution to the forest, for the compensation for the waste. We suggested that we unload the economy. You rejected all our suggestions. You claimed they weren't working, and as much as they're worth, it proves that you have to cut your wages to the workers today because you didn't want to listen to us. You don't know it yourself, and you won't listen to it! We proposed a lower VAT rate for energy. Why? To help people, citizens of this country. We were reducing, reducing VAT rates for children's clothes, food and shoes. Why? To help the citizens of this country live easier. We've been proposing a postponement of housing loans for those who lose their jobs. And you refused. And every day people lose their jobs, every day. But you don't care about those people obviously. We've proposed a capital gains tax, so at least you've appreciated it. Look what happened to you. Luka Rajic sold Lura, went to Switzerland, in this country left no taxes, no lip. Well, if you'd taken his taxes, you might not have to cut his salary to nurses, doctors, and teachers today. But you know why you didn't do it? So you created Luka Rajic when he was a driver in Dukat and he got rich so that he carried those German stamps out of Herzegovina because you sold them worthless dinars. He's your work. Well, of course you're protecting him. Well, of course you won't take his money. I mean, maybe he paid some tax, maybe he didn't, maybe he's in the state register, maybe he's in a party. We don't know, but you let him go to Switzerland without leaving this country a dime on what he earned. Three times Pliva's been sold. There's no tax. Yes, you won't take them, but you will take the workers. You know that. There's a single irresponsibility bill in this proposal. You're cutting wages to workers, and at the same time you're not giving up some capital investment that God's father can't explain, the Peles Bridge. So why are you so stuck on that Peles bridge? So we didn't even know why you were stuck until the other day he showed up in public a Dutch fund which was founded by some off-shore companies, and the founders of these off-shore companies were some other off-shore companies in some unknown countries. And who are the individuals? Who are the names and last names of those who are the founders of that fund, you don't know that. But how much you're stuck on that Peljeski Bridge and that country that's there on Peljesca bought to be worth 100 times more the day after tomorrow. I wouldn't be surprised if people from the government were in these off-shore companies like that same company bought land in Istria, so did you pass the Law on Golf Courses? Well, that's all you do. You're guessing someone to make millions of dollars, then bring it to Switzerland, not to leave no tax here. Well, when you're short of money, then hit on the workers. You're going to cut their salary, and that's how you're going to heal the budget that you've ruined yourself with this kind of behavior, this totally uneconomical and completely irresponsible attitude towards the state and the function you've been given. Well, they're your citizens, so those same teachers voted for you. So did they vote to let Rajich pay for nothing and to cut their wages. Do you think that's what they voted for? There are laws and cynicisms and profound immorality in this proposal. You claim there's no money, there's a crisis, you have to cut wages. Everyone in solidarity has to be involved in this. And HDZ president buys a BMW for 4.2 million kuna. It seems the crisis doesn't affect everything equally. She'll hit the teachers and nurses, and HDZ won't. HDZ has over 4 million kunas to buy Sanader a new toy. You have money. You may have even more if there is another Luka Rajic in this country and if you reduce your salaries even more to the workers. If you sit on their backs, you might have more. Maybe Prime Minister Sanader will, maybe HDZ and a plane like that will buy him a little faster travel around the country. For all these reasons, because this bill is immoral, which it should not have come to, because it shows a complete lack of knowledge of state affairs and inability to manage the country, because it is a violation of the principle, of rights and justice, of non-compliance with the contract between the two sides, of the breach of that contract by force, the SDP will not accept this bill. Not only will they not accept it, but they will continue to interpret what you have done and what you are doing to the citizens of this country right now for them 180 thousand. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-27-0.u30744	Thank you. A few corrections. Mr. Representative Boris Kunst. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-27-0.u30745	Mr. Vice President, Agent Stazic said a number of inaccuracies in his ecstasy performance as usual. I'll just count some. First of all, he insults the unions and says the unions didn't know what they were signing, who they were signing with. It's like these stupid people are these union leaders, so they don't know anything. I think the Stazic would be good for a counselor. Secondly, it is incorrect that the government failed and with part of the union in public services to conclude an agreement. Well, that was enough just so that if you know how to use a computer to come to the public and see that she signed with the Pension Insurance Office Union, with the Employment Service Union, and they belong to the public services. The next incorrect thing is, it is incorrect that fellow Stazic argues because I am sure you have no information that the other leaders will go my way, but I can remind him while SDP was in power that dozens of unions... /The speaker has been disabled./...
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-27-0.u30746	Second Amendment, Mr. Representative Andrija Hebrang.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-27-0.u30747	Thank you very much. Well, I have to, I was thinking of correcting a dozen other incorrect allegations, but now he's intrigued me with this when he said that he bought an HDZ BMW worth 4.2 million kuna, which is incorrect, and fellow Stazic knows that because he could see the deficit on yesterday's portals and in today's newspaper. So the first car didn't cost that much, the second one bought it and gave it to the prime minister instead of buying it. Never did the party ask the budget to return it, it did not buy it, but it replaced it at the request of the security services because it was over 6 years old and this is a setup that fell at the right time to Mr. Stazic, but it is a lie so shallow that it is easy to expose it.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-27-0.u30748	Third correction, Ms. Representative Neda Klaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-27-0.u30749	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. I will correct Mr. Stazic's incorrect allegations that the government is cheating on 180 thousand public service employees. That's incorrect, Mr. Stazic. The government is not cheating, but is making efforts to limit the negative effects of the economic global crisis and exclusively wants to preserve the existing jobs of officials and subsistence in public services. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-27-0.u30750	Next correction, Mr. Representative Davor Huška.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-27-0.u30751	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I would correct the inaccuracies of fellow Stazic when he said the government was transferring responsibility to the Parliament. The government does not transfer responsibility to the Parliament, but allows us in the Assembly to discuss this point. It should also be said that the government has already approached with full responsibility a number of anti-recession measures, and the reduction of wage expenditure is only one in a series of measures. It is an unusual position of SDP representatives because when they do not get the materials the government is discussing... /The speaker has been turned off and re-enabled./... and when they get the materials here at the Assembly for Discussion, they are again dissatisfied. And finally, I'd like to correct this expression of my colleague Kunst. I don't think this was a stand-up show. I think it was ecstasy.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-27-0.u30752	Don't fix your colleague Kunst, don't correct your colleague Kunst.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-27-0.u30753	This was an exotic performance by fellow Stazic... [[The speakers speak in the same voice, of course.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-27-0.u30754	Madam Representative Dubravka Shuica. Correction. Madam Representative Dubravka Shuica.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-27-0.u30755	I would also correct Mr. Stazic's incorrect allegations where he said the government favours the construction of the Peljeska Bridge to some investors. This is just a used situation so that indeed in a very theatre performance which had dramatic moments Mr. Stazic expressed that it was not for the development of the Croatian South, not Mr. Stazic, but the entire SDP and the entire left option are not for the development of the Croatian South, which from these theatre performances is obvious and visible this morning.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-27-0.u30756	An individual debate. Mr. Representative Andrew Hebrang. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-27-0.u30757	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State. We have before us a law that has caused many controversys, although it is clear to all of us that the situation in Croatia is the result of the overrun of the global crisis in our region and that so far we have had the ability and luck to enter this crisis on edges rather than to dive like many of our neighbouring countries, the Baltic countries and some very developed countries. I would like to remind you that in Germany, the decline in gross social product is less than 2.7%. Two months ago, they announced it would be about 1.8%. So, even Germany couldn't predict what was happening and even less, we can predict what would happen in the next two to three years. England minus 3%, Ireland is now at minus 3. Latvia had a good climb now at minus 12%, etc. Therefore, such discussions are being held in parliaments around the world and not only in Croatia, and we do not know what awaits us. Salaries have been cut in neighbouring countries between minus 10 and minus 30%, somewhere even 50%. With this reduction, we are still in the mildest category of wage cuts from all the countries in the neighbourhood, from the Baltic countries and from a large part of the developed countries of the European Union, about America that we are not even talking. And I don't think there's much to talk about whether the salaries should be reduced or not, but whether we're going to keep jobs because the most drastic wage reduction is when you're fired and when it falls to zero. And the government's move with this law is to avoid it and not to do so, at least not to the extent that the black forecasts now appear. Of course, the public services provided by this law are, of course, valuable, conscious, industrious people, those are the people who contributed and contributed to the development of this country and of course that the government is not thinking of any punishment as was said here by the public service. Conversely, to avoid this, the government offered not to cut wages but to freeze wages before the 2009 budget was adopted. And that's the least she could do at that point. Unfortunately, there was no positive response on the union side of the negotiating team and now there was this situation that absolutely none of us wanted or thought would happen. What should now be said that public services are not for the first time in the situation, that they are now the subject of this law, of course applies to all others but public services are not for the first time in the situation of reducing our salaries. I'm telling us because I consider myself part of that mile that I'm working in, and I've worked in 2000, when our salaries have not been negotiated by 20% to 30% and when part of the doctors and healthcare professionals have been striked for it. In 2004, we had to end the strike because the availability of healthcare had already been compromised. We have negotiated with the unions of healthcare professionals and other public services but I am now talking about healthcare professionals and we raised salaries by 20% to 30% in 2004 and maintained wage increases in line with the increase in gross national income until this time. The government has done very correctly because it also set deadlines on which it proposes not to cut but to freeze wages at the level of 2008. These deadlines were twice a month the increase in gross social product by 2% and that's what's right. In less than three months, you can't get statistics, so you can't get convincing figures that show that there's an increase in gross social product. Thus, these two steps are indeed a minimum that would give a real state and a realistic picture of the situation when and if the increase of the gross social product occurs. We don't know what's going to happen in the future. Nobody knows. What should be said here is that the government's methodology to regulate the base of pay is fully in line with all but just all the specifics of the framework of the International Labour Labour Organization which literally says, I will quote, this is Article 884: "In all cases, any limitation of collective bargaining by the authorities must precede consultations with employees and employers organisations to try to obtain their consent.". The government has done so with a recent attempt to negotiate with the unions. Article 888 of the same framework: "Where in the event of a crisis, the Government takes measures to limit wages in order to impose financial control and budget stabilisation should be taken care to ensure that collective bargaining continues.". And that's what the government respected. Government official Mr. Palaric made it clear that the government is still open to negotiations and that is what we really welcome and what we think is light at the end of this tunnel. We believe, however, that both sides will once again sit at the negotiating table and resolve this situation for the benefit of all employees of the state, not just one part of which they represent and which are covered by this law. Also, this framework says that negotiating non-money issues and other provisions of the collective agreement must be determined so that trade unions and their members can fully carry out their usual trade union activities. It is also respected by this decision and this government methodology. I think we're in front of one tough decision that's hard for everyone. In a conversation with my fellow doctors, I saw no support for the union decision to staunchly reject the government's proposal. I don't know what they're going to do, it's a matter of unions and their organizations, but I guess they'll go beyond reason and the negotiations will be renewed. If negotiations are not renewed, the Government has made it clear here that according to the International Labour Organisation's specifics, it has set a deadline until the decision is valid. It is certain that the government will change that decision if and what is questionable is the sudden exit from the world and hence the Croatian economic crisis. Therefore, the government has proven its sense of partnership because it has negotiated, has proven its sense of partnership because it has proposed before the budget the freezing of salaries. She has proven a very strong, prominent sense of social partnership because she has so far given all her laws to union centres and employers through the Economic Council. Therefore, this government shows that it does not bypass the interests of workers, but has now come into a situation where the failure of the negotiations leads to a fall in the budget, an increase in budget deficits, which means expensive debt to cover that budget deficit and which means a decline in the economy and job cuts. So let me get this straight. I support absolutely this law. We'll give some amendments, some adjustments on behalf of the club. The amendments on the bench have already been shared only for a better and more precise clarification of these provisions. I believe those amendments will be accepted. And we believe that the government has expressed its readiness for further dialogue and that it will be put to the vote after this law is passed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-27-0.u30758	Thank you. In 10.51, it was time to report a ten-minute debate. Correction of an incorrect allegation, Mr. Representative Boris Sprem. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-27-0.u30759	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Hebrang, you said at the beginning of your exposure that this law was the result of the global economic crisis. It's only a partial assumption, and it's essentially incorrect because the current government that lasts over 5 years has led us into a crisis when we now have a global crisis. So, reverse situation. So if it can be in some proportions, then it's safe that this is in a much smaller ratio, the external crisis that has affected us from this inner one that you first produced. And your own mistakes are attributing to external conditions, it's just saying that this government has no ability to deal with the bitter fact, which is that we ourselves, that you've created this crisis and that this crisis has to be solved by dealing with it, and then you're solving it. Not the other way around. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-27-0.u30760	Replica, Mr. Representative Gordan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-27-0.u30761	Thank you very much. At the beginning of your solution, you said that both this law and many of the difficulties that are happening in Croatia today, the world crisis has been overcome. Unfortunately, the crisis is over, but the world's solutions cannot be spilled, that is, you are not suggesting anything that could help restore the Croatian economy and the standard of Croatian citizens What I would like for you, I heard from your debate that wages are being cut everywhere. That's incorrect. The Croatian government is the only government in Europe, except for those visited by the IMF, means where they were conditioned by the loan to reduce public spending, so the team and wages, the Croatian Government is the only one in the European Union that has reduced salaries to doctors, teachers, etc. So you have to take care of the fact that the Croatian government has found a unique solution, which is that it has passed the burden of the crisis on Croatian workers, in this case those who work in the public service. And secondly, when you said, there might be an unpredictable exit from the crisis. I mean, that's the general problem of HDZ and these governments, which they rely on for something they don't have control over. Something unpredictable is about to happen. We're gonna get out of this crisis. Gentlemen, be aware there are no unexpected exits, it must be all planned. Unfortunately, you have no such solutions, and in some ways we are in the hands of fate, not responsible governments as it should be.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-27-0.u30762	Replica reply, Mr. Representative Andrija Hebrang.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-27-0.u30763	Thank you very much. Well, here's a esteemed colleague I must tell you first. HDZ's government doesn't see an exit from the crisis. Well, it's not in America HDZ in power, yet. Well, it's not in Germany HDZ in power yet, so it's not in Ireland HDZ yet, and read their portals. Don't even know how many years it's gonna take to get out of the crisis, not how many months. So no one knows how to get out of the crisis, but we're all doing everything we can to stop the crisis, or at least we intend to do everything and get out as soon as possible. What you said was that only Croatia reduced the salaries to doctors, you made me laugh well. Namely, I'm contacting doctors all over Europe and the world. Ask my colleague in Ireland, he told me on the phone the other day, so far you've wanted to come to work with me, and now I'd be at your place, we've been cut in half. Now I won't call him after this conversation. And you can laugh, but it's true. If you know them, call them. You want me to tell you what happened to the medical salary in Germany, you want me to tell you what's going on in England, I'll give you the phone if you know English, if you don't know, I'll translate it. So don't say this kind of thing populistly, they're very dangerous, because someone might believe it. But if it comes from you, I believe no one will.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-27-0.u30764	Mr. Representative Boris Kunst, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-27-0.u30765	I think you well in your debate have detected that in principle the incorrect criticisms of your opposition colleagues over this proposal for a law on the basis of public service wages. And you have well noticed that they are incorrect, first of all, because these exactly those colleagues when they came to power in 2000, without any conversations with the social partners, they reduced from 30% to 40% on average. Secondly, let me remind you, and you didn't say that they didn't respect a collective contract for state and public servants and were self-initiated without any negotiations or talks that cost this country a billion kuna somewhere. So it's really incorrect when in today's situation, a crisis situation is passed by such a law is exhausted by the maximum means of social negotiations, to be criticised in this way, and to forget its past. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-27-0.u30766	Replica reply, Mr. Representative Andrija Hebrang.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-27-0.u30767	Thank you very much. My colleague Kunst, so we would not like to compare ourselves with that SDP government from 2000 to 2004, fortunately the only one in Croatia's recent history, because cutting salaries without negotiations without collective negotiations, without social partnership, without dialogue means extreme insensitivity for social issues. The government had negotiated before the negotiations proposed, before the budget was adopted, a freeze. So again, social dialogue was not accepted, she negotiated after the budget was adopted, it was not negotiated, this is unfortunately the only way out. I hope that the other side will accept the government's offered hand and renew the negotiations.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-27-0.u30768	Mr. Attorney Gordan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-27-0.u30769	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Secretary of State with associates, colleagues and colleagues. The fundamental question when we talk about public sector wages, when we talk about civil servants, is what kind of public service do we want? If we want a motivated public service, do we want a professional, efficient, ambitious public service? Do we want when people start working in the state service, they stay there for 10, 15, 20 years, they realize their ambitions, they make a fair profit of their pay, they secure existence, etc.? Do we want that or do we want what we are offered these years in Croatia, which is a state service that has been incredibly high in the last five years? 50,000 new employees who are employed, we know how this is already going, unfortunately in Croatia on the party key when we have inefficient service and, of course, because we have so many employees in the public sector, wages can't be good. If we wanted such a public service, I would say that HDZ here somehow introduced that system that was in place before the '90s. Which is, you need a job? Here's your chair, sit next to me, and we'll work together. When it didn't matter if he was busy, it mattered whether he had chairs. So we hire another party friend and one pay more insurance. Such a system is needed in us in Croatia. We need an efficient motivational public service, it's sad for me ladies and gentlemen to watch over the past few days on television people from public service who are talking, if it'll help you with my 300 kuna salary, take them. These are people who are doing their job, teachers, teachers, doctors and who are willing to endure the crisis that is happening in Croatia, which unfortunately our government has no answer, but are not ready for this approach that defines the past five years of newly employed 40, 50,000 who may not have a job, are not ready to bear the burden of inefficient state administration because the reforms of the last five years are not happening and because of the lack of reform of the state administration, no structural reforms are working and that everything falls on their backs. And I support them in that, and that's why I won't vote for this law. They're not responsible for what this government hasn't done in the last five years. And public sector wages are definitely too low. Find doctors, teachers, teachers and others who work do not have adequate salaries to be motivated to work in the public sector. And I know the mass of my friends who after they got a job in the state service, after 4, 5, or less even years of doing some experience. All those who could handle it went to the private sector. Because our public administration doesn't offer a young man to stay in the public receiving sector and with his own, let's say it's an opportunity to make some kind of career, I'm not giving them that perspective. Which is why I'm not going to support this law yet, because of what the government definitely unilaterally decided to break up what she signed two years ago and that's unacceptable for four fundamental reasons. And I support, I say again, public service workers who do not want to accept this reduction. The first reason is because three months ago their salaries were up 6%. Based on the promise made by the prime minister in the 2007 election campaign. Yeah, we'll balance your salary, we'll raise you two years per 6%. And he cheated on them. Because he did not honor what he had promised them then, what they had signed, so the contract was signed and now it is unilaterally broken down in a way to pass the law in the Croatian Parliament. And that's a message to Croatian citizens. Anything you agree with this government can fall into the water. The signature of this government has no value at all. Because politics is being led, the second reason I support public service workers who do not want to accept this reduction of 6% and because politics is going from today to tomorrow. I'll give you some, I won't give you any. Is it possible that two months ago we couldn't predict the situation we're in today? Is it possible that two months ago we didn't know we weren't going to be able to meet that 6% increase? Well then, if it was predictable, we could break the contract and pay in accordance with the contract what was to be paid to Croatian public service workers. And because the government doesn't see what happens in six months, she doesn't see what happens in two weeks. I support Croatian public service workers not to accept this unilateral breakup of the collective agreement. And because, of course, those people, like I said, see that there are a lot of people in the state service who are only employed to be employed and not needed, and that the lower and more efficient public service wages would be higher. And finally. Which is why I support it, because today in Croatia we do not all bear the same burden of crisis. Someone to cut the salary of 300, 400 kuna and say, you have to give up that new and savings in the budget of 5 billion kuna more than 40% refers to salaries, or to employee expenses and say that you have to bear that burden, but others don't have to. They do not have to bear the burden of those rich who are paid every year for incentives and extra wages through shares, their companies so that they can gain that prize untaxedly. It's millions of dollars, these people don't bear any burden of this crisis. They do not bear the burden of the crisis nor those who, as counterpart Stazic said in their opening exhibition, reselled Croatian companies, unfortunately these privatisations ended badly. The example of Pliva, someone earned in Pliva, three times reselling, but unfortunately they lost Croatian workers, or those thousands who had lost their jobs. But people like that don't carry the burden of crisis. The burden of the crisis must be all over the people who earn the least. And that's why I can't be easy on this law. And finally, as far as the budget is concerned, there will be more speeches Monday. But we need to be aware that they exist in the budget space. And there's a place where you can find money without touching these rights. There's a space, unfortunately the government didn't want to find it. She did not want to give up some projects that are connected in the way projects are connected and which are not needed by Croatia at the moment. It's not just about the Peljesk Bridge. There are a number of things, a series of subsidies that we could redefine this year. Salaries, especially after we gave them to Croatian citizens, we don't tell any more gentlemen about the increase in wages. Salaries are up. We're talking about a pay cut now. You can't explain it to anyone. This refers to the inconclusive nature of this government, which so simply gives up its commitments and talks about the non-vision of the Croatian government and how to solve the crisis. It's the easiest thing to do is just cut the costs and the extra income space and we can't see anywhere in this budget to help the economy. And that is why I will not support this law and support these 180 thousand Croatian citizens who do not give up on these 6% because they should not be the only ones who should bear the burden of this crisis. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-27-0.u30770	Thank you. A few credentials and replicas. First corrections to incorrect allegations. Ms. Ivanka Roksandić.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-27-0.u30771	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I want to correct two incorrect allegations from my colleague Maras. The first is, the government has no response to the economic crisis. Yes, there is, colleague Maras. Just to remind you of the public, in collaboration with the Economic Council, it has taken 10 anti-recession measures, it has increased among other items of exports through HBOR by 300 million kuna to preserve jobs due to the promotion of exports. She increased the social care rate by 10%. She gave prior to the adoption of these measures a guarantee, a financial injection, to guarantee our citizens their savings in banks. A second correction to an incorrect quote. The census of this government has no value at all. There is, fellow Maras, a very high value. He didn't have the signature the government left for those same people we're discussing today in 2003. There remained a billion kuna and 200 million kunas for the unpaid Christmas goddess, for the regress of the exact educational staff, namely healthcare professionals, the Croatian Army and the Croatian police. This government returned it in 2004.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-27-0.u30772	Second Amendment, Mr. Representative Boris Kunst.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-27-0.u30773	Thank you very much, Your Honor. I will correct the allegations where counterpart Maras Government does not see further for two days because there are no measures etc. So you see, and this is one measure of these measures, anti-recession measures that, in a crisis situation, in some ways, want to ease this crisis situation and solve the problem. But fellow Maras, let's think about it. And your two representatives, right from your party, are in the economic council that have proposed exactly how this crisis should be addressed, so they have suggested that the pay be reduced, that it is simply unacceptable to increase the wages from 1.6, which has been done. So you and your colleagues are talking here, and I think you see very well, but don't make the blind others, because the others see you very well and hear Mr. Linic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-27-0.u30774	Mr. Representative Sima Djurdjevic, correction.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-27-0.u30775	I'm correcting the false allegations of a colleague of Maras who said that over the last five years, 50,000 people have been employed in public services on a party key. I'd like to see those names and last names, despite the name and last name of the party. I have different experiences. At the opening of corridor 5C in the length of 23km of middle-djakovo, corridor 5C passes through four municipalities in Brod-Posavina County. One single person from Brod-Posavina County, president of the SDP Municipal Committee of a municipality in the eastern part of my county, is employed. I don't know if it's the same party key or something. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-27-0.u30776	Fourth Amendment, Mr. Representative Boris Matkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-27-0.u30777	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Col. Maras incorrectly said that the government didn't see for two weeks, let alone six months in advance. It can only be his opinion. And each other, and that is that this government is insecure, or has pointed out the insecureness of the government. That's not true, colleague Maras. It is quite different, which is that without any responsibility, unserious and unrealistic, the SDP from day to day is clouding citizens' eyes with its populist proposals, which are as such timed ahead of the election and you suggest them at a time that you think is good, just to collect cheap political points, not to the benefit of these citizens. And your proposals are also true, partly well and legally unfounded and constitutionally unfounded.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-27-0.u30778	Mr. Representative Niko Rebić, next correction.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-27-0.u30779	Thank you. Well, my colleague put out so much of the untrue and false. I'm just gonna make it right that when he said that this government cheated on someone, there was no vision. This government didn't cheat on anyone, this government tried to reach an agreement with the unions at the 11th month, so before the 2009 budget was passed. If the unions had understood this situation at that time, we would certainly not have a budget rebalance today, but it would have been delayed for at least another six months. So, this government certainly has a vision but unfortunately there is no hearing from you today, and many are not aware of the real situation in which Croatia is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-27-0.u30780	Next amendment. Mr. Representative Andrew Hebrang. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-27-0.u30781	Thank you very much. I can't figure out which way to correct the lie, which is that the Government of the Republic of Croatia is guilty of the collapse of Pliva and of the negative consequences of the sale of Pliva. This government left behind 25% by 2000 plus one share of Pliva to have a strategic stock package, so you're wrong that the HDZ government ruined it. When we came back in 2004 and when we wanted to engage with our strategic package of shares in a decision on Pliva, we looked, the stock is gone. Bye-bye. I had a cat. Why'd she fall? Those shares paid HZZO's debt to Pliva. It's illegal, because that's what privatization of Pliva was done with 25% of state shares. The state was deprived of the possibility of operating further with Pliva, and the HZZO still had to be in charge of the new billion and 700 million kuna. Therefore, it is incorrect that the HDZ government took away the possibility of managing Pliva. It was the government of the SDP.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-27-0.u30782	Replications. Mr. Representative Ivica Pancic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-27-0.u30783	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Maras, when you spoke about irrational employment in the state administration, you said the concept of "you need a job, here's a chair." That concept may apply, but it's complemented by another model, "do you need a job? Give me two or five thousand euros first and then you'll get a chair." It is spoken openly in the Croatian highways. The portals are buzzing about it. However, BUSKOK and the State's Attorney's Office do not seem to be interested. And that is why, among other things, the HAC as one major state-owned firm that led the biggest infrastructure project in the last seven, eight years before the collapse. And what makes Croatia's workers pay cuts today when trade unions say we are ready to cut our salaries, but provided they rationalise the entire business in the country. That comes up with no response from the government. So why? Well, it's simply because the government is currently based on such irrationalities, spending money that was never meant to be spent. And why the road, the highway, a kilometer of highway from 4 million to 8 million euros. If we had acted rationally, we could have finished almost all the highways and it's not a question of whether to build a bridge of Peljesac. Let it be built, but the question is whether it will cost 400m euros or whether, thanks to this government, the price will grow to perhaps 800m euros by a known concept.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-27-0.u30784	Replication response, Mr. Representative Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-27-0.u30785	Thank you very much, Mr. Pancic, you're right. What I said earlier in my presentation of HDZ definitely brings us back to the '80s, a socialist approach where working in the state service is not adequately paid. But you can hire anyone or anyone who doesn't have to, but of course it has to be either recommended by the party key or by what you just mentioned. But it's not just here. It would be good and trade unions would surely accept a pay cut if they saw which reforms in the next three, four years could be paid back. They have no confidence in this government that it has serious intentions to reform the state administration. And because of that, normally, people don't want to accept that they're the only ones carrying the burden of the whole situation and the whole crisis. And there are no other anti-recession measures that would allow economic growth that could pay for this expensive state administration. What anti-recession measures? So this is the first measure, but it can't even be called anti-recession because it's just cutting certain items, there's no investment in the economy, there's no exemption from certain tax duties, there's no release of certain tax duties or taxpayers to encourage consumption. There's nothing. So there are no anti-recession measures, there's nothing, and that's why I say Croatian officials, professors, doctors, teachers don't want to be the only ones to bear the burden of this crisis and inefficient government without any vision. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-27-0.u30786	Mr. Representative Luke Denon, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-27-0.u30787	Comrade Maras, thank you, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Maras, you are absolutely right when you claim that the courage of this government is manifested on those who are weakest. The question is whether we suspend the collective agreement or not to suspend it, we claim that the collective contract is still in effect, but of course the wages are less and the money is gone. And the courage of this government is, it is evident that by suspending collective agreement and cutting wages they are good guys and girls because they do not do it, but they do it by the bad guys and the bad girls in the Croatian Parliament who will pass the law that there is no such, there are no those that pay is reduced. That's number one how our government works. The Peleski Bridge remains as a project and here it has been appealed to solidarity as if we don't understand and we don't want the Peleski Bridge. Yes, we want the Peljek Bridge, to understand that it needs to be built, but in some better times when we have these satisfied public service workers, then we need to build it. And I understand that the Dubrovnikers will understand this second part of Croatia, because the solidarity we showed in the war against Dubrovnik and other parts of Croatia, especially in those areas of Croatia that were not affected by the war, when we were driving convoys from Rijeka, I believe that the Dubrovnikers will be able to pay back so that the public workers have a decent salary. And also when we talk about measures, anti-recession measures, 10 anti-recession measures can only say that these are intentions. You know, I intend to win the lottery, too, but I need to pay the ticket. The government intends, but has not yet paid the ballot to see these measures light of day so that we can discuss them. In the end, I must also say that the “Ply ” eye now mentions “Ply. ” But you know Luke Denon and the SDP representatives didn't have dinner in Verona.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-27-0.u30788	Mr. Representative Gordan Maras, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-27-0.u30789	Thank you very much. A fellow Denon, a billion and 700 million savings in the budget that we now intend to cut employee expenditures to secure by rebalance we could have secured on the other side. We talked about “Dukut” 2 billion kunas. That he was taxed with 20% here's 400 million kuna. We talked about “Ply” that was sold three times in a year and a few days. If we'd taxed 20% each time, that money would have been found. We're talking about paying hundreds of millions of kunas each year to managers in foreign companies in shares that are untaxable. Extra pay. Why isn't that paid as a payday? Well, of course, because we'd have to pay our contributions, taxes, etc. But we don't. We're not looking for where we're going to find that income from those who have it, but we're taking it to those who don't have it. And as for Pliva, you're right. We didn't choose Barr, but this government that created it from a respectable, regional company that's selling speculatively and that's not worth anything today, and the result is that it's going to become a generic company, that it's going to reduce the number of employees and that already in this January, 1,000 people are out of work. She chose this as the strategic partner of the Barr HDZ government, not the SDPs in 2000, as counterpart Hebrang said in Verona or somewhere else I don't know.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-27-0.u30790	Next replica, Mr. Representative Zeljko Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-27-0.u30791	Mr. Vice President. Comrade Maras, you were talking about the need to work in public services as high-quality. Well, it's not as important anywhere as the health care system. Unfortunately, this proposal that we have today represents a final slap on all officials, doctors and all health employees who are after the powerpoint, stressing the powerpoint of cowboy reforms that we have received unsatisfactory patients, the dissatisfied doctors now welcome to get another slap, which is to further lower their wages. At the same time, you're saying we haven't seen a single anti-recession measure of government here. Well, if it wasn't for 25 SDP laws, it would seem like this Parliament lives in another country, if there were no recessions, there isn't a crisis. The only thing HDZ, which seems to have offered with them is a practice of Powerpoint presentation and press, was a press that announced some 10 anti-recession measures that we haven't seen at all. You say they have no vision. Well, he's got Sanader and HDZ has a vision. I would call it 3B vision, 3B vision because in three months, Croatia passed from a country of prosperity, across a country in a banana, to a country before bankruptcy. It's 3B Sanader's vision of Croatia at the moment. And Pliva, Pliva had 6 thousand people, was a regional star, and thanks to Sanader's lesson in Verona, which will be studied at management schools, became a small dwarf. That's when the decisions involve Sanader, his ministers and this government. That's what Croatia's waiting for.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-27-0.u30792	Replication response, Mr. Representative Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-27-0.u30793	Thank you very much, Mr. Jovanovic, especially when we talk about the health sector. It is almost amazing, I would like to see this doctor who will come today without getting an extra insurance or an additional fee specific to a job that will work in Croatia that will come to work in Croatian hospitals. Says Mr. Hebrang, a friend of his from Ireland, would come to Croatia. So let him come, but I think unfortunately, "we're not going to see," as we say here in Zagreb. Mr Hebrang may wish a colleague to visit him, but he certainly will not come to work at the Croatian hospital for a salary of 1000 or 1500 euros. So it's just funny to talk about health reform, which is another indicator of how citizens are trying to solve crisis situations in Croatia. Yes, the revenue side is shown and the way 2 billion kunas want to be swept out to Croatian citizens, but the expenditure side of restructuring reform is not shown and praised in the media that the result is not what, and Croatian citizens well know what the result is when they visit Croatian hospitals and other institutions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-27-0.u30794	Ms. Representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-27-0.u30795	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, the honourable representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues. Can a nurse with a reduced salary save the country from bankruptcy? Can it help Eve Sanader? Can a low-income paramedic bring an ambulance to Evey Sanader on an already slippery road to Europe? Questions may seem absurd, but isn't it enough lawlessness in the sense that laws are not respected? Is the time for us to pass illegal laws at the beginning? This is the original Croatian product, illegal law. Because what's a contract between parties than the law? Didn't these public employees sign a collective agreement with the state that's in effect? In which country and where can contracts be broken unilaterally? Well, when it doesn't work, it doesn't work, it doesn't work, it doesn't do tricks, it doesn't work with the law. Well, I'm surprised you didn't propose a constitutional law that would eliminate and force you to carry out your will beyond the treaty. So where else is it? So because it's a new contribution to judicial reform? Since the negotiations with Europe have been blocked, there has been no mention of it, nor of the Colloquial. So even the extorted reforms that were more verbal and no longer verbalised. It's not an "in" anymore. It's being manipulated here as two unions signed an agreement with the government. So, please, since when can someone sign an agreement, and it's not a contract party? Well, they weren't negotiators with the government. Isn't it enough of that kind of manipulation? Isn't the judiciary overcrowded with cases, and in advance, in the beginning of a legislative act like this, then you transfer the responsibility by law, because then such actions will be dragged through courts for years? Sure, it's not a serious job. An idea like this where she came from? Not even in the government, but in the HDZ presidency, a collective agreement with those who have not been subdued is unilaterally broken. Because it's really unusual for the government. They've learned pressure from the beginning. It's a model and a way of ruling, so if it doesn't go lightly, it goes by force. Here, my colleague Stazic, speaking on behalf of the SDP club, spoke of what would really be the right measures if the state wanted to do so, and could do so and could still. But no, it's the easiest thing for a nurse, it's the easiest thing to do for a teacher, a teacher, a teacher, a pay cut, and at exactly what point, in a lack of personnel, because in Croatia today both teachers and teachers and doctors and nurses, social workers, labour inspectors, but who cares. Why aren't taxes, interest taxes, increased interest rates, dividend taxes? Why are you still protecting capitalist barons in these moments? Isn't it a bit small for them? Why are you saving the neo-capitalistic oligarchy? Why don't you give up on the Peles Bridge? The Peleski Bridge is a vision, but the question is, when you're not giving up on it, is it apart from the vision and commission? The question and responsibilities are raised. We can accept it, and that is certainly not the case and should not run away from it because Croatia does not live in the bestgestine one condition and that the effects must have come from the outside. But for what hit us, it's not George Bush who's responsible, it's not Angela Merkel, it's not Germany, it's not Silvio Berlusconi. It's Ivo Sanader who's responsible for his life here. You see, that's what you need to understand. And while the prime minister is calling cheaply for the conscience of the financial powers, the bankers please don't raise interest on loans until the poor man's skin is peeled with such laws. Such tricks obviously don't work anymore, and they shouldn't start because they're really cheap tricks at the level of station liners. And that's why I won't support this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-27-0.u30796	Thank you. A few credentials and replicas. The first correction to an incorrect quote by Mr. Representative Boris Kunst.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-27-0.u30797	Thank you very much. Your Honor, Vice President. It is incorrect that Commissioner Marinovic said that the collective agreement does not apply to these two trade unions of public activities that they signed with the government because it would most likely have to know as a lawyer that I am based on the Labour Act when trade unions join the collective agreement then they are participants in the collective contract. So, by doing so, they give up something they were entitled to under the Labour Law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-27-0.u30798	Mr. Representative Krunoslav Markovanovic is the next correction.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-27-0.u30799	I must correct the incorrect allegations of my colleague Antičević, who claims that Croatia today is a country of lawlessness. And if today was a country of lawlessness, then all these laws would not be discussed here in the Croatian Parliament and made decisions. However, Croatia was a country of lawlessness from 2000 to 2003 when collective agreements were not respected and when the government paid as much judicial costs and repayable debts as people would give up on salaries. When money was given to private owners, say Lenca, when hotels were sold to party friends for indemnity, when Euro Petrol, Rijeka Bank and so on, I won't even mention it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-27-0.u30800	Mr. Representative Nedjeljko Strikić corrects the incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-27-0.u30801	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, indeed, the esteemed representative incorrectly cited care for the medical class in her speech. Good thing there's an Internet and I'm right in front of myself I'm 14.2.2003. The government introduced a work obligation to doctors after a month. You were a member of that government that introduced the labour obligation, you only suspended it after six months. Mr. Stazic says that 50 grand in health care is corrupt and now suddenly a big concern for doctors, for health care staff. In our system a few months ago, everyone was corrupt. And here he says in that 2003 article in "The Vesnik," he says, "And the State's Attorney's Office is saying whether there was a strike and a job injury.". And today you're the big care providers of Croatian health care. So let's not be hypocritical. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-27-0.u30802	Replica Mr. Representative Marin Jurjevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-27-0.u30803	Here, a colleague mentions the Internet and I'm just looking at Internet portals. Everyone reports that in the last two hours a huge rush by a doctor from Ireland, Germany, after a discussion by a fellow Hebrang. Croatia really seems to be an attractive country. Here, look, all the portals report it. So perhaps they were motivated by the fact that the purchasing power of the Croats was in 2006, we were in Europe in 27th place and today we are in 30th place. It's a long way before the West is always pushing us, inventing a crisis so it's still importing us here beyond our will and guilt and despite the genius management that's been leading the country so well. And you can see behind us by purchasing power in Europe again on the portals that only citizens of Serbia, Bulgaria, Montenegro, BIH, Macedonia, Belarus, Albania, Ukraine, Moldova, Turkey and Romania are. So, only one of them citizens in Croatia have greater purchasing power. And so after these discussions, in the last two hours, there has been a great rush of citizens from Europe to come to this mission, in this country where it is managed so beautifully, believing that it will live much better here than it is living in Europe where you can't get out of moaning, shivering and moaning from those who find it so difficult.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-27-0.u30804	You did a good look through the glasses on these portals. ... How fast that's multiplying somehow. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Reply to the replica of Ms. Ingrid Anticevic-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-27-0.u30805	Well, our basic trouble is very simple, and there's not much of it. This HDZ government does not want to tax the rich, but rather all the bills that they did with their neoliberalist action shifts to the poor one, to the weakest ones, and sets out to them those accounts that they did not make. It's insolence, it's such a social association that it's hard to imagine.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-27-0.u30806	Mrs. Representative, dear zgrebec replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-27-0.u30807	Thank you, Vice President. My colleague Antičević, our government, when it can't do something nice, then it does it by force, but always apply force to the weakest. This time it is about those whose life existence depends on their place of work, their income that most often does not meet even the monthly needs of the most necessary, so neither does the so-called so-called. A union basket, and what 6% of these mean is a huge loss. You know, when two, three months you get a slightly higher salary, it shrinks behind that, and when inflation is one month as it was now over 4%, it means a lot. 200 kuna means to some families as someone 20 thousand kuna. And there's something unheard of going on. In order to put pressure on negotiators, on those who run trade unions that these workers are involved, to say if this is not done, unless they are reduced by 6% that the state can get to the edge of bankruptcy, then it is such an unheard politically dangerous statement that at the same time such a man would have to bear the sanctions to resign or be removed because the consequences of the leader, the person most responsible for the economy, for economic development, for the development of all social activities and human needs in one country is indeed the most irresponsible statement ever heard in Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-27-0.u30808	Reply to the replica of Ms. Ingrid Anticevic-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-27-0.u30809	Well, it's an old thing, it's been seen since the beginning of the term of office only now are the consequences drastic. That this authority, that this state under this rule is strong to the weak and weak to the strong. And there's a basic problem. Moreover, as you have noticed, and as I have pointed out in the introduction, fear for those weak is shining. And feed on their fear. In fact, he's braved himself with that fear. So these citizens, those workers who are still lucky to work, must be happy to work at all. So they don't even think about achieving their labour rights. What are we gonna tell them tomorrow? That they're lucky to be alive when this government is, so it's a shame.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-27-0.u30810	Mr. Representative Slavko Linic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-27-0.u30811	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues. So let me begin with my lies and lies because it is evident that if you set yourself negatively according to the Government's proposal, you are lying and telling the truth. But thanks to the SDP, voters gave me the right to vote, so I will lie, but you correct those lies and defend your government. What do you say about a proposal like this? At the end of 2008, we evaluated the situation in the Republic of Croatia. All of 2008. The SDP proposed a series of measures. First of all, the laurels, the pituric or whatever you want to say domestically, rather than proposing tax reforms. We talked about the fact that our Croatian economy is uncompetitive, that it cannot export and that we need to take half of our health contributions off our salaries. Take off half of your health contribution, because it's unacceptable. In a capitalist company that a worker and a million and a half employees pay for 4.5 million inhabitants of Croatia health insurance. And we felt that there was a need to make it possible for both business and business, to reduce expenditure in the budget, but also the possibility of doing something for the pension system. Twice in 2008, the SDP proposed this. What were the reasons? It's stupid, it's unacceptable, it's illiterate, it's unprofessional, and where we'll find the difference. And what did the SDP say? Gentlemen, it's about time we started taxing people who don't live on work. but in Croatia they live well on capital revenues. Whether that capital revenue is on the property or on the new one. And that's what we kept saying. To make it from the finance minister yesterday, that we're going to introduce it, but now is not the time. And last year when there was no crisis and when we warned, we prepare the economy, we allow the worker to have a decent salary and not touch his salary, but we take off his wages. No one listened. No one listened. Yeah, that's the whole truth. It's the end of the year. And, of course, Prime Minister Sanader's statement, we've avoided the crisis, it's not a problem, it's just going to nick us, we've been doing all right. And we didn't do the basic thing, we didn't disburse the economy of imposes called contributions to health care, intruding. Can't a million and a half workers pay health insurance for everything. And we didn't want to find a compromise, we didn't want to make any major changes, which is the 6th year of the HDZ mandate and its coalition partners. Of course, of course, there's a fundamental difference now. The coalition government headed by HDZ protects the rich, doesn't want to touch them. She also wants Luka Rajic, and the owners of Pliva and everyone else to leave Croatia without participating in health funding. And let the health care be paid by the workers. And let the businessmen fail because their gross wages are too high at that time. And then there's no export and there's no solution. Yes, it is behavior in the Republic of Croatia. For the last three months, changes have slowly begun. Well, it's not that great anymore, even 9. 3. The last prime minister's statement, so we're going to go through a billion or two kuna budget. To face the fact that 10 billion, 10 billion, needs to be taken down today. Where is this responsibility, where is the ability to assess, where is the general control of what is happening in Croatia? She's gone, we're working on the moss, and of course we didn't get ready in time, who are we burdening? Of course, we burden the poorer, we burden the workers, we burden those we haven't even solved the pension system. In fact, if the devil takes the joke, we'll take their second pension column. You still know how to behave. Yes, this is the problem of non-prepared rulings and have not prepared the necessary measures to know how to reduce the consequences of the problem in Croatia today in this situation. The consequences of severe recessions in the world, as well as our unimplemented reforms. The problems of too many employees, irrational employees, inefficient employees in public and especially in public services. We don't have any simple solutions for institutions that need to hold games and correct relations in market positions, complete system dysfunction, but employees as long as you want. Yeah, that's the problem. At the same time, we run companies and shame Croatian Prime Minister all over the government, he says, 2 billion companies under our control will reduce. What? It's wasteful. For what? On cars, on cards, on trips, on personal needs spending, on high management salaries, that's what the prime minister said 15 days ago. What did they do all last year? Who's on the board of directors? Well, you know, ministers and secretary of state. How do they run these companies? We're not interested, but now we're saying it's going to be a measure. Imagine the prime minister in last year not knowing where Croatia is and why there is no investment, why there is no development of Croatia in energy. Because it's spent on the personal needs of people who function at the top of a company like this. Yes, it's Croatia. ... They go well rich, they have no problems, no oversights, no administrations change. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We're just reading in the papers, and, of course, that the union negotiations are coming. And now the trade unions should understand that they are giving up because the government has not prepared the state and because the government does not conduct responsible supervision in public functions or in companies of energy and transport interest of the Republic of Croatia. Can we, can we, do we have the right to seek the understanding of workers when we treat ourselves so arrogantly and irresponsibly in the positions that government representatives and representatives of the government behave? No, we simply don't want to prove ourselves responsible as a government towards these unions. And of course, that's when the biggest mistakes come. The unions of such blatant authority, the irresponsible authorities do not want to support, they do not want to understand. Then we evaluate them. The government budget deficit in that first variant that is in place is only because unions have not agreed to cut wages. That's the only reason it's a deficit. Now imagine, and the state would help the economy because it would have a zero deficit. Yes, these were messages, the prime minister's finger shows who should be tried in Croatia for not helping the economy. Now again. No jobs, no job problems. There's work to be done. Who's to blame that we won't? The government will. But imagine the wild unions won't. Yes, our great man, the first man in the government, always has the culprit for his failures. And yes, we have the last message for the citizens who have panicked the citizens, we will go bankrupt for these irresponsible people. That's Mr. Sanader's statement. We're going to go bankrupt. So citizens now think when the first man in Croatia tells you what your destiny will be, the state will go bankrupt. Those are his words. Because you always have to show the culprit. So when nothing was able to get the responsible people in the unions to understand him then he's moving on to legal. And watch out, he's always playing a man who's communicative, who's for negotiation, just introducing a beating called the law. By taking away the right and complaining, by taking away any right. But anyway, he's going to be a nice, decent man, he's going to act like a decent man who wants to negotiate. And imagine these savages in the Parliament will pass such a law. Mr. Hebrang, yesterday you cried here to the citizens as we got sick of our city. By what right can you give them such phenomena, I would say, debates, weep about our fates, and today's law forbids them to defend themselves and keep their contract. .../The speaker went off and turned it back on./... Here, it shows a picture of us fellow MPs, that we take responsibility for ourselves, so whoever loves us, doesn't need to love us, they need to hate us. We make crucial decisions. We will take away their right to fight as workers through contracts. But we will weep in our fates, defend our rights. No matter what kind of people we are, what kind of agents we are. It's a picture of us.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-27-0.u30812	A few credentials and replicas. First we go to the corrections. First Mr. Representative Andri Hebrang.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-27-0.u30813	Thank you very much. My friend Linic didn't know I was crying, I didn't even have a handkerchief in my pocket. I was just defending the status of Croatian MP chosen by the Croatian voter. And not like you pushed your head under the sand because you're afraid that the media is going to make you cry. You won't avoid that fate. As long as you're in opposition, you'll stay here for a long time, because with such lies you'll never come to power. Look, you're crying over the fate of the MPs because I said there were three present colleagues who had cancer, cancer, malignant death disease. I know it doesn't mean anything to you people's lives or three human lives, but that's the thing to say because it's true. So be afraid and ashamed of it. I didn't say we'd be looking for special health care. I'm just saying that it's supposed to be the other side of the life of the MPs. And that's stress, exposure, not coming home for hours and hours, an empty bench that's empty because it's in the other seven places where it's acting. If that bothers you, I believe why because you really don't know how to behave.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-27-0.u30814	Second correction by Representative Damir Huška.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-27-0.u30815	Davor Huška, thank you, Mr. Vice President, I am correcting the incorrect quote of a colleague who said there is now a difference between the current and the former 2000 coalition government compared to the rich and the poor. Yes, now the difference between these two governments and the fundamental difference is that the 2000 coalition government, in which you and your colleague Linic both served as vice president, reduced your salary by 30% and introduced a labour obligation. You think that's what the employees in the ops or the police guys on the charts and sleeping bags were lying here in St. John's Square. Mark, next to the Church of St. In this way, Mark was protested against the decisions of the government as well. That's the difference between these two governments. The same as the difference between the government and Dr. Ivo Sanader has done no such harm to the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-27-0.u30816	Next correction, Mr. Representative Boris Matkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-27-0.u30817	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, here's fellow Linic, incorrectly saying that the government of Dr. Eve Sanader has no anti-recession measures. That's not true. And you know that, fellow Linic, the government has 10 anti-recession measures, and that's true. As is true, the SDP's proposal for anti-recession measures failed at the same speed that it came from because it was overpriced, unreal, unreal, and it would cost the state one small additional 15 billion, which means that the state would have to be further in debt. And it is also true that she remained unknown as well as in what way these funds would be settled. As it is to conclude the truth that in your very bile debates, it is obvious that you have sought authority but you will have to wait to wait for what you are now half-lystly trying to impose on the citizens of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-27-0.u30818	Next correction, Mr. Representative Krunoslav Markovnović.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-27-0.u30819	Mr. Vice President, Linic claims that the government protects the rich, which is absolutely not true, but he knows how to do it because they have led to perfection and how to take the poor in their time, at the time of their government and how to give in the pockets of the rich. We know that, it's already been sang, and that attack really doesn't make sense. Pure spin. Furthermore, anti-recession measures we know would cost too much, too much budget procedure, because it's easy to bring populist anti-recession measures and to the people conveniently hear money, for there's no money and so it's gonna be someone else's fault. As for the proposal for a tax system where counterpart Linic himself said that several years would have been a downfall, which for several years, who today has time for a few years in Europe and the world.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-27-0.u30820	Mr. Representative Stjepan Milinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-27-0.u30821	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. A colleague, Linic, incorrectly stated that we did not want to go to changes in the health system in 2008. That's not true. In fact, we were very responsible for reforming the health system so it wouldn't collapse, so what would we have these days? It's a suitable approach, not the 13.1.2003. I'd like to remind you, Mr. Linic, when you were the Deputy Prime Minister, so you introduced a work obligation to the doctors. That's very well known. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-27-0.u30822	And Madam Representative Bozica Šolić.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-27-0.u30823	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Representative Linic said the Prime Minister, Dr Ivo Sanader and this government would use their inability to peel off the poor and the workers. Mr. Linic, that's not true what you've been repeating for several weeks now, and today in a row. If he wanted to and if the government did so, then it would not have increased the unemployment rate by 101 million in this budget rebalance. That's one thing. Second. When you were running the country, you were peeling workers and poor when you disbanded them on the street, abolishing workers' rights. The police strike you here a year before the Parliament ran to the other door outside. Doesn't the people remember that? And you would now like to put it in this situation that is not only with us, but in the whole world, to impose it on this government because you are an incompetent opposition, you have no arguments but only attacks.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-27-0.u30824	Replications. Ms. Representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-27-0.u30825	Comrade Linic, you are wondering why this government will not accept our anti-recession measures that would make life easier for people, which would allow them to simply survive. Well, I'd be surprised if they accepted it, because HDZ is a party to large capital. It pours them to the top. But such a single policy has led to Croatia's always trying to bring it back. That's the problem. But what's the additional danger? And this time of crisis, Eldorado is known for some of the famous hunting in the blurry. That's what we "sighted and enjoyed" during the Homeland War, whose consequences are still unwinding in front of domestic and foreign courts. ... Why won't this government control this foreign capital that bought huge properties? [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Whose capital is that, is that dirty capital? Why does the state have all the mechanisms to control that capital? But she doesn't care about it. But such a single capital that can be suspicious and dirty, it also threatens the rest of our capital because our people would be happy to invest if they were given the opportunity under the rules that should apply to everyone.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-27-0.u30826	Replica reply, Mr. Representative Slavko Linic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-27-0.u30827	I try not to talk about the past, not to be ashamed or to be ashamed of my past because I am, in fact, proud. We showed HDZ how to get rid of liquidity, how the minus rate turns to +6 feet, which Sanader never got close enough, but when we talk about the rich, then we're really going to say. Here's my colleague, Markovanovic, who can't help but mention Mr. Goran Strok. The man who bought the competition also won the competition, and the man whom the administration had been blackmailing, racketeering for a year and costing him 4m euros. Yeah, that's Goran Strok. But this same Goran Strok, along with his workers, is fighting in this recession and strives to raise the quality of tourist offer in the Dubrovnik region. Yeah, that's Goran Strok. But he's an enemy of HDZ, an enemy. He won the contest, no court, no abuse of administration, racketeering and his courage to deal with, I would say, people who don't need Croatia. But Mr. Markovanovic and HDZ, I'm not going to talk about the ORCO group that didn't win the contest, we don't know if it's a public-private partnership, we don't know if it's a purchase, we don't know what the Sunny Hvar are, but we know that the government is helping her and the hotels are gone, the destination disappears. The workers are without pay. Yeah, that's the difference in the protection of large capital. You just mention the past, we're not ashamed of her. I don't know what's gonna happen to you. Just look at the ORCO group that the gentlemen all created you and the situation with Sunny Hvar.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-27-0.u30828	Next replica. Mrs. Representative, Dear Zgrebec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-27-0.u30829	Thank you. You are trying to analyze what happened in the last three months in Croatia, or in the perception of the Croatian government, which is happening in our country. So in the 11th month, the president, or the finance minister, says we're going to have a zero deficit. We have achieved the greatest that almost no country in the world can achieve at a time when almost all countries are trying to advance or reduce the consequences of the global economic and financial crisis. We're an island, we're under a glass bell, nothing's happening to us. Suddenly we have a budget that has some deficit, and that's a deficit because we had to raise salaries in the public sector. And we say again, there's no problem. It ends in January, we don't have income in the budget, we say it's normal, so it's seasonal, nothing happens. It's February. Nothing's going on either. All of a sudden we need economic advice, we need anti-recession measures, and we get an anti-recession package, ten measures on three pages. The first measure that is not intentional is budget rebalancing, and now we've got it. This budget rebalance is actually not based at all on any anti-recession measures. We cut existing items, all items remain, only less in amounts and miracles, we get an 11th anti-recession measure. We're getting this bill and it's the first "anti-recession measure" the government has sent us to debate, but it's not these ten anti-recession measures, it's the 11th anti-recession measure.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-27-0.u30830	Replication response. Mr. Representative Slavko Linic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-27-0.u30831	It is difficult to talk about any statements that the prime minister has told the public that there is no need to prepare for the recession. Yeah, he's the one who's been saying it out loud. Even Polancec, Deputy Prime Minister and Mr Sanader competed whether it would be +4 or +2. Well, after all, Polancec listened to the first man, so they agreed to +2. That a complete failure in the assessment of the situation that will take place in Croatia, and these failures should be paid by workers. And when he doesn't like it, he'll do it with the law. The biggest tragedy is that we will take that role that we weep over our destiny. But there's something else. One of the strongest messages in Prime Minister Sanader's budget was a zero deficit to help the economy. Have you looked at the new rebalancing? Have you looked? Five billion deficits, consolidated five and a half billion. Now we're at 1.6% deficit, 1.6%. So we have a rebalancing proposal I'd say worse than before. Why worse? So now we have a deficit 1.6. The state will be in debt, not to. We don't even have the budget to help the economy anymore because we're entering the deficit, and it's not for the benefit of the economy. It doesn't do the benefit and incentives of the economy. No, it's because there's no income, so we need to cut. But another problem we're going to touch. Indifference. That's not enough, so we won't pay. Well, they're already paying with 180 days of delays and railroads. We're not talking about health care. It's an old story. We're not going to talk about HEP that's invaluable and doesn't pay, but the payment stops by the state budget as well.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-27-0.u30832	Next replica, Mr. Representative Luke Denon.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-27-0.u30833	My colleague Linić, I am surprised to you that you are surprised that this government has not prepared Croatia for this recession that is ahead of us, so look for it to be expected that they have prepared themselves, not us. Because to intimidate people with bankruptcy into further uncertainty in Croatia by bringing themselves into bankruptcy if a group of equal citizens of this Croatia does not bear the burden of the crisis I do not think it is good. In any case, fellow Marin has left these internet portals open for you, and besides the Irish, it seems to me that the English are also trying to reach us because the anti-recession measures and laws proposed by the opposition to this House by the ruling party, the ruling majority of the Parliament were being made by the English. So here's what the English are trying to do is make the English not to just pretend we're English and it's amazing that billions up there, down there, 10, 5, 2, that guess as in the market. Why not 15 billion, because it'll all come at some point on the charge so that even this rebalancing we'll have at the debate on Monday be without worry, because we're going to have to go to that rebalancing again. Well, then I'm sure that on the other hand you won't hear that through rebalancing on the other side of the Assembly helping the poor and the workers. Because it's obvious, then, that these cuts in wages that are being discussed today do not apply to the poor or to the workers. So, gentlemen of the public service, you're not poor and you're not workers because you're getting paid. But here we protect the poor and the workers.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-27-0.u30834	So the English are already on the portal. It's English portals. Reply to the replica representative Slavko Linic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-27-0.u30835	Yeah, a colleague of Denona's. The SDP will repeatedly repeat that the biggest damage in 2008 was that in salaries we did not remove part of the health contribution and that we did not seek new taxes, that we did not realize that income from property in Croatia is a huge, huge amount, a huge item. And that these people who live on such incomes should be participated in the health care of Croatian citizens. It is not because Croatia would be unique, but because it has 90% of Europe, 90% of Europe, and we are entering that Europe. But there wouldn't be a problem with the union negotiations at the moment. 7% lower gross wages, so there wouldn't be a conflict with the unions, there wouldn't be a conflict. In private employers, this was a lower gross amount of salary, and in the country higher budget savings, a lower cost or lower budget expenditure. But all administration should have put into office to find an adequate way of taxing people who live on income, on capital, on income from property, because it is a change that Croatia will make sooner or later. We should have prepared all that last year. No, what we've prepared. Yes, we've introduced a health income reform, so we've burdened these workers we're taking off their wages today for an additional health contribution. Yeah, it's always the same model. Who needs to pay? A worker and a pensioner, and there's no one else. They have to pay. I don't think that's a good idea.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-27-0.u30836	Next replica, Mr. Zdenko Franic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-27-0.u30837	Dear fellow Linic, when you spoke about the wonders of the Croatian economy and the behavior of managers who are like drunk millionaires, we read about the 2,000 kuna bouquets today, etc. It turns out that the only anti-recession measure offered by the ruling coalition to the public is the reduction of salaries of state and public services. Croatia is indeed a wonderful country, because as the government introduces measures in the world and strives to train banks to be the engines of the economy in our country, the government is in debt to the banks by generating a huge external debt as well. In Western democracies countries, the responsibility of managers to behave responsibly in private companies is also required, so it is unimaginable that a private company receiving aid from the state or some incentives behaves irrationally or pays bonuses. For example, we are encouraged to go to a company that then uses over 60, 70% of all the incentives from agriculture, and that it is absolutely not clear to the public how this is spent, there is no transparency, so the state budget shoots at all stitches, but it is still generously giving money to whoever it is you need and whoever asks for it.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-27-0.u30838	Replica reply, Mr. Representative Slavko Linic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-27-0.u30839	Well, Mr. Franic, here we see the relationship of lagoon to the rich and the poor. Poor citizens who are workers, what's happening to them? The government in Parliament is sending a law to punish them. Intervention with the poor, yes, legally. The SDP proposed an intervention with banks to make all of Croatia's banks pro-longing loans to workers who had lost their jobs. What did the government say? We won't intervene. But worse, remember a month ago, the prime minister ordered all Croatian company managers to choose to cut their management salaries. What did we see? Few who did it, few who did it. Has the government replaced the boards of directors? It's not. Did the government propose a bill on management salaries and the removal of management salaries at least in our state-owned companies? It's not. And there's that inequality. Hit the worker with the law, and call the manager to play the theater show, and then shut up so he doesn't mention it anymore. That's the difference in Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-27-0.u30840	Next replica, Mr. Representative Zeljko Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-27-0.u30841	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. A fellow Linic, today it is clear that citizens are living increasingly difficult, barely able to cope with the end, employment is falling, there are no credit ratings outside because they are terribly expensive, investments stop. Of course, partly this situation is caused by the global financial crisis. However, Croatia has been practically in recession for years, spent more than it is earned for years. So, since 2003, we've lost a six-year grant. Internal liquidity, budget deficit, drop in living standards, increase in inflation and unemployment, companies are in a blockade and do not pay salaries, the external trade deficit is growing, foreign investments are stopped, credit ratings are down, tourism is in crisis, European integration is halted, the budget is based on spending and buying social peace. Comrade Linic, what do you think this is? These are 1999 headlines, I repeat, 1999. It's all the same today. A short break for Croatia at the time of Racan's government, and after that since 2003. Croatia is moving again on the HDZ path, it is known where, we saw, ahead of bankruptcy. The state was in debt to buy social peace, the budget was rising as well as the 1990s without cover in the gross domestic product, the trade unions were satisfied, but the budget gap grew to 11 billion kuna. It's not the unions' fault. It's the state who gave them checks without cover. And today he wants to kidnap workers in public service what they've earned. Unfortunately, HDZ brought us back at speed five in 1999.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-27-0.u30842	Replica reply, Mr. Representative Slavko Linic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-27-0.u30843	Yes, to this I find it difficult to add something, except I believe that a good part of the government is aware of the weakness of the Croatian budget. There is no performance at which Minister Shuker did not say very clearly when I sum up the salaries in the public sector, when I add up the health care, when I collect the pensions, I come to 90% of the budget. And now 10% of the budget cannot be managed in such a way as to make structural changes in the Croatian economy, let alone to encourage the industry that is completely abandoned in Croatia, which, after failing privatisation, is killed and disappeared. Yes, these are the problems of the Croatian budget. Now imagine the finance minister who made it very clear that 90% of his problem is health care, pensions and wages. And at the same time we don't have resolved pension reforms, our health care has not been resolved. In fact, a bunch of problems, a bunch of indifference, the system is not high-quality, the reform doesn't get in the health problem at all, and we've already said about the public sector that it's not even touched, I apologize to the civil servants and public servants. Therefore, 90% of our budget is huge, it is a burden to an economy that cannot be competitive at all then, and the Croatian government does not want to deal with fundamental problems after 6 years. Run away from fundamental problems and it is a crisis in Croatia. It's not an international recession based on our crisis. The basis of our crisis is this part. The revenue in the budget will fall, it will never be as generous again, and at that moment our constant expenditure will cost the citizens of Croatia. Unfortunately, the debt will not be paid by the rich, they will be withdrawn, the citizens of Croatia, workers, peasants, pensioners will pay.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-27-0.u30844	And Mr. Representative Marin Jurjevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-27-0.u30845	Events happen in lightning, and mine, i.e. The Croatian government reminds viewers at the Formula 1, racetrack, events pass zoom-zum, they only look and fail. They play seamstress. The Prime Minister and the vice president are arguing because 2, 4, 4, 2, what's the growth, and he went below 0. Such a government wonders that reality did not conform to their statements, what reality to the road, and they to the forest. And you see how they behave at that moment. Sanader reminds me of "Alice in Wonderland", and ministers of "miracled weddings" and at this point, it seems to me that the Pera Kvrzice company would better run the country than they do. But it's not just this comparison that would make you laugh or what I know, some parabola that should only cause wonder. It's about one very serious thing. Today's government is trying to reunite itself and the Croatian state, the ruling party with the Croatian State and the bankruptcy of public finances that threatens us only once again served to concentrate, so to speak, its ranks within the party, to order us, not even from the government, but from the party's presidency which should work or all will fail. They're calling on citizens to defacto support us or we're going to break in. And I think we're going to break in if that group continues to run the country.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-27-0.u30846	And those stitches are walking? Reply to the replica Mr. Representative Slavko Linic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-27-0.u30847	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I agree that there is too much wandering in the Croatian government and that this is why we are not ready today to treat the negative consequences of our domestic problems, but the government must also be recognised with enormous ability. The government is running away from breaking a collective contract, not wanting to break it, not allowing trade unions and workers to launch it, and I would say damage claims for a valid or unwarranted reason for ending the contract, it is running away from it. And that's a huge ability for her. It transfers responsibility to the Croatian parliament. He's transferring here to us. Yeah, we who usually have a bad rating, we who are not as popular as politicians who blame us for everything, and this time we will protect Sanader and the government because they are skilled and imaginative. We'll take all the animosity on ourselves and we'll be the ones to take away the workers' right to complain. We're talking here that during the coalition government, workers got a billion-and-a-half disputes. Yeah, that's right. We respected a collective contract, court won. And it doesn't matter, it's paid. The state budget's been paid. But they had the right to judicial protection, they got it. We'll take that away from them today. We take away their right. Yeah, that's what they're good at. They're capable of getting us to be unpopular and guilty of this kind of behavior, these kind of laws, and they won't even pay for the workers. No one's gonna pay them, and that's our fault.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-27-0.u30848	And Mrs. Representative Gordana Sobol. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-27-0.u30849	Thank you. Mr. Vice President. A lot has been said here today. I have to say that I wasn't going to answer for the debate, but somehow, Mr. Secretary of State gave me in his opening speech, explaining and defending the proposal of this law, I suppose, because of the patheticness he did, because of the serious concern of the future of this country, trying to convince us that it is therefore very desirable, even if I were to say in a fateful way, that today this law is being passed. A colleague Linic said earlier that some members of the government are deeply aware of the problems in which Croatia is located. There's a little problem, in fact, in all of this, in their deep consciousness, which is that unfortunately their deep consciousness seems to be too late. In fact, a few months ago, you were sitting here in these benches that were designed for the government, smiling ironically at all of our remarks that we had and all of what we pointed out when we discussed, among other things, the state budget for this year and the projections of the state budget. That's when they laughed in our faces. Even more so, they accused us of scaring the people. And when I asked the secretary of finance about the alleged budget-charging problems somewhere in the second month that he could explain it, etc. He told me that I was uninformed, that what I'm talking about, that the situation is about the same as in the first month of last year, that I'm telling the truth almost and today we're witnessing a statement from the prime minister himself who says Croatia is in front of bankruptcy, and imagine that if the unions don't agree to a pay cut or if this House doesn't seem to pass this law. The HDZ presidency has made a decision, it has been announced in all more and more media that it is going after failed negotiations with unions in a unilateral break-up, in fact that it is going to unilaterally reduce public sector wages after failing to negotiate with public service unions. The HDZ presidency has made the decision as all decisions have been made over the past few months. And then, of course, the government has prepared the law, and by that law, we here Parliamentarians should in this way cut our salaries in public services, so that tomorrow the government doesn't let God be guilty. The HDZ presidency gave the idea, the government has translated it into law and here tomorrow probably the Deputy Prime Minister, as she has done several times before the media, will say, "I'm sorry, the parliament has made a decision, the parliament has passed the law. Well, maybe the Parliament could have suggested something else, so maybe we could think about it and correct that bill and so on." The parliament will vote on the will of HDZ and coalition partners of this law. But colleagues and colleagues, no matter what's already been said here, you should be told once more. This is how you make it impossible for trade unions or public service workers to achieve what is fundamental to what every citizen of this country has the right to possibly achieve his satisfaction in court. You're denying them court protection tomorrow. They won't be able to ask for satisfaction tomorrow because this is the way the government is actually going to say deception, fraud or whatever you want to do for public service employees. So, the Parliament will vote by your will this law and tomorrow these dissatisfied workers who will not be able to achieve their satisfaction in court. And that's one of the biggest problems with this law. Your colleagues and colleagues, you from HDZ and coalition partners, raise your hand for this because you will raise, because you have already made a decision at the HDZ Presidency in the long run. But there's no way that I, as a parliamentary representative, can raise my hand for this law which, on the one hand, you want to conceal the government's incompetence to negotiate further with the unions. And on the other hand, it wants to cover up or shift the burden of responsibility to public service workers, thereby covering up all impotence and irresponsibility, and the government's inability to do anything it hasn't done in the last few years. And when it comes to civil servants and tenants who have agreed to pay cuts, I say today, and in a few months you will see, we will meet again on the same issues, with the government's alleged guarantee that they will guarantee their jobs. Oh, my colleagues and colleagues, you've had this state service in the last few years with over 30,000 new employees. With over 30,000 new employees. And instead of reforming the state administration, the public and state sectors, you're stockpiling, you've got that same service with extra workers, of course not for wages today. And now, in the end, you must falsely promise that everyone will be guaranteed jobs. Then, in a month, two or five months, we'll be in a position to face that number. All that you didn't want to do, unfortunately it will come to a charge, but unfortunately it will not come to you alone, but it will primarily come to the charge of the citizens of this country. And I'd like you to think about what you've been doing for the past few years, because it's more important to pick up some political points, and in a few months we'll be back here, maybe then the government comes really with some kind of anti-recession measures, because here we'll already have a chance to discuss the rebalancing of the state budget, which is all but an AA.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-27-0.u30850	Thank you. And we have three replicas. He's the first respected representative of Jerko Roshin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-27-0.u30851	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Palaric and colleagues and colleagues. I picked up the plate before you started talking just to get a chance to say something. So nothing important, what you said didn't affect my desire to say anything. In a way, it sounds like all of this here when we're talking to each other or all of you together, and the other thing is when you listen to it, when you get out of the hall and you look at the TV, then all of our talk looks like a big part of blah, blah, blah, blah, like that kid's song, "The whole house rattles, from the noise, do you hear anything?" Of course, it's not expected otherwise, the SDP will not praise the HDZ government, will not praise the competitor, neither will HDZ praise the SDP and we will defend ourselves and this on television assume it as actually a battle for ourselves and the question of how much we say then turns out to be recognized by the people who listen to it as something that cares about them. So if I were to recapture all the replicas that were made on that side, I didn't realize at all what a replica was, the replica was practically supposed to be the opposite, and here it's commendation to the predecessor, it's repeated, it repeats one thing, and the solutions are not found. In any case, everything that has been said has not been spoken as much about the law itself as about the grounds for the law. Of course it's also a clear opportunity to say something like that, but the fact that the findings you had a few months ago when you warned that the situation was difficult, I don't know why you object when it's being found that the situation is difficult, that something needs to be done. The question may be a measure taken whether or not you agree, but someone is on occasion to implement the measures, and someone is not in a position to implement the measures, so he is responsible for the citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-27-0.u30852	Thank you. The reply to the replica, the esteemed representative of Gordana Sobol. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-27-0.u30853	Mr. Vice President, colleague Roshin. Some maybe a year ago, perhaps something more, this is what Prime Minister Sanader was talking about when he said, let's move what you're criticizing, suggest. Comrade Roshin, you're mostly sitting here too in this hall. What have we been doing here for the last few months? We proposed as a SDP we had proposed and discussed here 25 draft laws that were going to ease the recession, i.e. the crisis. On the one hand, those who went to help the economies, very concrete proposals, on the other hand to protect those whom we consider this year or next to need very much additional protection. And you can't say that here we're just realizing that there's something to be done that we didn't do. The fact that the party there didn't want to hear that the government had smoothly rejected each of these bill proposals, and in each of these bills, you accused us of talking about numbers, of talking about the crisis, of scaring people, of not being exactly what we're talking about. That's what you've heard every time, with every concrete proposal. I'm sorry if you're going to say that what we did means we didn't do anything, I'm sorry, I don't think you're right. You were talking about, that one thing to say, that you should take that, that one. Unfortunately, it seems to me that the government was the one who put it off so I could say that he was facing the problem.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-27-0.u30854	Thank you. We have another replica. Honorable representative of Luke Denon. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-27-0.u30855	Mr. Vice President. Fellow Sobol, you said that in the previous period we had proposed 25 possible solutions that this recession would in some way be stopped or helped to make it easier for the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. It is obvious that these 25 SDP proposals, which are smoothly rejected and I believe that part of the MPs did not even read that they were smoothly rejected that they were premature. They were premature because at the time when we said something should be done, the Government of the Republic of Croatia was still not sure whether the recession in Croatia was true. Well, I guess now that they've slowly come to the conclusion that the recession in Croatia is, then we've got 10 intentions, not measures, 10 intentions to get out of that recession. Obviously, when we were talking about the situation that maybe adopting some of these legal proposals, you might not be in a position and the situation that we are talking about today in public service pay cuts, so it is obvious that at that time the reasoning of the ruling majority was, which you are now scaring the people, you are sending bad messages that the situation in Croatia is catastrophic, and not only is it affecting Croatian citizens, but also international factors where we will put a lot of money, so this bad message, because everyone listens to us, will lead to the fact that the loans, the money we borrow, will be more expensive. But that's why when there's no more Easter rabbit to get out of the hat to tell the people that the emperor is really naked, then we say and we scare the people away that we're in front of bankruptcy. You see, this in front of bankruptcy will probably contribute to the fact that outside those who listen to it from the most responsible people in this Croatia that then we probably get cheaper loans.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-27-0.u30856	Thank you. The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative of Gordana Sobol. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-27-0.u30857	I agree with you in this part of your replica where you're talking about so-called, I'm still saying so. The government's 10 intentions, which unfortunately have not yet been supported and I say, will be discussed on Monday that they are not supported through the proposed budget rebalancing. And stop when you said the government wasn't sure what it was going to be and what it's going to be, it looks like it's the biggest tragedy. Unfortunately, I wouldn't care if it were just these governments, but it's a tragedy of this country that we have a government that wasn't able to swing into its ease and waste, it wasn't able to recognize the problems that are rolling in and out of the house to say so, but both outside the house and in the meantime, while other countries went with concrete measures, not asking, for example. whether what they adopt is in accordance with the general guidelines and directives of the European Union. We are here when we proposed some of the laws were tried and we were interpreted that what we are proposing is in breach of the European Union directives. Whose end line we are neither member nor question at all when we will be. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-27-0.u30858	Thank you. And we still have one replica. Dear Representative Gordan Maras, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-27-0.u30859	Thank you very much. Here I won't use this replica to praise you even though I agree with your debate, but I want to use the replica to say what the Croatian Government has transferred to the Parliament has its nominal side as well. Because in case the government broke the contract alone, it would have to spend about six hundred million kunas this three months. So, gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen of the HDZ. By pressing that, plus when we vote on this law, you will allow the government, i.e. by law, to kidnap Croatian public service workers with 600 million kunas, to which they have the right to sign the contract. And that is what I do not want both as a representative and as a member of this Parliament and as a Croatian citizen to allow. When a person takes a commitment and a commitment is required and there is a way to get out of it and by breaking the contract you have to pay for what you've taken. 600 million kunas want the government to kidnap Croatian workers in public services. Now, you can't allow that, and I hope when you vote, you'll think about that information.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-27-0.u30860	Thank you. And a reply to the replica, the distinguished representative of Gordana Sobol. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-27-0.u30861	Comrade Maras, that he will kidnap, you have told the public service workers well and at the same time will not take those who have and too much as the SDP has suggested and as he will propose in the end line and future. But I think to you as well as to all of us at least on this side is clear, what has already been a years-long-looking practice, has now become a particular practice. The most important thing is not to blame Ivo Sanader and the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Let it be the Croatian Parliament's fault. They've changed the law. Because if they hadn't changed the law, I don't think we could have done it that way and you would have been paid 600 million kuna in the next three months. However, it has been a practice of HDZ and its coalition partners for a long time and is particularly expressed today. Of course, like you and I, I won't be involved in it.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-27-0.u30862	Thank you. Does the proposaler's representative want to take the word further? Yeah. Dear Antun Palaric, State Secretary of the Central State Administration Office, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-27-0.u30863	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. I'm just going to say a few sentences finally because I don't want to cause replicas, controversy with regard to the scheduled vote. In fact, we have heard a lot of words here saying about the law and what the law does not regulate, which is not an emergency for him, so we have heard that 30 thousand new civil servants are employed in Croatia which, of course, is not true and we have given the exact date on which people are employed and when you exclude the police and customs, a total of 17,000 employees in the bodies of the government. But good. Everyone has the right to their own opinion and whether or not reforms have been implemented, but there are international observers, there is Brussels, there is an Ollie Rehn who says there is still a need for judicial reform, a fight against corruption, the Hanes Freedom that says bring the ZUP and the Law on Salutations and all the O.K. As far as this law is concerned, I thank all those who have debated today and contributed to the care of public servants. The government also cares about public officials and the government remains as I said in the opening statement, here is the conclusion. The government's negotiating door is open and we will continue with social dialogue. This law is provided for with a limited duration. However, if we agree before Monday, it can be in a month. We are prepared to review this law and whether it is necessary to remain in force. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-27-0.u30864	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-27-0.u30865	I would just like to point out that on behalf of the government, we accept amendments to the HDZ Club of Representatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-27-0.u30866	Thank you. And we have two corrections of incorrect allegations. The first is Honorable Representative Gordan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-27-0.u30867	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. The secretary of state said the government was open to negotiations. It's amazing that someone says it's open to negotiations and doesn't want to listen. He refuses to listen because he kidnaps what he has agreed to, kidnaps 600 million kunas to Croatian citizens who work in public services and, on the other hand, invites them to negotiate. That's one I'd say HDZ's model of negotiation. Go negotiate, if you won't agree, I'll force you. And on the other hand, I'd like to say about increasing the number of civil service employees. This information Mr. Palaric presented was only partially accurate. Because there's a whole series of agencies that's been transferred from the state service to those agencies and that number of 17,000 doesn't stand, it's much, much bigger than 30 grand.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-27-0.u30868	But there isn't any in our Rules of Procedure correcting partially accuracy or inaccuracy. Either it's incorrect or it's accurate. We have a second correction to the incorrect allegation of the distinguished representative Gordana Sobol. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-27-0.u30869	I'm correcting Mr. Secretary of State's incorrect allegations about the number of newly employed state services because when I was talking about everyone, I was talking about not just that 17 grand. Mr. Secretary of State, just take as many of the employees you found in 2004, and as many as there are today, you will see more than 30,000, because what your colleague said, and the various agencies that are crowded with people, but this did not mean a reduction of civil servants by these same ministries, but rather, in their places and on top of that, they were received and still new people are accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-27-0.u30870	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-27-0.u30871	Final draft law on the basis of public service wages. The amendments were submitted by the HDZ Representatives' Club and accepted by the applicant during the debate and became an integral part of the bill. I am voting on the final draft law on the basis of public service wages. ... What? [[You can't hear the intruder.]] What? The amendments were submitted by the HDZ Representatives' Club and accepted by the applicant during the debate and became an integral part of the bill. ... I am voting on the final draft law on the basis of public service wages. [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]] Who's in? Thank you. Against? Thank you. Restraint? With 78 votes in favour, 34 against was passed the Law on the founding of wages in public services along with the amendments adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-27-0.u30872	We move to the 13th item of the agenda, which is - The report on the implementation of the humanitarian demining plan and spent financial resources for 2008 is submitted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The government has submitted a report pursuant to Article 5 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The humanitarian demining law. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Development and Reconstruction, the Committee on Regional Development, Forestry and Water Economy, the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security. You received the reports at the session. Does the proposal's representative want to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Dear Ivica Buconjic, State Secretary at the interior ministry. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-27-0.u30873	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. You will be presented with a report on the implementation of the humanitarian demining plan and spent financial resources for 2008. The situation on 1 January 2008 was that the total suspected mine space in the Republic of Croatia spread to 997 km2, in the area of 112 cities within 12 counties and was marked with 14 thousand 521 mine danger markings. In 2008, the activities of all participants in humanitarian demining operations reduced mine suspected space by 9.4 km2, and by search operations through 128 idea projects and demining operations through 149 demining ideas, removing mine dangers of 33 million 109 thousand 979 km2, resulting in a reduction of mine suspected space in the Republic of Croatia by a size of 42.5 km2. According to the above, the mine suspected area of the Republic of Croatia on 31 December 2008 is 954.5 km2, in this structure of 42.5 km2 of mine-cleaned space, the most involved was agricultural land of the first category with 47.4%. Then go first row forest land with 16.5% and gardens with 10.2%. In 2008, 1805 anti-walking mines, 2617 anti-arming mines and 3402 unexploded killings were found and destroyed during demining. 27 authorised legal persons participated in demining operations in 2008 with a total of 617 pyrotechnicians, 70 auxiliary workers, 50 demining machines and 44 dogs for mine-exploding unexploded funds. The largest share in the search and demining in 2008 was the Mungos company with a 13.7% stake in the demining funds structure, the largest amount of 158 million was the state's participation. Then, the state budget from the IBRD loan of 17 million 149 thousand, legal persons and bodies of the state administration 64 million 230 thousand, donations 51 million 910 thousand, the IBRD loan of 28 million 760 thousand, which means that a total of 320 million kuna was spent in 2008 for humanitarian demining operations. What may be more important in this report is that between January 1st and December 31st, six mine incidents involving 7 people were reported. In 2008, so far, the smallest number of injuries has been recorded, which is certainly a good thing because we see in such a large area that we deminingly have fewer and fewer victims of any citizen, there are pyrotechnicians. In fact, of these seven people, two were killed, of which one was a pyrotechnician and one was a citizen. This is, in short, the most brief demonstration of the operations of humanitarian demining in 2008.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-27-0.u30874	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? Not that I can see. I'm opening a debate. First, it's a club debate. On behalf of the SDP club, respected representative Ante Kotromanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-27-0.u30875	Mr. Vice President, thank you very much. Secretary of State, Mr. Director. Fellow MPs from the Parliament. Before I start talking about the report on the implementation of the humanitarian demining plan and the money spent last year, I would now look back on this new budget rebalance. I do not think it would be wise or desirable to reduce the funds of the Croatian Mine Action Centre when we know today and yesterday, and it will probably be tomorrow, we will have problems with resources which unfortunately CROMAC does not have enough. This could call into question the overall demining system in Croatia if these are funds that have been cut quite badly. I don't know exactly whether the funds are reduced or not, but I'd like to not see it in the Parliament on Monday and not have to discuss it and talk about it. Let me remind you, in this past period since we have been dealing with demining, there have been exactly 289 people in Croatia, 106 of whom have died, and 163 people are more serious or less injured. So these are huge figures that speak of the need for maximum support to the Croatian Mine Action Centre and that it has one responsible task that must be carried out and implemented naturally by Croatian laws. The annual report on the implementation of humanitarian demining and spent financial resources for 2008 is a solid report on the funds spent. In addition to this report we also have a report on the implementation of the humanitarian demining plan of the military facilities of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia. You could see that. What is missing from me in this first report of the Croatian Mine Action Centre is to point out certain problems and address these problems as the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia have nicely stated in their short but very effective report. We all support the natural process of humanitarian demining and we are fighting for greater budgetary resources to CROMAC, and we have to do this without the figs in our pocket, and it is very necessary and I say it is important, given that we have over 900 km2 that we are not, which we need to control and demine. We know that there are still many areas throughout Croatia under mines, or it is a mine suspected area. But the Croatian Parliament must also know what problems CROMAC is facing on the ground, as well as at its base in Sisak. We don't have a word in the report, and we know there are certain problems. Last year we made a very important decision on the accession of “Mungosa” to the Croatian Mine Action Centre. Whether it's a good decision or a bad decision, we'll probably know it during the new year, and we'll see how it's all reflected on us together. I'd like to know, and it's very important to me what happened in that field today. Is the new company "Mungos" formed? How does the new company "Mungos" work? Is there enough work to do? In the report we saw that for the last year in the “Mungos” was, it was the company that made the most jobs on the demining system in the Republic of Croatia. What about the extra people and how they're taken care of and taken care of? How does the “Mungos ” work positively or negatively? Unfortunately, we all have negative experiences in the last few years when our pyrotechnics in the Mungos strike, when these “Mungosa” leadership generated such costs that it was truly catastrophic. As the attachment reflects on the total demining system, I mean “Mungos”. Whether it has accelerated demining in the Republic of Croatia itself. CROMAC is the owner of ‘Mungosa’. I wonder if there's any conflict of interest and how the competition is conducted. I have warned before, if the CROMAC is now the owner of the "Mungosa" it does not make sense to me how he will do it all together now, I do not know who will be privileged in that competition and I would like you to explain it a little bit more to us, Mr. Director. That's what we need to know today, which is why I'm asking, not waiting for the 2010 report for 2009. These are current issues that are very interesting and of course are important. I've been contacted by the employers' association these days, too. They knew that today, these days, of course, there will be a debate in the Croatian Parliament on the report of humanitarian demining, so they told me that "Mungos" will get a job in a public competition in CROMAC, and he gives it to some private company for 4 kuna. I don't think that makes sense. I don't know if that's true. So what, I think this is the time and place where we can talk about it all together, of course. I've said before that it is against the Public Procurement Act and I think we need to see what we can do better and improve that system that we don't have these problems. Because really, I think the Croatian Mine Action Centre with our director here is doing a good job. They are serious people and they need what we can help through legal norms, through means, and of course they must continue their system always strive to make this system better, clearer, more precise, more efficient and that is what I mean by their obligation. At the first point of this report, I liked the fact that CROMAC is also doing a review of the contaminated area through technical reconnaissances. That's how they cut down, or we reduced the mine suspected space by a total of 9.4 kilometers. That's very important. It's a good thing and I support it to continue this process because we have a very large amount of mine suspected space and there's a huge disproportionateity between mine suspected space and mined space. And that's very important. We can do a lot of these technical reconnaissances in this way, which is done by the pyrotechnics of them CROMACs, which we may not be sure is something or isn't there or something in that space. But if this is with smart policy, I think it can make terrible and large savings for both CROMAC and the Croatian state in terms of the budget itself. New demining tactics must also be considered. We have problems today, you see, the crisis has slowly gotten in with us here, and I think maybe we should think about how, how to reduce all these kinds of costs. In the report, we saw that all counties are treated equally, which is perfectly reasonable and correct. It's okay. But maybe you should consider doing it now from county to county by some priorities. I know that, of course, any space from Dubrovnik to Vukovar is very important and important and especially for the local community is of paramount importance to them. But maybe we could round up all these spaces in one way, and that way we could certainly cut costs to both CROMAC and transport and fuel and other costs and so on to private companies, and we could allow these people to work longer, much longer in one space, and I think that would be a lot more possibly quality for them. Here's what I'm asking you to do is maybe think about some new demining techniques, because this is how we're drawn from Vukovar to Dubrovnik depending on the time and season, and I absolutely know it from experience creates big problems for various companies. I also read in the report that we still have problems with KB1 and MK1 and that some 500 mines were found in Croatia during the course of this year. I'll just tell you that three months ago I was in Oslo when Croatia signed an agreement on the ban and use of caste ammunition and it was an event that was huge where there were over 80 ministers, where I saw that in those countries treated with caste ammunition there was no Croatia. You know very well that since '91. Years to '95. Croatia was treated with various such ammunition that several people died in Zagreb as well. I was very surprised because the European Union gives a great deal of funds for such a kind of demining, so Serbia took advantage of that possibility and gets somewhere between $10 million and $15 million a year to demining its space on the Kopalnik, where NATO treated them in that known blow a few years ago. What I also noticed in the report, and what I would like further to be explained, is that during the course of expert surveillance in the course of search operations, demining in 20 cases was identified a deviation from the agreed mode of work, and in one case, a controlled review found a mine PM2. So, the company did the job, yeah, she got a competitive job that she was supposed to do well. Lucky that we have good and quality supervisors working at CROMAC, so they could, of course they did surveillance and they found that, that a certain company had made a major failure. I'd like to know what companies are and what conjectures stem from the fact that they've done their job badly or unqualityly. Looking at this table number five and the financial achievement of the state budget, I simply have to notice, given the overall events and the global situation that are biting us a little bit. I can start downstairs from this last thing. Construction of a ramp for disabled people that is necessary and necessary for persons in the building of CROMAC, but it costs about 720,000 kuna. We need to see if that's absolutely realistic. Management... We're spending the plan on 42 million kunas. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] That's almost 1/3 of all the funds. I think you should see how, in which way these funds can be cut and how as many of these funds can be channelled into what is fundamental, which is demining space and the entire Republic of Croatia. A few things about the price of demining search. The average price of all the contracts was about 7.8 kuna per metre square, which is a reduction, and it's seen well by CROMAC, but I think we should, since I have to talk about it, so it doesn't turn out now that I'm lobbying for private companies and for the Mungos and he's the one who works and earns and pays the wages, you should consider whether that price is good and whether it can satisfy everything those people in that system do. They have a lot of obligations in terms of fuel, accommodation, maintenance, we know how much this has cost, and that price is, I know that the interest of CROMAC is to keep the price as low as possible, to make as many squares as possible, and that's the normal policy that I would probably be leading to, but I'm saying that it's important that these companies work, that it's important that these companies pay their salaries, that they pay their commitments to the state, and all the other things that they have to do, and that in one way we're all satisfied. To be satisfied, to be satisfied with the state because it successfully and quality demines Croatian space, that it does not happen that private companies leave mines in the area after the job is done. And of course, and they're content with pyrotechnics as the most important, important role in the system itself because they're the ones who are in physical contact with all the problems that stem from the demining system itself. What I would also welcome and what is good in this report is the development of a three-year humanitarian demining plan and a new National Mine Action Programme. We, as you know, have so far had a plan that is not respected. I think maybe we should have suggested it in this report to look at what it is now planned, in which way it is meant to be done in the next few years of demining and what we are going to do together with this National Mine Action. I think it's an important document and it might be good, I'd like to have it for myself, so we'll ask the same director, our director, to send it to me, of course, so I can get some guidance on what are now key plans for Croatian demining. I finally left a report on the implementation of the humanitarian demining plan of the armed forces military facilities, which is a very short, concise and very clever report, as I would call it. But I have to do this thing, even though I'm sorry there's no secretary of state here to ask him. Point 9. Problems and suggestions. The biggest problem in the execution of the task of demining military facilities was the insufficient completion of a unit with soldiers of demining pyrotechnics. As in previous years, there are difficulties... Security of demining tasks, which rarely led to the delay of the start or temporary termination of the tasks under way. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I can't believe that in 2009, we don't have a Sanitary vehicle that can be on the ground and that can be transporting boys' pyrotechnics. I think the Secretary of State or someone from the Department of Defense, I think it's a serious failure. I mean, we're under Homeland War I had a surgical hospital in Dinara, and we can't afford a normal sanity vehicle today so we can take some minimum steps and a minimum port and support to the people on that ground. Although they said clearly down there that these failures and problems would correct the course of the next period. And finally, of course, I think we should support this report, we should support the work of the Croatian Mine Action Centre, but I would also like to now Mr. Director to give me some answers to these questions that I have asked and that we can have a clear picture and picture of all the things that are happening in the Croatian Mine Action Centre, around the Croatian Mine Action Centre and about the new policies and strategic guidelines they have. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-27-0.u30876	Thank you. On behalf of the HDZ Club, distinguished representative Branko Boxti.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-27-0.u30877	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, Mr. Director, colleagues and colleagues. The Republic of Croatia as well as any country in the world that has been faced with a monster of work burdened with one of its most severe consequences of mine pollution. The Croatian Mine Action Centre as a roofing organisation for mine action in the Republic of Croatia founded by the Government of the Republic of Croatia has become an organisational leader in the demining region. The continued organisational development and continuous investment and the application of state-of-the-art techniques and technologies have successfully created their own models for all phases of the complex demining process. Today they are almost routinely used in quality control and quality control processes over demining operations, designing projects and documentation, defining and marking mine suspected areas, and developing and maintaining the most modern database. The introduction of a market model and tender procedure into the demining system and the integration of development projects with demining projects enabled a rapid development of capacity to obtain a completely transparent way of generating prices that greatly increased business economy from one, and through the effects, efficiency and quality of works on the other. It should be noted that on 1 January 2008, mine suspected space in the Republic of Croatia extended to 997 km square, extended to 112 cities and municipalities within 12 counties and was marked with 14 521 mine risk markings, which is still a very large area, but also thanks to organised methods of work and clear determination of priorities Croatia is today a safe country in all parts of transport infrastructure, tourist destinations, facilities of public and social purposes, gardens in the rebuilding system and generally the largest part of the space used in everyday life. The initial basis for drawing up the plan was also established mine suspected space of 997 km square and planned funding of 318 million 548 thousand. By conducting a general survey to carry out an audit of the entire mine suspected territory of the Republic of Croatia, the production of the project documentation reduced mine suspected space by 9.4 km square. The search operations through 128 idea projects and search and demining operations through 149 demining idea projects removed the mine danger of 33 million square meters, resulting in a reduction in the mine suspected territory of the Republic of Croatia in 2008. According to the above, the mine suspected area of the Republic of Croatia on 31 December 2008 is 954.5 km square. In 2008, the largest participation in the structure of areas planned for humanitarian demining with a share of 47.4% had agricultural areas of the first order. The 2008 plan identified the removal of mine risk from 9.8km square in priority agricultural land, and in 2008 mine risk was removed by 15.7km square, which is an increase of more than 60% compared to planned. This large increase was conditioned primarily by the majority of the claims on agricultural land following the completion of the administrative check and the score of the requirements for the areas in which the World Bank loan will be spent. Most jobs are aimed at achieving the security and possible return of displaced and exiled residents in 2008 in the settlements of Gorica municipality of Dragalić and Pirara in the municipality of Stara Gradiška in Brodo-Posavina County. In 2008, 12 pyrotechnic supervisors, 23 pyrotechnic overseers who conducted the inspection of control samples, conducted professional surveillance of search and demining operations in 2008. Professional surveillance in the course of search and demining activities means before mentioning supervisors at the workshop on a daily basis. A thousand 805 anti-walking mines, 2,000 617 anti-arming mines, and 3,000 402 unexploded killings were found. The average price of all contracted search and demining transactions in 2008 was 7.78 kuna per metre square metre without VAT, down by 8.1 from 2007. The reason for the reduction in prices lies in the design of larger projects on agricultural areas where demining machines can be used intensively. During 2008, six mine incidents were already mentioned, which unfortunately killed seven people, three of whom were pyrotechnics. In 2008, the smallest annual number of deaths was recorded so far. In 2009, search and demining operations planned to remove mine danger 37.42 kilometers from the total area planned for humanitarian demining in 2009. 58% refers to socioeconomic development priorities, 25% to safety priorities and 5% to environmental priorities. Due to all the above, the Croatian Democratic Community club supports this report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-27-0.u30878	Thank you. On behalf of the HDSSB club, distinguished representative Boro Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-27-0.u30879	Dear Mr. Vice President, colleagues and fellow MPs and deputies, Mr. Secretary of State, Director of the Croatian Mine Action Centre. It is clear that the report on the implementation of the humanitarian demining plan should be accepted because it is understandable that this job that the Croatian Mine Action Centre and all legal persons doing this job are both human and for the Republic of Croatia is a very useful job. When this report is looked at, it is then seen that in early 2008 it was calculated to have 997km of square surfaces untapped. When you say 997 square kilometers then it kind of doesn't seem like a lot of 997 numbers when you look at the budget and billions of kuna then 997 isn't much. However, I must point out that the Republic of Croatia has about 54 thousand square kilometres of land area, and then it represents almost 2% of the territory of the Republic of Croatia, so 2% of the territory of the Republic of Croatia. Speaking of square kilometers then in this report, I am a little bothered that the figures are in square kilometers and, secondly, almost in the same paragraph, in the same article, millions of square meters are used in the same section. I don't think it's because of the public's impression or our parliamentary representatives because we know it's one square mile a million square meters. Now, if, according to this 2008 report, we demined or freed suspicions from the mined surfaces of 33 and 9, 42 square kilometers and we have a 997 figure, we're actually going to end up somewhere in 25 to 30 years. That means, late 2040s. When I look at myself I'd say the specification of our counties that are to say polluted with mines or are suspected of minefields then we see that there are twelve, twelve counties of which are five Slavonian, Slavonic and Baranja and sympic to say. Five out of twelve is just over 40%. So five Slavonian counties were polluted with mines and mine explosives that General Kotromanovic knew better about, I would not engage, unfortunately I was treating the consequences of the accidents that occurred in connection with the explosion of these mines. So when I talk about areas that are polluted with mines in Slavonia, then I only talk about agricultural and forest areas. Which would therefore mean for Slavonia, Baranja and Srijem demining these areas, and we see how crowded there is today in society and what is one general, one dissatisfaction with the assignment or availability of both state and private agricultural land. And here, we have to say millions or hundreds of millions of square meters if anyone will, or if we're talking about square miles or hundreds of thousands of acres of surface area in Slavonia, Baranja and Srijem, which are certainly some under mines and some are very suspicious of the existence of mines. I would also like to refer to the fact that here on the financing page, so those 318 million kunas that the Croatian Mine Action Centre is to say income and use last year 2008 and the plan was to prepare for the realisation of demining funds from the World Bank loan. You see, we are back from the loan and we are witnessing and I have, and we have also had a press conference on the fact that the European Union offered grants through some competition a month and a half ago, two days ago and that countries within Europe, that even those countries that had not had a war, such as Belarus, but also Bosnia and Herzegovina, but also Serbia and Kosovo came forward. Croatia did not report to the competition. Very interesting. I don't know who's responsible and who's in charge of Croatia following such things but is there to say by chance or thank God that there is a Regional Development Agency of Slavonia and Baranja from Osijek and its delegation to Brussels that observed this competition and ran there for Croatia to receive grants or grants for demining. Even Rwanda applied to this contest although it does not belong to European countries but since we know what was in Rwanda so I do not know if it will win, but that Croatia has not found and the administration of the Republic of Croatia has not found it necessary to report to such a tender for obtaining grants, and here on page 4, on page 3, we are talking about the World Bank loan, each loan must be clearly returned and returned at a certain interest rate. Here's what I wanted to say and I think that in any case for Slavonia and Baranja it would mean a lot if this demining process were to be accelerated, even through these grants that need to be collected. Unfortunately, there has now been a recession, an economic crisis and all that, not to repeat, how it will go and move on, it is hard to say. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-27-0.u30880	Thank you. And on behalf of the HNS Club, distinguished representative Miljenko Doric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-27-0.u30881	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Head of State, Secretary and Mr. Director, colleagues and colleagues. I won't read the report, we'll absolutely support it. But I would concentrate on a detail that no one spoke of until just before Mr. Grubisic. Why are our reports coming to our benches, of this kind? He's coming to see what's been done and they're coming to settle what we do to solve these problems. Here, colleagues and colleagues heard a thousand miles of square meters of mines, that's a billion square meters, every square meter we heard cost to demine something over one euro. That means we need to find a billion, a billion and 100 million euros. Seven, eight, nine billion kuna. It's yours and my mission and ours. We heard a colleague, Grubisic, who warned of some illogicalities, that competitions in which funds could possibly be obtained, sometimes grants are not reported. Whose fault is it, whose responsibility is it? That's not good. But I wouldn't transfer responsibility to others, I'd stay inside this assembly. And if Mr. Director asked us, which of us in the last 10 years has found one, two, three donors and helped demining a certain area, believe me, it would probably all come down to no more than 5, 6% of Parliamentarians, maybe less. That's not good. We are 30, 40, 50 sitting in various international organisations, in the NATO Parliamentary Assembly, in the ESU, in the interparliamentary Union, in the Council of Europe, how many times have we talked there about this problem, how many times have we tried to find donors, how successful we have been in this, have we organized in the halls of these institutions thematic exhibitions to show how many more surfaces are below mines, how many victims so far because of this mine contamination, how many have we tried to make here to solve this problem? I claim not enough, absolutely not enough. So, Mr. Director, I ask you and I urge you to try and prepare with the relevant expert team that you will probably easily gather, if the thematic exhibition is coming, we must all stand here to try the world and place the exhibitions in all those organisations where we, as Parliamentarians, are sitting. Furthermore, our embassies, how much have our embassies helped you? How many humanitarian actions were there around the world? how much in the last year, two days you get on that line in such a way of means? Does everything have to fall on the back of the Croatian budget, the county budget, the urban and municipal budget? A big part, unfortunately, yes, but not everything. So, I urge colleagues and colleagues of all of you to do something more ourselves to finally solve this problem and finally get those 2% of Croatian territory into office. We see that two-thirds of that area is agricultural land. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-27-0.u30882	Thank you. And now we have three individual ones. The first is the distinguished representative Nevenka Marinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-27-0.u30883	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. I'm really gonna shorten my report, and I'm gonna say that here I'd just go with the victims. She reminded again that in mine suspected space, a thousand 270 mine incidents were suffered by a thousand and eighty-eighty people, of which 474 were fatal. Outside mine suspected space 65 children, of which 10 fatal. An analysis of this report found that the risks were completely removed from our islands, which is extremely good. Lastovo, Vis, Coal and Pasman, from the mass graves of the victims of aggression, which was a priority. Finally also from the territory of the town of Zadar, the National Park "Krka", as well as the Bosilovo gas pipeline, and electrical distribution facilities. The priorities given by units and local and regional self-government were respected. I would like to stress here with regard to supervision, that there is a need to strengthen supervision of the quality of the works, because given the number of victims we have, because the number of repetitive jobs in the report suggests seriousness, and the number of thousands of 805 found and destroyed anti-personnel mines and 2 thousand 617 anti-arming mines indicate still great pollution of the demining space. One more thing, the report suggests that 257 pyrotechnics and 13 demining machines were on average engaged to carry out these tasks, and we know that the capacities of the Republic of Croatia are much higher than this. I wonder if only the financial reasons are the reason for this little commitment? When it comes to donations, I want to take advantage of this opportunity and thank all those who are, and are not small, I think that donations are at 16% and that many people are making a great effort to bring in demining donations. Especially in the Zadar County area, they do much, much more than this average of the Republic of Croatia. I will take the opportunity to thank everyone who has channeled their resources to the Zadar County area, because it is one of the most polluted and one of the counties where it was most affected. After the war almost the same as in the time of the war, it was lost in the area. But take advantage of your long-term work experience in this area and suggest some things, and this is the completion of the revision of the entire territory of the Republic of Croatia and should be done as responsible, more professional and quality as it is the basis on which all plans of units of local and regional self-government are based, and that is what the effectiveness and eligibility of state budget and donations depend on. And in order to ensure the safety of all citizens of the Republic of Croatia and about 800,000 of them live in a mine suspected area, it is necessary to continue to maintain tags that warn about the danger of mines. Another suggestion, the World Bank loan used for demining as soon as possible because we saw that we have demining capacities. And I expect from the Croatian Mine Action Centre as soon as possible to complete the humanitarian demining plan for the next three years as well as a new strategy, i.e. a national mine action programme. Although a small number of deaths were reported in 2008, the fact is that 7 people were killed in 6 mine incidents, of which three pyrotechnicians confirm that the mine problem in the Republic of Croatia is still threatening. But it's also a huge asset. And today it was about the Pelješko bridge, the investments in the Pelješka bridge, that significant funds so far have been over, that so far demining has been invested only from the budget, only since the establishment of the Croatian Mine Action Centre around 350m euros. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-27-0.u30884	Thank you. Honorable representative Goran Heffer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-27-0.u30885	Thank you very much, Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Director of the Croatian Mine Action Centre. Here I was discussing on the Committee on Development and Reconstruction, and I'm also going to say something on the front row of the Vukovar-Srijem County that I come from. When we look at this table one view of the total, therefore, of these mine activities, then of course if you come from the county where the transfer of some plan is 163% you have to be satisfied with it. And, of course, I'm pleased that it is, therefore, demined in these areas of 6.3 km, that I don't speak in millions of meters or we who deal in agriculture like to say that it's about 670 acres. But here we should point to what has already been mentioned many times, so I will do it again. And from the question on the board of the gentleman... I realized that the primary problem was demining money. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So the capacity we have, the people we have, the abilities we have, the knowledge we have, the primary problem is money. Obviously, in Vukovar's Srijem County, it was through the formation of a demining fund that we see only there formed, it proved to be a good move, because it also contributed to what we see here that it was made. Of these, I said, some 670 hectares of almost 20% were financed from this fund and it was made possible through international sources of funding, the duplication of these funds, and thus managed to score through such a single fund. What is left is some 720 acres [720 ha], or some 72 square miles [72 sq km] of which are over 50% of the forest. First of all, I said they're interested in agricultural areas, so if we're recalculating it, we'd get to about 3 to 3 or 3 thousand to 3200 acres still untapped. That's one terrible potential in terms of agriculture and in terms of what someone was talking about yesterday. So, I mean, Mr. Doric it's organic farming. So these things are so I'd like to tell us the priority. But not a priority, in that classical sense, rhetorically, let's say, something is a priority, in Slavonia, especially in my county is agricultural land and demining real priorities. I expect that, therefore, at least continue at this pace. Although when we look at this pace that was going on last year, what we're talking about is that it would take us another 10 years. It is somewhat shorter or twice as short as what Mr Grubisic said and it is a long period. It's been a really long period for 10 years. So I'm hoping he can cut back. However, the issue of financing these things, given the recession that has appeared to us in our backyard, given what we have seen already and through the changes in budget, will obviously be a problem. I will join in this context one issue, one misunderstanding of the situation regarding the European Commission and inclusion in these financial flows intended for demining. I'll probably tell anyone who's thinking about it will never know why our mission didn't do it. If it's done through some other channels, thank them very much. Because it's obvious that someone might still be thinking about it. I appeal once again that not only we parliamentary representatives, but all public companies, all those who have an interest in both Croatia's forests and Croatia's waters, etc., should be included in this story. So it is not a problem to demining the problem only of the owner of agricultural land, but it is a broader problem because in Croatian forests, the question of forest roads and the exploitation of Croatian forests is certainly a very important element in the general management of the state. I hope, despite the recession, that despite the gaps that took place on the European Commission and the like, the funds will still be found so that this deadline, where I have said for 10 years, my colleague Grubisic said for 25 years, will be reduced and that we will be able to become a land without mines as soon as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-27-0.u30886	Thank you. Replica Mr. Representative Vlatko Podnar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-27-0.u30887	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, you mentioned Croatian forests to your colleague Heffer, so Croatia's forests have mostly co-financed demining in their area. But I'm sorry there's no such thing as here in this report as to how much agricultural land is involved, etc., and how much forest participation is in the mine suspected area. It would certainly show that this surface has the highest participation. And I personally think and I can really commend the representatives of the Mine Action Centre of Karlovac, who in the Virovitica-Podravska County really showed in the audit, the revision of mine suspected areas that they had access to this business seriously. However, what is the problem is, it is certainly funding and will be a problem in the future, so I would ask you if, in any way, either through legal regulation or through simplification, the mine suspected area were to be scouted, so that faster and simpler and mine suspected surfaces would be reduced because the fact that, regardless of the search, there are no mine explosives, but they are always suspicious. However, I think that an even better data can be found through a quality surface view. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-27-0.u30888	Thank you. Ms. Representative Mariana Petir. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-27-0.u30889	Dear Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, MPs and MPs, Mr. Secretary of State, Director of the Mine Action Centre. I certainly want to commend the efforts that the Croatian Mine Action Centre has made over the past year, but throughout its existence. Overall looking at the mine action in 2008 in line with the humanitarian demining plan and the basis of the mission of the plan, we can safely say that the implementation and implementation of this plan in 2008 has been the best so far and therefore I congratulate both you and all your associates. Of course, at this point, we should first of all thank those who carry their heads in a bag each day, whose families we can say each day, and these are our pyrotechnicians who I would like to especially welcome and thank them for the efforts they make daily to free Croatia from mines. In addition to the fact that last year's realization was the best so far, the plan was reached by 99.5% and that the community was returned to the use of 33.1 km2, which is for every praise. It was also agreed through the insurance funds of demining works 122.9%, which is a good basis for expecting the implementation of the plan in 2009 to be the same for each commendation. The realization of 97.9% of contracted works with legal persons with the highest amount of Croatian forest, as mentioned before me by my colleague Podnar, and as well as the realisation of the funds of donors of 81.4% is certainly a positive trend in financing demining. I also believe in the positive fact that 47.4% of agricultural areas have been demining realised, but I believe as a member of the HSS that much greater efforts should be made because these areas can later also be used for the organic production of food in which Croatia certainly has a good chance, it has knowledge, but it can find an adequate market. I think a positive shift was achieved in 2008 and in the part that always worries us the most because of human lives, the number of mine incidents has been reduced, and we can say that so far these have been the least. When we look at 2008 six incidents with seven victims, four civilians and three pyrotechnics. Comparing this data with the number of road injuries, spring crossings, falls, it is evident that respecting the fact that mine suspected space... In 12 Croatian counties, 111 municipalities and cities, it can be determined that a major shift has been made in the education of many associations and institutions, of course in which the Croatian Mine Action Centre plays a very important role. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Also, a shift has been made to mark mine suspected areas. A great deal of concern and effort has been put in place in the labelling and setting of these markings. But we still have to say that there are those irresponsible individuals who alienate those markings, we don't know what they need and what they're using for, but unfortunately alienating those markings on mine suspected areas can cause someone to walk into a mine suspected area and get hurt. That's why I'm calling the citizens here on responsibility and conscience. We find it extremely successful to provide information to a large number of users. I also think about the bodies of the state administration and the public in the way you've established the information system and how you've created maps, 877 maps of A0's minimality, which I think is extremely important to all users of the space. Also, I am assessing the World Bank loan withdrawal in 2008 as a positive step and I hope that it will be fully realised in 2009. What everyone with some high expectations is now awaiting, especially in the year of the crisis, is our tourist season. The high hopes are laid out precisely for profit from the tourist season. It seems to me that this demining centre has also contributed to its contribution because the markings have been placed on those parts where we are still, which are Lastovo, Vis, Ugljan and Pasman, there are mine suspected areas, and I hope that next year we will not need those markings and we will welcome the tourist season without mine suspected areas in the coast. In international cooperation, very good moves have been made, which I personally commend, not because the centre is located in Sisak-Moslavina County, which I am a representative from that county, but because you tried to establish a cluster and you included Croatian knowledge to help the wider anti-minian community, and thus you included economic operators from Croatia, tied them to economic operators from other countries. I think it's a good example, it's a good trip, and that's why I'm going to support this report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-27-0.u30890	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. Report on the implementation of the humanitarian demining plan and spent financial resources for 2008. I give the vote the conclusion, the proposed report is accepted. Who's in? Thank you. Against? Restraint? Unanimity with 112 votes for the proposed conclusion. Ladies and gentlemen, the vote is over. The session continues at 9.30 p.m. on Monday with a debate on the proposal to amend and supplement the State budget and financial plans, the Law on the Implementation of the State Budget. And following a debate Monday, the continuance of the parliament's session continues on Wednesday, Thursday, Friday, on Friday, where the session would then be concluded.
