ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-21-0.u32383	Dear MPs and MPs, we begin today's session. As I announced yesterday, today we will discuss 3. Business report on the work of the Croatian Defence Fund from the Homeland War and members of their families for 2008 – applicant: Croatian Defence Fund and members of their families I welcome the Croatian Deputy Prime Minister with my associates. The applicant shall be the Croatian Defence Fund from the Homeland War and members of their families on the basis of Article 8. Law on the Croatian Defence Fund from the Homeland War and members of their families. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. The government delivered an opinion. The debate was conducted by the War Veterans Committee. You received the reports at the session. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Government and Chairman of the Fund Management Board, Mrs Jadranka Kosor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-21-0.u32384	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable Madam Representatives and the Honorable Gentlemen Representatives. I warmly welcome you on behalf of the Croatian Defence Fund, on behalf of the Administrative Board of the Croatian Defence Fund, whose head I am as Croatian Defence Minister, of course according to the Law on the Croatian Defence Fund. This report, which I am first of all on behalf of the board members, and then of course on behalf of and those who manage, means the Property Management Society is a report for last year. I believe that all of you who have studied it can see very clearly that we have done well as good hosts, it is primarily important because of the fact that there, around the fund, around the defenders are always distributed some stories that, unfortunately, have nothing to do with reality and, unfortunately, it happens sometimes for political purposes. But the report we filed, as I believe you see or you will see is good. discusses the good business of the management board of the Fund and the Association for Asset Management, but also talks about the fact that in the past year, 2008, we have made several moves, primarily in the protection of the shares and values of the shares of Croatian defenders, as well as in the protection of defenders in total when it comes to the property of the fund itself and when it comes to the possibility that in any way the fund, the assets of the fund or anything related to the fund of abuse. So over the past year we have also passed amendments to the law, or additions to the law, but also amendments and additions to the Statutes of the Croatian Defence Fund. I will give a very brief warning and a reminder, of how the amendments to the law have been passed through the Croatian Parliament. You discussed it and you approved it. The addition of the Law on the Croatian Defence Fund last year introduced a provision that makes it impossible for the assets of the fund to be held hostage and executed. It has also been established that the assets of the fund cannot be the subject of the acquired mass. These are very significant changes. Also regulated are the credit activities of the fund management company, so-called The repo business, and it has also been amended as I have said the Statute of the Croatian Defence Fund. In that part, and I think it is one of the most important changes, but one of the most important values of the law itself, as well as the statutes, which is that the payment of the share can only be made at the expense of the member of the fund, so Croatian defender or member of his family or members of their families after the death of Croatian defenders. That way, here are these changes we avoided what we unfortunately witnessed in some past times, which is so-called. Bagging, therefore, abuse of Croatian defenders' property in favour of others most often neither saw nor participated in the defences of Croatia. In fact, it was very often about people of a completely different kind. It was in my opinion, here and the personal court as chairman of the board of directors, but also as ministers of Croatian defenders one of the most important decisions in the past year related to the Croatian Defence Fund. We also prescribed a day when, or which will be taken to determine the price for the calculation of the share on payment, this is the 60th day of the submission of the application for the sale of the share of the fund. It also established the status of fund members after the redemption of shares. I recall that Croatian defenders who have redeemed their stakes remain members of the fund and that is here, one fact based on the agreement, based on numerous discussions, primarily with associations of Croatian defenders at the state level in an agreement with which we are certainly doing everything that is important as the actions of the board of directors and the Property Management Society. Last year, on April 12th, the redemption of the stake began, and I remind you, there has been a slow redemption since then, but what I can say with pleasure and what I can inform you of, the Croatian defenders really understand every moment we are in, so there was no such thing as what some predicted, of course with desire, unfortunately with the desire to shut down the Croatian Defence Fund, so there was no stampede, there was no collapse of the Croatian Defence Fund because they understood what the values of the Fund were. First of all, because of the fact that through the payment of dividends, the fund allows scholarships to the children of Croatian defenders, but that through here, we also have a Foundation of Croatian defenders to help those who are the most vulnerable, so those who live on particularly difficult occasions. Last year, we decided, as you know, to sell 700 thousand shares of INA on a publicly announced offer of MOL, for which the fund received a billion 960 million kuna. It was also the same, of course after that decision we made because the shares were sold as you know about 2800 kuna at the time we decided to sell. There were different speculations. Unfortunately, there have also been attempts at catastrophic misinformation from the public. However, Croatian defenders also recognized it and did not fall for the misinformation of those who again and at that time wanted to collapse their actions, actually completely destroy and destroy the fund. That we did the right thing shows the fact that we kept the value of the share of the fund, means the share of Croatian defenders in the fund, and here on today they amount to or the value of the share is 631 kuna and 3 June. If we hadn't decided to sell in view of the fact that the value of the stock fell, we would probably have reduced the value of the share at least better said double by counting from the value of the shares at this point. Today or today, at least we've submitted this report for the past year, but it's good to have information about the value of the fund's assets on today. That's 2 billion 304 million 874 thousand 825 kuna and 10 limes. That's the value of the fund now. So despite the fact that the payments started last year, the redemptions and the fact that in 2008, we paid more than a billion kuna in the name of Croatian defenders who were participants in the fund or members of their families who had the right to do so. I'm not going to go into details just because you have a comprehensive report in front of you. I will just mention what I was talking about earlier, and that is the total value of the fund other than the property that we have, except for the fact that it belongs to Croatian defenders, except that they have already redeemed more than a billion kuna is a fund for the scholarship of children of Croatian defenders and trustees. Here's to you information, I think it's a good thing that we all know that. In this year alone, in the academic year or school year, we paid or approved 10 thousand 255 scholarships for children of Croatian defenders. In total so far, so we started in the academic year of 2006, 2007 with 2 thousand 972 scholarships, then paid 9 million kuna for it, something more, in 2007, 2008. Seven thousand 45 scholarships, paid almost 42 million in scholarships, and here in the academic year or school year 2008/2009. Ten thousand 255 scholarships for which nearly 62 million kunas will be paid. It is part of a third of the Croatian defence fund. In fact, one third is paid to the participants, one third is reinvested and one third is allocated to one part of the scholarship fund and one part to the trust fund. Total since the academic and school year 2006/2007. To date, we have granted 20 thousand 272 scholarships to children of Croatian defenders thanks to the assets of the fund and obtaining the Croatian defenders' fund. This is really the greatest value according to our assessment because when I tell you that here is behind this scholarship so far paid or invested 112 million 493 thousand and 600, 493 and 600 thousand kuna. So that's undoubtedly extremely high value. I'll tell you for sure a piece of information that will make you happy. Most of the children who received a scholarship in high school, the children of Croatian defenders enrolled in colleges and of those who enrolled in colleges more than 63% were excellent students, so they will first of all end up with others, and I think that it is really the greatest value of what we invest in knowledge, what we invest in children, we invest in the future, and I am sure that these are future managers, future business people, businessmen, doctors, teachers, but I believe also representatives in the Croatian Assembly and that these children will lead Croatia what is our and the main goal and therefore all of these efforts, and we know that you all here support it with all your strength. And finally, ladies and gentlemen, since I mentioned that one third of the fund is being deployed so that one part goes to the scholarship fund, one in the foundation here and the information is that it's only here about the fund's assets that at the end of December 2008, means I'm talking about a reporting period, more specifically 31 December 2008 paid in total amount of 26 million 436 thousand 677 kuna, so from the foundation to Croatian defenders whose families had a serious illness or had themselves a difficult disease or living in particularly difficult conditions and at the end of 2008, the foundation had about 40 million kuna funds to achieve the purpose of the foundation. Well, that's it. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, the Croatian Defence Fund according to our assessment, so the Management Board of the Fund, but also the Company for Property Management, operates neatly, operates as a good master, a good host taking care of property belonging to Croatian defenders. I will remind those who may not know, not among you but in the public, that the fund was created in such a way that the government entered 7% of the shares of the INA and 7% of the shares of HT as assets of the Croatian Defence Fund. In conclusion, most of the Board of Directors of the Fund are defenders or representatives of the family of Croatian defenders. So, without their consent, no decision can be made, and then it can be said that the Croatian defenders are managing the fund, because there are four representatives of the defenders and their families, there are still representatives of the Ministry of Economy, of course the Minister or Minister, according to the provisions of the law and the representative of the Croatian Parliament, or the Committee for War Veterans. None of us who work at the Board of Directors who have to say a lot of work, make some really difficult decisions sometimes, none of us have ever received any lip for this work, and I think that's logical and that's the only way we can work. I said that because sometimes there are rumors that someone gets some money for the job, no, so we all do it volunteering and, of course, it's an honor to all of us. Thank you very much, and I suggest that the Croatian Parliament support this report.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-21-0.u32385	Thank you. We have one correction to an incorrect quote. Dear Representative Gordan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-21-0.u32386	Thank you very much. Mrs. Kosor said in her statement that at one point in privatisation, in the second part of the privatisation of INA, some did not welcome the decision to sell INA shares because they wanted the fund to collapse. I'm correcting, it's an incorrect quote especially because I followed the media. Most of the small shareholders of INA said that because they were not satisfied with the price that was at the time 2800 kuna and believed that in a fair competition on the INA stock market, there could be a higher amount of damage and small shareholders, as well as defenders. That maybe you could get 200, 300 kuna more for the stock and that was the only reason. Surely the small shareholders didn't want the INA stock to fall and then they lost. They were people who objected, and they objected because they felt that the board of directors, not the Defence Fund and the defenders, had directed the INA privatisation as it ended.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-21-0.u32387	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? Not that I can see. Then I'm opening a debate. First it's the clubs. On behalf of the HDZ club, distinguished representative Josip Djakic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-21-0.u32388	Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, the esteemed Vice-President of the Croatian Government and our minister. My colleagues and colleagues. We have before us a Business Report on the work of the Croatian Defence Fund from the Homeland War and members of their families for 2008. The Croatian Democratic Community Club accepts and assesses it extremely positive and welcomes the fact that no legal assumption about the mandatory liquidation of the Fund that threatened this Fund has been fulfilled. The successful business that is reflected in the profit of a billion-dollar and 420 million and 104 thousand kuna, which accounts for 169 million kunas in the 2007 HT dividend paid to the Fund in 2008. The second part is INA dividends of 10 million and 500 thousand kuna. The third part of the interest revenues amounting to 35 million 837 thousand kuna, while the amount of a billion and 217 thousand 416 kuna was earned as a profit from the sale of shares of INA. These revenues were reduced for expenditure totalling 13 million kuna, which is a management fee. It's a cost of interest per... contracts. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] All this has been achieved enables the resolution of the social, humanitarian, development needs of Croatian defenders and members of their families through the work of the Croatian Defence Foundation and the National War Fund. All of this would not have been so if it hadn't prevented an attempt that hung over this Fund, that it was liquidated, that the bags bought shares and certain legal changes that had been made were on the right track and prevented what was going to be done. I see today that some are recognized in these corrections of incorrect allegations, i.e. the reactions to the vice president's exposure. They probably took part in this attempt because this Fund is surely accomplishing what is none so far. This Fund really provides all those who need it, this Fund certainly gives the children of Croatian defenders the opportunity to finish their colleges, to be those who will continue in the Croatian homeland to take care of and take care of it. In order to do so, the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Croatian Defences from the Homeland War and the members of their families was adopted in order to comply with the acquis of the European Union and on the proposal of the Working Group was drawn up by the Management Board of the Fund, which consisted of representatives of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War, HANFA, the Fund Management Society, Erste Investa and the Ministry of Family and Intergenerational Solidarity. In addition to the law, a provision has been adopted that makes it impossible for the assets of this Fund to be held as collateral or as an asset. It has also been established that the assets of the Fund cannot be subject to bankruptcy. Those provisions that were made must have prevented those attempts to buy black stocks and to manage them afterwards, to earn on them as they wanted. And that was what was the opposition among all those who opposed the Fund's work, opposed the amendments to the law and this kind of management that it was. The said provisions provide for the day-to-day liquidity of the Fund in order to be able to pay off a part of the members who wish to redeem their shares. The most important amendments and additions to the Statutes of the Fund have been made. The payment of the share can only be made at the expense of a member of the Fund, as already said, and that provision is the most prevented abuse so that the bags could not have bought those shares on black cash. A day shall be prescribed to be taken to determine the price for the calculation of the share on payment. This is the 60th day of the date of submission of the application for the sale of the share of the Fund. The status of Fund members after the redemption of shares has been established. Namely, even after redemption, the owners remain members of the Fund. They remain members so that their children are not guilty that they may not have created some wealth, they may not be citizens who can forge for theirs, so that it would not be possible to leave them out of the stakes they belong to. It is determined that the remaining members remain, regardless of what they have redeemed. A total of 14 meetings of the National War Fund Management Board were held in 2008. As you know, as you've heard, most of the board of directors are Croatian defenders, four of them, and I'm probably fifth. In addition, the Deputy Prime Minister is also the President of the Management Board and I think that everything in that Fund is under good eye and supervision, and I can also say that everything is visible through the bulletin, which is published in two press releases, means in the evening and in the morning, that the findings of the audit are also announced, that the independent audit house is engaged in supervision. These are all moments that legally satisfy needs and control and all that is necessary and thus the fund. The issue of the fund's information prospectus for 2007 is also a unanimous and business report on the work of the fund unanimously adopted. It requires decisions and conclusions of the Management Board of the Fund for 2008 on the start and 12 April the start of the redemption of the stakes, the payment of dividends from the members of the Fund for 2005, the sixth and seventh through the Financial Agency of the FINA, and the possibility of applying for the sale of shares also through the FINA and Erste Bank. Since 1 October 2008, the Fund's Management Board has given its consent to the fund management company for the sale of 700,000 shares of INA and is receiving a billion and 960 million kuna. On 17 October 2008, a report by the fund's asset management company in the value of the fund's net assets is adopted. Six months after the possibility of a member of the fund being made available to the interests of which the Governing Board of the Croatian Defence Fund has established that the conditions for the mandatory liquidation of the fund have not been met, and have informed the Government of the Republic of Croatia. So it's been six months. It wasn't over 50% sold and the fund stayed. If it had been done, we would certainly not have had this fund, we would certainly not have these opportunities now used by all Croatian defenders who meet the requirements of that social, human and other category, the development category that they use and the foundation, as well as the scholarship fund. The current value of the Croatian Defence Fund is as you have heard 2 billion 304 million 674 thousand 825 kuna and 10 limes. The current value of the stake is also clear and visible and it is published daily, changes are all seen on Erste Investa and it is 631 kuna. So far, something about 30 percent has been redeemed in the fund, and I think it's still functioning stable and there are no possible further handouts that could endanger the work of this fund. According to all economic experts, this is the best fund in the Republic of Croatia, the richest fund and the most stable fund. That's what's important to point out and say because really of any man who deals with this kind of business, I haven't heard that, just praises and only good words that speak about this fund having perspective, the future and that it will certainly provide all the necessary ones for a long time. The net assets of the fund from 31.12.2007 were reduced by 43.33%, which was mostly caused by the fall in the price of HT shares and by the redemption of shares by the fund members. A billion and 20 thousand, 196 kuna, were spent to buy out the stakes. The total reduction in the value of the fund for 2008 is a billion 835 thousand 866 which is, as we have already said, the result of the payment of the fund members and the decline in the value of HT shares and the payment of two-thirds of the profits for 2007. Erste Invest's management has been charged at a level such as that bid of 0.238% and an amount of 7 million 985 thousand respectively. This fee shall be paid by the depositary bank while the management company remains a net compensation of 0,193%. The next part of the expenditure is interest per repo deal of 5 million and 108 thousand. In accordance with the legal provisions, with the previous consent of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, part of the 2008 Fund was paid as an advance to the Croatian Defence Fund from the Homeland War, and the rest will be made by the Governing Board of the Croatian Defence Fund. What can be singled out in the amount received by the Croatian Defence Fund in the name of the HT and INA dividends in the course of 2008 is also important to note that the company for the management of Erste Invest on 10 March 2008 started to publish the value of the stake. As you have heard, all of this is aimed at maintaining liquidity, the security of the fund's business through investment and bank deposits and reverse repo jobs, vault records, and the Croatian Defence Fund from the Homeland War will continue to scholarship as we have heard before. In all, 20 thousand 272 scholarships were awarded to Croatian, children of Croatian defenders and Croatian defenders themselves. Thus, for secondary schools 6805 applications were granted, for universities 3433, for postgraduate studies 17. This is last year 2008, with a total of 20272 scholarships throughout the past period of 112 million 493 and 600 kuna. I think it's clear and... We can see from this report how positive it is and how good it is that this mode of action has been supported, that all those who were against and who suspected have actually made a mistake, that through this trust mark, there are additionally those who are in a socially difficult state, who have suffered some accidents. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The collective purpose has also provided 17604 requests from Croatian defenders, many of whom have certainly escaped from the crisis situations, from the fire, from the lack of property, from everything that follows our defenders. Therefore, we can be happy to say that the Croatian Democratic Community club is pleased to conclude that this fund is one of the best variants that could have happened to Croatian defenders, that it is certainly stable and operational, and will continue to work on this kind of work, that it will certainly continue to be a lot of those who need to be educated and scholarshipd, as well as those who need to be provided in the social category, and that it will continue to function impeccably with benefits as is visible, that the state of HT shares will certainly not be doubted, and the possibility of further entry of the shares of Croatian companies is also an open option. Therefore, the Croatian Democratic Community Club welcomes this business report on the work of the Croatian Defence Fund. We are absolutely satisfied with what we have in the future, and we want a lot of success in the future, and we want all users to continue to benefit from it.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-21-0.u32389	Thank you. We have a correction, one correction to an incorrect quote. Dear Representative Gordan Maras, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-21-0.u32390	Thank you very much. In his presentation on behalf of the club, Mr Djakic said that those who corrected Mrs Kosor's incorrect allegations were identified as some who wanted to make money on the fund, etc. Well, since I'm the only one who's given a correction to an incorrect quote, it's probably about me. I didn't want to make any money on the fund. And on the other hand, I didn't recognize anything else, Mr Djakic, except that you, by your decision to sell the INA stock at the start of the process, directed the entire privatisation of INA as it ended up, and probably damaged Croatian defenders by 200, 300 kuna shares, which they could get more, and when we take the entire sum of shares that the fund had from the INA, it's about 200 million kuna. So that's the only thing I recognized, which I said was that it went in a way that if another bidder were invited, perhaps the INA stock would probably be much higher than the price at which you sold it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-21-0.u32391	Thank you. On behalf of the proposer, Ms Jadranka Kosor, Vice-President of the Croatian Government and Chairman of the Fund Management Board. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-21-0.u32392	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Vice President, if there were no more confusion in the discussion about what he has been trying to suggest to Commissioner Maras, I'll just say the data, so I'm not going to interpret anything, I'm going to say the data. We sold INA shares according to the asset management company's assessment, but also many other experts at that time according to the price offered, means 2800 kuna. Why? Because we were responsible for the property of Croatian defenders. Mr. Maras, we have sold 2800 kuna, today the value of these 1510 kuna shares. So if we hadn't done that, we would have reduced the assets of the Croatian Defence Fund by more than a billion kunas and the value of the stake today would not have been 631 kuna, but would have been less than 420 kuna. So, we protected the property of Croatian defenders, whether you like it or not.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-21-0.u32393	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect allegation, the esteemed representative of Gordan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-21-0.u32394	I must correct the incorrect allegations of the Deputy Prime Minister. At the moment you were selling INA shares, it was offered as such and no one is saying that after the privatisation was carried out in a way that there were two bidders in the process. If the Fund's management board had not coincided with the government's announcement of a swap of shares with MOL and it was then detimulated at all if someone else had entered the tender process, if you had gone in a transparent manner, the INA stock would have been worth more than 2800, it would have been worth more than 3000 kuna, and thus you did not increase, but on the contrary, you reduced the share and value of the fund and thus damaged Croatian defenders by up to 200-300 million kuna.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-21-0.u32395	Thank you. I'd like to pray that we stick to the exact correction of the incorrect quote. This wasn't a complete correction to the incorrect assumption. Let's move on with the debate. On behalf of the SDP club, the esteemed representative Ivica Pancic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-21-0.u32396	Mr. Chairman of the Croatian Parliament, Madam Minister, Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen. This Report on the work of the Croatian Defence Fund from the Homeland War and members of their families is an example, if we exclude these doubts about the sale of shares of INA how things based on professionalism and expertise with a functioning control mechanism can work successfully. Let's remember the 1990s and the Homeland Fund, which infamously failed precisely because it was designed as a self-service for politically-like tycoons. The sense of injustice among the suffering population has been further strengthened by the vague criteria of division of so-called. Prosecution shares that privatisation actors could replace on a principle worthless for value. It is precisely because of such bad experiences with shares in Croatian fashion that the defenders with the skeptics welcomed the establishment of this new defence fund. The criticisms recently heard about the way the fund supervisory body was formed and doubts about the proper indication of the total value of the fund's assets are partly the result of exactly such mistrust born in the 1990s and the overall functioning of state institutions, particularly back 5-6 years. And because of this, when the original Fund Act was adopted in 2003, one of the key things that was intended to be achieved was to restore the trust of Croatian defenders to such institutions. When we follow the trial of leaders of the Privatisation Fund or conduct public procurement procedures in Croatian ministries and state-owned enterprises, a logical question can be asked. How transparency could be achieved within the defence fund, and in all other cases it ended or ended in corruption and crime. Perhaps the solution is to push the defender or social care system out of the world of employment, instead of recalling conveniently, to place Croatian defenders who possess professional training and knowledge in the supervisory boards of Croatian state companies. I am convinced that they would not care how they dispose of Croatian property, as is the case with most members of the Croatian government. To make things work well, political will is needed first and foremost. In this project of setting up the Defence Fund, as well as the Defence Foundation and the Scholarship Fund, it seems to me at least for the time being, the political will has been achieved. I believe that those who manage the property of Croatian defenders and members of their families are deeply aware of the responsibility they have. I am using this opportunity to publicly give recognition to the defence representatives in the board of directors of the fund who have been committed to its formation since 2003 and to Tomislav Mercep of the Association of Croatian Volunteers of the Homeland War, Ivan Posilović of the Association of People's Protection, Đuri Boyko of the Association of Volunteers and Veterans of the Homeland War and especially Peri Lovrić of the Association of Croatian Volunteers of the Homeland War, who gave perhaps the greatest contribution to the work of the Fund. Of course, on this occasion, when we have a business report on the assembly benches, we need to repeat some things that, if adopted in a significant way, would have had a positive impact on this report. That's what we talked about in front of the SDP here in the Croatian Parliament not once. Number one, I mean the amount of dividends from privatised companies that were not fully paid into the fund because the government was of the view that this amount belonged to it. It's a few hundred million kunas. And secondly, it seems crucial to me to make the criteria for sharing shares, i.e. the share. The number of nearly 500 thousand defenders is best not to speak. We consider it the least unreal for political reasons brought in. That is why, in the criteria for sharing shares exclusively or far more, we had to approve the role of Croatian defenders who participated in the defence of the country with a rifle in hand. Unfortunately, such logical thinking was not accepted, prevailing judicial political reasons. We witnessed numerous examples where administrative staff had more stakes than defenders who spent years on the battlefield. They were all things that followed the formation of the fund and that created certain dissatisfactions within the defence ranks. I am using this occasion although I did not intend to reject any insinuations that could be heard from the government and today have been repeated that there are certain political options behind the dissatisfaction of certain defence associations, and the reason is simple. The Croatian Defence Fund is also our project and it is in our interest that it works successfully. And everything that's going on around and that's why we've been very restrainedly following everything that's been going on around the stock market and everything that's been going on around the fund. We are never and will never warm up false hopes of fast wealth or solving all the problems of Croatian defenders through the fund or calling for the sale of shares because the fund has its meaning and needs to be kept. The fund management company also managed to maintain the stability of the fund during this unfavourable financial investment period. Respect for the principle of security and maximum risk reduction under these circumstances is considered an optimal strategy. Once again, I stress that it is necessary to avoid any thought that in the event of an additional crisis, the fund should be a self-service to the state we could read about a few months ago. According to this report and this is actually what is crucial about 40% of the funds was withdrawn from the fund during 2008. In late 2008, there remained 2.4 billion kunas or 4.2 million shares left in the fund, bearing in mind, among other things, that the level of trust in the fund remains high. We're assuming there hasn't been any major withdrawal in the last few months. As things stand now, even though the economic crisis has not even begun much of the defenders will continue to retain their stakes in the fund. It is exclusively their decision and it is therefore good not to go with too much advice what to do with the stakes, sell them or keep them because defenders know best what to do with them. We need to be aware that the years when we spent without asking where it came from and whether the time of collection would come which I personally did not once warn behind us now. We privatized both HT and INA. According to the law, you should pour shares into this fund of other privatised state-owned enterprises. However, what remains of HEP, Croatian forests, Croatian waters and the like are something we must not give up lightly because otherwise we will not be the owners of anything else in the state. And in these crisis situations, the question is whether we could sell anything at a very good price. This is why it is necessary to start thinking about finding more stable sources of funding, which at this time guarantees the fund, primarily the foundations of Croatian defenders and funds for the scholarship of Croatian defenders, because a large part of the needs of Croatian defenders can be met outside the ministry and other state bodies through institutions that will be managed by the defenders themselves. It is crucial that if we want a stable, strong and prosperous state and we agree that we want to, then we must start acting responsibly towards the resources of Croatian taxpayers, which has not been the case so far. As much as we can make money, we'll be able to spend it. In one rational behaviour towards Croatian property, we will be easier to introduce more order and justice and into Croatian society and then it will be easier to solve the existing problems of Croatian defenders. In any case, the SDP club accepts this Report on the work of the Croatian Defence Fund from the Homeland War and members of their families for 2008 and more on the overall policy towards Croatian defenders will be told in the next point. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-21-0.u32397	Thank you. We have four corrections of incorrect allegations. The first is the honourable representative Ivan Bagarić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-21-0.u32398	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Let me say that although there is no institute for correcting the malicious assumption that I am correcting both the malicious and the inaccuracies of my fellow Pancic when he said that the government is in spite of how he manages the fund. It's really terrible, it really doesn't justify any campaign he's in, no contempt for the ministry, no minister, no government, no personal impatience. So, this government has repeatedly stressed that Croatia's entry, Croatia's defence, Croatia's entry into European integration, NATO rests and lies on the defence population and thanks to the defenders. Therefore, since the start of this country, this government has recognised to the defenders what they have achieved and, of course, it has been trying in a certain way to master and help how to manage with the funds of the defenders and the funds that are linked to them. So, I believe that no government has ever acted like this before, here's even yours that she doesn't care what happens to the defense attorneys. So I really reject these allegations and keep them incorrect.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-21-0.u32399	Thank you. No benching. We also have various institutes that we can use with the Rules of Procedure. We have a second correction to the incorrect assumption. Dear Representative Josip Djakic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-21-0.u32400	Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. I'm going to correct Mr Pancic's incorrect allegations where he stated that, besides this, all other ministries are in the corruption of fat and that all other ministries are buying whatever anyone knows. That's absolutely incorrect. It's a simple lie and deception, a demagogy. The State Audit report concluded by 80% of the ministry that they worked in the spirit of the law unlike you when you were minister in your ministry where you should certainly have been sanctioned for the dishonest actions you were carrying out. And another incorrect assumption that only those who defended the gun should have received the shares. That's exactly what the regulation said that we had divided into a combat and non-combating sector and scored times in which Croatian defenders were and thus achieved their rights through this fund. You have no idea that the rules for the fighting and non-combating sectors are made up.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-21-0.u32401	Thank you. Let's move on, correcting incorrect allegations. Dear Representative Bozica Šolić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-21-0.u32402	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President. Here, MP Pancic said, he says, "Defenders welcomed the formation of a defence fund with a skeptic." So I agree that it was so and it is true that the Defence Fund Act was passed during your defence ministry. And of course, when you were minister, you lifted all rights to the defenders, humiliated them and simply kicked them out of Croatian society. And that's why the defenders welcomed the skeptics with the formation of the fund. But you won't admit that law didn't come to life at all. And it is true that this government in the past term, headed by the minister, has passed a new law that absolutely works. And you're sorry, but you can't help it because the historical facts can't be reversed.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-21-0.u32403	Thank you. And the fourth correction of an incorrect quote, the esteemed representative of Andri Hebrang. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-21-0.u32404	Thank you very much, Mr. President. In a quick-read report, it was hard...
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-21-0.u32405	Vice President. Vice President.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-21-0.u32406	Chairman. In a quick reading of this report, it was difficult to count all the incorrect allegations, but I will only look back at the one that needed a political message. So, counterpart Pancic said, and that is incorrect, that the priority should have been given, I quote: "those who held the rifle hand rather than others", so he evolved who were politically involved in the Fund, so to a group of defenders. That's incorrect to my colleague Pancic because one defender with a gun in his hand needs another 10 defenders who allow this one to function. We need to get him some ammo. He needs an attack, a defense. He needs to make tea, he needs to bake bread, he needs to be treated, he needs to be cared for by his family members, etc., etc. I know you don't know that because if you were a real defender, you'd know that, and so forgive them God because they don't know what they're doing.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-21-0.u32407	Thank you. On behalf of the promoter, Ms Jadranka Kosor, Vice-President of the Croatian Government and Chairman of the Management Board of the Fund.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-21-0.u32408	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. Here's just a very short one. I just want to intervene with one intention: The debate doesn't go the wrong way. I think we all have to talk just facts and facts here. Regarding Mr. Pancic's observations about the number of defenders, so that was one of the thesis again, who knows how many times, I'll just say this. It was inadmissible that by 2005, the Croatian Defence Register was not made, and I have to say the fact that at the time Mr Pancic was a minister they tried to work the register, so when they saw that they had come up with a number they didn't like, then they locked the whole business in a drawer. We had to make a register and we made it amongst others, Mr. Representative, here's how I'm glad you're back, so the Croatian Defence Fund can function. Because if we hadn't done that, the Croatian Defence Fund wouldn't have been anything like an institution because we wouldn't know who they belong to. And about who was all given the status of Croatian defender at the time of the defence of the sovereignty of the Republic of Croatia, I think the facts are very clear, the certificates were obtained at the Ministry of Defence, Home Affairs, never at the Ministry of Croatian Defence. And what is equally important, all of this can be spoken by the people of that time, as well as by the commanders who certainly took part in it. Therefore, to speak uninterruptedly that this number I do not know how large is unnecessary. If you know of any defender who has won the status in an honorable manner, please choose to report it to the competent institutions, and I do not allow it to be spoken of at any time or anywhere more about false defenders or false people with disabilities. It is, as you well know, destroyed almost entirely that system, led to dissatisfaction, to people who have been on the verge of endurance, and I think that time has gone on forever. As for the finding that the Government has no regard for how it manages in this Fund, I just want to remind myself of the fact that the law, the original version of the Fund Act, was passed in 2003, but when I took over the ministry and gave that law to experts, they said that the Law on the Croatian Defence Fund was absolutely and completely inconclusive, that it stood on glass feet, that it would collapse and that it could not actually be implemented. I will of course not now think at all, let alone talk about why a law was made that could not be implemented. So, based primarily on the remarks made by the Securities Commission, we gave the experts the law that prepared it so that the Parliament could pass and that we could finally start working. About how much the government doesn't care about the fact that in 2005, the government of Dr. Sanader, I re-entered 7% of the shares of the INA and 7% of the shares of HT, and the shares, Mr. Pancic, which your government could bring in, which it didn't, of course, do. And so much for which government it was as much as it cared and so on and so forth. And as for the commentation on this, as Mr. Pancic said that the Fund could self-serving for the state, it's simply not true, it was never, but what's most important, it can't be because the Fund is run by a Board of Directors in which, I repeat, defenders have a majority. And here's the warming of such ideas in public then can lead to dissatisfaction. But defenders are smart, brave people as they have proven, and they know who's talking, who's doing what's important, and what's important, they know who did what, who's doing what today, or who's doing it in the past. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-21-0.u32409	Thank you. We have two corrections to incorrect allegations. First, she is a respected representative, Ingrid Antičević-Marinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-21-0.u32410	It is simply incorrect that you, Madam Vice President of the Government and the Minister, claimed that the talk of false disabled people has caused great dissatisfaction amongst the defenders. It's simply incorrect. Among the defenders, the greatest dissatisfaction has caused and is still causing the fact that in their ranks, the status of one who is not a defender, it is the most disturbing of them, it degrades them and simply cannot deal with it. You say our defenders are smart, that they know who did what they did, who did something for them, what they did, and it's all true, and they also know very well who the false defenders are, and you keep them hidden. For whose account? [[Intruder: It's a lie and a lie.]] [[Everyone speaks out loud, they don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-21-0.u32411	Thank you. Please don't throw it away. ... Please. [[Everyone speaks out loud, they don't understand.]] Calm down. You've had a chance to say the correcting of an incorrect allegation. When you get in line again, you pick up and you get your word back. ... Please don't throw it away. [[Everyone speaks out loud, they don't understand.]] It's the second correction! Second correction of the incorrect quote, the esteemed representative Ivica Pančić. Here you go. ... Dear MPs, please behave in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, don't do that. [[Everyone speaks out loud, they don't understand.]] Here you go. Don't throw it away! Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-21-0.u32412	I don't know why this kind of anxiety especially from the government's representatives. I commended this fund, but it seems you didn't listen when you say the government doesn't care how it manages the fund I didn't say it at all. I said that certain members of the government are absolutely no matter how they manage the ministries, how they manage the Privatisation Fund. And so does this “Maestro. ” Well, your people were sitting in the Privatisation Fund, so don't say that's why Racan's government is responsible. Racan's government has replaced these people, and you, Mr. Hebrang, have brought back those same people. And don't put what I didn't say in my mouth right now. You are responsible for Maestro, you are responsible for a whole series of public procurement procedures including at the Ministry of Defence, including in the Ministry of Transport, Development and others. And I just said that Croatian defenders They should get into the boards of directors and state firms, and there probably wouldn't be a robbery like that. [[Intruder Capricorn: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-21-0.u32413	Thank you. Thank you. You're out of time. We're moving on with the club debate. It's time for the esteemed representative Damir Caine. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-21-0.u32414	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Madam Vice President of the Government, the Honorable Mr. Representatives. So I think here, we see by these stages, the reactions of nervousness on the left and on the right, that the campaign is in progress, and that it would really be the smartest thing to do for another 7 days to extend the session of the Parliament. So that'll be it. That's good. But what am I saying? It is a good thing that this prevented this bagging Mr. Djakic was talking about, it is good that a conservative approach has approached the fund's business because it has thus saved or maintained the value of the fund's assets. Good to follow young people, it is good to be present in some leading Croatian companies that are unfortunately privatised. It's a good thing it didn't speculate on that property. It is also good that the shareholders of the 500,000 defenders did not resort to calls for the sale of shares which in due time destroyed the home fund, and it would certainly be as good as Mr Pancic says if the list of those who, at the end of the 1990s, had been worthlessly replaced for valuable assets from that fund had been published. The fact is that we have to admit to ourselves that it is one of the few funds, if not the only one who has done business correctly, unlike the Croatian Privatisation Fund, which testifies to this "Maestro". There have been dubious exchanges or acquisitions of shares from the Croatian Privatisation Fund before. I can mention Anita, etc. But maybe that fund was working correctly and because several government officials were in the fund, so they simply had to guarantee their name the orderly business of the same. Otherwise, the total assets of the Croatian Defence Fund from the Homeland War and members of their families on 31 December 2008 amounted to 2 billion 427 million kuna of which the largest proportion of 47.17% are shares of HT transferred to the account of the fund during 2005. The remaining part of the Croatian Fund's portfolio or the Croatian Defence Fund from the Homeland War and members of their families consists of the Treasury records of the Ministry of Finance and the Republic of Croatia amounting to 16.52%. Then, these are repo contracts, Raiffeisen, the Croatian Post Bank, Erste of 34.8% of the total assets of the fund. Assets on a transaction account of 1.47% of the total assets of the fund, etc. etc. The total net assets reduced for the fund's liabilities on 31 December 2008 amounted to 2.4 billion kuna. The total liabilities for the disbursement of dividends to fund members for 2005, the sixth and seventh years amounted to 127 million kuna. Out of the total amount of dividend liabilities on 31 December 2008, €26.9 million remained outstanding. However, what was most interesting here may mention that the total net profit for 2008 is a billion and 420 million kuna. Of which, a billion and 217 million kuna were achieved by the sale of shares INA d.d., INA's pardon, and the rest of the profits from 202.6 million kuna were achieved through interest income and income from dividends of shares INA d.d. and HT in the next amount. So the interest income was $35.8 million. INA dividends 10.5 million kuna and HT dividends of 169.4 million kuna. I actually answered the most of the words, to talk among other things about this share this fund has in the business of HT. You see, gentlemen, that may have moved me, an affair that just appeared in our media today, and I think we should ask ourselves what the owners of some stocks do when they take control of a company in the Republic of Croatia? Here's what this is about, THT they're treating us so I dare say like a banana state. Today we find out, I would say about one of the biggest business affairs in Croatia in the area of industrial espionage, so it is said or so that I can say that someone in Deutsche Telekom took the right to spy, spy, monitor, listen to the employees of this collective, which is still a Croatian company in which this fund also achieved a dividend of 169,4 million kuna. It went so far in that company that they even asked the gentlemen what kind of person she was in bed, what kind of sister she was. I mean, I don't know if you've had a chance to read this morning's spy on HT sex habits, experienced in bed. Her sister is a beast. Deutsche Telekom. So what's it for the fund? Now, I need you gentlemen to admit that T-HT and the Croatian company are and we need to make it clear here that the police are currently acting in this case. This isn't a game. We know that "great brother" is watching us, stalking us, that's what I mean by the state, but it does by certain rules, but HT is one specific company. If someone from Croatia were involved in such an affair, someone who runs a ministry would immediately fall, if not the entire government. So where does it say? It doesn't say anything, it happens in that company. HT has control over all our phones, over our entire e-mail, I can control every company's business. Which page is that? That we are co-owners there and that the fund is making 169.4 million kuna dividends in one such company. Now I'm going to go back to the topic, Mr. President, because this HT takes the right to act both state and court and police and prosecutors because if we've missed the foreigner's telecommunications, and we have, then a man asks himself whether they're listening to the state's top and probably the answer is yes.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-21-0.u32415	Let's go on the subject.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-21-0.u32416	Well, that's the darkness. Watch what's going on in that one company. E, what happens in this company where the Croatian State or the Croatian Fund makes 169.4 million kuna dividends.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-21-0.u32417	Well, that's not the point.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-21-0.u32418	Well, the topic would be to presently form an investigative committee of parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-21-0.u32419	That's what you suggest, but let's get back to the subject.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-21-0.u32420	And not to think about further privatisations from the Oilies now on. As far as I'm concerned, let's get back to the subject a little bit, even though I think it's a first-class matter for the security moment of this country. I agree that the INA sale saved the value of the fund. I'd be happier if one T-HT or INA remained in the Croatian state portfolio because for HT is the state of '99. and in 2000, it was less revenue than the company's profits were in 2008. That's absolutely true. As is also true that the stock exchange, meanwhile, after the sale of INA shares, collapsed and that it would probably take perhaps 4.5 years for the INA stock to regain the value it had on the day of sale. But Mr. Maras is certainly right that the government was in charge of one targeted sale to the INA MOL. It's just the truth. And what should be the rule, that people who are in charge of privatisation on behalf of the Croatian state, afterwards should not be led by the privatisation or by the company taken over by a new company. For the end, I also want to hope or wish to believe that Croatian waters, forests, highways, touristic, agricultural land will not be for sale, but really, if I have the opportunity to propose, then I suggest that this investigative commission of the Croatian Parliament be formed and to see what is simply happening in one HT where there is a whole series of employees or employees, I will call it spyed, where they simply "researched" and what are their sexual habits and what is who in bed. ... So what does that have to do with the report? [[You can't hear the intruder.]] That we need to make sure that the companies we sell to in this country are clearly taken care of. Well, that's the whole point. That's the whole point. We sold a company of vital national interest that has control over your e-mail, on their phones, on every company's business, and where these really behave like we're a banana state. Here, with those words we accept this report. ... What? [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-21-0.u32421	Let go of your sex habits. I don't mean to ignore them, but not to talk about them publicly. Two corrections. Mr. Representative Davor Bernardic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-21-0.u32422	Dear colleague Cain, you said that Croatian Telekom is a Croatian company. Unfortunately, that's not the case. We all know she was sold to strangers a year and a half ago, i.e. The majority package, however, is a company that works in Croatia, which you only later explained.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-21-0.u32423	Thank you. And another correction, Mr. Representative Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-21-0.u32424	Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, so I am correcting the incorrect quote Caine claimed that the government had deliberately sold the shares to MOL. That's absolutely incorrect. Stocks, 700 thousand shares of MOL were sold to the fund's board of directors to save the stability of the fund, to earn as much as possible and no other speculation was absolutely there. 2800 kuna per share get at that time, certainly there was a representative amount in the present time, and now they are, what are they now? I don't know who's smart here and how we're making claims and insinuations you're trying to undermine the Government of the Republic of Croatia that she did something. Well, the government hasn't sold its shares, as far as I know. He sold the fund management board and earned and set up the fund and kept it, which was not in your best interest, although you and some of those suitcases were connected, so it wasn't in your best interest.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-21-0.u32425	Individual debate, Mr. Representative Petar Mlinarić. Here you go. Mr. Representative Petar Mlinaric. Mr. Attorney Gordan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-21-0.u32426	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Here's a few words about this report. First, it was already a fellow Pancic in his presentation on behalf of the club reminded that SDP was one of those who proposed the adoption of this fund and who is absolutely satisfied and supports the idea that Croatian defenders exercise these rights that they exercise through the fund and that in some way everything the fund does through increasing the value of the share and through the scholarships and what we heard we can welcome and should be on the other hand. We hope it will be so in the future. What I don't think is good, it's not good that the whole story about the share and the rights of the people who had the stakes is so mystified. Today we do not have publicly disclosed information and possibly through a particular media, the internet that people are registered as defenders and we are witnessing a bad atmosphere that appeared in Croatia because 500 thousand registered defenders and defenders themselves are aware that it is simply not possible, that it was not even close to such a figure. And then when we see that these people who may not even be justified on that list and that any doubt of credibility would be eliminated when it was made public, these people also exercise rights as well as those who defended this Croatia on the front line of the battlefield. So this is an injustice that would be very easy to remove only by publicly telling Croatia and all the defenders and citizens of Croatia who is the defender and who is not the defender. But this government has simply refused to do so for five years and it is evident that there is once again a rightful need for defenders to help. But such injustice should be removed and a veil of secrets should once and for all be removed from who was the defender and who wasn't. On the other hand, when we talk about the financial results of the fund, they are a good fact and a certain value of the fund has increased and on the other hand, the share and the value of the stakes were greater than a year earlier and the fact that it was achieved through the work of privatization of the INA. What I'm saying is, anyone who had the value or shares of the INA in the privatisation process has earned it. They also earned small shareholders, and they earned defenders through the fund. But the question is, gentlemen, MPs, ladies and gentlemen, whether there could be more money. And what I most resent about the Management Fund is too much involvement of the government's policy and interest in the work of the fund. Someone here will say that the Fund’s Management Board has made a decision on the sale of INA shares on the basis of a market situation and thus protected the value of the share or the value of the fund. I'm saying that, well, there was a good value, but I could be sure I could get a higher value, and that's how the shareholders in the fund were damaged safely by 300 to 400 kuna per share of INA, and when this is summed up, we're talking about over 2 hundreds of millions of kuna. Why am I making that conclusion? So it was very clear during the second phase of privatisation of INA that the prime minister negotiated a stock exchange with MOL. After a certain noise was raised in public against it, we suddenly gave it up. But lo and behold, the fund, or management board of the fund, made the first decision, and among the first to decide on the sale of shares of the INA and thus launched the story to the extent that today the MOL has 47% and Croatia is no longer the majority owner of the INA. And that's what I want to say. It's not good to get behind one situation when buying a company, joining a company where each share will grow. There's not a single company in the world where there's an interest in association, in taking over that stock will fall. Well, it's normal that the stock is worth more, but it could have been worth more than 2,000 kuna, and that's my grudge to the board of directors for making that decision, and that's how I say damaged Croatian defenders, but not only Croatian defenders but also small shareholders who ordered it, so the association of small shareholders of INA who also had a large portion of the packages when they were individually added together. She said she wasn't satisfied with the way the government was going to privatise INA. And that's how even when the fund sold they had to go for sale because then there was one let's say it like that because they saw it selling more and more with the announcement that they were going to change the shares of INA with MOL they all went for sale. And that's how the Fund's board of directors directed the entire privatisation. So, you should separate the government's interest from the interests of those involved in the fund. On the other hand, I think it's a relative success that in one crisis year more people from the fund have not gone because it's a population that certainly needs money and I welcome it. The fact is very simple, today in the portfolio of the fund we have T-Com, T-HT as almost half the value that the fund has and that is one share that is safe at this point for all analysts who speak quite stable and it is expected to grow. I welcome that the defenders don't leave the fund because it seems to me that the fund is relatively safe. And on the other hand, you can see from the fund's business that in the past year a lot of funds were used in a way that also certain vault records are purchased and thus helps finance the central state, which should not be bad, but should be because it is relatively safe to invest, but you should certainly be careful in the future that, as your colleague Pancic said, it does not become a place where the state will certainly be able to find its own money and I say it is conditional and that the government has a great influence regardless of what is said about representatives of associations and volunteers and veterans of the Homeland War, however, it is the government that appoints the fund's board. And there could be an opportunity to reach out for certain funding through the Croatian defenders' fund in the money shortage. That's where it should be taken care of. And I say, I'll be about this report restrained. I believe that a better result could be achieved, and I believe that in the future, politics or government should have less impact on what the fund is doing and what the fund is deciding. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-21-0.u32427	Thank you. At 10.48 hours, it is time to report a ten-minute hearing. Mr. Representative Mato Bilnjic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-21-0.u32428	Thank you. Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Deputy Prime Minister and Minister. Here, I'll behave today when we talk about this fund I'm talking about my friends and I won't be at a pre-election rally. The audit report itself gave a positive opinion which certainly commends the board of directors, the management company and you as ministers and the Government of the Republic of Croatia. In 2008, the operations of the fund marked the start of the payment of the share, the payment of dividends and the sale of shares of the INA. Croatian defenders, although it was a big cry when it started to have to be liquidated, felt responsible, as they felt in the '90s for their country, then they felt responsible for those most vulnerable layers, so for the children and those defenders who are sick and we know very well that from this fund began with the education of 2975 children. Today we have over 10,000 children. And I thank all my colleagues and friends of defenders who think that way, even though I know that one good part of them lives in a very bad material and economic situation, but they also thought about how to educate the children of the dead defenders, how to help their children to finish schools, colleges, and also to those who got sick. One billion kunas or slightly less than 30% of the fund's assets were spent to buy the shares last year. So there was one responsibility of Croatian defenders and in those difficult moments that not everyone flew in to say give us today, and tomorrow we'll see what happens. This government itself has made one decision so once again for those of all my friends, defenders who have asked us what will happen to them when they make amends, so they still remain members of the fund, except they don't have any more, they don't currently have that share, but they will have the right to the next meaning of the stake. Why they commend Croatian defenders, is this fund, the government has formed a trust fund for defenders and it is a fund for defenders. When we look at some time intervals and at the graph of 10.3.2008 when the initial price of the stake was 615.08 kuna and it climbed up to 682,82 kuna, so that at the end of 2008, it would fall to 569,79, even though the weather was difficult, that they were afraid, that they had made a stampede, we would sell it until the shares fell and until they lost what we had earned with honor and honesty. Thank God for today, she's recovered and the stock market is recovering, so today it's 613.35 kuna. I once again commend and thank all my defense friends for not shutting down the fund, which they did not take off even though some media literally pushed them to go to waste. They still knew that the country was defending itself in many ways. They did so with their fund, and this fund will surely bring the Republic of Croatia, in general looking, a great benefit because those children who are schooling, they are our future. And finally, I commend once again the Management Board, the Management Society, you at the Ministry, and I thank my friends the defenders for keeping all of us together and in these difficult times, save it for those dividends, and save it for those who are sick, who use funds from that fund, or for those kids who are in school today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-21-0.u32429	Thank you. Replica, Mr. Representative Krešimir Ćosic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-21-0.u32430	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President. Here I join the commendation of the Management Board of the Fund, the Fund Management Society. I'd say it's not just political evaluations, but I'd say the fund actually made legitimate decisions, wise, strategic, long-term decisions at the right time at a time of complex financial global, global crisis. And I'd say, serious analysts are really going to have to admit that the Fund's Management Board has actually made, maybe it's no exaggeration to say, business decision in 2008. The 2008 business decision, dear gentlemen, may belong to the Fund's Management Board. This may be here in the Croatian Parliament political assessment, but I am sure when it comes to time, the circumstances when this decision was made that serious analysts would admit that the financial crisis of a global character was yet to be seen. And I'd say, grades that could be earned are more unserious. It could have been, it could have been, but the probability that it happened was equal to zero. Therefore, when we give some grades, we must also be aware of their likelihood that they have occurred. Therefore, without any exaggeration, the 2008 business decision belongs to the Management Board of the Croatian Defence Fund. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-21-0.u32431	Thank you. Replicate response, Mr. Representative Mato Bilnjic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-21-0.u32432	Comrade Cosic, I completely agree with you. I would add that the Board of Directors would certainly not be able to function if there was no trust of the defenders, that it was a good board of directors, means that we also made good moves in the Parliament or in the veterans or in the ministry when we chose the right, honest and professional people to manage that committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-21-0.u32433	Thank you. Mr. Representative Davor Bernardic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-21-0.u32434	Dear Vice President of the Parliament. Dear colleagues and colleagues. Well, here at first, in any case, it should be said that the Croatian Defence Fund and its establishment mission were good with the idea of 2003 and that what the SDP government then initiated actually came upon fertile soil and today, however, we are still discussing the report on the work of the Croatian Defence Fund. And that's something where, you might say, when you suggest something yourself and something comes from you, then in a way you have to keep an eye on it, and take special care of it. What we have to say is that unlike other investment funds, and that should be said here for the sake of truth, this fund has had a conservative investment and has not suffered so much loss and I agree with that and that's something that stands. What would interest me in this business report as a representative in the Parliament who wants to know what's going on with the fund's assets, who wants to know what's going on with the costs, some things that aren't further precise here, and should be specified, for example. as a cost of services. We've heard some things, but there's an item of 40 million, and when it's available with 40 million defense money, then it still has to be written down how these money is spent. And that's what you should definitely add to the business report. Next thing you know, it's that thing that came up as a possible concern problem. There have been talks that Croatia's entry into the European Union due to market liberalisation and presumption means for state stakes, the state itself in such funds will be shut down. So I'm interested in what process the negotiations are also in that the defence fund is not being shut down, because I think the Croatian public should also know that the defenders who have their stakes in the fund need to know that. In the past year, 40% of the stake in that fund was paid off. 40% in the year when a lot of people were pulling money out of funds. It's not a number that rings the alarm, but it's definitely a number that signals that it's a large majority, i.e. a solid majority of defenders remain in the fund and still trust that fund. It is therefore extremely important how these money is spent, or processed in the fund itself. What he can worry about and what concerns are two things. In late February, during the month of March, there were problems and there were speeches by the defense associations themselves that the payments of part of the stake were disabled. I wonder what these problems are all about, and I wonder if your problems have been removed now. What is the other thing and what is the same when you look at this account and get both the losses and the total balance sheet of the investment fund itself and what can be concluded is that the fund itself in the past period has been decided, since it is allowed by the statute, for a conservative investment strategy, i.e. to increase the share of the Treasury records in its portfolio and this is seen and that is the trend that is growing. That way, it's nothing controversial, but that way the fund starts lending to the state more and more. And what we don't want, we don't want to create that exactly fund as a bank of pigs that will only lend to the state, but we just want because of the current situation that appears on the capital market, to maybe try to think about investment in longer term yields. And that's something where you need to be careful, because it can happen that at a certain point and the need for the liquidity of the state will not be able to service all of its liabilities that it has made in the vault records, or even in the long term bonds. So it's a very sensitive thing and what I really want in some way and to apostrophe is to worry that this share of crediting the state itself is growing. I'm saying, it's nothing controversial. However, in the crisis, other investment models should also be considered, especially now when high yields and in the Croatian market are not at their level, meaning their real market values. Or if they could bear more income in the future. And that's the problem, and in the end, I'm going to end up with the fund's management mechanism. Because the de facto and what was the objection of defense associations is that the fund was managed by the government because the government appointed him and de facto governs him. There are some people sitting inside representing defense associations, but the main word in that fund is the government, and then it's no wonder when the fund is credited to the state. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-21-0.u32435	Thanks a lot, buddy. A prominent colleague, Josip Djakic, applied for correction of the quote. Here's a colleague, Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-21-0.u32436	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. So I will correct the incorrect quote of my colleague Bernardic where he claimed that the European Union is seeking and dictated that this fund be shut down. Namely, it's inaccuracy. It's another one of your riots that you bring to the defenders. It's another one of the pranks you want to insinuate to... I wasn't interrupting. [[I don't know what you're talking about.]] I'm asking you nicely.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-21-0.u32437	Supposedly, the quote from counterpart Djakic is correct.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-21-0.u32438	You said strictly that the European Union dictates that the fund is shut down. You want to make another riot for Croatian defenders. You're strictly under instructions on how to tear down this fund, how to sell it out, how to stretch it out. That's inaccuracy. It's a simple insinuation that has no basis or place. We did everything to bring the Fund Act into line with European Union legislation and we made it clear what was there, and there was only that they could not use the share of the fund as bets, as mortgages and it was strictly due to... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-21-0.u32439	Dear Djakic, you did not report for the replica, but for the correction of the quote and then let's correct the allegations. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-21-0.u32440	Dear Vice President of the Parliament, Article 209 has been injured. Rules of Procedure. You were talking about things I didn't say. I asked the minister, and you'll have to learn to listen a little more in the future when the MPs are arguing so that they can respond adequately. Because this way is really inappropriate. In the future, listen, and I believe there won't be any problem.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-21-0.u32441	Thank you very much. I don't think there's any need for tensions around this report. A distinguished colleague colleague, Ivica Pancic, also appeared for discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-21-0.u32442	You're absolutely right, Mr. Chairman. There was absolutely no reason for any tension about this report, as it was clearly said that the SDP fully accepts it. And the fact that some hurt back in the 1990s or the current situation with the Privatisation Fund is another thing. I said loudly and clearly that it would be good for some members of the government to not seem interested in how their ministries function including the Croatian Privatisation Fund, so that it would be good for the supervisory boards of Croatian state-owned enterprises to put Croatian defenders with expertise, expertise and knowledge. Because they would certainly take better care of Croatian property than some ministers in the current government do. Does it hurt, and maybe it hurts. But that's not our problem. That should be the problem of this government. And one more thing. One thesis has been repeated year after year, or for 18 years. HDZ created the state, HDZ is all Croatian party, HDZ has defended the state. Excellent, I'll give you that! Let's go up and see which one of you defended Vukovar except for Peter Mlinaric, whom I'm taking off my hat. I was among the 1800 people in Vukovar in September 1991. Which one of you was it? Except for Peter Mlinaric, no one. Was he perhaps the minister of Croatian defenders of the former, late Juraj Njavro da. And let's remember that man, an honest man. Is this the current Croatian Defence Minister? No, I don't. Which battlefield? Not once. Let's move on, the defence minister who's supposed to worry about the Croatian Army's readiness, was he on some kind of battlefield? Was he a Croatian defender? Doubtful. Was that the prime minister who loves to talk so much about the Homeland War and Croatian defenders? Well, he defended the Croatian state on the slopes of the Austrian Alps. That's right.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-21-0.u32443	Hey, buddy, let's talk about the report. We've been playing with the subject.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-21-0.u32444	We're back on the report, and I'm sorry there's no man here who's ever made a lie a virtue, Andrija Hebrang. Had the late president of the Croatian state and HDZ President Franjo Tudjman heard him now, he would have probably re-replaced him as defence minister. Because when he says how many Croatian defenders he's talking about, he says he's got ten logistics going on, we know what logistics is, and we know what the army is. I'm Franjo Tudjman in '98. The years when he was given information that the Croatian defenders were 380 thousand, he was dissipating himself, talking about too many numbers. So what would you say now that that number came to 500 grand? I am never special, I cannot be considered Tudjmanovci, but indeed you who are calling on the first Croatian president seem to have betrayed his ideals. When you're so heartily defending this 494 thousand register. And as soon as something is wrong, of course it has to end wrong, and there's this controversial division of those shares. Needless to say, I know very well that there is division in both the fighting and non-combat sectors, and I made it clear that the fighting sector needed more fees. He's a partor, we thought it wasn't enough. We can have a discussion about that. But so much need for anything that comes from the other side, to be offended, I don't know what it is, what kind of psychological profile people are. Are those who were members of the Alliance of Communists, and today they are in HDZ and will now report for correction, instead of raising the replica board, does it hurt them that they were not in the project at the end of the 1980s, but because of their cowardice they waited for how it would develop, and then they later bowed down? Maybe that's the reason. But I, well, I'm not afraid to tell you this or to say within my own ranks what's not good. Why? Because I want good to this Croatian state and this Croatian people, and I don't accept those who speak of honesty, and they stole this people. Or those who speak of war, and have not seen war. We shouldn't have talked about all this today on this agenda point because I made it clear that the SDP accepts this fund, the SDP together with the HSS, the parliamentary representatives here, including current Finance Minister Shucker, worked on the original bill. Mrs. Kosor, I didn't see you making any contributions to the law at the time, but it didn't bother you to insult him. That's when Minister Shuker worked on it. That you fixed it, okay, and you need to fix it. And no one questioned that. And it's good that this fund is doing a good job and it's good that we've formed a supervisory body involving the defenders. It's precisely because he didn't end up as the Homeland Fund of the 1990s, for which it wasn't the SDP, Racan's government and so on, it's your tycoons. Are we really going to talk about what a tycoon is? We can. Or exile shares where shares have changed worthless for value. Who took part in that? Possibly some SDP tycoon, but mostly people who were connected to HDZ. And that's our history. And why do we want to keep her quiet? And all of you can continue to accuse all of Racan's government from 2000 to 2003, but for 16 years, gentlemen, you and what is here today, you are responsible and responsible solely for you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-21-0.u32445	Thank you very much, although the report is least spoken of, but there are a lot of applications for correction, and we also have applications for replication. He's a colleague of Ronchevic's.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-21-0.u32446	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, I would like to correct two incorrect allegations from my colleague Pancic. My colleague Pancic, no one from HDZ has ever said that HDZ created the Croatian state and that HDZ defended the Croatian state in the Homeland War. The HDZ was in position and now with the view that the Croatian state was created by the Croatian people under the leadership of the Croatian president and that then political responsibility based on the first parliamentary free and democratic elections had HDZ and that is the fact. Also, what were your party's views on Croatian independence, ask your colleagues who sat in the Assembly when the decision on Croatian independence was voted here today as Statehood Day. Secondly, Croatia is, and this is said at a scientific gathering on the occasion of the tenth anniversary of the Storm. In the days of the Storm, 317 thousand soldiers were in the troops of the Croatian Army and the police. Therefore, the the thesis of 90,000 defenders you speak of, no one has ever spoken it, nor is it true, is spoken by experts, members of the Croatian Army who were actively involved at the time. Only in 5 days of Storm and just before and right after 217 thousand people. What are you talking about? And the $90,000 quote you're talking about, no one's ever said or professionally verified.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-21-0.u32447	Thank you very much. A prominent counterpart, Josip Djakic, came forward to correct the allegations. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-21-0.u32448	Thank you very much, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Here, I will correct the inaccuracy of my fellow Pancic, where he claimed that he defended Vukovar. At least you're responsible for Vukovar and at least you've defended him. Given all my information you have been in the basement all along and under strange circumstances via Serbia came to Croatia. Another thing, regarding the evaluation of Croatian defenders. ... From the commander who was directly his, who made his statement, his commander wrote it and his chateau who pulled him out. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Under suspicious circumstances through control... Serbia's services came to Croatia, it says. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It's your work. And the defenders who fought with a gun in their hand are clearly told by a rule that defines what the fighting sector is, which is the non-combat sector, how many points the fighting sector has, how many points the non-combat sector has. And take it and read it once. Take a plate of Croatian defenders from the register and see how... by dates, months, years, how many operations, how many out of operations, everything is clearly written. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I don't know why, and for what purpose and purpose, you want to constantly disprove everything that is well done and put it in another plan. I don't know what your intentions are, really to tear down the fund.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-21-0.u32449	Thank you. A colleague Markovinović rectification of the quote. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-21-0.u32450	I must correct the inaccuracy of my colleague Pancic, who says: "Many here have suffered from a return to the 1990s." I think not, that we are proud of the 1990s and when the Croatian state was created, and therefore, a colleague of Pancic would have had to make peace once, but it is true that many defenders do not care about the time when Mr Pancic was a minister, when it was trampled on their rights, by their personalities, by their personalities, when being questioned, he underestimated them in all possible ways and I believe that they found it very difficult to forget that time. And we thank our fellow Pancic for reminding them of that time.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-21-0.u32451	Thank you very much. Correction of the quote by co-worker Ćosic. Here's your esteemed colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-21-0.u32452	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President. I'd say very simply next. It is incorrect and unfounded to insult the people who are sitting here today as Croatian defenders, I would say the form of a debate is inappropriate to the Croatian Parliament, an inappropriate form of debate about the Homeland War and the truth about the Homeland War. I will tell you, for the first time, I am speaking publicly of myself, Mr Pancic as a Croatian defender and as a Croatian general. I've traveled a thousand miles from a thousand kilometers apart and stories about you knowing who played the role of pranks, unacceptable pranks. And unfortunately, the truth about the Homeland War needs to be spoken by those people who had high and important responsibilities and homework in the Homeland War. Since I was Mr. Leko and one of the closest associates, the Chief of Staff of War, and the War Minister, I know exactly how certain operations took place and how we came to win the Homeland War, and you unfortunately do not know anything about it, and today you give lessons in the Croatian Parliament. It is a hoax to the Croatian public and it is a hoax to Croatian defenders. For the first time I speak in person, and I think it's your contribution to the truth about the Homeland War. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-21-0.u32453	Thank you. Correction of the quote by distinguished colleague Dragan Vukic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-21-0.u32454	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President. My colleague Pancic has brought out a series of incorrect allegations here, and I only want to correct some and it won't be difficult for me. Mr. Pancic mentioned a lot of names here, and I'm glad Mr. Pancic said he defended Vukovar. Vukovar is a symbol of the defence of Croatia as Croatia has many defence symbols. If you've defended your honor. I didn't meet Mr. Pancic on the battlefield, we didn't have to meet, but surely some of the people he counted here I met in the war. I'm also... in her southern part, but I started defending her with a Belgian female female, 150 years old, branded Piper Belgian, just because the weapon of territorial defense was handed over to someone else or sold. [[The speaker doesn't understand because of the noise.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-21-0.u32455	Correct the quote of colleague Vukic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-21-0.u32456	So I would ask Mr Pancic to investigate in his party who handed these Croatian weapons into the hands of those who attacked Croatia. The list would be very interesting to publish, and I think he would be most happy to have Croatian defenders. The graves will never forgive you for that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-21-0.u32457	Thank you very much. And the final application of the rectification of the quote. Dear colleague Mlinaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-21-0.u32458	Thank you. Mr. Vice President. I am proud to have been a Vukovar defender, which was my first commander general Major-in-chief of the late Zadro Blago and I think we can only say that this is a miracle in the world, a unique example of how the country was defended and how Croatia was created and everything under the leadership of the Croatian Democratic Community and Dr Franjo Tudjman. And that's why today we can't clear the Homeland War since they're plowing the charges. This is Mr. Representative Pancic's more hate speech. We're telling the truth about the Homeland War, we're passing on the courage of all our defenders, and for many, this is an insult to talk about the register. You could've done it yourself, I don't mind registering, but you were alone when you were minister you could've brought the register and pulled the line. If under the law that the Croatian defender who defended his country for three days is entitled as a Croatian defender, he has his privileges and some privileges he should take advantage of. But this is more of a waste of time. The Croatian Defence Ministry is one of the best, best-quality works. You've seen what's out of scholarships, out of favor to the defenders. Today, Croatian defenders are all those who have had decent pensions and cannot say. Madam Vice President and Minister I can only say continue to work so and I congratulate you on your work... Consider the Croatian defenders. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-21-0.u32459	And the last correction by Coli Solic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-21-0.u32460	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President. I'll be very brief in my corrections, given that my colleagues have already corrected that quite a bit. Mr. Representative, you said and listed that you were the defender of Vukovar, you named our Peru, you named the late Dr. Djuru Nyavra. However, I ask you to tell the Croatian public whether you.../The speech room is off, it can't be heard. Don't shut me down 'cause it doesn't work, you know. Were you in Vukovar in the upper sector or were you in the basement sector? And tell me what year and date you won the status of counsel. Was that the year you were Minister...
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-21-0.u32461	Thank you very much. Mrs. Solic...
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-21-0.u32462	Was that the year you were Minister, and would you please, along with Lek, investigate which weapon...
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-21-0.u32463	Mrs. Solic, this isn't an adjustment to the quote. Call for a hearing and then discuss it.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-21-0.u32464	... carried from New Zagreb, from the Tumbri Trafostation, from the company "Mega". [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Please, Mr. Pancic, ask Lek. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-21-0.u32465	Mrs. Solic. Thank you. I won't, I won't share any warnings because Judge Maric doesn't have as many charts as he should in this debate alone, and it's not good. [[Intruder: Give me a warning.]] Dear fellow MP, here you go. ... [[Everyone speaks out loud, they don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-21-0.u32466	Mr. Vice President of the Parliament, you've allowed the violation of Rules of Procedure, Article 209 related to 214 because here we've had a series of worst political lunches instead of correcting incorrect allegations. You've allowed this here, this session and this moment here, to turn the Parliament into a political spitter. This is an unacceptable way of discussing this in front of the Croatian public.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-21-0.u32467	I've intervened at least ten times...
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-21-0.u32468	You have a duty to be warned and you have been obliged in each of these cases to say that because none of this was an correction to any of the allegations. ... [[Everyone speaks out loud, they don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-21-0.u32469	Thank you very much. I said myself that the debate never touched the report, and then the corrections went to the basement. Replica, colleague Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-21-0.u32470	Thank you very much. Mr. Pancic, in your presentation when you returned to the '90s, I'm absolutely sure and I agree with you here that you didn't mean the creation of our country, that you didn't mean the Homeland War because our defenders were honorably and courageously defending our country, but that you thought about how the '90s, and unfortunately today, there was a lot of intransparency, swindle and what is the same as today, is the responsibility of the HDZ. But what bothers you and perhaps that in this part of it would eliminate fraud would be to let the public see who it was in the fighting sector, who it was in the non-combat sector, and not to let you, representatives of the HDZ, ask that. Let them do it to the public because they have this data, but they don't want to show it because there's a lot of fraud and intransparentity again. Instead of asking you, let them give the Croatian public a look at who the defender is, who was in which sector. They have the right to see it.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-21-0.u32471	Thank you very much. The plate was in the air, I think, a colleague of Djakic's. He's giving up, okay. Replication response, fellow Pancic. Here you go, dear colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-21-0.u32472	In the register at the end of 2003, which was unverified, there were 403,000 people. As that grew to 490,000 in two years, so 90,000 more, I don't know. That's what you should ask your government. And is it not true, my colleague, about the Homeland War when I say that I was among the 1800s, along with Peter Mlinarić and many other Croatian defenders? Is it true when it is said that this figure has grown to 5,000 who have won the Vukovar Medal? Where'd you get two thousand jumps to five grand? Mr. Cosic, as General of the Croatian Army, I need you as an ordinary soldier who was on the battlefield, not with Djakic in the basement, to explain that difference to me. How about 1800 to 5 grand? Or a colleague of Markovanovic's. So why are you asking me how are the weapons of territorial defense there? Were you not an active member of the Communist Union? It is, together, excellent. Excellent, excellent, Markovanovic. [[Let's keep lying. Lies away.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-21-0.u32473	My colleagues...
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-21-0.u32474	You were probably in Vukovar too, and maybe you were.../The speaker turned off./... then it's an honor. But it would be interesting to see at the ministry who got those 3,000 medals in Vukovar. If 1800 people defended that city and it was verified by the commander.../The speaker turned off./... Dedakovic and Borkovic. But it's not my fault it hurts someone, which hurts the truth. And you just keep talking about how you created and defended Croatia. Because as the song of Dalmatian partisans says, "We created it, we will make it." On that very trail you are destroying the substance of the Croatian state and the Croatian people and you expect us to clap on it. Well, you won't live to see it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-21-0.u32475	Thank you, fellow Pancic. On behalf of the promoter, the distinguished lady answered... Injury of the Rules of Procedure? ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-21-0.u32476	Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. The Rules of Procedure were injured in Article 209 where Mr Pancic did not replicate his colleague but directed the replica to me and others personally. And what I'm trying to say is that with his untruths and his insinuations, really, one basement boy can call someone else someone else...
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-21-0.u32477	My colleague Djakic...
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-21-0.u32478	I mean, it's an absurd thing that only happens when there's such red cancer in Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-21-0.u32479	We haven't fixed anything yet. What? ... Mrs. Kosor, the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Here you are, on behalf of the promoter. I give you my word.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-21-0.u32480	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. If I may and may call on behalf of the Government, since there are a few more points on the agenda of the Croatian Parliament in which Croatian defenders and members of their families will be discussed, if I can call for dignity because here is the last debate I think it is really difficult to accept in the context of what we are talking about and who we are talking about. So, the full debate came out of the topic, the report on the work of the Croatian Defence Fund. It is clear to me that some want the debate to turn away from this report because the report says that the fund was doing a great job, that we have worked to protect Croatian defenders and members of their families and that we have done something valuable not only for today but also for tomorrow and that the fund allows here, among other things, the schooling of children of Croatian defenders. Obviously, someone doesn't like it, but please don't let the disinformation of the Croatian public and Croatian defenders come out of this debate. I have to react in a way, since there has been a lot of untruth here, first of all, about the register, so the register of Croatian defenders. I remind you that in 2003, when we found in drawers what we found was done at the Ministry of Croatian Defence, it was then 440,000 Croatian defenders without the Ministry of the Interior. And those are the facts. So we just collected everything that existed in the Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of Interior. The fact is, each of you can get an overview of how someone entered the Croatian Army or the Ministry of Defence at the time. It means someone who was involved in the defense of the Republic of Croatia at what time. And of course, these more than 490,000 Croatian defenders did not defend Croatia at the same time, but went in and out at different times. And someone according to that register has several days of internship, or several days in defense of the sovereignty of the Republic of Croatia, and someone is two, three or four years old. Therefore, this is also the case for Croatian defenders and is part of the Croatian Defence Fund. It is absolutely untrue, and I reject that anyone in the government has in any way bloated that number, and all those who call for the publication of the register, I call on the Agency for the Protection of Personal Data and ask them for the answer that we have received several times why the register cannot be published in this form. Why can't it be published with all the data, means war routes. It may be appropriate for someone to publish war routes and any other information protected under the law. I finally remind you that at the time of Mr. Racan's government, among other things, the regulation has been amended, so that the unique birth number has been declared classified, and that is one of the data in the register, so it is amazing to listen to the uninterrupted demands to publish what is and according to the regulations that have long been amended by secret. As far as this is concerned, the HDZ is taking on the defence of Croatia. No one from the Croatian Democratic Community has ever said that. Croatian defenders defended Croatia. However, the fact is that when you look at all the data that speak, for example, about the sites in Croatia, about 143 mass graves, more than 1400 individual ones, and how these people were taken and killed, for example on Ovcar, etc. A fundamental question, and it's a historical fact. The question asked by the Chetniks by members of the Yugoslav Army was whether it was a member of the National Guard Assembly and whether it was a member of the Croatian Democratic Union. I also remind you that the legendary General Blago Zadro was a member of the Croatian Democratic Community, but this does not mean that our party to whom I belong is taking over the defence and creation of the Republic of Croatia, i.e. to take on some special merits. But this is a fact. And I pray and call upon Mr. Leko to make these facts, I'm talking about facts, about facts that are opposed to the truths that are being told here. And just in the end, since there were questions here for me. I remind you, and I do not want to make any further controversy, but do not pull the cat by the tail, because then we will come to the fact that I will bring all the data again, once again to the Croatian public what you have done in your term. So we paid back more than a billion kunas of debt you didn't pay under the 2001 law that reduced rights to Croatian defenders and it was drastically, so you didn't respect it either. We paid millions and millions of kuna on the basis of the judgments made by Croatian courts because you failed to fulfil your obligations. People sued and got convictions. In this way they acquired, among others, the status of people with disabilities. You didn't confess to them. They sued, and we had to admit it. So, I'm definitely mentioning another piece of information. For example, you did not want to buy, even though it was a legal obligation and according to your law cars to 100 percent of the first group disabled. That's what's been waiting for us. We've bought 358 so far. Therefore, these are facts. Don't repeat it again, because then we have to go out with what's fact and of course we can't forget, but what we don't put first. That's the past. We paid the money. We've paid back our debts. Let's move on and I think it's important that at this point we implement the Law on the Rights of Croatian Defence and that the Croatian Defence Fund stands well. And if he's lucky, he'll survive and we'll continue to pay scholarships to educate the children of Croatian defenders who will be sitting in this assembly tomorrow. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-21-0.u32481	Thank you very much. A fellow representative, Ivica Pancic, came forward to correct the allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-21-0.u32482	There are many incorrect allegations of correction. But I lost my will. You're known for your unscrupulousness, but you must have experienced it now, but this is the height of lowness to share the victims by party belongings. Well, I really... [[You can't hear the speaker.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-21-0.u32483	Let's not do that! Let's not be here with insults like this, because no one shared them. But everyone belonged to someone, had a name and a last name the moment he was killed, and that's no problem saying it either. I believe so. We have lists and lists of people who, for example, have told me as I formed a people's protection that there are legitimate armies in this country and that someone will answer for it. But what now, should I chase him? I won't. God bless him. Let's move on with the debate. Ivan Bagarić, my dear colleague, please be my guest.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-21-0.u32484	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I would like to begin my presentation, therefore, and accept that Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister's recommendation that we really return to one normal debate in this assembly and that we do not actually address each other in this way that our colleague has now addressed the Vice President. I don't think there's really any reason to talk like this. One proverb says, "Shut up and you'll never regret it. Speak, you will repent a thousand times," but Parliament is where it is spoken. I spoke earlier, and really if I offended anyone with my speech, I apologize. But let me, indeed, allow me, and not for further sharpening, but for clearing up this condition. I wasn't lazy, but I asked for a stenogram of what you told your colleague Pancic. I understand that you support the fund, it understands everything. So, but I don't understand when you support the fund, so when you support this report, I don't understand what else to put into the package like that with what you've inserted. And just because you packed what you did, we looked back on it. And what did you say? Wait a minute, this is my debate. So in the debate, you said, "Maybe it's a solution to remember the defense attorney instead of being conveniently reminded." So how can he say conveniently to remember the defender, if here is the Minister of Croatian Defence who works day and night on caring, helping and supporting Croatian defenders with regard to their care, about their treatment, about their exercise of rights, about everything, about the correction, I don't say I don't know any bad moves, but failures and everything else. Therefore, it cannot be said that it is not convenient. He says: "or through a social care system we push you into the world of employment to put on the supervisory boards of Croatian state-owned enterprises Croatian defenders who possess professional training and knowledge". And as you can say at this time that these people who are in these funds, I know now that you're not just thinking about this one, but generally about the funds, that there are really no Croatian defenders and that they really don't have knowledge and abilities. And in conclusion, you say, what was the worst and that's what we all looked back on. You say, "I'm sure they wouldn't care how they dispose of Croatian property." With Croatian property. And I was correcting your quote and other colleagues when we looked back on the Croatian Defence Fund. So is the Croatian Defence Fund also Croatian property? Then whose is it? What is it? Both symbolically and at any level of God. You say, "as is entirely the case for most members of the Croatian government." Well, I mean, this is really, I mean, if he's lying to a goat, he's not lying to a horn. So this state has its own institutions, has its own judiciary, has its own prosecution, has its own. So whoever has made a mistake, who has made a mistake, let him be judged, let him be judged. No one's standing behind him. However, calling for members of the Croatian government to be managed by state property is indeed for every conviction. Just one more look, 'cause I have to look around. You can't talk about Croatian defenders the way we do, here we often share them all here together. You can't tell where you've been, where you've been, where you've been, if these people have been at that time in the space that he's fought, who's defended himself, etc. As far as I'm concerned, you mentioned some medals to the people who got them from Vukovar. So to every man who survived there, wherever he was, I would give him all the medals of this world. What are we talking about? What army won the war without having organized logistics, not having those who prepared food, those who prepared the ways of evacuation, taking care of people on the roads, those who in certain ways supported everything that they supported could and had? Who won the war who didn't have media support? So if there were no Croatian media and support from Croatian media, there would be these kinds of reviews here, so who would win the war? If it hadn't been for all those war reporters and everything that was there. So there really was no place for you to support this fund and say that you support it, this report, to pack up everything you've packed and to actually cause this kind of reaction. When it comes to this item of the agenda, or the Croatian Defence Fund and this report, I think it is very important to say the following more here. The fund itself is important. As at a financial and symbolic level, it's important at a time of full stability, it's important that we have it, it's important that it exists, and it's even more important in times of certain fractures, crisis, etc. He is a statement of unequivocally political will, which means political will in terms of the support of the Croatian government, the support of this House because it is here to send us a message to the Croatian defenders that this Parliament stands from that fund. So, no waves, no crises will upset him or bring him down. Hence, he is like such a statement and trust. So, the trust of the defenders of each other, the defenders and the management of the fund, but also the Government, but also this Parliament. Thus, we are truly unique in this. Here, we haven't been unique to much, we've seen it before, but here you have said and we say, we support this fund, it is very important from here to send a message to Croatian defenders, Croatian public, this government, this Parliament, we all stand behind this fund because it is important that there is a fund from which defenders, Croatian children, from which we will have this foundation of Croatian defenders, etc. So here's when we look at this report that we got here, when we look at everything that it has, then we really see that it's being responsibly managed by this fund. We see even by the formal number of these sessions that the fund has maintained and everything it does and how it is dealing with the problems that the entire state and society and the whole world are dealing with, so to protect these catches and to protect the funds. In this sense, my sincere congratulations to all those involved in the work of this fund, who care and watch over it, who support it at the head with the present Madam Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Croatian Defence, as well as all Croatian representatives in the Croatian Parliament who certainly support this fund in terms of its strength, its survival, its strengthening, and for the good of all, the good of the Croatian state and for the benefit of every single Croatian defender. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-21-0.u32485	Thank you very much, colleague Bagaric. We've got three replications. First of all, dear colleague Markovanovic. Here's my colleague Markovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-21-0.u32486	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, here, colleague Bagaric, you mentioned the fund and I think maybe today should have talked a lot more about the quality management of the fund, regardless of what conservative investment it was, which turned out very well at these times when the stock market fell, when stocks fell and everything else. So, first of all, we should commend those who run that fund. I'm glad they're defenders, but we heard, since the defenders, they need to be immediately suspected of their expertise, their similarity, and the rest, and who else will suspect than the former minister who's here, had such good co-operation with the defenders that he probably used the back entrance, the exit, probably doesn't even remember what the front entrance looks like. Because that's where the bitter defenders were waiting for him at the entrance and exit because he was stepping on them, because he was trampling on their rights, and now I just have to keep going on a little bit more than just a story. One time a journalist asked me just what I thought about my colleague Pancic and I didn't know that she was a journalist that she was going to publish, I said she was lying as soon as she heard. I apologize to my colleague Pancic for lying when he thinks and not only when he's dying. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-21-0.u32487	Next to the replica, a distinguished colleague came forward. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-21-0.u32488	Mr. President, the Rules of Procedure of Article 209 in connection with Article 214 have been broken, because from this morning on, there has been a really one humiliating debate here. He spoke about it just before, and he just told you those words because you must be responsible for such a situation and prevent such speeches from being spoken by our colleague Vujic. Such words, such insults are really inadmissible. Obviously, that's what they use to hide something, to hide it, to create something right away from something. But now these motives don't matter what they're doing, they're not allowed to do that in any way. We are here in front of the Croatian public. This is not particularly the one who speaks for those to whom these words are addressed. So I ask you, Mr. Vice President, to stop any more debates like this and to stop anyone in such an intention as soon as it begins.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-21-0.u32489	Thank you very much. In many ways I agree with you because certainly what is being discussed here, which is the fundamental theme of the debate report is a little bit spoken about and this report speaks a lot, but there has been a lot of talk about many others. And I agree with you that all this talks together about who he's talking to and who he talks to and I intervene over and over again to the report, let's say if something doesn't work out, let's say that somewhere, there's always something better to do, let's commend what's good, let's not take personal account of ourselves, but obviously while the cameras are on as if some ghost is coming in from a bottle or coming out, and then that's how it is. Replica esteemed colleague Ivica Pancic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-21-0.u32490	There was no answer?
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-21-0.u32491	No, there's no answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-21-0.u32492	I'm glad you took a phonogram from my colleague Bagaric, so you read it. It was about my words. Who started with these insinuations? Well, a member of the government started. Unfortunately, it escalated in the direction it escalated. If this had to be discussed differently, this report should have been discussed. I have made it clear and loud on behalf of the SDP and praised the work of the Croatian Defence Fund. And is there anything controversial about it? But I rejected any illusion that the SDP could stand behind a part of the defenders who had certain objections. And how is it that the SDP is now behind the defenders if we said the ministry is covering all the defenders and that means that your ministry is not telling the whole truth. But so that we don't bleed clearly and loudly, it's said. We support this fund, it's good that control mechanisms are put in place. These are defenders who have been working on setting up this fund since the beginning of 2003, whether they are HDZ or not absolutely irrelevant, have done their job well and I personally thanked them for it. And at the same time, I reminded the public of what happened in the 1990s around the Homeland Fund, which didn't end well. Nothing more, nothing less. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-21-0.u32493	Thank you very much. Reply to the replica of his colleague, Bagarić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-21-0.u32494	Thank you. Mr. Vice President. My friend Pancic, it's not true that the Vice President started this way. No, so it was in no way appropriate for her to discuss it this way because she had extraordinary material and that was the Report on the Croatian Defence Fund that we all commended here. So she cared most about it, and we should stand by to talk about it and really assess it the way it is. I repeat, you've supported this fund or this report, but I can't say any other way but you packed it with that support, I guess in this pre-election time like that, and what I've just tested before, and I wouldn't be doing it again, where you've actually slapped the government on the same way and put doubt in everything she's doing, etc., and then we've certainly corrected your allegations and then it turned into what it turned into. So, once again, if it wasn't for that performance of yours, there wouldn't have been this whole thing. I think we need another hand and support for the fund and the Croatian defenders. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-21-0.u32495	Thank you very much, colleague Bagaric. I think this last thought of yours is actually supposed to be the thought of a guide. The hand of the hand, the support of the fund and the recognition of those who do so because we formed brigades on the principle of who is from which party, etc. Croatia would not have been safe, but at that time we had other principles and it is good that they were. It's not good to argue like that now. There's no more charges for discussion. Finally, the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister will appear. ... Yes, another colleague, Djakic, was in favor of the replica. [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-21-0.u32496	Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. I will replicate my colleagues, Bagaric, that he may have missed it, did not remember to say that in the administrative and supervisory boards of Croatian companies are also Croatian defenders and Croatian generals, and they are appointed, only individuals do not know or want to know about it. I would like to say for the public that they really do their supervisory function and administrations do it honorably and honestly as they have always done in all segments of society. I would like to stress that, when it comes to the "Vukovar" Monument, there is certainly relevant information about this and what is fact. There are two relationships by which she is assigned. And it's incorrect that the number of 5 grand and 700 just 750 monuments is divided and it's only on one basis and it's a peaceful reintegration. For that active participation in the defence of Vukovar, none is divided, but it is established and it will be. The commission that was established certainly works fairly and fairly, and they actually informed me of how divided it is. So what was heard today in the Croatian Parliament is not true. 750 is so far. I would like to say that active participation in the defence of Vukovar as well as all our other cities of the victims should certainly be evaluated. And I want to say that this fund that was built is certainly made in the interest of the needs of Croatian defenders, and so it will be preserved. He's stable, he's functional, he's useful, to the benefit of all those who need him in the categories of humanity, social care, development policy and assistance at any time that meets the conditions. Also, all those who wish to stay in it and who do not need to sell their shares, I would invite them to stay, that the longer the fund works on the welfare of them and their children. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-21-0.u32497	Thank you, colleague Djakic. Replication response, esteemed colleague Bagarić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-21-0.u32498	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I agree with my colleague Djakic. So I really didn't enter into the structure of the boards of directors of different, i.e. companies in general, nor did I think that was necessary. However, in a debate like this, when it comes to doubt whether the defenders are there, it is of course very important that what you emphasized to Djakic and it is very important to repeat, therefore, that Croatian defenders sit there and that neither their intention nor their level of education should be doubted, etc. So here it is, my last address and once again support to the fund. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-21-0.u32499	Thank you. And now the Deputy Prime Minister, Mrs. Jadranka Kosor. Here's the vice president.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-21-0.u32500	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Honorable Madam Representatives, gentlemen of the House of Representatives. Here's a very short one at the very end. First of all, I would like to thank all of you who have shown support for this report, i.e. the work of the Management Board of the Croatian Defence Fund, as well as the Property Management Society, I think we have done a good job. Because when it comes to the board of directors, it is said that defenders who are there are representatives of defence associations, all Croatian defenders and members of their families. I would like to remind you that there is also your representative, therefore the Croatian Parliament, the Committee on War Veterans, that he also contributes to the work of the Fund and the success of the business, but also two representatives of the Government, I will repeat, the representative of the Ministry of Economy and Ministers of Today's Croatian Defence Office, because that is what the law said. So, I think it's all our fault. And I also want to call on the Croatian defenders once again despite this once-in-a-lifetime really hard-to-accept discussion to concentrate on what is crucial and important, which is that the fund is doing a good job, doing everything to make sure that the fund survives. Of course, according to the Privatisation Act, the government will enter into the next periods and other valuable assets. The Fund is a value for Croatia, primarily because thanks to the fund, among other things, the project "Stupendial for children of Croatian defenders". I keep saying that, I keep saying it, and I'm going to repeat it because I think it's very important because in some times, as you know, when a provision of the Law on the Rights of Croatian Defence is lifted on the basis of the constitutional suit, the registration of children of Croatian defenders, good, great, smart children. Obviously, I mean those who filed the lawsuit, wanted to stop the process, but at the same time we agreed with the rectorial assembly on a special enrolment for children, primarily the dead Croatian defenders, children with disabilities, but also provided these scholarships thanks to the fund. I owe you two answers. Unfortunately, Mr Bernardic, there is no representative here. He asked very specific questions to which I will answer very specifically about the survival of the fund when the Republic of Croatia becomes a member of the European Union. There's no fear. I remind you that last year's law, if I recall correctly, has been amended right here and is in line with the guidelines. Therefore, there is no fear as there is no fear nor for, let me say, all the provisions of the Law on the Rights of Croatian Defence from the Homeland War. You will now likely be discussing amendments to the laws that are harmonising with the acquis of the European Union, but everything we have incorporated as values in the law, above all for the most disabled, etc., remains when the Republic of Croatia becomes a member of the European Union. Why did we try to fight for it, and why is it so today and it will be? Because we believe, I am sure together with all of you, that Croatian defenders are the most responsible for free, independent, democratic Croatia, for joining NATO, of course with many, Croatian Parliament, president, government, etc., but certainly Croatian defenders and the first Croatian president, Dr Franjo Tudjman in the first place and then, of course, when we enter the European Union, when we become a member, they will again be the most responsible because if they had not defended Croatia then we would not be able to do the whole job. And Mr Bernardic also asked the question, rightly, that at one point there was a delay in payment. That's true all of it, those were some technical difficulties, but everything was removed. Therefore, this work takes place for those who want to make amends. And in the end, I'm only going to do it one more time because there was a lot of observation about whether or not we were supposed to sell INA shares, so it was a good job because at that point the INA stock was 2800 kuna. We thus earned nearly 2 billion kunas or, more precisely, a billion 960 million kuna. If we hadn't done that, the value of the stake would have dropped significantly, because for example today the INA stock value is 1510 kuna, so the value of the stake today, if we hadn't sold, would probably be less than 420 kuna, and this is how it is 631 kuna. Therefore, we did so to protect the property of Croatian defenders. That's how it's gonna be in the future. Thank you very much for the debate and thank you all for supporting the report. We'll try and make what happens this year, so next year, it'll be just as good. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-21-0.u32501	Thank you very much to the esteemed Vice President. This concludes the debate. I'm closing the debate on the third item of the agenda.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-21-0.u32502	We are going to the Business Report on the work of the Croatian Defence Fund from the Homeland War and members of their families for 2008. Supporter of the Croatian Defence Fund from the Homeland War and members of their families. The debate is closed. I am voting the conclusion that is in line with the proposal of the Assembly Working Body and the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. A Business Report on the work of the Croatian Defence Fund from the Homeland War and members of their families for 2008. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? This report was accepted by most votes, 85 votes for and 2 abstentions.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-21-0.u32503	We're going to the fourth point. That's four. Report on the implementation of the Law on the Rights of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families, for the period from 1 January to 31 December 2008, the Government submitted a report on the basis of Article 111. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. You received the proposal by mail. The debate was conducted by the War Veterans Committee. You received a report from the board meeting at the session. Does the proposaler's representative want to further explain this report? Yeah. Deputy Prime Minister, Your Honor, Mrs. Kosor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-21-0.u32504	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. It's before you like every year I'm going to say a comprehensive report that needs to be answered by two questions. First, have we fulfilled all the provisions of the law, or have we fulfilled the law? And that means whether we have done everything in daily life that is important for the rights of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families. But also for keeping their dignity in the 21st century today. And secondly, of course, if we had enough money for that. What was our budget? And I think the report gives a positive answer to those two questions. Not only do I think, but I also claim on the basis of an important fact. In fact, the state audit for last year has certainly done its job at the Ministry of Family, Defence and Intergenerational Solidarity, and I am pleased to say that the State Audit report for our ministry for 2008 continues as well as all past years without notice. I point out that with pride, because this is an extensive ministry, as you know, with a lot of problems. Because we mostly work exclusively with people by solving a lot of problems and where we meet daily with human fates. That is why I am proud to point out that the audit has established that we have done business without error. I believe that you too are satisfied with this fact, because this report on the implementation of the Law on the Rights of Croatian Lawyers from the Homeland War and members of their families clearly shows that more than 6 billion and 200 million kuna have been allocated to care for Croatian defenders and their families in the last year from the state budget. So I'm talking about the exercise of all rights under the Law on the Rights of Croatian Lawyers from here to the right of employment relating to pensions. I'm going to try to say a little bit about those segments of this report that I think are most important and then I'm going to ask you to understand, because I have to leave because it's at 12.30 a.m. Government session that I have to be at, so that's where my associates are staying. So, I'll go with the employment of Croatian defenders. It's one of the most important and valuable projects. We have so far hired more than 10,000 Croatian defenders thanks to these projects. I believe the results this year will be just as good. In the past year, we implemented all the measures provided for in the programme of employment of Croatian defenders by the Croatian Government. Among the most successful, it means among those who give the fastest and most valuable results, I point out the establishment of Croatian defenders' cooperatives. I believe that many of you have also visited many cooperatives and have experience of getting acquainted with their work. I'll say here's one piece of information. So, at the beginning of my term, there was no cooperative. Now there's 337 of them. In the last year, we supported the establishment of even 73 new cooperatives. They're cooperatives that are very good, mostly very good at business. Of course they're all required to file reports. But we also started with a new project of support for the development of new cooperative projects. So these are those cooperatives that are doing a great job and they're entitled here from last year to new incentives with 50,000 kuna each. We continue, of course, this year. We predicted this year here, I will say this on the way to support even 74 of such cooperatives that are doing well and 66 of the new ones we plan to encourage, that is, whose establishment we plan to encourage. So I can say that all other measures have produced good results. Here's to your information that all the funds for all the employment measures we've provided over the last year are about 40 million kuna. I have to say, for some, it wasn't as much of an interest as it was for others, so then we coordinated those employment programmes for this year according to the real interest of the defender. So, all the funds, all the money we award exclusively through competitions so that transparency in this sense is complete and I repeat for all measures, additional reports must be submitted. We, too, have done our job according to all the provisions of the law as the law provides. So, among other things, since we have incorporated provisions in the law, for example, on one-time cash aid, I can say that we received as much as 1775 such requests in the last year. A positive 955 requests have been resolved. The co-financed procurement of 191 orthopedic aids. We also bought private cars, but in the last year, much less because we had to do so, so by buying 358 cars in the last year. However, the obligation to rebuild because Croatian wartime military disableds, 100% first-groups have the right to a new car after every 7 years. As far as housing is concerned, I would like to inform you that in the last year we have positively resolved 905 such requests or by granting loans or by assigning apartments, that there has been intensified housing, and then here is the fact that we are in our term of office, so over the past five years we have settled 5176 Croatian wartime wartime people with disabilities and families of the deceased, prisoners and missing defenders who have the right to such a type of housing. And for that, we've singled out more than a billion and a half kuna. We've completely taken care of all the 100% disabled first group. So they are 492 or by building specially adapted houses or by building specially adapted apartments. So, as far as housing is concerned, it goes this year. I am pleased to say that despite the fact that we had to do so, we, of course, have saved and rebalanced the budget, that none of the important projects that are related to Croatian defenders are in any way and will not be damaged alone. We also in the last year achieved all those projects that are related to pension insurance, but also to unemployment benefits. It was used by 194 users. Likewise, we have completed the full translation of the law according to the Law on the Rights of Croatian Lawyers, which came into force last year. During 2008, we also continued the project of the right to free textbooks, of course for those children of Croatian defenders not covered by the project of free textbooks at the level of the entire Republic of Croatia, and here in the last year we set out more than 4 million 643 thousand kuna and this right was achieved by a total of 3310 users. I also have to mention one important project, which is the preparation of children of Croatian defenders for high school enrolment, or for university enrolment. So it's also co-financed by the ministry. So it was in the last year and here it is, and at this moment it is going to be a competition that we also want to help the children of Croatian defenders prepare for the enrolment and we will co-finance the amount of these preparations up to 2000 kuna, so it was in the last year. We also continued with the programme of medical rehabilitation of Croatian military disableds from the Homeland War at 4 spas. We're going on with it now. As you know, we have provided a special project for the treatment of 100% disabled first group in Barokomora in Split, and this programme was used by those disabled of course who based on medical documentation on the right to do so. So in the hyperbaric chamber, seven Croatian military disableds were treated last year. I'd like to point out in the end another special program that we started last year, so in 2008, what can you read about in this report, which is systematic reviews. Also in 4 centers, also based on competitions. Systematic checks for families of the most disabled, for families of Croatian defenders suffering from post-traumatic stress disorder for families of the dead, imprisoned and missing. Why did we start with those checks? Because, of course, we've come from conversations, contacts, and found that some categories of these people have increased their disease, unfortunately I have to say malignancies. For example, in the widows of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War, but also problems with the family of defenders who have suffered from post-traumatic stress disorder. We've decided on a project of systematic examinations. In the last year, 3040 people were included in these reviews. I am pleased to find that some of the diseases are at the initial stage. These people, these persons, these women, family members will be saved and here, so with this program we will continue absolutely in this year. I think it is an extremely valuable programme and based on the results of this programme, which will cover more than 20,000 people over 4 years, we will also prepare new programmes at the Croatian Defence Ministry. In the end, I'd like to say that we've worked intensively and in search of those persons who are on the list of prisoners and missing from '91, '92. For years, to continue to depend on the data we receive, we continued to respond in the last year to every tip of a possible place of mass or individual tomb, and I must say that for this job that is difficult, which is painful, however, where we will not give up, of course there will never be any money, but certainly no will. And here, for your information, I called last year, I expect this meeting to be realized, all of its colleagues or vice-presidents of governments or ministers dealing with these issues, means missing persons. I called for a meeting to mean representatives of Serbia, Bosnia and Herzegovina and Montenegro. I expect feedback and expect us to open all questions at a joint meeting, to give and exchange all information and finally, as far as possible to resolve the fate of the largest number of people we are looking for and who have been victims of aggression in the Republic of Croatia. Ladies and gentlemen, here's the report big and extensive, the report I believe answers all the questions. What I want to say in the end is that we have fully fulfilled all the provisions of the Law on the Rights of Croatian Lawyers and members of their families, and I repeat again the review report for 2008. Thank you very much, and I suggest, of course, on behalf of the government and on behalf of the ministry that I am headed to report and accept.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-21-0.u32505	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Does the rapporteur, on behalf of the board, want to take the floor? Here's a colleague, Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-21-0.u32506	Thank you very much, Vice-President, gentlemen of the Croatian Government and the Minister. At its 12th session on 20 May 2009, the Council of War Veterans Committee of the Croatian Parliament discussed a report on the implementation of the Law on the Rights of Croatian Defence from the Homeland War and members of their families for the period from 1 January to 31 December 2008, which was delivered to the President of the Croatian Parliament by the Government of the Republic of Croatia by an act of 9 April 2009. According to representatives of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the funds spent to exercise all the rights laid down in the Law on the Rights of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families in 2008 amounted to 6 billion 207 million 120 thousand 123 kuna and 72 June. The largest share of the total funds spent shall have the means to exercise pension insurance rights in the amount of 4 billion... 106 thousand 035 kuna and 50 limes or 76.68%. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Then the funds for permanent cash rights amounting to 883 million kuna 306 thousand 654, or 13.42% of the funds follow. For residential care of 234 million 41 thousand 343 or 3.77% and health insurance funds of 193 million 543 thousand 459 kuna or 3.12%. The amount of funds intended for the exercise of other rights under the law range from 1 million kuna to 62 million kuna and up to 1% of the budget in absolute and relative terms. In the last year, 46 thousand 42 persons with disabilities and 10 thousand 340 family invalids were paid monthly. The average monthly number of supply users was 6 thousand 745. The disability pension was received on average by 46 thousand 595 users, which is 21% higher in 2007. The increase stems from the process of implementing the prescribed law and the reconstruction of the Croatian military and the MUP. The average height of the disability pension was 5 thousand 275 kuna. The family pensioner was 12 thousand 128 and the average height of the family pension was 7 thousand 540 kuna and 80 limes. In the reporting period, 905 housing claims were resolved and 836 of them were requested by the granting of a housing loan and 69 of the applications for the award of dwellings owned by the Republic of Croatia. The 2008 programme of systematic reviews covered 3,000 40 people. In a brief discussion, the committee members supported the report in question, noting that it was comprehensive, detailed and comprehensive and had no objections to the same. After the debate was held, the committee unanimously decided to propose to the Croatian Assembly the following conclusion: "A report on the implementation of the Law on the Rights of Croatian Defence from the Homeland War and members of their families for the period from 1 January to 31 December 2008. "Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-21-0.u32507	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. For the club of representatives of HDZ, Mr. Representative Josip Djakic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-21-0.u32508	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. In front of us is the report on the implementation of the Law on the Rights of Croatian Defences, which the Croatian Democratic Community club absolutely supports in all segments because it is transparent because it is an unconditional assessment of the State Audit given by the Croatian Defence Ministry for its work last year. Namely, through the recapitulation of all rights exercised by Croatian defenders and defined through the Law on the Rights of Croatian Defence and Amendments and the Laws made in the past, through 18 chapters that speak of permanent monetary rights, one-time rights under the Law on Housing Care, improving the quality of life for families of Croatian defenders and Croatian military disabled persons, pension rights, health rights, the right to free textbooks, the summering of children of Croatian defenders of weaker property status, employment of Croatian defenders, customs... Facilitation, exhumation, identification, marking of the site of mass graves, mentioning the characteristics of victims killed in the Homeland War, Memorial cemetery of victims from the Homeland War, burial of Croatian defenders with military honors, accessibility project for persons with disabilities, psycho-social program, execution of judicial judgments, collaboration with associations of the Homeland War. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Namely, this is 18 chapters covering this report detailing the spending of funds and it is clear that for the needs of Croatian defenders 6 billion 207 million 123 kuna and 72 June were spent. We'll go through all these rights in order, so... monetary rights in accordance with the provisions of the law include personal disability, special allowance, allowance for care and assistance of another person, orthopaedic allowance, provision, family disability, increased family disability, increased family disability, extras for assistance in the house, provision for family disability users, family disability benefits for families of the imprisoned and missing Croatian defenders, compensation for families of the missing Croatian defenders, compensation for families of the responsible... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The commission. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So in 2008, there were 72 thousand 711 users, which is 4.35% higher than in 2007 and the total amount paid in 2008 is 833 million 360 thousand 654 kuna and 48 June, which is 4.22% higher than in 2007. Article 74 of the Law and a regulation on the conditions and procedure of the exercise of the right to one-time financial assistance of members of the family of the dead Croatian defender from the Homeland War, Croatian wartime wartime people from the Homeland War and Croatian defenders from the Homeland War were prescribed the right to one-time cash aid in 2008, a thousand 775 requests were received from which 955 requests were positively resolved and 820 requests were rejected due to non-compliance with the conditions. This paid 4 million 299 thousand 424 kuna 37 limes in 2008 to the socially endangered families of Croatian defenders. During 2008, the co-financed procurement of 191 orthopedic aids for 152 Croatian wartime disabled from the Homeland War. In total, 3 million and 900 thousand kunas were spent for approved requests for the co-financing of orthopaedic and other aids in 2008. In the implementation of the legal obligation, Article 60(1) of the Law and the basis of the Regulation on the terms and conditions and procedure for the achievement of customs and tax reliefs from Croatian defenders and members of their families have been provided only three cars in accordance with the contract for the purchase and delivery of personal cars for Croatian military disabled persons of the first group since 16 November 2005. In the reporting period for... The purpose was spent 293,000... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Kuna. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The right to residential care, which is governed by Articles 36 to 50 of the Law and by the Households Regulation, to the death of members of the family, imprisoned or missing Croatian defenders of the Homeland War, has been resolved in the reporting period 905 requests for the award of a flat or a residential loan of which 69 requests have been resolved by the award of apartments owned by the Republic of Croatia and houses taken over by the Agency for Transport and Real Estate Intermediation while 836 requests have been settled by the granting of a housing loan for the different types of housing. During the reporting period, a total of 234 million 41 thousand 343 kuna and 68 limes were spent on residential care from the Ministry of the Family, Defence and Intergenerational Solidarity. Croatian lawyers from the Homeland War at the Pension Insurance Institute exercise the right to an age pension, disability pension, family pension, minimum pension and salary compensation rights acquired on the basis of the remaining work capacity. In 2008 4 million 760 thousand 106,03 kuna were paid to Croatian defenders for pensions and pension benefits. Out of the total number of pensioners in 2008 received an average of 46 thousand 515 users who spent a total of 3 billion 196 million 320 thousand 448 kuna while the family pension received an average of 12 thousand 128 users, spending a total of 124 million 802 thousand 770 kuna. In 2008 pensions were used by an average of 58 thousand 828 users. The temporary unemployment fee was used by an average of 194 users. Payment fee during employment Article 13. The law on the rights of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War of 96 used an average of 12 users and the remuneration of salaries related to the use of the right to professional rehabilitation was used by an average of 18 users. The average monthly pension for 2008 reduced by tax and tax was 5 thousand 732 kuna and 33 June. The right to a minimum pension under Article 21(3) of the Law used an average of 175 users per month for which 5 million 498 thousand 573 kuna was paid. The average monthly minimum pension for 2008 was 2148.44 kuna, tax-free and cut. In 2007, the implementation of disability pensions and all disability pension rights under Article 152, 153, 154 were carried out. Law on the rights of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War. Also in 2005. In 2008, on behalf of this implementation, the remaining debt for 2006 and part of 2007, i.e. the corresponding pension difference for the period from 1 January 2006 to 30 March 2007, amounting to 272 million 298 thousand 624 kuna. Croatian defenders who are in the status of the insurance company of the Health Insurance Office and have not acquired insurance on a second basis, e.g. working relationship, independent activity, are now recognised in compulsory health insurance on the basis of their properties as a Croatian defender from the Homeland War, Article 5(1) of the 15th Act. In the reporting period, the status of the insurance company of the Health Insurance Office... The properties of Croatian defenders were achieved according to the state on 31 December 2008, a total of 17,000 534, of which 17,000 are 217 men and 317 women. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] A total of 193 million 567 thousand 459 kuna and 51 limes were spent to exercise health insurance rights in 2008. During 2008, the right to free textbooks in the form of cash compensation in the amount of the average cost of a set of required textbooks was unique for all classes and all secondary schools in the school year 2008/2009, students of the third and fourth grade high school and regular or extraordinary students at higher schools. In the light of the cash compensation in the amount of the average cost of a set of mandatory textbooks unique for all classes and all secondary schools, increased by 20%. That right of payment was granted by a total of 3310 users, spending 4 million 643 thousand 153 kuna and 56 limes. On 23 August 2007, the Government of the Republic of Croatia adopted a new programme of professional training and employment of Croatian defenders and children of the deadly victims, prisoners or missing Croatian defenders for the period from 2008 to 2011. In the reporting period, 110 people have been trained professionally through programme measures, aided in the employment of 300 persons alone, encouraging employers who employ Croatian defenders or children killed, imprisoned or missing Croatian defenders, the employment of 58 people has been encouraged, the establishment of 83 new Croatian defence cooperatives has been encouraged, and support has been provided for the development of 19 new projects of Croatian defence cooperatives that have shown their success and profitability in the past business. In total, 30 million 483 thousand 944 kuna and 32 June were spent on programme measures in 2008. As part of the 2008 Annual Plan for Encouragement of Self Employment, employers and unemployed Croatian defenders could benefit from the measures of the Croatian Employment Service, which concerned employment, education for employment and employment in public work. To co-finance the employment and financing of Croatian defenders' education in 2008 under the measures of the Annual Employment Promotion Plan, the Croatian Employment Service paid 10 million 675 thousand 970 kuna, and the measures were used by 610 Croatian defenders. A total of 41 million 159 thousand 914 kuna and 32 June were spent on the employment of Croatian defenders in 2008 through the programme of the Ministry of Family, Defence and Intergenerational Solidarity and measures of the active employment policy of the Croatian Employment Service. During 2008, field surveyed knowledge of 55 possible unregistered sites of mass and individual tombs in eight counties was also collected. Test excavations revealed 14 individual tombs that found and exhumed the remains of 14 people. At the same time, the Ministry of Family, Defence and Intergenerational Solidarity organised eight identifications of postmortem remains to which 116 exhumed persons were invited and 92 persons were organised after completion of the identification. In 2008, two mentions of the sites in Negoslavci and Cvetni Vir were placed. A total of 829 people were buried at the Memorial cemetery of victims from the Homeland War in Vukovar, and in the reporting period 20 of them were buried. A total of 3 million kunas were spent to co-finance the construction and arrangement of the victims' memorials for victims of the Homeland War in 2008. During 2008, a total of 1174 Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and 14 remains of Croatian defenders were buried with military honor after the exhumation and identification process. In 2008, the active implementation of the National Psychological and Health Assistance Programme continued for participants and victims of the Homeland War. The Government of the Republic of Croatia adopted a total of 245,000 443 interventions in the implementation of the National Programme in 2008, of which 59 thousand 358 interventions at the 21st County Center for Psychological Assistance. And 186,000 85 interventions at regional centres for the psychotrau and crisis center. In 2008, a programme of medical rehabilitation of Croatian wartime war invalids from the Homeland War continued. For the purpose of implementing this programme, contracts for providing medical rehabilitation services to HRVI from the Homeland War have been concluded with three institutions trained to conduct hospital rehabilitation, Topusco, Krapina spa and Daruvarske spa. In accordance with Article 72 of the Law, the application for medical or physical rehabilitation has been submitted by 276 Croatian wartime disabled persons, of whom 170 have been granted the conditions laid down in the regulations and are referred to medical or physical rehabilitation by the Medical Committee for Medical and Physical Rehabilitation. Medical rehabilitation has passed 145 Croatian wartime wartime disableds. A total of 614 thousand 266 kuna and 66 limes were refunded to provide medical rehabilitation services in 2008. In 2008, the implementation of a programme to improve the quality of life in the families of the dead Croatian defenders, Croatian wartime disableds and Croatian defenders who received the conclusion of the Government of the Republic of Croatia on 2 November 2007. The government adopted a four-year programme, from 2008 to 2011, and the programme consists of organised systematic reviews and analysis of the results of research obtained with the aim of preventing and improving the quality of health and life. In 2008, systematic checks were carried out in Zagreb, Osijek, Rijeka and Split, and by 31 December 2008, a total of 3040 people were screened, spending a total of 2 million 167 thousand 651 kuna and 40 limes. As part of the program for the treatment of Croatian military disabled 100%, the first group... in Split in 20008 treatment included a total of 7 Croatian military disabled. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Here through this report, which is complete, which in all segments speaks of real conditions and needs, I can only add the following, that the relationship and concern with the Associations of the Homeland War was exceptional, that all programmes and projects were supported by certain financial means, that the continued partner relationship between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Ministry of Croatian Defence and Associations of Homeland War. And so it is clearly visible for which projects and how much money the association has received, where they have been spent, their justifications as they have been in all these years, and now clear indicators that speak of transparency, industriousness, care, every kuna, and this is the same as the Office for Auditing which gave an unconditional assessment of this work of the Ministry and the Club of the Croatian Democratic Community can say that it is commendable for this report as well as for the work of all those who do water and water care and care for Croatian defenders headed by the Vice-President of the Government and our minister. Thank you very much for your patience.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-21-0.u32509	Thank you. IDS representative club, Mr. Representative Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-21-0.u32510	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor, Mr. Secretary of State, Yes, we can throw hard words at each other, but if in one group in Croatia, they are defenders of the Homeland War. Here on this page three are listed rights or better said cost recapitulation by all rights, so here is the permanent monetary rights of 833 million kuna, one-time rights under the law 5.9 million kuna, the housing of 234 million kuna. Now you're talking to me about an election in Istria? And that's agreed between you two already. [[Intruder: It's all arranged.]] It's all agreed between you two. Okay. Pension insurance rights 4.6 billion kuna, health insurance rights of 193 million kuna. Right to free textbooks 4.6 million kuna, employment of Croatian defenders 41 million kuna, customs and tax relief 61.9 million kuna, etc. etc. In one word or in total, it's 6.2 billion kuna. This is more than 5% of the budget of the Republic of Croatia and in some ways I dare say the amount that will be paid annually or that will still be added to the original war damage that the Republic of Croatia suffered in the aggression of '91, '95. It is clearly a huge burden for the Republic of Croatia, but it is also I dare say the permanent commitment of the Republic of Croatia. So once I have to express my defence rights, it has to be a right forever, and it has to be treated as a acquired right, not that tomorrow comes what I know to some change in power, so that these people, like anti-fascist fighters, are taken away by all rights acquired. It's not funny, but it's like that. Yes, such a practice, gentlemen. Representatives wouldn't be leading anyone. Like every Istrian, but every reasonable citizen of Croatia must be offended when we have what we have on Bleiburg, and the Istrian heroin Ruža Petrovic or one Maria is taken away by the name of a children's home or elementary school. What am I saying? So, in order not to let the defenders know what's going on and what's going on with the NOB fighters, I'm absolutely in favour of the sustainability of these rights. This is especially important for this pension system, for pension insurance. I agree that these are huge funding of 4 billion 760 million kuna, so among other things on page 33 it is said that Croatian defenders from the Homeland War at the Pension Insurance Office are entitled to retirement, disability pension, family pension, minimum pension, and the right to pay in respect of the rights acquired on the basis of the remaining work capacity. In 2008, expenditure on pensions and pension benefits of Croatian defenders was paid to the aforementioned amount of 4.7 billion kuna. In 2008, the pension amounted to an average of 58828 users. The average monthly pension for 2008 was reduced by taxes and taxes was 5732 kuna. The disability pensions. The right to a disability pension is governed by the provisions of Articles 15 to 22 of this Act or by the Law on the Rights of the Advocates clearly. Of the total number of pensioners in 2008 received an average of 46.5 thousand users, which is 21.31% higher than in 2007 in which there were 38344 users. It's a little weird that it increases the de facto number of users by over 20%. I don't know what happened here, but the expenditure on this basis is 3 billion, 196 million kuna, and the average monthly disability pension for 2008 is 5275 kuna. The average monthly family pension for 2008 is 7540 kuna and the average monthly minimum pension for 2008 is 2148 kuna. The peace of members of the HVO on the side of 35 and members of their families, meaning in 2008, the pension was used on average by 2874 users who were recognised on the basis of a contract between the Republic of Croatia and the Federation of BiH on co-operation in the area of the rights of the victims of war in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Of the number 2489, disability pensions amounting to an average of 3024 kn and 385 are family pensions of an average monthly amount of 3400 kuna. 143 million kuna is secured on this basis, but here we see one disproportionate about 50 to 100% difference between pensions received by HVO fighters compared to Homeland War fighters from the Republic of Croatia. I personally don't mind that the disabled war from BiH who were under the command to express myself as Tudjman, i.e. The noises are making that fee. It's about disabled people after all. I know of similar cases in Istria, Rijeka, I don't know, etc. Those rights have been granted since '45. on and on and on. And let those men be clearly compensated. How, though, we do not have equal hearing for the peoples of the Liberation War. Now someone wanted to agree here with me or not, yet they created Croatia within the current borders of Istria-Rijeka-Zadar, and the honorary fighters of the Homeland War clearly defended these borders. What is also interesting in this report should be highlighted by the audit procedures. I think it's more or less correct because there's no controversy in the media or in the public, so it's said that 8156 items have been audited, and 4972 cases have been diagnosed. All in all, I am sure that no population of defenders or war veterans, as it is liked to call it in the world, enjoys this spectrum of rights as is the case in the Republic of Croatia. Why am I saying that? It means those rights don't touch. However, more and more talk about the IMF, IMF representatives stress the need to review social rights, mention among other things and this, but I'm afraid we may find ourselves in a situation that, without the IMF, simply revises some amounts, the gross social budget predicts Rohatinski will be 4% lower than last year, the rebalance was made at -2%, the growth of gross social product -2%. It was a reduction in the rebalance of the original budget by 8 billion kuna. If it's 4%, it's going to take, it's going to take another 8 billion kuna, a new rebalancing, we all know it's inevitable. If that happens, it is clear that the wages will go down, it will likely reduce further investment from the budget, perhaps pensions will be found on impact, and I fear certain rights from this social package, and so will this legislation. I'm afraid that's our reality in the year or years ahead. It's time to sober up, clearly these choices didn't show what we're going to do, the army of people lives off the budget and divides from those parts that work towards those who make money. Clearly, such a thing will soon change nothing. However, as regards certain rights such as the shares of this Croatian Defence Fund that we talked about earlier, it all sounds good. It is a right likely not to know any country outside the Republic of Croatia. Absolutely let it stay because we see that the fund works neatly, but we should say that thanks to these shares by the end of '99. The real empires were created. Here I think of that Homeland Fund where, as a rule, shares that were worth trading for shares of worthless companies and we know who was involved in it, but I don't know why their names are being cut off today in 2009. The property of the fund, we used to say, amounts to 2.4 billion kuna of which 47.11% are shares of T-HT, then there are vault records of the Ministry of Finance etc., etc. How much of the crisis is able to gnaw that property, some other time, but we can see that here's the INA stock sold to a foreign MOL, that that's how we lost our domination in a national company that carried the burden, so to speak, of war. We've sold this T-HT ourselves, and now we see that Deutsche telecom over I don't know who, even following its employees, which is highly unacceptable, and there's something in this matter that the state should do or do. What's still covered by a veil of secrets, it's a register of 494 thousand 757 defenders, but it's probably gonna stay that way because there's no, how do I put it, political will to make a little order of use of those rights. The number of unemployed defenders is decreasing below 20,000. Which will bring the crisis ahead of us, no one knows. Another right to speak of is customs privileges. It's not absolutely controversial for 100% disabled people, etc., it's 100% okay. Dispute may be when importing some machines, equipment lagging behind. That's where I'm asking to see what benefits are given and whether that stuff is being resold. There should be order, not that indirectly some tycoons over these defence benefits, such as the case down in Split, buy Ferrari, I suppose from 200 or 300 thousand euros in order to avoid paying the state a commitment of 100 thousand euros. The arrangement of tombs is a clear civilization duty of this government and this generation, but yet who gives us the right to continue to devastate the monuments of NOB, they told me of Petrova Gora, gentlemen, that neither barbarians nor vandals would defile the mention of the mark, that mention of the skeleton. I can't say anything else, until you come on, let's get so much civil courtesy and get it back, let's fix that monument. With suicide, I don't want to bid, but once again I will repeat that these rights that process this report are the last to be questioned, and that human civilization, the moral obligation of our representatives of the Croatian Parliament has long been, and since we haven't, then today to equalise the rights of NOB fighters and the Homeland War. Maybe today we're talking about tens of thousands more people. It's absolutely no money anymore. It is today a gesture to correct an ideological injustice against an honorable and proud generation. These are people who are now over 80, 85 years old, so up, I said ten, fifteen thousand, almost can't go to the ballot box anymore, or vote, but let them and their families be ashamed that someone was against the evil that threatened to enslave the entire civilization. Finally, this report is correct. IDS will vote for the same. I'm not sure, as I said, that it will succeed at this financial moment, the extent of it will, but the heights of the defense moments, the rights. But what I noticed for the first time was that before one election, there was no new rights. So these rights have not spread, which will say that the government is conscious and responsible for the moment in which the country is located. So for the end, IDS votes for this report and I'm afraid that the amount of some expenditure is hard to keep.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-21-0.u32511	Thank you. HDSSB representative club, Mr. Representative Boro Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-21-0.u32512	Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues of the Croatian Parliament, State Secretary in the ministry. Here, if the IDS will support this report then the HDSSB will also support this report, let me say right away at the beginning or at the beginning. Yes, he spoke precisely to Mr Cain before me that during this pre-election period there were no new promises or announcements of new promises for the defence population that this was for example for parliamentary elections when a one-time monetary aid was promised to Croatian defenders, and then came the solutions by which one of my friends came the solution to have the right to compensation but in the amount of zero kuna. When we look at the overall report and we look at the debate on the Croatian Defence Fund which was the point before this, then we see the divisions between us on some party line, first and foremost, and then we see the discussions that have led to the sharp tones in this House of Commons and I would say a little bit and unnecessary because in 1990 to 92 and 95 we didn't ask about party membership or origin or where it came from, whether Slavonics were at war at Maslenica, whether the special police at Velebit or in Prevlaca, so it didn't matter who was from where or from which party they belonged, we simply defended our country. That is why, as I said yesterday, in the debate, it particularly offends me and should sometimes explain to the citizens this report and these 6 billion and 200 thousand kunas from the rights of Croatian defenders who are just as difficult. But to make it clear to everyone in particular to younger generations then, as I told Minister Primorac and the Government of the Republic of Croatia yesterday and in our textbooks, we need to make it clear and loud to our students, so the children of the 8th grade and 4th grade of high schools such as the Homeland War, who committed aggression, and that the defenders who therefore defended the Republic of Croatia, created the Republic of Croatia, and then there are clear and credits from this report that are then reflected and this way that I say are fees on all these points, from permanent monetary rights, single rights, housing, quality of life, rights from pension, health insurance, etc. I must say that during this time of the past few years, very often we have newspaper articles about the suicides of Croatian defenders who have not made good contact with the Ministry of Defence or have not realised their rights by different misunderstandings, doubts or are not satisfied with the solutions they have received from that ministry from the administration of that ministry. There's talk and talk of a thousand-and-a-half people who committed suicide. I'm looking at this number that's under regular number 14, so burying Croatian defenders with military honors 10 million 595 thousand kuna. Unfortunately, these cases, too, fall into the costs that they were, I'm afraid. In the debate, I will not tell you about equating but or equating, so we can talk about the very phrase that we can use here the rights of NOB fighters with the rights of Croatian defenders. It also mentions a figure of 10,000 still living National Liberation War fighters but did not mention a figure of 280 million kuna from the Croatian budget that goes for the purpose of pensions and other rights of the People's Liberation War fighters. So 10 thousand people are available according to the Croatian budget of 280 million kuna and with a trend of growth in the following year 2010 and 2011 to 320 million although the distance from World War II is growing and bigger. So 45-2005 is 60 years and it's going to be 2011 70 years and this fund, or item, in the Croatian budget, is growing. There, just one little reference to my colleague Cain's words. Here we started the debate on the Croatian Defence Fund and then we saw how deep the divisions were, and in fact, the divisions formed by the creation of numerous associations that I would actually say, perhaps from an unknown source, so that on the list of activities of the ministry financed by projects of these associations from the state level, so in 2008, we have a list of almost 200 and more projects funded by the Ministry of Defence, from the Croatian Community of Parents of the Dead, Associations of Families of the Hosts and Missing, Croatian Association of Campers, Association of Volunteers and Veterans, Association of Croatian Defences, Association of Croatian Associations, Association of Associations of Croatian Defences, Association of Volunteers HRM Split and not to list any further. So we've simply divided the associations of the Homeland War, we've cut down to say peopleally that it's simply in this way that you can actually in some way control and according to the funded projects of these associations. Unfortunately, it is a sad fact, I think that Croatian defenders must be unique and this list, a register of 500 thousand Croatian defenders, is, as I hear from the HDZ ranks here, that there are also those who were three days old and those who were five days in the Croatian Army or at the aid of the Croatian Army, that they are also on the list. I am proud to have been in the special police force and I believe that everyone who has been in the Croatian Army and contributed to our Homeland Liberation War is also proud. And I would be proud to allow my sons to read my name on the list of Croatian defenders today or tomorrow. That is why I see no reason why someone is keeping secret or does not want to be found in an open, clear, transparent list of Croatian defenders. I even insist, here I want to find my name there and that my children and grandchildren whom I have four, once they say my dida was a Croatian defender, my dida was a field specialist all over Croatia and we are proud of it because we have our country which we hope we won't, that we created it, and we won't make it the same, as someone said on this left here. But we need to be very careful, and let me say, to some extent, to warn the International Monetary Fund or someone outside, given the level of the budget, and given the costs and the amount it has here, which is over 5% of the Croatian budget. I'd like to make a statement right away so that someone doesn't misread me as being in favour of the rights of Croatian defenders. As it goes on, we'll all see it together. These rights are acquired, these rights should be permanent, but we need to be realistic or as someone said in Osijek, let's be realistic, and then let's look at this recession and the decline of the gross social product and the reduction or rebalance of the budget that was here a few months ago, in March. So we have to think deeply, deeply about everything. I'm personally a defense attorney and as a doctor who's a war doctor at a war hospital in Slavonski Brod, I'm even deeply injured by what's going on, those divisions I've been talking about, the statements of a guy that doctors had to be at their workplace like communal monks or garbage men, whatever you want. Indeed such inappropriate statements, including that of a man who was also a doctor and volunteer of the Homeland War, and by even a private minister, a public statement named as JNA's first-class captain, this is really degutant and this is not how we can treat Croatian defenders and share them in this way only because of daily political needs, or this time local elections. Once a few years ago, a special police commander in Slavonski Brod asked me Boro, and why don't you come over here and write a war route and then go to your doctor's colleague to write that you fell, hit yourself, up on Big and Little Opalnik, what's the name of the Velebit summits, that you slipped, fell down, and got a concussion, and you'll get 20% disability, so there'll be a lower pay tax. I told him, Grga he was called, I know the last name, but perhaps well from the pay phone to talk about it, I told Mr. Grga, I did not go to the Homeland War to get disability, but I went to the Homeland War because I considered it necessary for my Croatia. Unfortunately, many have "slipped by these virtues" and here we have today so-called. to say the great self-proclaimed majors who enjoy this false way and, in fact, to some extent rob their people, their country and their budget. And they drill into the chest and are even on high functions and duties in the town of Slavonski Brod or in the hospital in Slavonski Brod or in some other functions in the county as well as in the state of Croatia. It saddens me very much because indeed many of us went to the Homeland War, though he was someone's war, and apparently someone's brother. Someone was fighting for their country, and someone was obviously fighting for their property. So the fees on these points and on these items could be, therefore, bigger and more segregation or items could be significantly larger if they weren't, not to say this from this pay phone, the fakes that we have to be aware of. It's not for me, it's for the ministry to do things if they want to or can make things right, but I'm here to make these rights permanent rights to those who deserve it. But those who, in fact, in this way I've said, are actually damaging their country, damageing citizens who are paying fine tax and tax obligations, so that these rights are deprived, and that money is not used for any other purpose but for those who are real people with disabilities, who unfortunately have lost parts of their body and who today go and move in wheelchairs, which lie immobilized in beds, which are served by their wife, mother or someone else. That's what I'm talking about. However, given this report that's correct, I said I'd support it as well as the HDSSB club, but let's give it some thought together. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-21-0.u32513	Thank you. SDP counseling club. Mr. Representative Ivica Pancic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-21-0.u32514	Mr. Chairman of the Croatian Parliament, gentlemen of the State Secretary, ladies and gentlemen. At first we will surely agree when I say that the protection system for Croatian defenders is certainly one of the best systems in the world, states that have clearly come out of the war. I also saw this in the talks with a number of ministers when I acted on that duty in Croatia, where it turned out to be one of these systematic laws with a series of rights that took place in '97. In 2001 it was changed. Then again in 2004, but always about 70, 80% of the rights were unique, i.e. a consensus was reached. That law has been in place for over 11 years. He's got a whole series of good things. He took care of most of the Croatian war victims. So the disabled Croatian wartime wartime disabled, especially those who suffered the most seriously. It is also seen from last year's report as well as from the fact that most of them, in addition to the exercise of the right to a disability, have also exercised the right to pension. Of course, those who sought and who met the conditions. Those three rights are somehow three of the most important rights if we also take the medical insurance rights regulated by this law. Of course, there was also a whole series of irregularities that we talked about and at the previous point so there was no need to reopen it, because clearly neither will I convince you, nor will you convince me of the correctness of one or another thinking. Well, that's why we're in two different parties. Because if we were all one-of-a-kind thinking then we'd sit down, God forbid in the SDP, or God forbid all of us in HDZ, but that's democracy. So we welcome everything that has been done in the past years and in the past year with regard to the health protection of Croatian military disableds, Croatian defenders, families of the dead Croatian defenders. I particularly stress the importance of investment in future generations through the education of children of Croatian defenders. It is a very good decision to also go to projects to hire unemployed Croatian defenders. Unfortunately, I'll say something about that later. We do not have the result of the success of such a single investment in employment projects. Because of the different concepts that are in play and I think no one should be angry with this SDP report, since I once again emphasise the overall concept in our opinion is not in line with the principle of financial sustainability and justice. We have represented a concept that has been attacked, and I firmly accept these criticisms, which was based on a simple dictionary, said to take care of the most difficult disabled, all those who, for various reasons, are unable to take care of themselves on their own. So work and work and care for the families of the dead. That's how it is in most Western European countries and the United States. At the same time, allow all those Croatian defenders who allow for this year, health and the like to be employed. So one proactive concept. We felt that it was not good to retire from the age of 30, and that was the work of the 1990s and even of the two thousand, for no one benefited from that retirement. It's no use to that person, except for the short-term benefit, and it's no use to society as a whole. And that has proved, unfortunately, in a large part exactly. Some people have managed to break out of this one lethargy, and in addition to pensions and incomes, secure incomes deal with something else, and they are also socially beneficial to themselves, both for their family and for the wider community. But there are those who, regardless of how well we took care of in the end, turn up again as a problem that the ministry and society as a whole have to deal with again. Because when we see the structure of this report according to the law last year on the care of Croatian defenders, it would be more specifically said for the victims, because most of the funds once again I say go for the victims, a total of about 6.2 billion kuna or 600 million kuna was spent more than in 2007. Now that we see the structure of these costs, it is clear that most of the funding goes to pension rights and to permanent rights. This includes disabled women and all that is with disabled people, i.e. with damage to the bodies of Croatian wartime wartime disabled people. That's about $5.6 billion or 90% of all government spending goes into those two purposes. Even if we add 190 million to that going to health insurance, then we see that the 200 million, 234 million for the housing, then we see that there is a very small number left, a very small amount of funds that we can channel to some pro-active measure, especially if we know that the majority of the funds are already in advance for the previous years, I don't know the type of marking of the mention mark, which is quite understandable and normal. If we see, if we take a closer look at the report, we'll also see a rapid increase in retired people. In 2003, the number of people retired on this basis was around 20,000. Last year it increased to 38000, and this year it is 58800. Of course, the ministry has the answer that it is about translation, the reconstruction of the Croatian Army, which is certainly part of the reason. But let's ask ourselves a question where will we end up? When we talk about fairness here, we say that we've taken care of 58,000 people in a certain way. And what about those differences up to 490? Many of them, of course, do not all expect to be taken care of through retirement. In addition, many who are retired are dissatisfied with the amounts they have calculated at the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute. Every question I hear from Croatian defenders today is precisely a question about the calculation of their pension, because things within the Pension Insurance Office are not so transparent, we can never agree or be free to say have never been transparent, so Croatian defenders in the woods of these different regulations simply lose themselves and there are first-row defenders who better pass for these or those reasons and defenders of the second or third order who often calculate pensions of several thousand kunas. It sounds nice here to have an average pension of 5700 kuna or whatever, but there are defenders who get I don't know, let's say 3000 kuna. And in the small environments everyone knows and often happens that the 3,000 kuna defender has a better war route and I don't know everything that doesn't get better and stronger, than someone who gets 7 or 8 thousand kuna. And on this matter, regardless of what is happening within the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute, the ministry should take account when that provision in the previous law has not already been accepted, which I believe was good, which is that only a person who has established the status of a Croatian military invalid who is determined by the competent authorities within the Croatian Defence Ministry in the second degree can apply for defence pension. However, it has been abandoned and given the possibility and medical commissions within the pension insurance system to self-initiately determine whether someone has been killed, whether his injuries are related to war or not, and I believe that this should have been centralised precisely in the ministry which is only competent and best trained to determine whether there is something about war or not related to war. And because of that, both partly and therefore, there was this increase in the number of people retired. On the other hand, it's visible, I don't know if it's temporary, this year a slight reduction in the number of Croatian military disableds. In 2003, the total number of Croatian military disableds was 33,000 and it had not changed for four years, almost not changed. Of course, that is why all those criticisms that went to the expense of both the government and me personally followed because we also insisted on financial sustainability and justice. Of course, by sometimes doing injustice to individuals. The number of 33,000 has increased in this last year to 44,000 667 to grow to 46,000 since last year. On average, 1990s since '96. by 2000, as in 2004 until last year, the average of more than 2,000 annually was more than the number of persons who had the status of a Croatian military disabled. This year it fell to about a thousand, what, 500, 600. Whether the number of new requests is reduced or now because of lack of financial resources, the medical commission is stricter, I don't know, that should be answered by the ministry, but the fact is again that a large number of Croatian defenders are now complaining that the new law does not allow them to exercise their rights on the basis of PTSD disease, although it seems to me that the law allows it through a special process of art, or at least that was agreed. So, we set deadlines, we increased them, but at the same time it should be possible for those who for various reasons did not provide all the necessary documents to be accepted by the medical commissions and the evaluations in one way or another. But anyway, this number of 46 grand in 2, 3 years is going to grow to 50 grand. And then we return to the question of whether we will be able to pay all this in this economic state when the governor of the National Bank says what he's saying, when the entrepreneurs themselves who are related to the ruling party also show doubts about the sustainability of so many social benefits. Yesterday we witnessed Mr. Hrelja of the coalition party asking a question about health insurance, which is why they are forming divisions, which is why some are paying for it, and the defenders I understand don't pay. So, all it's gonna have to do is open up and that's all we've been warning about. Now we're going to see, we need to find some middle way to keep the existing rights going, while at the same time not endangering the normal functioning of the state. And a few more things I've seen that might be missing. It is said here that the financing of associations has been very transparently shown, however, it was in the previous report. This report shows nothing but the total amount and the number of associations that received the amount. However, with the association, there is no amount of money received. In previous years, it's always been so, so there's no reason why it shouldn't be in this report that's been done more or less correctly. Also, it's a good thing we finally took the suicides off the top topic, which it says, but somewhere hidden, which is likely to be witnessed by the affair that they found a person alive on those lists. All the time I've been saying that these data are not reliable, and it's good, here's the way we talked over the past years we don't talk anymore. Also, here, I'm finishing up, I think the process of exhumation and identification that's stalled should be pushed in a different way. Our proposal was to form a special state government institution that would deal with it, not to keep it as part of the ministry, because we see that this is not exactly a meaningful solution. Here, thank you, so once again, the SDP takes this report into consideration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-21-0.u32515	Thank you. Two corrections. Mr. Representative Davor Huška.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-21-0.u32516	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Although it is clear from Mr Pancic's statement that he was about to provoke the appearance of us defenders here on the other side of Parliament, I must correct an incorrect quote in a series, and he said, correcting the assumption that this concept is not financially sustainable. This concept of taking care of defenders and their families is financially sustainable. If it were not sustainable, you proved it in action when you were Minister of Defence, abolished a whole series of acquired rights of defenders, the family of victims of the Homeland War, especially the families of the dead defenders, and my personal position of all Croatians is the position of the Croatian government, the Ministry of Defence is that this concept is financially sustainable, that we are obliged, that our obligation is especially to defend us here in the Croatian Parliament and all others to ensure normal living conditions for the disabled of the Homeland War and especially children of disabled and killed Croatian defenders in the Homeland War. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-21-0.u32517	Second correction, Mr. Representative Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-21-0.u32518	Mr. Vice President. Out of many incorrect allegations, one I will correct is that the number of people with disabilities has increased rapidly. In fact, 40,000 were the year 2004 of a disabled Homeland War. The requirements could be submitted by 1.1.2006 as clearly as the law shows. The commissions you're talking about are commissions that are in the public tender of the Croatian Defence Ministry selected both first-degree and second-degree, so I don't know why you were really a minister when you don't know the basic concepts of the Law on the Rights of Croatian Defences.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-21-0.u32519	Thank you. At 13,19, it was time to report a ten-minute debate. I'm interrupting the session. Resume at 15 o'clock with an individual debate. The first is Madam Representative Ingrid Anticevic-Marinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-21-0.u32520	My colleagues and colleagues, we continue the individual debate. It is up to Commissioner Ingrid Antičević-Marinović. Here you go, pal.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-21-0.u32521	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Honored representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues. Those who spoke about this report on the implementation of the Law on the Rights of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families for the period from 1 January to 31 December 2008 claimed that it was correctly written and that is correct. That's really the way it is. However, is this enough for a report like this when it comes to the implementation of the Law on the Rights of Croatian Lawyers? We will also discuss the Ombudsman's annual report on gender equality, on the Ombudsman and some other reports, especially those that are as sensitive as this when it comes to this population. So it seems to me that this report, along with these necessary figures, needed to show a little more soul, a little more problems as well. When it comes to this, when reading this report, it turns out that there are almost no problems at all, and every good report based on some numerical, numerical indicators must contain that too. And there's a problem. If there were no such problems, almost no more normative would be needed, but get away from such things and that's not a good way to do it. That's how more than last year's figures are used for each issue. Unfortunately, it is not about the number of dead or those persons, our disabled, the defenders who have committed suicide. It's a shame for each and every one of us, but unfortunately, no one's to blame. You don't like or hear about it. These are serious problems and we simply have to ask the question of what is happening. A commendable round table, which the ministry has organised since 2006 after those truly suicides that rocked Croatia. But after that, we didn't hear any more about it. So, we here, so I would especially in this report refer to this psychosocial aid. It abounds with these data as many employees at a particular regional centre, how much money was spent, how technical, how numbered, how many, but things don't get troubled at all. So you see the report, the annual report from the state's attorney, always next to the numbered data, there's every good report there's some kind of proposal that should be made to improve the situation where it's good to continue with it, but somewhere where it's not good to see what's being corrected. In fact, don't any of us wonder why this number, this awful large number, is over 1800 suicides committed by the defenders from the beginning to today. It's a large number that warns and should be asked why defenders raise their hands. At this one seminar, there was also a graphic depiction on that round table. Interesting is the biggest data it was in '99. years, and then you saw the 2,000th reduction, and that's what happened next year. Then again a slight increase by 2003, then a reduction again. So what about three, four cycles that match the election cycle could mean? And one reminder to all of us. When it comes to this population, let the authorities and the opposition not be allowed to ball. This shows that all of them were expecting something else at those times, more in that sense, let us now release these material things that are very and very important and unfair, the most painful of injustices. So, not what is shared but how is divided and whether some injustices have been committed. There may be least injustice there, but they hurt most because the population is too sensitive to respond to these injustices. So every time along with some new political furniture, expectations were higher, and then it would go down again, and the same curve would happen on the rise. There, it already warns that here is an unspeakable debate that took place in this previous point, it warns. No one likes that, and the least they like are the defenders. So, therefore, the causal link between the responsibilities of those most responsible and this sad data must be given an answer to see. But if things are denied, if it's written just so much somewhere that it's said, but it wouldn't be noticed on page 81 as a mere statistical data, it's not good. These people don't have a monument. These people first when it comes to such a thing, it's really a difficult depth and intimacy that it's hard to get into something like that at all, especially those who aren't even competent to talk about it, but the number of all of us is binding. So it's hard to break up with those reasons, purely personal, but we're all so familiar about it that we can all agree on it because that's what it really is. If these suicides are performed in one ritual way, almost ritually, they warn. If some before that have said that they have clashed with the administration that no such questions are resolved either positively or negatively. It doesn't necessarily mean that these people are always or whether they're the one who's asking for it to be right, but the most painful thing is that uncertainty. It hurts most of the injustice. And once again we have to say, the list has to be published. If anyone doesn't want to know who the defense attorney was, they need to close their clearance. A lot of people want to, but apparently the authorities aren't answering that. I'm interested in those motives, those motives, because they're not defense motives. The defenders are saying to seek it, or make it possible for those who want it. That problem needs, it's been a long time, if there were some delusions and some illusions, some illusions about it, I think the time has finally passed. So the material possibilities are always limited. If they were justly divided, that first of all the true circle was covered and the size of it then I would believe everyone, all the rights under all the laws that the defenders belong to were satisfied and we could commit ourselves to that which means that man is not particularly satisfied with the defenders in those material rights alone, that he treats them, and often we gave you this report so much, they gave it so much and it's over. There's nothing more to ask. That little thing, it really was read out of all of this, no matter how accurate the numbers are, should not be treated, nor should they be treated by defenders, or at least by defenders. There's no proposal at the end of the report. So it would really be useful to look at a little bit of this, I'm here now not... but to see little and to use those reports that are well accepted, which are voted unanimously here. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I believe this report will also be, and I imitate it in such a way that it will be accepted. But if we really have the will of these people to feel rejected, not so hurt at the realization of their material rights or that someone got it and didn't belong to it, and I didn't get it. And it hurts them. They kind of feel like we gave you something not to bother. That's how they have an experience and an event. But that's why often because the authorities, because often the government can get some political points through them and they don't take it no matter who they vote for. Because when they fought about it, they didn't take care of it. And today we heard something that shouldn't have come out of the mouth of the minister and vice president of the government. So, where she and the dead are looking at a party card and those who were killed by a criminal hand. That's inadmissible. This is not even discussed at party meetings of individual parties, let alone in the Croatian Parliament. And that's why, I would recommend to everyone, and I just recently found out about that book. I think the criticisms that talk about that book, "Five liters of gasoline." We should all read it. We'd be much more careful when we talk about defenders. It would not be worse if Minister Kosor "Five liters of gasoline" also reads about the causes of the suicide of Croatian defenders.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-21-0.u32522	Thank you. It's time for the debate, dear colleague Boris Kunst. Here's your colleague, Kunst.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-21-0.u32523	Honorable Vice President, Secretary of State, fellow MPs. Well this report is in fact a realistic demonstration of the implementation of the Law on the Rights of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families and, as such, more or less, everyone estimated it to be good. And I'm not going to talk about the whole report, but I'm going to look back on one part of that report, which is about hiring unemployed Croatian defenders and members of their families. Unfortunately, the most unemployed defenders can read from the report have in Zagreb and Split-Dalmatia County. Also, to read that somewhere 57.2% of Croatian defenders are people of the best age, in the strongest strength if they were working most productively. This means people up to 50 years from the total number of unemployed who are circusing with their families today recorded around 20,000 at the Croatian Employment Service. And that must be one problem. And I think that this figure of 20,000, however, is too large yearly, given the measures and the state incentives for the employment of defenders, because the average share of the annual employment rate of Croatian defenders in total employment makes me modest 5.5%. What are those measures? I'll just remind you, and later I'll explain why I reminded them, even though I believe they're famous. It is known that employers are co-financed to employ a Croatian defender for up to 18 months. So, with that mandatory retention in the working relationship to those 18 months. They also exercise the right of employers or those who will hire three or more defenders to obtain one-time cash aid, but normally they must also retain these people for at least 24 months in a working relationship. Not to mention the Law on the Rights of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War, which gives priority to employment, but under equal conditions clearly, especially as regards the institutions and institutions of the state and bodies of the units of local self-government. So, with all these measures, normally, you should see how to melt this figure as much as 20,000 unemployed in any case. Normally, one of the major problems with the employment of Croatian defenders is also a lower education structure, and I am surprised at this report that all last year, so in 2008, 139 defenders who took part in a programme of education conducted by the Croatian Employment Service and normally in this case also provides financial assistance, transport costs, everything that goes during education. We know that the aim of education is to improve the qualification structure, as well as to raise the competitiveness of work normally. This means that Croatian defenders and great members of their family could get a faster job and find their jobs. And that's why I think that, and even here, we should normally appeal to defense groups, that we should be far more encouraging these people to get involved in these educational programs. In the end, he'll help himself. They'll settle their status before they do. On the other hand, society will help. So, in my opinion, you should do a little bit more propaganda, and you should channel these people more to get extra education. As far as cooperatives are concerned, that's what the Minister said, as far as the cooperatives are concerned, I believe that this is a very valuable action of the ministry, and that this is a very commendable incentive, because throughout this area of cooperativeship, however, part of the defenders and their families have resolved their status. So they found their jobs, and I don't think they need a lot of stories about what it means for them, how important this work therapy is for them, how important it is for both solution or treatment and through that part, the kind of post-traumatic stress disorder activity, and that's kind of their rehabilitation, and also psychosocial assistance. So I appeal to the ministry to continue to do everything in order to mean to reduce this number of 20,000 and I say, it is because of that, it decreases from year to year, but it is still alarming to me precisely because the real state is investing a lot to solve this number of employment as far as the defenders are concerned, but it is still as it is here in this report. And so for me, it should be the same, and that might be an integral part of next year's report, to see for those employers who use these incentives, who use these funds to co-finance the employment of Croatian defenders whether they only hold those defenders as much as they have to, which is minimum legal so that when they spend them or I don't know what they fire, they're back in their initial position, so they haven't really solved anything except for some period of 18 to 24 months. It means whether these employers are doing it out of some honest intention or just in order to reach those funds that are somehow encouraging for the employment of Croatian defenders and their families. I think that this information is missing and I think that by name and last name, it should then list such employers with whom it would be visible, and it is not difficult to control, see, find that they have so many Croatian defenders at work as long as these money is used to spend them. Now, all in all, I think the report is good, but I think it would be good to supplement it for the next period to see and review employers who use these funds, including state institutions, normally, and local self-government units, which according to the Law on Croatian Defence have the obligation to hire as a priority as long as they keep those defenders at work. Do you just as much as take those funds to encourage and co-finance and then after that minimum of time they fire them again. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-21-0.u32524	Thank you very much, colleague Kunst. We have one reply to the replica, a distinguished colleague of Anticevic-Marinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-21-0.u32525	Well, this problem is generally talked about by colleague Kunst, I absolutely agree, and that's the best way and psychotherapy because it's not the solution for a man to give something double and triple. It needs to be felt useful and therefore this problem of employment and self-employment must be a basic concern. I just don't understand this information that you're telling your colleague that he is the most unemployed in Zagreb and Split. Because according to this information on the page, I think we have the same report, on page 58, here the report speaks of the share of unemployed Croatian defenders by county, and it is quite clear from that that the most unemployed are in Karlovac County, then in Ličko-Senjska, Zadar, Dubrovnik-Neretvanska, so the most people who were killed, or who almost had the largest number of defenders, since those areas were among those who were the most injured. However, when you talked about this most important problem for me to enable people because it is about young people, to work and therefore it has been passed and a law where defenders have the advantage under the same conditions when it comes to competitions, employment in state bodies, judicial authorities, units of local self-government, regional self-government, public service, extra-accountary funds and legal persons owned by the state or the overwhelming ownership of the Republic of Croatia. It is incomprehensible that, not rarely, certain party favorites are preferred, even at the heart of the defenders, and even when they have the same card, but clearly no longer similar. Someone came in a little more similar in the meantime. This is also the case with this report, but less and less than the administrative court's data. Is there a criminal report filed? As long as only criminal sanctions are proposed, not criminal sanctions, because it's a clear abuse of someone's duty because it's all there. The same are the conditions, such a person is also a defender and does not get a job, but has to be tried. So how can only others exercise their rights that are not always and precisely marked? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-21-0.u32526	Thank you very much. Replication response, colleague Kunst. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-21-0.u32527	... that she agreed with me on something. [[The speaker was subsequently turned on.]] As for this data where there is unemployment of Croatian defenders, according to the county, so says unemployed Croatian defenders and then when you take the City of Zagreb, it is on the site I mean 58., when you take and look at it, then you see that the City of Zagreb has the most unemployed Croatian defenders. It says 2266, so the Split-Dalmatia County has 2155 and now it goes on to be the same after the counties. Here, unemployed Croatian defenders by county with 31.12.2008. Here, I read it. ... No, I'm looking at the number. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] I'm not by the percentage, I know, I understand what you wanted to point out, but I was looking at it, so I said it. And what you said about defense attorneys having privileges depending on party cards, I simply wouldn't want to believe it because I don't think that it should really be any advantage, regardless of being a defender in this or that political structure because I think that when they defended Croatia that no one was asked to prefer this party or that party. So I just can't believe it. Normally, that should prove it, I don't believe in those stories. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-21-0.u32528	Thank you very much. Next is a debate by a respected counterpart, Kresimir Cosic. Here you go, my colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-21-0.u32529	Dear Mr Vice President, here are a few words about this extremely important topic that deserves not only the attention of the Croatian Parliament, but I would also say the general Croatian public because it is about people who have contributed most to the creation of an independent and sovereign Republic of Croatia. Like most who have discussed this topic, I would like to point out in particular that this report deserves full support, not because of the report, but because of everything the Ministry of Defence is doing regarding the care of Croatian defenders. What is the relationship, I would also say to the Croatian public, but also to the Croatian Parliament on this big and important issue, you can see this moment in the Croatian Parliament, among other things by the number of present but also by the structure of those present. And by the structure of the present. We have a responsibility I would say all the same because Croatia did not create individual parties even though they played a different role in the whole business but that kind of responsibility we show this moment. And I think it's very good to find out. I don't have to or want to express it explicitly, but I think that the cameras of Croatian television will certainly register it as a kind of response to the huge question of our responsibility to the people who created Croatia, and it's not a political declaration or judgment, but it's a fact. This report is good between a whole series of reasons because with the work of the Ministry of Defence they are satisfied with the most important and first Croatian defenders but also other institutions that are responsible and competent to determine correctness, responsibility in the work of the Croatian Defence Ministry. And the State Audit made it clear, among other things, that an excellent report. Not that the report is excellent but this report is the result of correct and professional work in the distribution of the state budget to Croatian defenders. Employment deserves special attention. I don't know why the good things made in this society don't have the interest of Croatian media but for trucks I want here and we'll talk about it in the Croatian Parliament artificially created political problem hundreds of journalists. It is a kind of our shared responsibility as individuals, not only here in the Croatian Parliament but also in every newspaper of Croatian media, these are important things. Croatian defenders' cooperatives from a few years ago zero cooperatives to 337 cooperatives. The new incentives of 50,000 kuna to those cooperatives that work successfully. I would say and it's a good example of economic thinking, economic education maybe I would say the most constructive among all the efforts that seem to be made. The education given to the children of the victims, the dead, I would say all Croatian defenders deserve special attention and recognition. Ten thousand 255 scholarships, 62 million kunas, so far a total of 20 thousand 272 scholarships. The education of children who suffered the most from the role their families, their fathers, their mothers, brothers and sisters had in creating Croatian states deserve recognition. It's also an important fact that I think we need to repeat more and more because it's never superfluous, it's about the truth about the Homeland War. Just one sentence. The classic aggression led by the Yugoslav People's Army, Kadjevic, commander-in-chief of the aggression against the Republic of Croatia, has never been held accountable. What I want to say more is worth the attention I would say to all of us but it is not exclusively related to Croatian defenders but I would say unfortunately for all those who experience different types of trauma in life. Mental health, this is a problem that the European Union and the European Commission, both in their FP7 programme and in many others, pay particular attention. It's said we know well, over a thousand 870 suicides. These early wars that belonged to the people who survived the war are one of the worst forms and consequences of every war, and these are unfortunately difficult to feel by Croatian defenders and their families. Almost 2,000 suicides. These mental problems, these mental disorders like someone knows how to say soul cancer. You followed, an American wrote a book about this phenomenon, but I'd say it's not just a Croatian phenomenon, it's an enigma of modern medical science. I'm not exaggerating, I'm not a doctor, I'm not a doctor, I'm not a doctor. But I do know something about it. All these tragedies, sadness, despair, guilt, responsibility, depression created and created not only suicides, unfortunately a whole series of other diseases from various forms of cancer, tumors, etc. and that is why I very much like it, unfortunately, is the truth and tragic truth, which says the quote: "War kills those who think they survived it." And these early wars we both feel here and our defenders who unfortunately face these severe consequences that war and war tragedies have left on their mental health. I'll just mention, it first published a few months ago, and even on Croatian television at the time of Dnevnik, I was very surprised. The US War Veterans Ministry 180 suicides among US military veterans, for the first time a higher number of suicides among veterans compared to the number of suicides among civilians. 18 or almost 20% of PTSD prevalence among those who have returned from Afghanistan and Iraq. Let us never forget that in the Republic of Croatia there are over a thousand Croatian professional soldiers, officers, officers who have been through everything the war in Iraq and Afghanistan carries with them. The Deputy Prime Minister also had the opportunity to speak with the U.S. War Veterans Ministry. I was personally surprised by the fact that in our partner state alone, Minnesota is 50% divorce between those who have returned from American peace operations, etc. The national programme for psycho-social assistance to Croatian defenders deserves special attention. County centers, statistics, 46 thousand 258 interventions, 59 thousand users. Regional centers 186 thousand 85 interventions. These are the numbers that show the depth of the crisis. As part of the implementation of the National Psych-Social Health Assistance Programme, 245,000 interventions took place in 2008. And in the end, there's something I want to say, what little is known. Croatia today is the center of excellence for this type of expertise, to help all those who have suffered from various types of trauma, especially from war trauma. Clinical hospital center in Zagreb, New hospital for psycho trauma in Dubrava. But I will tell you what you probably didn't know, and the Zagreb Faculty of Electrical Engineering and Computing is one of the leading institutions in the world today dealing with alternative methods of PTSD treatment. This autumn conference, funded by the NATO Scientific Committee on Science and Security, will take place in Zagreb for the second time. It refers to the early war as the consequences of war trauma. It's just part of what I don't want, and I can't tell you this, but these are important facts. Croatia and in this respect can contribute not only to its defenders but also to the whole world, and I will tell you that these days Croatian scientists in both America and Italy and at many other conferences are chairing and holding such gatherings in search of new, more efficient methods, and I am personally proud that even at the end of my perhaps scientific career I raised a dozen top young people who participate in this and contribute to even world science. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-21-0.u32530	Thank you very much. And the final application for an individual hearing. Dear fellow MP Mato Bilnjic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-21-0.u32531	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Here, it would be good if more discussions were timed, or if they were lucky about the defenders to discuss themselves in some pre-election time, then everyone would support Croatian defenders, not just the Ministry and the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Today's speeches suggest that everyone says thank you to the great defenders, but if we go back a few months back or a year then it was a cry from where you got so many big pensions, today they have small pensions and few of us. The problem is they say the 500 thousand registered defenders, and we know very well that only one battlefield in '95. The year was over 215 thousand soldiers mobilized and lasted at least three, four days. Let's not talk about Western Slavonia, talk about these parts with Bosnia and Herzegovina and not talk about Eastern Slavonia. So, only in that year did there have to be over 300 thousand Croatian defenders with a rifle or with a minor in their hand, but without a minor, it couldn't be done, not to talk about doctors who did it now. The report as a beautiful report, 6.2 billion spent on all of these listed on page three, and that's great. When we look at all the treatments for Croatian defenders, they can't bring goods like these cooperatives, defense cooperatives. Imagine, one cooperative, we founded them 337 just so there are 10 or 15 cooperatives coming in and giving them 50 thousand kuna this year that works so only one defender doesn't kill himself, we're winning. That plum products, raspberries, blackberries to pick in the woods, we're in the plus. We saved one family, we saved one life. And working therapy is known to everyone that it's the best thing. Furthermore, this report discusses housing care. It has not yet introduced those parts that work in areas of special state care through another ministry where state dwellings or houses bought or given to Croatian defenders on permanent property are not given in these areas. The fact is that there's still a lot more to do, that a lot of solutions need to be made and that we still have a lot of obligations, not social contributions to defenders, defenders aren't socialists, defenders deserve it, just like all the workers who work today, like we do here who get paid. The defenders deserve it, and therefore they are no social part of us, but simply the people who deserve each of their kunas. When we look at the big stories about how many pensions there are, today we say on this document it's 46. of 95. Certainly a little more than last year because it was known to have gone to the Ministry of the Interior, the Ministry of Defence, that certain people who had to get the conditions had to retire to simply make reforms in the team. It's nothing, gentlemen. That it's 50 or 70 thousand pensioners, it's nothing compared to the pain they've given. Because if we don't have 50 grand from 500 defenders who are retired today, then no one can say that the Croatian defenders got something more or that someone got away with it. All those who think and know the individual that he faked, that he did something that is not in accordance with the law should not call all the defenders, should be given the name and last name of who this person is. And what he would try to give for this speaker as an idea of gentlemen in the ministry, I think the ministry is doing pretty well, we can say four and a half, but we can't give 5 because then it's all settled. But 47 and a half good grades are certain, but perhaps we could send one district to units of local self-government that at some point do not respect the laws passed by the Croatian Parliament, and especially when it comes to liberating defenders when building houses or apartments, liberating on communal givings. So, units of local self-government, municipalities and cities, we're talking about them, so we should talk to Croatian defenders who meet the requirements in accordance with the law, we should release the meaning of the connection to sewerage, water, possibility... gas, electricity, etc. Because that's what the law says. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In most cases, however, it is avoided, as there is simply no money. I think all units of local self-government can have at least two basic ones, it is their property, in all water and sewerage, so it would be good to help Croatian defenders who, in accordance with the Law on the Rights of Croatian defenders, meet the conditions to help them with the communal equipment of their facilities that they have built, i.e. apartments that they buy or build. I will certainly support and look forward to a good report, and I am glad that agricultural cooperatives are coming. I have in the area of the city of Nova Gradiška a beautiful association of special police Zebra. These are beautiful boys, when given three times as many, be assured every kuna has gone as, the people say to us, as at the altar, as in the church. Because they gather 40 and more young people who clean up, edit the surfaces there, prepare for production and certainly any incentive for these cooperatives and associates on the ground, let's believe and be sure in the end that these people will cure a lot of those people who are simply ready today and put their hands on themselves and spoil their entire lives to their children and family. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-21-0.u32532	Thank you very much. This concludes all the requests for a hearing. The representative of the proposal does not obtain the need for additional address, so I am finalising the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-21-0.u32533	We move on to the report on the implementation of the Law on the Rights of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families for the period from 1 January to 31 December 2008. Proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. I am voting in line with the proposal of the Assembly Working Body. A report on the implementation of the Law on the Rights of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families is hereby adopted for the period from 1 January to 31 December 2008. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? This report was accepted by most votes, 66 votes for and 22 abstentions, nothing against it.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-21-0.u32534	And we're going to the fifth point of the agenda, which is 5. Final draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the Croatian Academy of Science and Art, second reading, P.Z.E. No. 276 The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You received the proposal by mail. This law will be discussed in accordance with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to second reading. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate pursuant to Article 164. Rules of Procedure. The debate on this final draft law was carried out by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Education, Science and Culture. Reports from the board's session have been received. The amendment was submitted by the Committee on Education, Science and Culture. Does the proposaler's representative want to take part? Please, State Secretary Mr Drazen Vicic Topic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-21-0.u32535	... Supplements to the Law on the Croatian Academy of Science and Art want to specify the status of members of the Academy. [[The speaker was subsequently activated.]] Namely, as you know by the laws so far, it is defined that members of the HAZU are regular honorary correspondents and co-workers. All those chosen once in membership have a life-long membership, but in the existing law, the conditions for their choice are defined for regular, honorable, correspondence. However, for participating members, the conditions are defined in the Statute which is, of course, a lower act and the conditions for re-election are also defined in that Statute. These changes would, in fact, be, as I mentioned in some way, correct the irregular position of the co-workers because they would all be explicitly mentioned in the new proposal for the law. So as members of the academy, where their conditions of choice would be defined. That's new. So this new law will also define the framework conditions of the election for the members of the co-workers, and we accept the amendment immediately I must say to the Committee on Education, Science and Culture, which says that these members will have one re-election after 10 years of reception, and then become permanent, lifelong members. Another important point is that it was seen when changes and additions of the law started, that the presidency's mandate was three years. However, the previous tradition was that the mandate lasted four years, and in such institutions in the world there are usually four years, and the proposal is also to define the mandate with a new amendment and addition of the law at four years. With some even fewer changes, such as the rule when proposed for members and associates as a rule, so far it has been in the law. We also accept the proposal of the Legislative Committee to delete it, because it cannot be, that it is difficult to define, but simply must be members who deserve it by their work as it has been written so far. Because rightly so, we must mention that it is always about regular professors or scientific advisors who have passed a whole series of choices or re-elections at institutes and universities. Here's what would be brief. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-21-0.u32536	Thank you very much, Secretary of State. On behalf of the committee, will the rapporteurs? So let's put together, first the board and then the club, and that's how you're reported. Here you go, dear colleague Selem.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-21-0.u32537	Thank you, Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues, the Committee on Education, Science and Culture discussed the Final Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Croatian Academy of Science and Arts, P.Z. 276. She endured it as you know the government. And that law as you also know in the second reading. He was in the second reading and then after the debate came to the conclusion that two problems were actually indicated in this bill. One problem is the question of co-workers. As Mr. Secretary of State has already said, the issue of co-workers remained undefined in that sense that they were subject to re-election after every 10 years. Clearly, then, the question of what makes sense in the elections after every 10 years is raised by already affirmed scientists, artists who have their own life curricula and who have achieved their own and for some reason are not regular members of the academy. Now there was the question of whether they could even themselves with all the other members of the academy, i.e. to become from the election permanent, such as all others, regular and correspondence, etc. etc. After the debate in the first reading, the proposal was to still go for one check. Although it was not accepted by the promoter, here it is now accepted after the second debate, i.e. to put one, one single re-election after 10 years. This was precisely what had to be done because of the comments of the Legislative Committee, i.e. that younger members are received as co-workers, i.e. that it is not necessary to wait for the final, definitive, scientific or artistic affirmation of such an associate, but for them to be admitted, although it is desirable to receive younger members who promise. However, clearly as it comes to the promise, it can and does not have to be realized. So we concluded that it is still better to introduce this one, let's say, one check after 10 years, which is absolutely enough time for this young, younger scientist to be able to affirm himself, thus avoiding this if you want to slightly even demeaning the re-election of already older affirmed scientific workers. So that was one remark that we finally agreed on. The amendment will be accepted as Mr. Secretary of State has said and there is no longer any dispute. The second question was secondary in this case. It's a matter of the duration of the term of office. For reasons I haven't, I haven't actually been able to read them, find out. At one point, the term of office of the presidency was reduced to three years. You know there are countries in the world where management functions last three, five years, etc. However, in all cultural institutions and theatres and philharmonics and all other cultural institutions, it is four years old and it seems to me that this period of 4 years is realistic so that one team can realise their ideas and their projects. Thus, we also accepted the Ministry's proposal to extend that deadline normally, i.e. to equalise with all other cultural institutions, i.e. The term of one administration is four years, and I say it gives one opportunity for all of their plans to be realized. I will not read this amendment. You've all got it there, it's very simple. I have already implicated it in my intervention, I'm just saying, I will read the conclusion that it is proposed to the Croatian Parliament to pass the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Croatian Science and Art, and that conclusion has been reached unanimously on the board. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-21-0.u32538	Thank you very much to your esteemed colleague. And I have an application on behalf of the Croatian People's Party club, distinguished colleague Miljenko Doric. My colleague Selem said that everything needed to be clarified. The amendment reasoned, the promoter accepted and that there was no need to further explain. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-21-0.u32539	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Here, the Croatian People's Party will support, of course, this Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Croatian Academy. I have to say that the debate on the parent board was really correct, we discussed it a long time ago, we proposed various amendments, amendments, and we finally agreed which one of us was the most acceptable option. But here, I'm going to say a few words about the attitude of some colleagues from the HNS club. First of all, we are about that when such changes and additions are made to make us increasingly strict in time, increasingly clear and that it is clear with this to achieve an increasing level of quality in the work of such institutions and I think it is good that we have left room here for 10 years to be followed by those colleagues who will be selected as co-workers of the Academy, that after 10 years, if they have clearly met all those expectations after the second re-election remain permanent in that title, which is more than correct. But we left colleagues and colleagues and space that if someone who stayed behind the door 10 years ago, but in 10 years he progressed, much more achieved, that in that case he had a chance to jump into a cooperative calling, and that someone who was not so successful still has to step down, which I think is good, a competitive spirit, we leave room for really fellow scientific criteria to compete with, or artistic criteria. Today, especially in the field of science, we scientists know that it is very easy to monitor the success of every scientist through publications, through an impact factor of magazines in which his works are published, through the number of quotes, etc., etc. Therefore, with great precision, we can evaluate everyone's work scientifically and this only makes it easier for us here and enables us to be correct in this way towards those who will be sitting in the Croatian Academy tomorrow. As for this second proposal to extend the mandate from three to four years, it's completely understandable, we agreed, it's common. However, what may not have been suggested by colleagues, it seems to me that the academy was a proposing, and such a government later took over, clearly only processes it. The explanation was not in place because it stood there that it was three years too short for the project to be realised. It's not even three years old, there's a possibility of reelection, so kill her for six years or eight years now. My colleagues and colleagues, six years is enough for the project, and what especially one interesting debate at our club opened up was whether people of that age should be leaders and work on the project at all. They should be advisers in many countries after the 1960 ’ s, no longer allowed to be project manager. No, that's what younger people have to do at the table experimentally, etc. The colleagues, in the years mentioned on the board, certainly deserve each other's status and position in the system. I am even asked to finish here, here I am going to do this, to state the position of the HNS Club that perhaps we should take a debate in the Assembly about the wider social role of the Croatian Academy of Sciences and Arts. We're in crisis years now, in recession. Could the Academy be involved in economic recovery through various applied research, economic recovery of Croatia, or could it be based on their choice of basic research that can not help directly and quickly in this situation, we believe that they, as well as universities, should play a much more important role and that they should practically deal with some elements where they can certainly help us. I'll just mention that two weeks ago I was in Holland at the University of Twente and they told me a story that impressed me. In the 1960s, when the textile industry in the Netherlands collapsed due to strong competition from the Far East, then the University of Twente came to an end and received a request from the state to design a way in which all those who would lose their jobs in the textile industry would be employed. Whom to requalify, whom to bring to school, which are the industrial branches that they can possibly expand, and where the world needs and, and those products and believe me, in a very short time, the University of Twente designed not only that human history, but also which economic branches should be encouraged, where to give subsidies, to whom to help, whom to hire at which jobs and all, literally everyone is employed in a relatively short period of time. Here is why we also felt that such additions in the debates on HAZU reports and other institutions should also be included in the overall here, the fight for improvement and economic recovery of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much. ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-21-0.u32540	You may, Professor.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-21-0.u32541	... will soon come to our tables a report from the Croatian Academy of Sciences and Arts, an annual report and that it will be an excellent opportunity to discuss exactly what counterpart Doric was talking about. [[The speaker shall not be turned on afterwards.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-21-0.u32542	Thank you very much. For a word further, we move on to an individual debate, the distinguished colleague Nevio Šetić. Here's your colleague, Šetić.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-21-0.u32543	Thank you. Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen. I think that this debate has already shown that there is a high degree of consensus, i.e. that the amendment of the Committee on Education, Science and Culture has largely cleared all the misunderstandings. The fact is that it is now legal to change that some of the statutes that have worked in the statutes of the academy are now strengthened and the fact that when it comes to lifelong membership in the academy then we have this fourth co-operation form which now has only one check after ten years and with regular members of the honorary correspondence, it is now a cooperative membership and with the possibility of being chosen permanently after ten years. And that's exactly the point of the amendment. I applied for the debate because I participated in these discussions and in the committee earlier, and it opened up one controversy precisely to create one competitiveness, one living in a functioning contest. It means that members who are candidates for a co-worker permanently prove themselves. It is true that the Croatian Academy of Science and Arts played key roles in its various stages, including today's game. We must not forget that it is those young members who are not members of the Academy but who work for the institutions of the Academy they have throughout Croatia and where they really contribute to the overall scientific and artistic development and knowledge. And the fact is that when we look at from the point of all the scientific fields of the area, from the field of art then the academy in one place integrates the most and it seems to me to be one potential that should be used as we have heard in the debate that certain social issues are being resolved. I will say for one experience that I have about education and the latest trends and changes required by the curricular policy then I must say that the Academy but also Croatian universities here have become involved in this extremely important business for Croatian society and modernization of our school system. And I can tell you that the dynamics of this debate, that these institutions are just encouraging which is very good, which says that the fundamental meaning of the Croatian Academy of Science and Arts to be the support, the strength of the development of its people to be realized here through the experience here which I have directly. So I won't be long. I support the adoption of this law and amendments to the Committee on Education, Science and Culture which I think has resolved these controversyal doubts, and I think we have absorbed this law. And it seems to me that this harmonisation of another change is that the term of office of members of the presidency is four years that it is one common situation in Croatia where the mandates are usually for four years, so it's a good thing that we put the electoral mandate in Croatia in April every four years so that we have one culture of that behavior. Here, with these notes, I support the adoption of this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-21-0.u32544	Thank you to your esteemed colleague. And the final application for the debate is the esteemed colleague Krešimir Ćosic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-21-0.u32545	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President. Allow a few words about these minor amendments and additions to the Law on the Croatian Academy of Science and Arts, although it may seem that these are cosmetic or minor amendments and additions to this law. I'd say that they have a lot of their own I'd say more long-term character and they're more important maybe than they seem at first. First of all, the four-year term of office of members of the Academy presidency, instead of the term of office so far, is not formal but ensures far more quality, continuous work of all those sitting in the presidency. Continuity of work, decision-making at highest levels, i.e. at the Bureau level, the academy is a very important issue and I think that this extension of the mandate from three to four years can certainly result in better quality work of the academy as a whole. I certainly don't think I'm exaggerating when I say, given what I know about the debates on this bill, that this second reading has proved to have made a lot of sense, especially when it comes to the status of co-workers. I'd say different discussions, different opinions. Members of co-workers are not beginners, they are senior scientists, teachers in permanent titles, regular professors, scientific advisors, etc. And for people with such references, it may have seemed to be their re-election after ten years that it didn't make sense. However, according to the discussions, according to the arguments, I would say to reasonable decisions, it was nevertheless adopted to allow people entering the academy as co-workers after ten years of their scientific continuity and their scientific contribution to the work of the Croatian Academy of Sciences and Arts to be verified. Therefore, it has been shown that the second reading made sense, that the discussion between the Committee and the Ministry and the Academy in this case has been fully justified and I think it is a good form of cooperation that results in quality decisions which have the support of all those involved in the process regardless of which party they belonged. I think he deserves his commendation. And in the end I would just say the following, the status of the Croatian Academy of Science and Arts in our public is in any case something that does not satisfy the aspect of the needs of society. The Croatian Academy of Science and Arts is a headquarters of scientific and research, etc. the institution in the Republic of Croatia and it is inadmissible that some important international gatherings take place in the academy with long-term significance for the Republic of Croatia without any media reactions, without any media interest. I do not want to take advantage of this debate to complain in any way, it is not my interest but I will only warn of a very useful Round Table since 27 March which was jointly organised by the Croatian Academy of Science and Arts, the Scientific Council for Oil, the NATO Parliamentary Assembly, the Subcommittee on Trans-Atlantic Relations and the delegation of the Croatian Parliament to NATO Parliament Assembly, the topic was the energy security of South-Eastern Europe, a series of highly affirmed international experts, politicians useful, valuable debate in the Croatian Academy of Sciences and Arts without any echoes in Croatian media. Energy security, the energy future of the Republic of Croatia and the debate on the topic in the Croatian Academy of Science and Arts, I am sure, was an object that deserved proper media attention, but unfortunately it is not the first and only case, but I hope that it will be less and less in the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-21-0.u32546	Thank you very much. We've exhausted all the requests for a hearing. Is there anything else the Proposer's representative would like to add? Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-21-0.u32547	Honorable Madam Representatives and Gentlemen Representatives. Here's a little bit. I will thank you truly as the honourable representative, Mr. Cosic said, constructive discussions and it was absolutely useful that it went in two readings because I think this proposal is far better than it was at first. Here's another thank you to the other topics that will be with science and education I think we could also discuss on the relevant committees. Thanks again.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-21-0.u32548	Thank you very much. We'll vote when the conditions are met. The hearings are over.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-21-0.u32549	We move on to the Final Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Croatian Academy of Science and Art. This is a second reading, P.Z.E. No. 276. The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. The amendment was submitted by the Committee on Education, Science and Culture. During the debate, the proposing representative accepted this amendment and did not vote on it, as it became an integral part of the final draft law in accordance with Article 169. Rules of Procedure. I am voting on the final draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the Croatian Academy of Science and Arts. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? The final draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the Croatian Academy was adopted by the majority of votes, 71 votes for, 18 abstentions and 1 vote against.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-21-0.u32550	We're going to go to six. Proposal for a law amending the Law on the Rights of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families, with a final draft law, an emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 331 Proposer of the Law is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the proposal in boxes. It is an emergency procedure and shall be applied in accordance with the regulation, or in accordance with Article 161 of that Regulation. Rules of Procedure. According to Article 159. The Registrar's emergency procedure combines the first and second readings. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on European Integration, the Committee on War Veterans. Reports from all three committees have been received. The amendment was submitted by the Legislative Committee. Does the Proposer's representative want to take the floor first? Yeah. State Secretary, Mr. Krunoslav Mesaric. Here you go, secretary.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-21-0.u32551	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament. You have before you a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the rights of Croatian defenders and members of their families. What is fundamentally and fundamentally to say at the beginning, these changes are not touched by the rights of Croatian defenders but only the Law on the rights of Croatian defenders with the acquis of the European Union is aligned with these amendments. Therefore, the subject matter of the amendment is Articles 60 and 61 which speak of the exemption from customs duties and taxes. In the European Union, there is today a Regulation of the European Commission on customs exemptions which does not respect the possible regulation of the exemption from customs duty by any other regulation other than the customs code and the European Union regulation. During the accession and membership negotiations, the Republic of Croatia is obliged to eliminate, at the latest, parts of all autonomous laws containing provisions on the exemption from customs duty on imports of certain goods. This law also provides for the exemption from customs duty provided for in Articles 60 and 61. The law on the rights of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families ceases to apply on the day of the accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union. We note that after the accession of the European Union as the Ministry of Family, Defence and intergenerational solidarity, we will continue to be the most difficult... from the Homeland War of the First Group, 100% of the first group, will be granted personal cars on the same terms and conditions as before, and with orthopedic and other assistance for all persons with disabilities after the accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union, customs payments will be released on the basis of the direct application of the European Commission's Customs Liberation Regulation. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Tax breaks used by Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families on the occasion of the import of personal cars and equipment for carrying out economic activity, now provided for in Articles 60 and 61. The laws must also comply with the acquis of the European Union. Therefore, Council Directive 2006/112 EC does not provide for the possibility of exempting from paying value added tax. However, the Republic of Croatia has put its negotiating position on chapter 16. Tax the request for a transitional period for the application of a zero tax rate for medical products, for the replacement of physical damage or physical defects, and for a transitional period for the exemption from value added tax in the purchase of personal cars for some groups of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families. How to negotiate with the European Union for Chapter 16. Taxes aren't open, it's not a known final decision on the requirements of a transitional period. As the final decision is not known, this law proposes that matters of harmonisation of tax exemptions under the Law on the Rights of Croatian Defences be regulated by the Law on Value Added Tax or by a special tax regulation which will comply with the acquis of the European Union until the accession of the Republic of Croatia to full membership in the European Union. So far, the application of the Law on the Rights of Croatian defenders and members of their families relating to customs and tax reliefs points to some cases of abuse of the rights and ordered reliefs. Examples of abuse of customs and tax reliefs are listed when personal cars and economic inventory are imported with customs and tax reliefs at the end of the ban on alienation on the basis of different contracts or power of attorneys are transferred to the use of other persons. Such legal transactions lose the basic meaning of customs and tax relief. This law proposes extending the period of banning the alienation of personal cars and equipment for carrying out economic activity from two to four years and establishing the highest value for private cars imported by the basis of customs and tax relief provided for by the law on the rights of Croatian defenders. It is also envisaged to prescribe conditions that will be more precise than so far to regulate the payment of customs duties of a specific tax, value added tax in cases of non-compliance with the provisions prohibiting any type of estrangement of a personal car or equipment for carrying out activities imported with customs and tax relief. The special regulation of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, which will be adopted within 90 days of the date of entry into force of this law, will regulate the provisions of this law on conditions of payment of customs duties, special taxes, value added tax in the event of non-compliance with the rules on the prohibition of estrangement, in the event of the prohibition of any alienation of a personal car or equipment for carrying out activities imported with customs and tax relief. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-21-0.u32552	Thank you, Mr. Secretary of State. On behalf of the clubs? On behalf of the board, you want reporters? Mr. Josip Djakic on behalf of the War Veterans Committee. You won't? Okay. Other committees? There's no interest. We're going to the clubs. On behalf of the SDP club, distinguished colleague Ivica Pancic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-21-0.u32553	Mr. Chairman of the Croatian Parliament, gentlemen of the State Secretary, ladies and gentlemen here for the third time. It means that as far as we understand these amendments to the Law on the Rights of Croatian Defendants, it is planned that the cars obtained with tax relief for defenders will not be able to sell and donate 4 years after imports. So instead of two years, it goes up to four, and those who want it will have to pay full customs and tax. And the goal is to prevent the abuse of defense relief. So, I'm undermining the goal is to prevent the abuse of defense relief. About four hours ago here in front of you saying about the report on the rights of Croatian defenders I said that the SDP is receiving this report because we believe that the entire system of care for Croatian defenders is financially not going to say unsustainable, but is not in line with that principle. And because this system generates a whole series of irregularities, so I mentioned several of the most related to obtaining the status of Croatian military disabled and obtaining rights from the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute. This segment of the rights of Croatian defenders as regards customs and tax relief regarding imports of cars or commercial machines I left here for this item of the agenda. And when I mentioned these two things that it's not a sustainable whole system, which we'll see, unfortunately, all of us in a few months. That is also what the economists associated with the Croatian government are talking about. This has now been confirmed on this example. Let's remember in 2001 when the new Law on the Rights of Croatian Defences was passed. Among other things, one of the major changes was limiting the right to import cars. How did the opposition react then? She declared the government to attack the very foundations of the Homeland War. Cars were an excuse for the then Racan government, with my indifference, to declare maltene traitors because they tried to regulate this segment of the issue. Because this was necessary due to Croatia's accession to different economic associations in the west and then a whole series of attacks followed. Let us remember, as we need to remember at the end of the 1990s, how this even went into effect. It seems to me that the salaries couldn't have increased in the state administration, so then there was the possibility of giving people the right to import. It soon got out of hand. There was chaos. And then, in 2000, the government tried as much as to regulate it, to bring changes into the law in 2001 with attacks I'm not going to talk about anymore. Then came the new HDZ government that changed the law. Most of the provisions that regulate this issue have been fully copied and are now going with a request to amend the provisions of the 2001 law in fact, calling for the aim of preventing the abuse of defence reliefs. If the SDP had written that, we'd be traitors. When HDZ writes that, it must be accepted. And we won't be against this, we won't. Because we know it is necessary, but it is not good to refer to the European Union, so we are doing it for the sake of the European Union. Well, I guess we do for ourselves, for this country, for our sakes and for our children, and not for the sake of the European Union, who knows when we will enter. And this question needs to be regulated. What I doubt is whether it should have gone into amendments to the law in the first place, except for adapting when we enter the European Union or all of this could have been solved. First by functioning the rule of law, because whoever abuses these rights so that the resales should be sanctioned and whether the government itself should have been introduced into the regulation, as provided for here, to specify which among other cars can be introduced, which cars can be introduced and which ones are not. Let's remember again, that's the problem when someone has a little longer memory, but this wasn't that far. A few months ago, the prime minister himself said about the issue of wage balances, i.e. the reduction of government salaries, that is when it was said that we do not want to settle. It's communism. It's a return to socialism. And now what is this? When it is predicted that the government will disable the import of cars above a certain class. And why the Prime Minister can drive a car or I don't know anyone from politics whether BMW, Mercedes, Porsche, Ferrari or not. And the defender, this is now a purely theoretical or philosophical issue he could not introduce the same Ferrari for his own purposes. Maybe there's a defense attorney who's got options. They're not just getting a pension or a disability. Maybe they're dealing with the economy, maybe the businessmen are successful, and they want precisely because of business activities, a good car, and they'll use this privilege if they still have it. Which is why limit them, not make sure that the rule of law sanctions all those who do. I think there's a tycoon here from Split that imported a car, I don't know what, Ferrari, what if, Maybach, here, on the privilege of a nephew or not knowing who. And then it was supposed to be sanctioned. As of now, we're all about to limit the case. Of course, the world won't fail because of that. These cases can be counted on the fingers of one hand. But maybe that should have been solved again by a regulation without some too many amendments to the law. Let me remind you, this seems to me to be the fourth amendment to that perfect 2004 law. You see that some things are not good to glorify too much, gentlemen of the ministry. And there will still be a change, so that life carries it. It's completely normal, so let's not get angry when we point to a particular problem. It's well-intentioned, extremely well-intentioned. So we will not declare you traitors of the Homeland War because here, you regulate certain rights and all that you have told us, but we simply accept this bill and we hope that the next time you go with new amendments to the law you will come and honestly acknowledge that the state of affairs is so and that some things should be regulated again and you will be convinced that you will find an intercessor from which you can expect constructive proposals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-21-0.u32554	Thank you very much. We have two applications for correction of the quote. First of all, dear colleague Josip Djakic. Here you go, sir.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-21-0.u32555	Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, so I'll just have one correction of the incorrect allegations to be carried out... or restricting someone who will buy a car, especially the Croatian defender. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Namely, I just want to get even with the 100% and their rights. The car is for the Croatian war invalid of the 100% category in the purchase of the state. What you didn't do, what you stayed in the debt of 380 cars. This was done immediately at the beginning of the mandate, and we now want all others who are getting benefits until they enter the European Union to be in line with those car prices provided by the 100% disabled first group.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-21-0.u32556	Thank you very much. And another application for correction, distinguished colleague Susana Bilić Vardic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-21-0.u32557	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. A fellow Pancic brought forth a series of inaccuracies in his debate, but that doesn't surprise us. I am correcting only an incorrect assumption that this government and the ministry are that we have glorified the Law on the Rights of Croatian Lawyers because I quote "he cannot remain the same because life brings change". A colleague of Pancic's. It is not only the life of change but also the approximation of Croatia's European Union that brings some. Not that life, my colleague Leko, not that life that my colleague Pancic was talking about here all the time.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-21-0.u32558	Don't get settled in. Just correct the quote. Thank you very much. On behalf of the HDZ club, distinguished counterpart Josip Djakic. Here you go, my colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-21-0.u32559	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President and Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. So here are the provisions of the law and amendments to the laws that have been proposed on the rights of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War, which are necessary and necessary, given that the European Union rules, the exemption from customs duty, determine, above all, the completely free import and export of goods and services relating to the payment of customs duties between the Member States of the European Union. That is clear and ambiguous, and I want to not take time for this House of High because everything is defined clearly. I just want to read certain things that should point you to what you don't know. Above all, the provisions of the Law on the Rights of Croatian Defence from the Homeland War and members of their family need to be aligned with the European Commission's Customs Liberation Regulation, No 918/73. The said Regulation does not know exemption on an economic basis and prohibits the exemption from payment of customs duties to certain other regulations other than the common rules of the European Union. These are the basic items which make it necessary to amend and supplement this law and they are not at the expense of Croatian defenders because Croatian defenders continue to have the same rights to join the European Union, and since it is clear that Croatian defenders from the Homeland War, until now, have been imported by the Member States of the European Union as a percentage of 95%, means only 5% from the countries of America or I don't know which, either China or some other countries, so everything else is said to be regulated by a special tax regulation. It means that there is no concern that our Croatian defenders are most of their cars or machines or aids that they import, imports from the European Union countries, so there are no disputes or interpretations. I just want to point out that all the amendments and additions to the laws did not in any case go to harm Croatian defenders, but went to their advantage. So let's see the reduction to 6 billion and 200 million kuna that the Department of Defense has for you is a reduction. You cut off 380 cars that you didn't deliver to 100% first category disabled. 2,500 Croatian war people have lost their income. As a result, the ministry is still returning money to the rulings of the power of power. It's probably like some of your own were judging or maybe they were judging or abolishing by a relationship. In order not to turn this assembly into unwanted callings, I just want to say that it would certainly be the first to raise the vote that there are some reductions to the harm of Croatian defenders in order to first partner with the government as we have so far agreed all the necessary items in order to firstly want this country, defending this country, spilling blood for this country, leaving parts of the body for sure and now find a reasonable agreement with the Government of the Republic of Croatia if it is necessary to bring the best regulations and laws, and not to cut it the way you cut it in your term. We have not forgotten you, and they show this every day and in every election Croatian defenders show how good you were for them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-21-0.u32560	Thank you very much. Correction of the quote, esteemed colleague Ivica Pancic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-21-0.u32561	Djakic's colleagues are doing well as he holds on to specific topics, and when he swims into political waters, he says everything, among other things, and that everything they've done has been in favour of Croatian defenders, right? Comrade Djakic, let's remember the Split Riviera and the nine generals who ended up in The Hague. And that's what you do.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-21-0.u32562	Thank you very much. We're moving on to an individual debate. A distinguished colleague colleague, Ingrid Antičević-Marinović, applied for the debate. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-21-0.u32563	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. Vice President, the honourable representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues. If this law were so good and talked about what my colleague Djakic was all about, then Mrs Kosor would be there, but she's not there. ... So, she was this morning, but now this bill is gone, and that's a fact. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] And if a little of what rights or at least a hint of increase were increased, or if they were fulfilled by all the laws she would be there but now she's gone and left here her colleagues here to listen to and what is not written in the bill. Namely, the proposal and the reasoning of the law clearly states that this legislative proposal provides for the suspension of the importance of customs relief in the import of personal cars to Croatian wartime people from the Homeland War from the second group to the fourth group and family members of the dead, prisoners or missing Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and equipment to carry out their own professional activities to Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and family members of the dead, imprisoned or missing Croatian defenders from the Homeland War, with the accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union or only in the case of imports and outside the Member States of the European Union. So, the truth is only so much that it won't happen tomorrow. So, you here now comfort all of us together and Croatian defenders who knows when Croatia will enter the European Union and then you can still import the car and equipment, only if you have and what. Well, you see, it's a reduction. If I didn't repeat everything that my colleague Pancic said nicely, if this bill had been passed much earlier, you would have said quite differently. Now you're talking and you're referring to something that anyone knows when you're misreading this bill. And it's being manipulated by the defense population again. You're becoming defense attorneys again. The defenders were defenders. They don't need defenders to defend them. It's enough for them not to manipulate them. ... They said, they said. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] And what do you know about who voted? ... All right, I'm not going to pollute with you right now. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Pick up the plate and we'll have a nice talk like that in the Rules of Procedure. You see, one of the reasons for this kind of treatment, which is why these rights are being reduced, is the accession to the European Union and the accession of Croatia to the European Union. Please, the Customs Liberation Regulation from the European Union with subsequent amendments has adopted a basic provision of 83. Specific regulations amending and supplementing this basic Regulation were also adopted during the year 83 and 94. So what are you guys talking about? You can see how much this illogicality has in each such edifice of something irrational. That doesn't make sense. What my colleague Pancic was talking about, you changed the law to come back to this. Have we not then drawn near to the European Union? In 94, such a regulation with amendments was even passed, and such laws were spoken of by counterpart Pancic in 2001, so that you would return all these years to those laws that were then passed and in criminal terms, both in this segment and in that segment. And what my colleague Pancic said, he just needs to be mean, so we're just going back to spite to be against this. Is that politics? It should also be responsible for the opposition in order to be responsible for the authorities tomorrow. But you were an irresponsible opposition and today you are irresponsible authority. For all the responsible and for nothing. And even if it were bad, it would have to be mentioned again by the Split Riviera, how it was turkeyed on the Split Riviera and what happened. And what does that lead to? That really doesn't bring points to anyone who talks or who's being referred to. Let's see. And so when some arguments are given and concrete, and when you can't get out of it listen, change, don't go back to some prehistory that then takes you back to one illogicality. Here, I am, for this and for the sake of what my colleague Pancic said, saying on behalf of the SDP club, I will support this proposal with one real and appeal to stop treating them like irresponsible people, because they are responsible people. And they're not used for manipulation, they're not an object, they're a subject. And remember, defense attorneys don't need lawyers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-21-0.u32564	Thank you very much. We have two reports of correction of the quote. First of all, dear colleague Susana Bilić Vardić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-21-0.u32565	Thank you very much. Your Honor, Mr. Vice President. I am correcting the incorrect allegations and the claim made by my colleague Marinović, which is "If this law were good for the defenders, the Vice-President of the Government of the Republic of Croatia would be here now," the statement concluded, that is what I am correcting. Dear colleagues, if you had listened carefully and followed the current morning without playing quiz and regretting the election defeat on Sunday, you would have heard that Djakic, in front of the entire Croatian public, because the current morning Croatian television broadcasts directly asked the secretary of defence, family and intergenerational solidarity and Croatian Deputy Prime Minister Jadranki Kosor, who was just a question about the announced amendment and addition of the Law on Croatian Defence, and that the Deputy Prime Minister made it clear and loud. Unfortunately, you didn't listen. ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-21-0.u32566	You've got the plates. Dear colleague Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-21-0.u32567	Mr. Vice President. I'll just have one inaccuracy, that it was passed back in 94 as Mrs. Anticevic has already claimed. Namely, Council Directive 2006/112 of the EC does not provide for the possibility of exempting payment of value added tax. However, the Republic of Croatia has put its negotiating position on chapter 16. Taxes of application for a transitional period of 0% of taxes for medical products, for the replacement of physical damage or physical defects, and for a transitional period of exemption from value added tax in the purchase of personal cars for some groups of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families. So, from 2006. What are you talking about today? I didn't understand you at all why you always insinuate with some dates that don't stand at all. It is clear and unequivocal that the Council Directive has been since 2006.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-21-0.u32568	Thank you very much. Here's the report of the replica. Dear fellow Pancic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-21-0.u32569	Comrades, you noticed well when you said that an irresponsible opposition cannot be a responsible authority. But let us remember that HDZ was the ultimate authority of the 1990s, which led Croatia to... The destruction, and for four years, we worked hard to get her back on her feet and HDZ was on its way to destroy her again. ... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] What you love cannot be robbed and no one can have a monopoly on absolute truth. [[Everyone speaks out loud, they don't understand.]] And all of us who enter politics need to know that nothing has started with us and that nothing will end with us. And it looks like HDZ's forgetting it.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-21-0.u32570	God, why does it always have to cook up on defenders like this? The reply to the replica of the esteemed colleague Anticevic-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-21-0.u32571	Well, here comes a fellow Pancic. Don't be surprised anymore because I'll start to wonder at your surprise. HDZ is a master there and no one can match him where he often lost his election in the largest cities. ... He lost in the biggest cities. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] In certain cities he got less than he got the SDP. Most of the time, he won in the country. ... Zadar is an exception. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] But generally, gentlemen, when you mention Zadar, that's where he's lost, that's where I lost 40% of how many of your candidates you're promoting here as winners. In Split, Zagreb and Rijeka, you will not get 40%. And you're laughing at it. Because you're masters of turning a lie into truth and truth into a lie, to turn election victories into other people's electoral defeats, and your own electoral defeats into electoral victories. But why is that? Why is that? When you talk to your colleague Pancic about patriotism and about someone's patriotism, it's naked and desert and true, and someone's colleague Pancic, who you know well, and all of us together and the defenders that someone's writing with a lot of, lots of zeros.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-21-0.u32572	Thank you. We've got one plate of damage to the Rules of Procedure. Comrade Matkovic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-21-0.u32573	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President. I had no intention of raising this tile, but I raised it solely for one, which is a violation of Rules of Procedure, Article 209. My colleague... She didn't hold on to the subject we were talking about, and here she spoke so offensively about us from the villages. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] You're talking about discrimination and you're proposing the Discrimination Act, and you're discriminating us from the village like we're not human. Shame on you, co-worker! You're the only people from Zadar! You're the only citizens.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-21-0.u32574	Let's not do that.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-21-0.u32575	And we village people are people!
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-21-0.u32576	It's not going well because it's said as it's said. I live in the country, too, and I felt the same way about it. In the second row, but never mind, I know she didn't mean it. ... [[Intruder: Yes, we are less valuable to you than to her.]] Say it first, listen up. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-21-0.u32577	... [[Speech is not enabled.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-21-0.u32578	He wasn't correcting.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-21-0.u32579	... I was talking about the breach of the Rules of Procedure consisting of something I didn't say. [[Conversation subsequently turned on.]] He's imputing to me here that I question one or the other. I just said where they're mostly. It's in smaller places. So what's the problem now? Well, I guess he's not ashamed of it. I didn't say anything, I just said it in fact. ... But it's true that you've won in smaller places, villages, villages and deadlocks. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] That's right.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-21-0.u32580	So it's right in small places, villages and deadlocks. Okay. Thank you very much. So it wasn't later that we didn't say it again, I said it was in the record. I think we're doing this... and we're not exhausted. We have another application for a hearing. And I got a little into all of that. Dear counterpart Petar Mlinaric came forward for the debate. Here's your colleague, Mlinarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-21-0.u32581	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues. The Law on the Rights of Croatian Lawyers from the Homeland War and members of their families in Articles 60 and 61 provides for conditions for the recognition of customs tax reliefs to Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and with members of the families of the dead, prisoners and missing Croatian defenders from the Homeland War. These reliefs are used in the import of passenger cars, equipment for carrying out independent professional activities and when importing orthopedic aids. The law regulates full exemption from customs, VAT and special taxes for certain categories of the most severe disabled war I to IV category, as well as for members of the families of the dead, missing, imprisoned Croatian defenders when they import personal cars for their own purposes. In doing so, for the most difficult 100% HRVI and groups, the Ministry of Family, Defence and Intergenerational Solidarity is purchasing personal cars without customs and without taxes, and then assigning them to the property of these disabled under the law on the right to such a free allocation. HRVI IV groups have every seven years. As the revenue from the customs duties charged is the Union's income, and not the Member States, which is the Republic of Croatia, during the accession negotiations in the obligation, the eliminated parts of their autonomous laws containing provisions on the exemption from customs duty on imports of certain goods are at the latest. Following the release from customs duty, the Law on the Rights of Croatian Defences from the Homeland War and members of their families should be brought into line with the European Union rules until the accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union. The analysis of the customs administration of the Republic of Croatia for the past two years shows the following. Total imported cars for HRVI of the sixth group and family members of the dead defenders worth around 110 million kuna, 94% of which came from the European Union. A total of 103 million were imported from the economic inventory, including 85.4 of which came from the European Union. This legislative proposal envisions the end of the importance of customs reliefs in the import of personal cars to Croatian wartime disabled persons from the Homeland War from 2nd to 4th group and family members of the deadly victims, prisoners, missing Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and equipment for carrying out independent professional activities and Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families, imprisoned and missing. So far, the enforcement of the provisions of the laws relating to customs and tax reliefs indicates cases of abuse of the right of the so-called relief. The most numerous examples are the abuse of customs reliefs when personal cars and economic inventory are imported with customs and tax benefits before the date of the ban on alienation on the basis of different contracts or power of attorneys is passed on to other persons. Such legal transactions lose the basic meaning of customs and tax relief. And that is why I support this law, and I think that in time we are going with that law in line with the European Community. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-21-0.u32582	Thank you very much. We've exhausted all the requests for a hearing. Does the Proposer want to take the final word? Mr. Secretary of State, here you go, Mr. Mesaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-21-0.u32583	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. This law that is before you has been passed by parliamentary representatives and advocates who have debated. At the end of one thing, I actually have two things to underline again. What I said at the beginning, maybe you didn't hear me. First, no law regarding customs and tax exemptions referred to in Article 60, 61. The law on the rights of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War has not been abolished. Secondly, customs duties within the customs union are zero, zero rate, and as far as goods and services are concerned, in fact goods and goods produced outside the European Union income from these customs duties in the customs union is not only State revenue, so we are obliged to regulate, in accordance with the European Union Regulation, that customs duties cannot be regulated differently from customs regulations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-21-0.u32584	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-21-0.u32585	Fifth. Final bill amending the Law on the Rights of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families. It was an emergency procedure. P.Z.E. No. 331. The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. The amendment was submitted by the Legislative Committee. I would like to ask the proposer's representative to be informed of the amendment submitted. State Secretary Mr. Mesaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-21-0.u32586	Thank you, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-21-0.u32587	This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-21-0.u32588	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-21-0.u32589	It becomes an integral part of the proposal. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-21-0.u32590	It's unacceptable. Explanation. For the purposes of this Regulation, the following definitions shall apply: Proposal for a law amending the Law on the Rights of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families with the Final Proposal for the Law is prescribed to comply with the provisions of the Law on the Rights of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families who determine tax reliefs with the acquis of the European Union. In the event that we accept this amendment, then there is the possibility that the exemption from paying value added tax and the special tax when importing personal cars and equipment for carrying out the economic activity of Croatian defenders and members of their families remains incompatible with the legal property of the European Union, and with the proposed text of this Article, there is an obligation to comply with the rules of the European Union and, at the same time, with the entry into force of the harmonised Law on Value Added Tax and the rules on specific taxes.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-21-0.u32591	Thank you. The board? The board has withdrawn the second amendment. [[Intruder: We withdraw the amendment.]] Thank you very much. Please, let's get on with it. I am voting on the final draft of the law amending the Law on the rights of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? I find that this law has been passed with most votes, with 82 votes in favour, 7 abstentions along with the amendment accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-21-0.u32592	For the seventh item of the agenda, we do not have the conditions for discussion because the committees have not finished. And we move to the eighth point of the agenda, which is 8. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Archive materials and archives, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 322 Proposer of the Law is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You received the proposal by mail. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Rules of Procedure. According to Article 159. The Registrar's emergency procedure unites the first and second readings of the law. Amendments may be submitted until the end of the debate pursuant to Article 164 of the Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on European Integration, the Committee on Education, Science and Culture. We received reports from the board in writing. The amendments were submitted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Education. Does the proposaler's representative want to take the floor? Dear Mr. Minister Bozo Bishop. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-21-0.u32593	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor. Namely, all four draft laws on amendments and additions to the law that we will present today are actually part of the process of harmonising Croatian legislation with the acquis of the European Union. The archives shall be carried out in accordance with the new Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law of the Institutions, and with the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council of 12 December 2006, services on the internal market in order to remove a prescribed restriction on the part of a legal and natural person with regard to the establishment of specialised, private archives in the Republic of Croatia. Under the proposed legal changes, foreign and natural legal persons are thus open to the legal possibility of setting up specialised and private archives in the same way and meeting the same conditions as domestic and natural legal persons. This law will not, at the time of the accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union, contain discriminatory provisions which would be contrary to the acquis of the Union. In addition, we are the provisions of this law relating to the professional names of archival staff who are in line with the new Law on scientific activity, higher education and the Law on academic and professional names and academic degrees, which in a new way regulates the issue of the type and acquisition of higher education, as well as the academic professional title of academic degrees. I would like to stress that we accept this amendment to the Committee on Law and that we accept the amendments of the Committee on Education, Science and Culture.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-21-0.u32594	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Reporters from the board meeting? He wants Mr. Doric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-21-0.u32595	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary, with associates, colleagues and colleagues. Prof. Selem had to travel, and here I am changing him in front of the Committee on Education, Science and Culture. I would like to say that we have had an interesting session, that we have had an even more interesting discussion, primarily about professional titles, professional arrangements and orientations that are necessary to carry out certain tasks that are covered and mentioned in this law. A colleague, Vujic, made some concrete proposals. In the debate they have been completed and I am pleased to hear from Mr. Minister that the promoter agrees with these proposals. That makes my job a lot easier for me. I don't have to read all the arguments for that reason. My colleagues and colleagues, I think you agree with me. You have received these suggestions, amendments on your benches, and you have the opportunity to read them clearly during this debate. I would just say that we unanimously as a committee have reached a conclusion, we have proposed to the Croatian Parliament to accept this law, that it is necessary to adopt it for a number of reasons. First of all, to align with the Law on the Institutions and Legal Liquidity of the European Union in a way to balance the legal position of foreign natural and legal persons with the legal position of domestic natural and legal persons in relation to the right to establish specialised and private archives in the Republic of Croatia. Furthermore, we believe that the proposed amendments to the Law on Archive materials and archives will be clearly harmonised with the amended Act on Scientific Activity and Higher Education and with the Law on Academic and Professional Names and Academic Classes. As you have heard, we have suggested in connection with professional titles, i.e. professional preparation and orientations of two amendments, and I am pleased to see that the Proposer agrees with these suggestions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-21-0.u32596	Thank you very much. On behalf of the other committees? Dear fellow MP Antun Vujic. Here you go. Okay, no, he's not, he's on behalf of the club instead of Mr. Selem. Then we'll have a club debate. First of all, on behalf of the HDZ club, distinguished colleague Šetic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-21-0.u32597	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary, Madam MPs, gentlemen of the Parliament. I think on behalf of the Croatian Democratic Community Club, I will say immediately that we accept this amendment to the law, and after these opening statements, it is easier because the minister accepts the amendments of the Committee on Science, Education and Sports. As we have seen, then all the dilemmas are cleared. But the fact that this law is primarily necessary is to be adopted in order to comply with the Law on the Institutions and legal property of the European Union in a way that equalises the legal position of foreign natural and legal persons with the legal position of domestic natural and legal persons in relation to the right to establish specialised and private archives in the Republic of Croatia. So, we are completing our legal gain with the European Union by supplementing the Law on Archive and Archive with the Final Proposal for Law. Moreover, the proposed amendments and amendments to the law on archival materials and archives are harmonised in the meantime by the existing law and by the Law on Scientific Activity and Higher Education and the Law on Academic and Professional Names and Academia, which in a new way regulates the issue of species and professional names and acquisition of higher education and academic and professional title of academic degrees. Detailed regulation of professional archival calls and how they are achieved under this proposal would be prescribed by a regulation that would bring the Minister of Culture on the proposal of the Croatian Archive Council and that is exactly what these amendments regulate and thus round this whole whole, so that these professional names are placed at the level of the law, and not just at the level of the regulations. Here, for all these reasons, the Croatian Democratic Community Representatives Club supports the adoption of this law and will vote in favour.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-21-0.u32598	Thank you very much. And now on behalf of the SDP club, distinguished counterpart Antun Vujic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-21-0.u32599	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. It is therefore the law on archives, but the same thing that can be said about the amendment and addition of the Law on Archives can also be said about the Law on Museums and the Law on Librarys. So, all the three laws that the Ministry of Culture has made have one Corps of Things that are completely uncontested and in which they have the support of all of us in the Parliament, including the SDP club, which is about harmonising some possibilities related to European conventions and what we all want, and that means liberalisation of not the market, so to speak because this is not a market, this is a culture, but a liberalisation of all the possibilities that give a total product of culture that is even more quality. Therefore, it is not that foreign citizens can establish museums or archives. Of course, according to the laws of the Croatian, some others etc., etc. It is that the proposal made by the ministry has left some things unimaginable in our opinion or may be subject to some additional discussion. In the first order, we believe and it seems to me that the ministry will also be inclined to show the debate on the committee, so that everything regarding the code of reference, professional titles will be adopted in a way that is subject to the law, not the subject matter of a sublaw, as is the rule. Namely, the regulation should regulate the way relations are created and who can and at which point send some of the functions that are listed and concerning professional titles, but professional titles themselves must be carried out by law because such societies that have certain even public powers in that area are also established by law, which is, in fact, the entire body of the structure that is in the museum goes from a curator of greater or smaller or who catches some other museological and other functions, in libraries of the librarians of this or the one who progresses etc. I hope that this amendment, which we have discussed as an amendment of the Committee, will be adopted by the Government. There is also one thing that is related to the discussion of it, not with the competition of any political one, which is that in some way it is located in functions related to any archives, any libraries, any museums, in which way and who can be the director and who can obtain the conditions to perform the relevant functions. The amendments, i.e. the debate that has been conducted on the board and which we support both as a debate and as a course of decision-making, are that the choice of leadership from all these institutions, namely I am summing up all three articles, about all three laws, are also related to their respective professions. So when it comes to the choice of high-ranking function with the library, then it has to be someone who's graduated from college or who's somehow graduated or acquired knowledge in this guy, not some other guy. Not to describe in general, but to tie it to the library’s direction. I see these problems cause different reactions in different ministries, depending on the sectors for which individual ministries are in charge. The binding of positions and ways of acquiring qualifications then and the qualifications to perform some function for such or such an educational system was he in Bologna or some others in my opinion had nothing to do with the content of these laws. We here prescribe our own building, we prescribe our nomenclature here, we prescribe our way of treating and treating it as a qualification and as a qualification to perform certain functions. In this regard, there remain some open issues between the last session of the Committee on Culture and Science and in some way the information we have at this point. It would be good to sit down and discuss it one more time. The SDP's intensity is to support these laws but it will not support them if they are not bound by the elections to the functions, responsible functions in these professions if these professions are not linked then and for the appropriate studies that are related to these professions and would not support them if the law did not at the same time legally determine what professions are and which are called in those professions. These are the two conditions that we have agreed in principle to try to resolve, but therefore we are giving one conditional support to this law by having the Ministry or the Government's authorised representatives respond positively to the spirit of the debate that we have conducted on the board and which we support. Thank you very much. And it's also a discussion about two other points, so I wouldn't answer it again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-21-0.u32600	Thank you very much, dear colleague Vujic. There are no more applications on behalf of the clubs. We're moving on to an individual debate. Dear colleague Susana Bilić Vardić came to the floor. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-21-0.u32601	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Minister, Madam Secretary of State with associates, colleagues and colleagues. We have before us a set of three draft laws on amendments and additions to the institutions of culture with the final proposal of the law, which the Government of the Republic of Croatia sent to the Croatian Parliament for discussion and adoption. All three laws need to be brought into line with the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Institutions adopted by this House in March 2008. As the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Institutions harmonising Croatian legislation with the acquis of the European Union and thus allowing for the establishment of institutions for domestic and foreign natural and legal persons, it was necessary to apply this to fundamental laws establishing the activities of institutions in culture, so that the Ministry of Culture developed drafts of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Archival Materials and Archives, Museums and Librarys. And clearly, this provision that the right is even, so that foreign natural and legal persons can, under equal conditions, establish archives, museums and libraries in the Republic of Croatia, enter into force on the day of the entry of the Republic of Croatia into full membership in the European Union. All three laws bear the code P.Z. and with a plan to bring the legislation of the Republic of Croatia into line with the legal acquis of the European Union for 2009 add-on to the National Programme of the Republic of Croatia for Accession of the European Union in 2009 are scheduled for discussion and adoption in the second quarter of this year. I therefore point out both the Government and the competent Ministry of Culture for the Updating and Respect of the given deadlines. And to look back on these three proposed laws, which were said by the minister in his opening address and colleagues on behalf of the clubs. All three laws are also in line with the Law on Scientific Activity and Higher Education, or the Law on Academic and Professional Names and Academia, neither of these three laws requires additional funding in the state budget for their implementation because state archives or archives are provided in the 2009 state budget for them. For libraries and museums owned by the founder of the state, funding was provided in the state budget and funds were provided for libraries and museums owned by units of regional and local self-government in local budgets. What I would like to emphasise and what I always like to say when it comes to the Ministry of Culture, or the laws of their resources, is three laws that were passed 12 and 11 years ago, respectively. In 1997, the Law on Archives and Archive and the Law on Museums was passed and the Law on Museums in 1998. In these amendments, I welcome the empowerment adopted by the Proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements of the Law on Museums, which is that museum construction and documentation is conducted and considered to be cultural goods and is subject to the provisions of the Law on the Protection of Cultural Goods, and this amendment further strengthens the role of cultural heritage inspectors who oversee and whose institutions the heads of the collection are obliged to give insight into museum construction and documentation, and, in addition, the responsibility for the preservation of the museum building as a cultural property is more than just the director of the institution that it has been all these years, but also at the heads of the collection or curators in charge of certain museum collections. I am sorry, but here I have praised everything, I am sorry to say that the laws are from a long time ago, the Croatian Ministry and the structure of the state has been different, so we have missed the names of the ministries I think and I am proposing and I advocate that in these fundamental changes and alignment with the legal gains of the European Union we should take care of and that we do not remain units of local administrations and self-governments that are no longer in Croatia and the names of ministries that no longer exist in Croatia. Finally, we agreed on how in the legislation we would call such cases a minister or ministry responsible for these and these matters in order to avoid such cases. Here, it's the only little grudge. By the way, I support all three proposed laws and amendments and additions to the Law on Archives and Archive Papers, the Library Act and the Museums Act. Mr. Vice President, I apologize, I don't know if the debate is united, but that's how we are.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-21-0.u32602	I see that you have applied for all three points and I see that that's how you discussed it, so I will suggest that these two next points if you agree to join us because my colleague Vujic also talked about it that way.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-21-0.u32603	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-21-0.u32604	Thank you very much. We have one replication report. Dear colleague Vujic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-21-0.u32605	Mr. Vice President of the Parliament, the Honorable Minister, my fellow Members. I don't want any controversy about this, but that's why I've taken up a line so you can answer me if you know more than I do, or maybe a minister or a respected government colleague. Even the Bologna process is no precondition for accepting the Bologna process for investing in European integration. I'm so informed and informed to say so from competent people because I've been asking about it. Germany has not accepted the Bologna process at all and many other countries have not. I'd like to hear what an act it is and where it is so set up as a condition. These laws are part of a part that is really related to European integration, which is that under equal rights all citizens in the whole to say to the system can have the same rights and that part is not at all controversial. However, the part that becomes controversial is argued that it is related to the Bologna process in education, that it has its replicas in museumology, in libraries and in archivistics, and by my deep conviction, both in knowledge and in the questions I have asked in competent places, has no implications, nor is it related to any European conditions regarding how we will prescribe, which qualifications are required for this or that in these three sectors. Therefore, since you said that this is all expensive alignment with it, my replica is just that this is a alignment with it in one part, and that in the other part is not necessary because there is no harmonisation because there is no such requirement for that type of harmonisation, and as it is proposed here, and I hope that it will be as agreed and amended, it should be different than it is in the proposal itself. That's what I'm talking about.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-21-0.u32606	Thank you very much. There's no need to answer that. Is there? Please, you have your word. [[There's, there's, there's, there's, there's, there's, there's, there's, there's, there's, there's, there's, there's, there's, ……]]
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-21-0.u32607	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleague Vujic, I thank you for raising the line because if you were correcting the incorrect assumption, I wouldn't be able to say that I didn't say what you just said. I said all three P.Z.E. I'm in line with the law on institutions, and then I'm in the other part where it applies to all three laws, where the Ministry as a Proposer went to bring professional names into line in museums, archives and this, so you're replicating with me, and I thought that the question you wanted to refer to the Proposer. Although it remains unclear to me because I thought that although I was not a member of the Committee on Science, Education and Culture and yesterday I was present, that the committee reached consensus and what we got on the bench was that it was a harmonised position they spoke of on behalf of the committee of colleagues, and you said so, and the minister said in an opening address that it was agreed so that I did not say so. If you heard something or misunderstood, I didn't mean it, nor could I say it was a compliance with the acquis of the European Union. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-21-0.u32608	Thank you. There's no more application for a hearing. Does the Proposer want it? On behalf of the promoter, Mr. Minister Bozo Biskupic. ... First, to close point 8, means archives. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] You don't have to. [[Intruder: There's no need.]] Next if there isn't, then I'm closing the argument. We'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-21-0.u32609	Sixth. Final draft law amending and supplementing the law on archive material and archives. It's an emergency procedure. P.Z.E. No. 322. The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. The amendments were submitted by the Committee on Law and by the Committee on Education, Science and Culture. During the debate, the proposing representative accepted these amendments and is not voting on them. It becomes an integral part of the final draft law in accordance with Article 169. Rules of Procedure. I therefore give the vote the final draft law amending and supplementing the law on archive material and archives. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? This final bill was adopted unanimously, with 90 votes in favour, along with the amendments adopted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-21-0.u32610	We're going to point nine, and if you agree to unite point 10. Okay? [[Intruder: You can.]] Dear... Nine. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Museums, with a final draft law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 323 10. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Library Act, with a final draft law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 326 You have already spoken and connected that opening part on behalf of the club, referring to all three points 9, 10 and 11. Minister, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-21-0.u32611	Since in this debate you and your colleague Vujic have discussed both laws as well, everything has already been said here. It is true that when it comes to the Law on Museums, if we Vice-President of the Committee, Mr Zoric does not mind, I will declare that we accept the amendment of the Committee on Law and Amendment of the Committee on Education, Science and Culture. So we don't mention it anymore. And now, when it comes to libraries, I would also say that we accept the amendments of the Committee on Education and Law and Culture, 2nd and 3rd in general. In 1st, we accept that the pre-graduate is deleted. The only thing we have is a questionable one, and that's one saying that I think we should let that happen by tomorrow, until the vote is settled. In fact, the proposal is only in that article that discusses the selection of the principal director of the National Library and its two deputies. There's only one thing left to argue about. The pronunciation here is a library or social cultural orientation. We have been in talks with this ministry that has a new nomenclature, a new title, consulting with people, and we have come to know if it would write socio-humanist instead of socio-cultural socio-humanist sciences, namely that in these orientations, or high professional preparation in these socio-humanist sciences, if it were to say that it would not be controversial in competitions when people appear because this kind of nomenclature of socio-cultural orientation does not exist so that... But I ask the MPs to still be able to discuss this by tomorrow, since nothing else in the amendments to the committee is disputed except for this statement, to discuss it further. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The other is I mean everything's fine. As I said, we accept the Committee on Law and the Committee on Science and Culture, the 2nd and 3rd amendments in full, to the 1st pre-graduate to delete, that is not controversial. Well, I'm asking for an understanding that it'll still be settled tomorrow. Mr. Vice President, that's it.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-21-0.u32612	Thank you very much, Mr. Minister. In the name of the clubs. Here, on behalf of the club or committee. I'm going to clubs too fast, and the boards are before that.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-21-0.u32613	Mr. Vice President. Mr. Minister with his associates. My colleagues and colleagues. I'm glad we've united the debate now. Perhaps we should have done so at the very beginning because it is always practically the same problem. In this regard, this law is in line with three other laws, with the Law on Institutions, with the Law on Scientific Activity and Higher Education, as well as with the Law on Academic and Professional Names and Academic Classes. So 1st, 2nd and 3rd laws, always the same story. When it comes to the legal gain of the European Union, it is always about the same, it is about the need to bring the legal situation of foreign natural and legal persons into line with domestic ones. So that's it. However, when it comes to museums, let me also say something else that we discussed on the board, which is the position of the inspector for the protection of cultural goods. Namely, these amendments and additions provide them with a legal basis for carrying out the inspection supervision prescribed by the Law on the Protection and Conservation of Cultural Goods. A colleague mentioned it earlier in the debate. At the same time, the circle of persons with special powers has been expanded in some issues of protection of museum collections in the form of museums, since this so far has been restricted only to the director of the museum institution, which has proved absolutely insufficient and we believe that this is a correct addition to this law. Here we've heard that the promoter accepts when it comes to the Museum Act. Our amendment to Article 4 as well as to Article 5. However, the fifth is purely technical because the numbering of the article must be harmonised due to the change in Article 4. And colleagues and colleagues, practically the same thing I repeat once again to the amendments and additions to the Library Act. So there's no need to. This I fully agree with you, Mr. Minister, when it comes to science, then there are socio-humanistic sciences. That direction we were really discussing seems to me that we can't cover, at least there's no such nomenclature in the law, and I personally accept it. And of course we're going to discuss this with colleagues who were present at the committee's meetings by tomorrow so that there will be as little difficulty in accepting these amendments clearly and these little changes to one of our amendments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-21-0.u32614	Thank you very much, colleague Doric. But in the name of the clubs? Comrade Šetić, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-21-0.u32615	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary, Madam MPs, gentlemen of the Parliament. I reported on behalf of the Croatian Democratic Community club, first of all, to support it, but here I would like to give just one explanation that may have caused a little bit about the title. However, we deal with this at European level and this Croatian qualification framework solves in one walk and eight levels in the acquisition of these qualifications we have both the Government's commissions and he is working intensively. And tomorrow when you get diplomas that will be... and harmonised that process will be somehow over a year, two completed. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] That seems important to me to say because it really has nothing to do with the Bologna Process directly, but it does. Right? Therefore, I think that these legal proposals are well set up and that this way they will be resolved, and tomorrow with this harmonisation that applies from primary school to higher education, we will have one harmonised system. And that's what I'm going to say, I'm going to use this opportunity to especially help with professional education today, so a lot of these ambiguities that we have are going to clear up. I think it is good to discuss as Mr Vujic has set up, but it is also a European dimension. So that equivalentness. And maybe around the socio-humanist area. I think that's okay. That's what everyone's gonna agree to. I was just asking who suggested socio-cultural because there's no such area, even though it exists in color. And that's why I think it's a good idea for him to get along and then put it on. Social-cultural. So today we have an interdisciplinary area that we are building, and it is under way and the National Science Council is working on an interdisciplinary field, and especially today it wants to be installed there. But I think it's still walking and it can't be solved that way right now. So I suggest that social humanity be acceptable and that it's okay. Here are the notes we absolutely support the adoption of these laws that are proposed here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-21-0.u32616	Thank you very much. On behalf of the HNS Club, dear colleague Miljenko Doric.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-21-0.u32617	Very short. Namely, colleagues and colleagues are all aware that we have beautiful museums with rich collections that we really need to be proud of. Unfortunately, however, a large part of these archival buildings and museum collections are not even listed today. That's very important. I've heard in a conversation with the minister that indeed some collections are listed no more than 10, 15% of cases which is absurd, which is bad. Tomorrow, a foreign person will come to us, start up, be founders, owners of museums, and I'm very afraid that some items, valuable items from one line don't move into another. We can't let that happen, and I'm sorry that the minister isn't listening to me right now. But what I am, because this is the key. That's why I called. I'll wait a minute. Mr. Minister,... Yes, I have one request. [[/Intruder Friscic, you don't understand.]] We believe that you yourself have told me that some collections are not listed. All ten, fifteen percent of objects or archive buildings, etc. which is not good. We're afraid when strangers come in, when they're founders and museum owners that some objects don't lose, or get legs and move from one place to another. That is why it is our request in front of the HNS Club that you, and we know when a stranger can enter, when we enter the European Union he acquires those rights. Therefore, we still have time to cut a very short deadline for those responsible, for this great building to be written, to make sure that this cultural heritage of our people really stays where it is meant to be. Here's our request. I also want to say one more thing. In the Primorje-Gorski County at one site in the Strance of Vinodol, the tenth century, a beautiful collection of ornaments. He's standing in the museum, away from the visitors' eyes. It is about original Croatian objects, ornaments that were worn at the time. That they cannot make replicas, that these replicas cannot be used as the original Croatian souvenir is not clear to me at all. I was recently in Opatija. They tried to create an exhibition of original souvenirs two, three weeks ago. Something was good, but nothing special would have been my grade. You know. And on the other hand, I know that we have every opportunity to use these very objects as our original souvenir, to make castings in various metals, more valuable, less valuable and extremely expensive if necessary. Therefore, here I am asking you in front of the HNS Club that when you list these buildings you can look at each other at the same time and what could be used for economic purposes to enrich Croatia's tourist offer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-21-0.u32618	Thank you very much. On behalf of the promoter, Mr. Minister, Mr. Bishop. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-21-0.u32619	Mr. Representative, I mentioned it on the board wanting to actually share concerns with others, but we've already found ways in the last few years, we've strengthened the funds for computerisation, we've reduced the funds for the exhibition activity, and we said we're willing to take jobs so that a large museum, a very old and respected museum with 27% registered building is already 60% and that's one good direction. I mentioned it as a problem because it really exists, but we found opportunities, it means less of this to the outside, more of it inside, because that's what law obliges them to do. Here.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-21-0.u32620	Thank you very much, Minister. Surely you have full support there because all of us who are at least a part of it know that certain dumps, attics full of valuable things, and I'm not afraid of so many foreigners because if they're worth something, they know how to earn it if they expose it. I'm afraid of those who would move to the attic all the time. You're more dangerous to me, but surely this message is what you said is an indicator of concern and improvement of all that. We're moving on to individual debates. Dear colleague Romana Jerkovic. She's gone. Dear colleague Antun Vujic. Here you go, colleague Vujic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-21-0.u32621	Since the debate has been kind of united, then I have come to the floor individually, although I did not mean it, but since my colleague Šetic has also warned of some things that I agree with in principle, but are the consequences of some misunderstandings, I would like to make it clear once again what is being done and what we think. We agreed on the board, and it was accepted that libraries were asked to be the conditions for someone who had completed all of the Bologna and other colleges, so as to end them to define it not with a library direction or something else but with a library direction. Therefore, to understand widely enough that someone who has completed enough archivistics, enough information sciences, enough library, enough of this or that, no matter what the study is called, may and may be reported. Unfortunately, I now see that someone has added after the board, which was not the subject of our agreement, and yet an item of library, or social cultural orientation, and really, really, colleague Šetić has the right, there is no such thing. But that wasn't even the conclusion of the board was and I now have to find out to my great surprise that someone was even smarter after we agreed what was going to be, what would be the board's conclusion and add to the board's conclusion of their arbitrary opinions. So I ask and suggest and see that the minister tends to see me again tomorrow and discuss this matter and solve it within a satisfactory framework. There must be a provision, fellow Shetic, that someone who goes to the library has something to do with the library profession, not with someone else. With the museological, too, with the archivist as well. However, the word was carefully chosen that from the different situations offered by the current processes of education that you believe, and I don't, but it doesn't matter, they will be what they are, so it can be said that it is one content of such and such profession and therefore it's not even a profession, but a direction is said. And that the Ministry of Culture has the right and this Parliament has the right to ask for it to be set up and that's logical, and that's actually what the profession is looking for. This supplement that went in here unnecessarily and introduced an additional confusion, which you have somehow entered inside now and with which you have justifiably pollemized, so I ask that this debate be understood in some way conditionally and that tomorrow once again on the board sees how this is going to work out.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-21-0.u32622	Thank you very much. We have a replication application, dear colleague Nevio Šetić.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-21-0.u32623	Here you are, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor. I purposely raised a line so that I could just say my opinion. I think we need to choose a scientific area or a field. It's the only thing that's possible, and that's social and humane, and then maybe that word might be added, and that's about the museological or archival or library professions. So that's how it's defined in science, but it's good if you define Mr. Minister, if you're going to define this, and I see that it's a high agreement, then there'd be a good tomorrow consultation at the level of committees and interested clubs and then define that statement. It makes sense to me because it's useful to fix this like this. But I'm going to say one more sentence that regardless of the name of the study, if it is unclear from a country, then you see the equivalent of that degree with the study in Croatia and then you see the equivalent of that and you see the objects that are inside if it were some, there. So I think we speak exactly the same language.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-21-0.u32624	Replication response, dear colleague Vujic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-21-0.u32625	... We all agree on one course and have some difficulties agreeing and having different visions. [[The speaker was subsequently turned on.]] Consequences of a different degree of information of this and that. So I thank you for having me answer with a replica. This is exactly what you were talking about in the end. That if you say the library direction, and not that group, and that's because there isn't, and that's just the confusion that's going to be, then you can say from the case that he and he studied enough of it and that he can be treated that way. But we don't need this supplement that changes the meaning that came completely without any need, and that's why we're going to have to return this to the board. I ask that the committee be convened again tomorrow to resolve the unnecessary burden of this clear expression with another contaminated expression that actually completely undermines the meaning of library orientation, and when it is said that it is also some kind of social cultural orientation. Is that all then? Then it can be both humanistic and any kind. So we didn't achieve anything if we said library, if we said it was even social culture. No, because we want to turn it off, and we want to choose the proper personnel. Please, I think it's just understandable and I'm glad we all agree on that. We're just looking for a proper formulation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-21-0.u32626	Thank you very much. As far as the Legislative Committee and the Committee on European Integration are concerned, I don't really think it was related to the proposals for a final amendment. The Committee on Education, Science and Culture, I see that you've been discussing, and then something else came to its conclusions, which you haven't discussed until the end, and here is Mr. Minister. I suggest, and he accepts that the board will be present before the vote by noon tomorrow, so that it will be cleared up.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-21-0.u32627	I'd like to pray that then together and be someone from the Ministry of Science, and they're allowed on that board to come and let's hear their opinion of us who aren't bolognaists, we haven't studied, we don't even know how it goes together. It might be good for someone from the ministry to be present from the lawyers or the people who created that title.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-21-0.u32628	Okay. Here's Mr. Zetic, the coordinator of all this until the vote to get rid of it. Accepted, right? We also have applications for individual discussions further. Dear colleague Susana Bilić Vardić. You said yourself that you were through your own discussion.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-21-0.u32629	Mr. President, I used my right.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-21-0.u32630	Thank you very much. And the latest single debate application by distinguished counterpart Shimo Djurdjevic. Here you go, fellow representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-21-0.u32631	I'm thinking about giving up. I think the extremely constructive discussions were here in the assembly and mostly yesterday on the parent board. Nothing but congratulating the Ministry of Culture and fellow Ministers who have already been commended here and perhaps something, one little thing that you and your colleague Vujic noticed on the board yesterday, which is, I think, he is bound to Chapter 7 in this material when it comes to libraries on Article 34 is changed and it is said. It doesn't matter, but it's important next. The information I heard yesterday is that only the Faculty of Philosophy in Osijek and the Faculty of Philosophy in Zadar educate the staff for the needs of libraries, museums, etc. and that other colleges should do so mainly at the Faculty of Philosophy in Zagreb in order to work in our institutions trained in this type of work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-21-0.u32632	Thank you very much. Replica, dear colleague Vujic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-21-0.u32633	For this debate, my fellow MPs would just say so. It is not that the University of Zagreb does not do it, or the Faculty of Philosophy, but they do it in a different way. There is the central title of all of this is Information Sciences, and from this point on, different things are being derived, but within these contents there are all the elements that concern library professions, and that is why this formulation of library orientation is important because from these contents, it can be extracted and derivated from these special colleges, although unfortunately I am also personally sorry and it has been said that in addition to the importance of libraries in the modern world to select one term that is contaminated by other meanings, it does not know what information meanings, what IT is, what is information, what is this, what is what it is, and what is known about libraries and library and it is not called there, but even though it is involved in content. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-21-0.u32634	Thank you very much. We've exhausted all the way to the hearing with this. The promoter agreed with the proposal that we put forward to coordinate this before the vote with the aim of what is already in the amendments to clear up and that ultimately, we have a consensus situation in adoption.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-21-0.u32635	We move on to the Final Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Museums Act. It's also an emergency procedure. P.Z.E. No. 323. Proposer of the Law Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. The amendments were submitted by the Committee on Law and by the Committee on Education, Science and Culture. During the debate, the proposing representative accepted these amendments and is not voting on them. They shall become an integral part of the final draft law in accordance with Article 169. Rules of Procedure. I therefore give the vote the final draft law on amendments to the Law on Museums. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? The final draft law was adopted unanimously, with 91 votes in favour, along with the amendments adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-21-0.u32664	We're going to the 11th point of the agenda now. 11. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Electronic Media, with a final draft law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 328 We received the proposal. The procedure is urgent. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Information, Information and Media, the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system. We've received reports from these boards. The amendment was submitted by the Legislative Committee. Proposer representative Mr. Bozo Biskupic, should I and should I introduce him? Yeah. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-21-0.u32665	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I would like to stress and with this law we will soon come perhaps even during this session because only the day before the public debate ended and this is a very serious topic. This part of which we are struggling with now is because we have to comply with the Law on concessions by 1.6, and that is why we have come to you with the proposal and with the new Law on Electronic Communications. Since the Law on concessions only partially applies to the activity of radio and television only the provisions of Chapters 1 and 2 of this Act, the draft draft law further regulates the following issues. It is an executive terminology of the full text of the Law on Electronic Media with the Law on concessions, so that it is said: “the award of concessions” is replaced by the words “the award of concession”. New concepts such as digital radio, digital television, multiplex as well as other concepts in the field of electronic communications are prescribed. It is prescribed that the Council shall make its decisions by majority of the votes of all members of the Council and that the rules of procedure of the Council shall be governed by the way in which the choice of the most favourable bidder is made. It is prescribed that the Council for Electronic Media will not grant a concession to the most favourable bidder selected on the basis of a public tender for concession if it finds that the concession would result in an unauthorised concession within the meaning of the Law on Electronic Media. Each tenderer in the tendering invitation to tender for concession shall, with the offer, submit a certified statement that the possible award of the concession does not result in an unlawful concentration within the meaning of this law. Secondly, it is prescribed in accordance with the Law on concessions that the Council of Electronic Media shall carry out preparatory actions previously... for the award of a concession covering the assessment of the value of the concession, the development of a study of eligibility for the award of the concession, the drawing up of the tendering documentation. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] This also conducts an assessment of the economic justification of giving a concession at all by preventing concessions from being awarded to concessionaries of television or radio and radio that will not be able to survive on the market. Secondly, concessions for the activity of radio and television are prescribed to be given on the basis of a public tender by selecting the most favourable bidder in accordance with the criteria specific to this activity, i.e. programme conditions, quality and diversity of software content and technical and financial and personnel conditions. Finally, in order to ensure the public of certain data and to charge concession fees in favour of the state budget, concessions for the performance of radio and television activities are prescribed to be entered in the register managed by the Council for Electronic Media and the Register of concessions run by the Ministry of Finance. Here's so much, a few hints about this law that, as I said, I think that if we're trying to get more of this session by summer to come to you completely but then, of course, arranged in another way. This part here is because of these deadlines of the Europeans that press us until 1.6. we need to coordinate the concession. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-21-0.u32666	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Do the rapporteurs, on behalf of the board, want to take the floor? No, I don't. We're going to a club debate. On behalf of the HDZ Club, distinguished representative of my colleague Ljubica Lukačić. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-21-0.u32667	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Mr. Minister with his associates. Here, before us the proposal for a law on amendments and amendments to the Law on Electronic Media, and as Mr. Minister said in his opening statement, it is about harmonising with certain laws. In fact, in July 2007, as well as in March 2008, this law experienced its alignment with the Unlimited Television Directive, the European Convention on Cross-border Television and the acts of the Council of Europe. However, the Law on Electronic Media established the concession to carry out the activities of radio and television, and that part is otherwise governed by the Law on concessions and therefore this law, therefore the Law on Electronic Media, is to be brought into line with the Law on concessions in that part applicable to the award of concessions for the performance of radio and television activities, and this law also needs to be brought into line with the Law on Electronic Communications. Therefore, this proposal for a law lays down the provisions on concessions with the new Law on concessions, as well as the wording of the provisions of the law with the new Law on Electronic Communications. The implementation of this law does not require the provision of additional resources in the budget of the Republic of Croatia. And finally, I want to say that the Croatian Democratic Community club will support the adoption of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-21-0.u32668	Thank you very much, colleague. We're done discussing clubs. There are no other applications. We're moving on to individual. A fellow Gordan Maras. He's gone. He's losing his right. Fellow Susana Bilić Vardić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-21-0.u32669	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Mr. Minister with his associates. Dear colleagues and colleagues, no matter how few of us are here. I will not waste this time now, as the minister has made very comprehensive what these proposed amendments and additions to the Law on Electronic Media are all about. A colleague of Ljubica also said on behalf of the Croatian Democratic Community club that she would support, that the Croatian Democratic Community club would support this amendment. How important it is to comply with the Law on Electronic Media with the Law on concessions that we adopted last year, it is worth seeing from this information that 156 publishers of the radio programme and 24 publishers of the television programme, one of which is Croatian Radio Television. Here is also the information on 230 legal and natural persons who are registered in the register of publishers of electronic publications held in the Council for Electronic Media. Therefore, I can only express on my own behalf that I support and invite other colleagues and colleagues to support the proposed amendments and supplement of the Law on Electronic Media in the way that they were proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Resort Ministry and delivered to the Croatian Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-21-0.u32670	Thank you very much, colleague. A distinguished colleague representative, Dragutin Lesar, applied for the debate. Here you go, Comrade Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-21-0.u32671	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Ministers, colleagues and colleagues. I am precisely the presence of a minister using this debate to warn of certain things that are directly related to the proposed amendments or to the existing provisions of the law. 24 TV and 156 radio or radio concessions are active at the moment in the Republic of Croatia. The electronic media council shall be a body which shall grant or withdraw concessions. Article 65 of the Law, which is only slightly amended and complemented, provides for conditions or situations in which the concession should be withdrawn, and in the sense of approval or non-approval, giving or not granting a concession, introduces the newspaper that those seeking a concession must prove that there will be no unlawful concentration. And he makes that statement, in his statement. This law is not a alignment with the European package and I ask why a statement? By the concentration of ownership you're probably, the law regulates. Is my statement, if I were to seek concessions for the programme, the document, and I note that one of the conditions for determining the concession is if the Council finds that there has been an unauthorized concentration in this law. So it's about that. Mr. Minister, did the Council ever inform you of the fact that in the Parliament, how many concessions in the last five years, three years, one year, have we not been taken away in Croatia? In fact, Article 65 of Law in point 6 provides for the Council's obligation to withdraw the concession if the publisher deviates at least 90% from the programme base. The programme base is regulated and contains the share of its own programme, domestic programme, foreign programme, etc. If you listen to local, regional, and even some with a national concession of radio programmes, and especially television, I could now tell you that 50% of them deviate and more than 90% of the programming base. On some domestic programmes, there is practically no other than the EPP, a propaganda programme, it is about the only domestic programme they broadcast. Second, according to the law of concessions, it also ceases by the termination of the legal person of the publisher. We have recently witnessed an attempt to download some of our televisions by investors or customers from abroad who have openly said that they want to buy 12 local televisions in Croatia from economic interests, but also from software. I note this because such a deviation from the programming base, but the latest model of association and creation in order to satisfy the form of your own programme, you have a situation that 24 radios or 28 televisions at the same time broadcast the same programme from co-production all in the sense of satisfying the legal form, and that it is actually acting under the law. Since the media is important not only for information and entertainment but also for education, culture, such as preserving Croatian. I hope you agree with me. The language on these radios and televisions could no longer even be called Croatian, as it is used more by the foreign language, especially English than by Croatian. Unsuitable software content should also be the subject of council monitoring. However, in order for that council to be able to fulfil its basic task and to monitor the execution of Article 65 or the concession Treaty on this number of radios and televisions, I assume that they should have at least one of them monitoring a programme they do not have. I want to tell you that the model of monitoring compliance with the contractual obligations and respecting the laws that we have in the existing law and in practice is not good, is not effective and does not lead to the purpose of really monitoring the programmes. On public television we have several bodies and regular reports and their program is the use of Croatian language and the appropriateness of the content of the programme, cultural, educational, educational, informative, fun subject of large debates. This is about commercial radio and television houses. However, this does not mean that they have the right to behave and to set up and knowingly violate the law and concession Treaty they have, because they know that sanctions are practically not available unless they follow applications by either citizens or competition. So, when there is a competitive war or reports relating to the imitation of political pre-election messages or programmes, and before the campaign officially began. Without the desire to politicise this topic, i.e. in a desire to warn you about this situation, because it is no longer about three, four televisions, but 24 and 165 radios that are more listening than national radio, national and which have a terrible impact on children and young generations. Supervisory mechanisms on a programme basis, the fulfillment of contracts and laws should not be left in such a way that a council which is not sufficiently equipped and not even technically because they cannot monitor all programmes especially local, regional. So we have time if you consider this to be a matter of serious analysis of the implementation of the law and the work of the Council itself, whether it only changes in the law, powers and obligations of the Council itself or needs to help them too. Too serious a market, too much influence and importance, and it goes unnoticed when we're already discussing the law and changing it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-21-0.u32672	Thank you very much. You're giving up? Okay. Then be my guest, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-21-0.u32673	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Just for a little while. Anyway, a lot of things you've been talking about are being treated by a new law. That's why I pointed out today this isn't, this isn't working out. But because I'm not repeating it now, not all together, I'm not saying I'm asking nicely. It took almost a month for a public hearing. Please on our website of the Ministry of Culture there is a proposal for this law. I ask you to print it, to look at it and to or to point to the things you think before and perhaps in the debate in the House itself, but I ask every representative to do the best possible. I said here in my current class that it seems to me that someone too broadly understood that independent regulatory body, that the council members understood it a little too broadly. And they're not really our responsibility. They are responsible to you honourable representatives, to this Parliament. And let's ask them, we have to ask very gently that some of us know our relationship, and we look at your reports, and then we see what we've learned. So, in this law and all together, we have to work to make this regulatory body really what we expect it to be, to be progress when it comes to the media. The media is a very, very sensitive issue and it is up to all of us together that this law, which after this, will take this part here today, will come into debate so that we can all discuss well together and make it so that it is not in the sense of European, but that it will be beneficial to all of us and to society. That's my opinion. I think you'll agree with that together. Because I'm saying, there's been a lot of misunderstanding. But maybe it's the fate of all that's new, what's new, and that's how it is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-21-0.u32674	Thank you very much, Mr. Minister. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met and we move on to point 12.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-21-0.u32675	Final draft law amending and supplementing the Electronic Media Act. It was an emergency procedure. P.Z. No. 328. The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. I am voting on the Final Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Electronic Media. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? The bill was adopted by a majority of votes, 90 votes for and 1 abstention.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-21-0.u32676	12. Proposal for a law on biofuels for transport, with final bill, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 321 Proposer of the Law is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. We received the proposal by mail. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the In accordance with Article 159, the emergency procedure combines the first and second readings of the law. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Environmental Protection, the Committee on Legislatives, the Committee on European Integration, the Committee on Economic Affairs, the Committee on Agriculture, Fisheries and Rural Development, the Committee on Development and Reconstruction, the Committee on Local and Regional Self-Government. We've received reports from the board. The amendments were submitted by the Committee on Development and Reconstruction. On behalf of the promoter with us is State Secretary Mr. Leo Begovic. He wants to take a word for it. Mr. Secretary, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-21-0.u32677	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament. This law harmonizes Croatian energy legislation with the acquis of the European Union, particularly with Directive 30 of 2003. Biofuels are of particular interest both to the European Union and to the Republic of Croatia because, in addition to the contribution to environmental protection, their production contributes to diversification of energy sources, thereby increasing the security of electricity supply, gas and other energy sources. It also contributes to increasing employment in the agriculture and biofuel production sectors. The Biofuels Act regulates issues of production, trade, storage and use of biofuels in transport. Programmes and plans shall also be adopted to promote the production and use of biofuels and powers and responsibilities for their implementation. The purpose of the law is to achieve sustainable development objectives on the transport domain as regards reducing negative environmental impacts, improving fuel security in an environmentally acceptable way. This law introduces a system of stimulating the production of biofuels in the Republic of Croatia to compensate for the surplus costs of production of domestic biofuels compared to the prices of biofuels on the world market and thus encourage domestic production and to harmonise imports of biofuels. The incentives for the production of biofuels do not need to be provided in the budget because their funding is foreseen from the special fee for biofuels to be allocated to each litre of the sold diesel and gasoline in the Republic of Croatia. The fee will be collected by distributors of diesel fuels and motor gasoline and will be forwarded to the Croatian energy market operator, which will thus distribute the funds to biofuel producers. The law introduces diesel and petrol distributors with an obligation to place the annual minimum of biofuels on the diesel and petrol market. A non-market fee is also provided if the distributor fails to release the obligation to place biofuels on the market and is paid to the Special Account of the Environment and Energy Efficiency Fund. In order to meet the objectives, it is essential to establish cooperation between suppliers of biofuels, biofuel producers, farmers, industrial companies, oil companies, research institutions and other interested parties. We propose that the Parliament accept the adoption of this law by emergency procedure, and the reasons are the need for harmonisation with the acquis of the European Union, the need to protect the environment and increase energy security and the need to create a new institutional system for increasing the production and use of biofuels in transport. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-21-0.u32678	Thank you very much to the Secretary of State for the introduction. On behalf of the board, does he want to take this? Yeah. Mrs. Petir, on behalf of the Committee on Environmental Protection. Here you go, Marianne.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-21-0.u32679	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor, Secretary of State, MPs and MPs. At its 22nd session held on 19 May 2009 at the Committee on Environmental Protection of the Croatian Parliament, the Proposal for a Law on Biofuels for Transport with the Final Proposal for Law, P.Z.E. No. 321 which has been forwarded to the President of the Croatian Parliament by the Government of the Republic of Croatia by act of 7 May 2009, with a proposal to comply with Article 159. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament shall adopt the proposed law by an urgent procedure. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament discussed the Bill on Biofuels for Transport with the Final Proposal of the Law as an interested working body. In the opening explanation of the regulations of Branimir... , the Director of the Energy Agency at the Ministry of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship as a representative of the proposings gave an overview of the situation and the need to bring Croatia's legislation into line with the European Parliament Directive 2003/30, which promotes the use of biofuels and other renewable fuels for transport. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The implementation of the law in question requires inter-resorship cooperation between the ministries in charge of environmental, agriculture, economy, finance and energy issues. The law regulates the area of production, trade, storage and use of biofuels, the incentive system through the Croatian energy market operator and the exercise of supervision. An important assumption for the successful application of the law is the establishment of cooperation between different stakeholders involved in its application and implementation. The law prescribes the need to develop a programme of the national action plan and action plans of units of local self-government and large cities that are planning to implement it. Dinko Mladneo, in front of the Environment and Energy Efficiency Fund, pointed out that the fund has already participated in encouraging domestic biofuel producers with 4 million kuna and announced a recent tender for the award of new incentives. The following debate highlights the need to align this law and the draft energy development strategy of the Republic of Croatia, which is in the process of making, and in the section that speaks of agricultural cultures envisaged for future incentives as raw materials for the production of biofuels. In addition to the above, the question of the environmental acceptability of biofuels is also mentioned. In the part of the debate concerning the costs incurred by end-users, it is noted that the burden of implementing the law is on the end-users of diesel and petrol fuels. For the same reason, the limited production of biofuels for exports is limited so that Croatian consumers would not finance the production of biofuels for the purposes of other EU Member States through the export of surpluses. In view of the large number of institutions involved in the implementation of the law, it is envisaged that the activities of the collection and distribution of incentives are carried out by institutions related to the Ministry of Economy and from... not a special biofuels agency as proposed in the debate. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] A representative of the Ministry of Culture noted that it is important to recognise the importance of the protection of biodiversity due to the danger of the introduction of genetically modified organisms for the purposes of biofuel production. At the previous sessions, the Committee held a decisive position on the implementation of GMOs in agricultural production, including experimental purposes, at its 7th and 8th sessions. It is also pointed out that in Croatia today there are about a million hectares of unprocessed agricultural areas of which at least a part can be placed in the production function of biofuels raw materials, which is necessary to meet the target target of 5.75% of the biofuels in the total consumption of petrol and diesel fuel for transport by the end of 2010. After the debate, the Committee on Environmental Protection unanimously decided to propose to the Croatian Assembly the adoption of the Biofuels Act for Transport. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-21-0.u32680	Thank you very much, dear colleague Petyr. On behalf of the Committee on Agriculture, Fisheries and Rural Development, colleague Zgrebec, you answered? No, I don't. Okay. On behalf of the other committees, would anyone else like to take part in the debate? No, I don't. If not, we're going to a club debate. On behalf of the SDP club, dear colleague Mirela Holly. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-21-0.u32681	Dear Vice President, distinguished representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues. The SDP club will be restrained when voting on the Biofuels Act for Transport, and only because it finally found this bill in the Assembly which is late compared to other European countries for some 4 years. In the SDP club, we consider this delay the most significant relationship between the ruling set and this for the country's sustainable development an extremely important problem, as well as many weak spots of this bill are in favour of this claim. We consider the weakest places of this bill to be excessive administration and red tape the absence of a clear vision and objective, a completely inadequate key, a resolved key condition for the successful introduction of larger quantities of biofuels for transport to the market, which is financial compensation, the price difference between biofuels and mineral fuels, insufficient respect for the fact that biofuel production can be a real engine for developing economically underdeveloped rural areas of the country and for establishing a biofuels agency. In this proposal, the law shows that the price of biofuels will fall on the burden of consumers and consumers, not on the state, and that de facto, it makes it completely impossible to export biofuels, thereby limiting the development potential of this economic activity and by not establishing a biofuel agency, which would be a logical solution or by insisting on the implementation of the law with the help of inter-resorship cooperation, is in fact very complicated and bureaucratises the successful implementation of this project. The fact is that biofuels today are causing major social recommendations and that in the last few years, especially with the rise of the economic crisis, even in the developing world countries, the previous enthusiasm for biofuels has been quite eroded. Some environmental activists and activists even strongly oppose the production of biofuels that they do not consider a sustainable economic activity, but rather the opposite and a very strong argument is the production of food for fuel in a world where many people are still starving. In addition, it is not necessary to interfere with the mind or the extremely ecologically destructive and even invasive character of conventional agriculture used for the production of biofuels raw material, which is one of the major environmental and natural pollutants, and in this sense, biofuel production can also be referred to as extremely non-organic activities. It is therefore justified to ask whether the production of biofuels is indeed one of the sustainable economic activities. Despite all the justified arguments against these unsuspecting obstacles, the fact is that the production of biofuels is precisely because of the character of the civilization in which we live and which is extremely predatory towards nature and the environment is still one of the sustainable economic practices, and in this sense more significantly economic than ecologically should be supported and encouraged. And it is therefore crucial that Croatia gets a quality Biofuels Act but unfortunately the bill we have before us is not. Let me explain this position of the SDP club on the basis of the weak provisions of this law. Let me take my turn. Article 4 defining the concepts of the key to this law has inconsistencies and discrepancies with Article 1 but also with other provisions of the law. In particular, the question arises where the limit between the food product is pure vegetable oil and biofuels, or when plant edible oil loses the status of the food product and becomes fuel. It is not specified which types of vegetable oil can be used for the production of biofuels rape, soybean, sunflower, palm oil which they cannot. In addition, the law has not touched at all the issue of the production of vegetable oil, agricultural production, oil processing, oil production when it is biofuel raw material and it is evident that the promoters did not consider that one biofuel is raw material for the production of other biofuels. For example, bioethanol is a raw material for the production of bioebed and pure vegetable oil is a raw material for the production of biodiesel. Furthermore, Article 5 which defines which energy activities are within the meaning of this Act are not in line with the applicable Energy Act which defines the activities considered as energy activities, i.e. the law states that biofuel production and transport of biofuels by road vehicles are considered under energy activities. This opens up a whole series of problems because it raises the question of what law is being applied. There is no indication of how much production of 1 TJ is and how this will be measured at petrol stations, so the question arises why the applicant does not show value in tonnes or liters because almost all countries in the world especially those in the European Union when they talk about fuels and even liquid biofuels are used as a measuring unit of tonnes or liters. In addition, excise duties are calculated in liters or kilograms and it is therefore logical that in this law the values of biofuel production are expressed in kilograms or tonnes for liquid fuels or in litres or in metres for biogas. The applicant in Article 6 does not explain exactly what pure biofuels mean because, for example, a mixture of mineral fuel and biogas cannot be placed on the market. This article of the law is not well designed because of all the biofuels listed in the text of the law only for biodiesel there is a Croatian and European standard on the quality of biodiesel until other biofuels do not have their standard or technical regulation governing the conformity assessment procedure. In the text of the law, it is necessary to define the possibility of using different blend ratios, especially for the use of biodiesel and bioethanol. This article provides that only the use of biodiesel 100 or its addition up to 5% to mineral diesel should be allowed to be placed on the market for biodiesel 20 because its use has no impact on the engines of the user and increases the consumption of biofuels. In the world bioethanol is sold as E85 and there is no sale of E100, which means 85% of bioethanol and 15% of other mineral supplements. In other words, this article makes it impossible to sell E85 on the Croatian market. It is not clear why the proposer introduced Article 8 which speaks of the national objective in the draft law and since the national objective is an integral part of the national programme. In this regard, in the SDP club, we believe that Article 8 should be left out of the text of the law. The problem with Article 9 concerning the National Action Plan is that it is intended to be produced by as many as six ministries, which will certainly contribute to its efficiency in quotes. The question is also asked what is being regulated by the action plan and is not previously defined in the national programme and the objective and legal provisions. We recall that operators are defined by law, that deadlines are defined by national programme and national objectives and by means of law, regulation and decision. Article 10 shows that reports on the implementation of the National Action Plan once a year prepare the Ministry in cooperation with the Ministry of Environmental Protection, the Ministry of Agriculture, then forestry, transport and the Ministry of Finance and adopted by the Government by the end of May of the current year for the previous year. The question arises as to why the Government de facto drafts and adopts the report and is it not more logical to adopt it as a legislative body. Unfortunately, we see another example of the marginalization of parliament by the government. In Article 11, the counties and the City of Zagreb undertake to adopt a programme to encourage the use of biofuels in transport, but it is not clear what it is exactly when all of them are governed by the Ministry and the Government of the Republic of Croatia through a national programme, national objectives, regulations, decisions and rules. We remind you that the obligations of placing biofuels on the market lie on the legal entities of distributors. Article 13 does not make it clear which materials of the City of Zagreb County make up reports and who is obliged to provide them with the information. Article 14 which defines a programme for the placing on the market of biofuels opens up a whole set of due diligences as it raises a question of what the purpose of the programme is if the obligation can be passed on to others or transferred to the following year. The data shall be based on which data will be calculated in advance if, in reality, for the purpose of assessing future business and thereby assessing the future placing of biofuels on the market. This information does not give rise to a fixed liability for the obligor. In other words, the adoption of such plans becomes a purpose for itself and no one can seriously discuss the production and consumption of biofuels on the Croatian market. The fifth chapter of the law speaks of the ministry's powers and this is one of the weakest places in the whole law because we cannot expect that the ministry will really cooperate effectively with five other ministries in the preparation and implementation of its policy in the field of stimulating the production and use of biofuels in transport. According to current inter-resorship cooperation, which commits, by this law, to close cooperation, as I have already said, those six ministries can expect the effect of six grandmothers and a bluish child. In this regard, in the SDP club, we believe that it would be significantly more effective and ultimately significantly cheaper, to set up a biofuels agency. We also find the chapter of measures to encourage the production of biofuels and use in transport extremely controversial, as as a market operator for the payment of monetary incentives to the user of the incentives is defined by the Croatian Energy Markets Operator HROTE, who has been carrying out the activity of organising the electricity market as a public service under the supervision of the Croatian Energy Regulatory Agency since 2005. We ask the question of what CROTE has to do with the mineral fuel and biofuels market, by entering into the collection of special fuel charges, etc., because it is not all in the activity of the electricity market operator. We therefore fear that the real objective of these provisions is to provide additional revenue to HROTE, and that is another reason more to set up a biofuels agency. In the same way as financing CROTE, part of biofuels can be financed by the Biofuels Agency and carried out professional tasks and prepared the documentation provided for and served by the Ministry and the Government of the Republic of Croatia in decision-making. Article 19 defines the promotion of the production of biofuels to the user by the quantity of the produced, sold and delivered biofuels on the market of the Republic of Croatia, but extremely unusually, there is no definition of who is the user of the incentive or whether it encourages the producer of biofuels, biofuels or biofuels importer in the Republic of Croatia. This Article shall also give excessive powers to a minister who has the right to decide on a voluntary basis to whom and under what conditions he will grant financial resources. We believe that the law should provide at least indications that the main objective is to promote the production and use of biofuels, which should be domestic production of biofuels from domestic raw materials and mainly for the domestic market. Article 20 refers to the biofuels that are generated in terms of production. In view of the fact that some other biofuels are also mentioned in Article 4 of the Law, it is not clear why they are not covered by Article 20. In all the law, it insists on biofuels that meet the prescribed technical compliance. But throughout the world, there are standards for biodiesel alone that define the technical consent of biodiesel, while other biofuels do not exist, so according to the law, they could not be used or placed on the market of the Republic of Croatia. Also, biodiesel produced from waste edible oil cannot meet the requirements of the biodiesel standard with its quality and thus achieve technical compliance. The same applies to biodiesel produced from lignocellulous raw materials. In this regard, we believe that the law explicitly states that the production of first-generation biodiesel and bioethanol in domestic plants produced from domestic raw materials should be encouraged and dominated by the domestic market. It is not specified in the law of either Article 4 or Article 23 which is an obligation to place biofuels on the market, or whether the undertaking is an importer of mineral fuels which is therefore also a excise duty, or whether it has the right to encourage biofuels when importing and placing biofuels on the Croatian market. Where is the producer of biofuels in the Republic of Croatia, what does it have to do with the production and placing on the biofuels market? It is a mere transfer of obligations to another, and the question is whether the latter can pass the obligation on to the third and the third to the fourth. Where's the end of the obligation? It is absurd that, with all this, there is the possibility of transferring its non-fulfilment quota to next year. In Article 27, it is unnecessarily complicated or bureaucratic. Is it really necessary to make a decision on the fulfilment of the obligation for each obligor to fulfil the obligation? Article 28, which defines the determination based on the monitoring of the quantity of biofuels, is de facto inconclusive because there are no legal persons in the Republic of Croatia who, by their expertise and equipment, can satisfy the status of an authorised person to monitor biofuels. In this respect, the proposer should consider a transitional period until the entry into force of this provision within one to two years. In this article, the Ministry introduces the licensing institute for the work of individual legal entities without clear criteria of expertise. A monitoring system is introduced which is unnecessary as it comes down to additional administration and brings nothing to the market except a price increase due to increased costs. The supervision is provided for by the State Inspectorate and other inspections and may, where appropriate, carry out appropriate supervision of compliance with the obligations laid down in this Act. Therefore, in the SDP club, we believe that Article 28 should be left out of the text of the law and monitoring abolished because it is already provided for by other laws. What is the conclusion that is imposed after reading this red tape and the administration of an excessively burdened law which, I recall, commits to the adoption of a national programme, a national objective, a national action plan and reports on the implementation of the national action plan, the county and the City of Zagreb programmes, the county plan and the City of Zagreb, reports on the implementation of the county and large city programmes, the obligation to place biofuels on the market, the commitment plan for the placing of biofuels on the market, and all other regulations, decisions, regulations, records, reports and other paper work. We can only conclude that biofuels are a matter of national security, but despite this truly excessive administration of the law, there is no evidence of what should be the real content of the law, which is the position of the producer of biofuels in the Republic of Croatia and where there is a link to the raw material base of the Republic of Croatia and the production of biofuels for the domestic market. It cannot be planned to use biofuels through mandatory application provisions, and especially not immediately after the law has been passed because the Republic of Croatia does not have sufficient production capacity, and it takes at least two to three years to build production capacity. In this regard, it is forgotten that the price is something that will have a key impact on the use of biofuels, and there is not a single word in the law on the excise part or whether biofuels become excise goods or not. Are biofuels equalized with mineral fuels or not in their status? Incentives of biofuel production only makes sense for the first generation biofuels, which is the production of biofuels from food raw materials and only from raw materials produced in the Republic of Croatia. Another generation of biofuel production should not be restricted but not particularly encouraged, at least for the time being. Finally, to conclude, since we are running out of time, we can expect the following consequences of the application of this law. The Republic of Croatia has an obligation to spend a certain amount of biofuels, a national programme will be adopted and the objective will be achieved in accordance with the European Union's specifics, the achievement of the set target will be ensured by spending through public spending on counties and cities. The price of biofuels will not be marketable but rather significantly higher, but will pay citizens indirectly from the budget due to the legal obligation. The development and growth of biofuel producers in Croatia will not depend on the biofuel market in the Republic of Croatia. Significant resources will be given from the title of the promotion of biofuel consumption to biofuels importers. Indirectly, foreign production will be stimulated. Croatia will achieve the goal of spending planned quantities of biofuels and will be able to send a report to the EU on the fulfillment of the planned quantities. The domestic economy will not benefit from the consumption of biofuels. There will be no increase in production capacity from domestic resources. Domestic technology will not develop, domestic knowledge potentials and existing resources will not be exploited. Unfortunately, in this law biofuels are treated equally as electricity, and so they try to solve things that are completely wrong and it is obvious that the proposings of persons who know little about biofuels, Croatian and European realities about biofuels, but are therefore very well acquainted with the electricity market in the Republic of Croatia. In the SDP club, we believe that there is a need for a thorough change in the text of the law, with clearly set basic points, national programme, domestic production of biofuels, biofuels as excise goods with a excise duty of 0.0 kuna per litre, fostering domestic production of biofuels from domestic raw materials. The incentive for biofuels is not a function of making additional profits to producers or distributors but also allows lower prices of biofuels than minerals on the domestic market, thereby increasing their demand and consumption. It is necessary to introduce a producer register that can produce biofuels for the market with an incentive only if it has an appropriate production licence issued by the competent authorities, the ministry and the producer's agency was the fuel that the licensed obligor has been placed on the market of biofuels in retail and wholesale sales, and to establish a Biofuels Agency which would coordinate the implementation of national programmes and plans of the county and the large city in the implementation of production plans, biofuel consumption. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-21-0.u32682	Thank you very much. We're moving on with the club debate. Dear Representative Kreso Filipovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-21-0.u32683	Dear Mr. Vice President, honourable representatives of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, colleagues and fellow MPs. I don't know after this debate how to start, but I'm still gonna do what I'm prepared to say to myself. Because after this debate, before me, it turns out that this law is no good at all. So, the first article was elaborated, so I don't even know how many articles she has. So nothing in this law is right. I will say immediately at the outset on behalf of the Croatian Democratic Community's Club of Representatives, because I think it is important that our legislation on energy, environmental protection is largely already in line with the acquis of the European Union. However, the remaining task is to fully regulate biofuels which are currently only partially regulated by the 2005 Biofuel Quality Regulation. Therefore, the proposal for this law harmonizes Croatian energy legislation with the acquis of the European Union in particular with Directive 30, as stated by the State Secretary of the European Parliament and of the Council of 3 May 2003, which is a fundamental document of the European Union relating to the use of biofuels and other renewable energy sources for transport and whose main purpose is to encourage the use of biofuels and other renewable fuels in the transport of all Member States as a replacement for diesel and petrol fuels. By establishing the provisions of the Directive mentioned in national legislation, so the Republic of Croatia will commit, assume, implement all those obligations and tasks imposed by this Directive on Member States in relation to the share of biofuels and other renewable fuels in transport on the national market. As mentioned in the introduction in the Republic of Croatia, the Regulation on the quality of biofuels was adopted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on a proposal from the Ministry of Environmental Protection, Spatial Planning and Construction under the Law on Air Protection. However, it has shown in practice that this legal document is insufficient to establish and operate a complete system that will allow for the achievement of the national indicative target of 5.75 % of the biofuel share in the total share of diesel and petrol fuel on the domestic market by 31 December 2010. Although certain production today exists in the Republic of Croatia, it is nevertheless necessary to conclude that there have been no more significant experiences in the use of biofuels than frequent discussions in the professional circles of the public and the media. I know there are 2 capacities in the Republic of Croatia, but the biofuel market in the Republic of Croatia has not been arranged at all for now. It is precisely because experience in this field has been very modest over the past few years that it is necessary to establish the obligation for manufacturers and traders of diesel and petrol fuels on the domestic market, in proportion to their market share, to place a certain amount of biofuels on the market, and to create a system that will be motivating for both producers and biofuel consumers, which will be based on the law. Therefore, the main objective of the proposed biofuels law is to create sound assumptions for the systematic development of the biofuel market, making the Croatian economy less dependent on imports. Given the fact that there are certain reserves in the Republic when it comes to primary agricultural production through the development of this market, additional opportunities will be opened for agricultural production, and thus the development of rural areas of the Republic of Croatia, and in the long term create a favourable business climate for the development of domestic processing industry. All of this will represent a new source of profit and contribute to an increase in employment in our country. The purpose of this law as set out in Article 2 is to achieve the objectives of sustainable development in transport by reducing negative environmental impacts, improving fuel security in an environmentally acceptable way, and meeting the needs of fuel consumers. In addition to the adoption of the Biofuels Act for Transport, Croatia will move towards meeting its international obligations in the area of reducing greenhouse gas emissions by encouraging the production and use of biofuels in transport as a replacement fuel for diesel fuel and motor gasoline. The proposal for a biofuel law for transport to its Articles 7 to 15 provides for the obligation to adopt certain programming and planning documents at different levels. Therefore, at country level, at the level of regional self-government and large cities, and at the level of the obligation to place biofuels on the market. In the preparation of these documents, it is very important to highlight cross-sectoral cooperation and coordination of activities between individual authorities of the state administration and the relevant ministries to promote the promotion of production and use of biofuels in transport in the Republic of Croatia. Unlike a colleague who, on behalf of the SDP club, said it was too much administration, I still see this law as an attempt and intention to establish a quality system in order to finally regulate the biofuel market in the Republic of Croatia. Furthermore, the law provides for the introduction of a system for the promotion of the production and use of biofuels, which is partly determined by law itself, and in part will be regulated by specific laws governing the market for oil and oil products, energy excise duties, state aid, state aid in agriculture, public road financing, and the purpose and use of the Fund for the Protection of the Environment and Energy Efficiency. We of the Croatian Democratic Community's Club believe that it is simply not possible to imagine a quality system of market development for biofuels without introducing also quality incentive mechanisms that will go towards stimulating the production and consumption of this energy. In this context, the proposal for a biofuels law in transport introduces a special compensation to encourage the production of biofuels with a view to bringing higher costs of production of domestic biofuels to the level of current prices on the world market, all in order to encourage domestic production and balance imports of biofuels, but also to prevent exports of domestic biofuels in the event of excessive incentives. The means of stimulating the production of biofuels will not need to be provided in the budget of the Republic of Croatia for the reason that the production allowance is provided for by distributors who place diesel fuel and motor gasoline on the market for motor vehicles or ships and for each litre of supplied fuel. It should also be said that the collection of fees, payment of money incentives for producers will be carried out by energy market operators. Therefore, a legal person with public authority owned by the Republic of Croatia. As a specific legal instrument for achieving the objectives of this law, the introduction of a specific environmental compensation to be paid by distributors, i.e. bonds for placing biofuels on the market, is envisaged, in principle, by a pay pollutant, in the event that it has placed a lower quantity of biofuels on the market than prescribed. This fee will be the revenue of the Environment and Energy Efficiency Fund. Finally, the proposal for a biofuels law for transport provides for certain annual obligations for fuel users in public transport and the public sector when they hire or purchase new vehicles or ships and for the use of fuel, but at the same time, measures are provided to encourage the use of biofuels. Finally, we from the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community, although we could hear a different opinion taught by the experiences of the use of biofuels in European countries and of the conditions necessary to ensure the successful development of the biofuels market, we express our firm and long-term political commitment to the introduction of biofuels and to the market of the Republic of Croatia, which means that we will unreservedly support the vote, adoption and adoption of this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-21-0.u32684	Thank you very much. On behalf of the HSS Club, dear colleague Mariana Petir.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-21-0.u32685	Dear Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State with his associates, MPs and MPs. The Croatian Peasant Party Representatives' Club will support the proposal for a biofuels bill for transport. Namely, when you hear Ozalj, Zagreb, Vukovar, Beli Manastir, Sisak, Chepin, Slavonski Brod, Virovitica, Zadar, these are just some of the places that are very often mentioned in public as locations where they are either being built or contained biofuel production facilities in the Republic of Croatia. And it is certain that the topic of biofuel production is and, especially today, when prices of fossil fuels, but the sources of fossil fuels themselves are not stable. Therefore, the Croatian Peasant Party's Club observes the law with due care, it is expected, it is an integral part of the coalition agreement, but also of the Government of Croatia's programmes and we think it is good that it has come to the parliamentary procedure. According to European regulations, EU Member States need 20% of traditional fossil fuels in transport by 2020 to replace biofuels such as biodiesel, bioethanol, biogas, biogas, biogas, and that is also the obligation for candidate countries to join the European Union, including Croatia. By 2005 biofuels in the European Union should have participated with at least 2% in the total share of fuel, and then the share in each member would have increased and reached 5.75% by 2010. The government's regulation on biofuel quality and Croatia has set the goal of using 5.75% of biofuels in the total fuel consumption by the end of 2010 and we believe in the HSS club that this goal should be achieved and that it would actually be devastating for the Republic of Croatia to import biofuels in order to meet this goal when we have great potential to produce them ourselves because biodiesel is derived from waste edible oil, from oil obtained from olive oil, oilseed rapes, soybeans, sunflowers, palm oil and also from animal fats. It is particularly important to point out, and this is too little to be said, that biodiesel is derived from waste edible oils produced in the preparation of food in hotels, catering and households. Let us not forget that Croatia is a very tourist country. Unfortunately, most of these oils end up in sewers, and their appropriate collection would greatly save wastewater treatment. Biofuels replace fossil fuels and thus significantly reduce the formation of greenhouse gases. We know that we have ratified Kyoto protocol and that we have obligations to reduce CO2, but it is also with 2 and a particle of volatile organic compounds that pollute the air. Research shows that only the City of Zagreb produces more than a million and 400 thousand gallons of waste edible oil per year, only from hotels, restaurants, other business entities and about a million and 600 thousand liters from households. The amount of biodiesel produced from this waste edible oil is sufficient to drive 80 urban buses all year round. It should not be surprising, therefore, that this kind of project should also be given political support and we here at HSS not only support it from this pay phone, but we have shown our works in the City of Zagreb, but also in Sisak-Moslavina County that it is not possible to put agricultural areas into operation and that it is possible to produce an oil tail and that it is possible to have buses that are driven to biodiesel today. Namely, why am I saying that? Because as Deputy Mayor of Sisak-Moslavina County, I personally ran the project and what they predict by law of my colleagues in the ministry is quite reasonable and logical because in order to go into the production of biodiesel, you have to have an action plan, we have called it a strategy or a feasibility study that will show how much you have, how reasonable it is to shine these surfaces with an oil tail if we talk about biodiesel or corn, and if we talk about bioethanol how much it will open new jobs in agriculture and what we will end up with that fuel. I can tell you what we did first in Croatia. We have, of course, organized our oil turnip producers, organized them into an association, organized them at the Ministry of Agriculture to introduce a special incentive for the oil turnip producer, we have introduced a county incentive for oil turnip producers, we have increased the surfaces of the oiled turnip for double, we have agreed to buy out with the producer of biodiesel from Ozlja and today the result of 20 buses in the City of Zagreb being driven on biodiesel produced from oil rape oil, or from oil obtained from rape oil, i.e. from oil obtained from the oiled rape from Sisak-Moslavina County. I think it's extremely important and that this is a good example because our calculations have shown that we have 185 thousand hectares of arable land, and of which more than 72 thousand hectares have been unprocessed, or almost 40%. By introducing incentives at the state, county level, organisation, good producer organisation, we have succeeded in reducing the raw agricultural areas, which should also be the target in agriculture, but here when we talk about biofuel production. And what's interesting, what's a little bit of a story, we've managed to create new jobs, and certainly as well as the story of biofuels as well as the opening of new jobs in agriculture, and because through this measure, that's one of the measures we've been implementing, we've increased the number of registered agricultural producers in the register by 3,000, meaning from 8 grand to 11 grand, which means we're concrete measures, and this is one of those measures we've opened over 3,000 new jobs right in agriculture. They say Austrians but also many other agricultural chambers and these are their experiences that every new job in agriculture opens up another 2 jobs, and that means that the story of biodiesel and the story of job opening in agriculture is and that's what we need to talk about. The issue of food production in Croatia, but in the world as well. Therefore, some rightly question whether the production of raw materials for the production of biofuels on agricultural surfaces could endanger food production. Surely we cannot support and condemn in HSS what happens in many countries where there is a lack of food and agricultural surfaces are converted into biofuel production plants, and it is not good and it is not moral. But this is not the case in Croatia because we have about a million hectares of raw agricultural land in Croatia. Is it better to grow chicars on these surfaces or to bring them in purpose so that in part of these agricultural areas, and certainly there should be calculations on how objective it is and how much we need this biofuels and how much raw materials, it is certainly good that in the part of these agricultural areas that are now turned into weeds are grown exactly raw materials for the production of biofuels. Also, environmental protection is and that is why we are against the sowing of genetically modified seeds and also for experimental purposes. And that is why we advocate strict legislation, the preservation of Croatia as a country of freedom from GMOs, and I don't think there is any concern that in some public debates it has pointed out that the production of biofuels could be linked to the crop of genetically modified seeds because it is forbidden in Croatia and we have strict control mechanisms. And it is certain that such a story is out of the question. For all these reasons, therefore, for environmental protection and for agriculture, and for the creation of new jobs, it is certainly important to have adequate legislation. We believe that this Biofuels Act for transport is of quality and the Club of Representatives of the HSS will support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-21-0.u32686	Thank you, dear colleague Petyr. And now we have another individual application. Dear colleague Mlinaric. He's gone. That's what we've exhausted all the requests for discussion. A representative of the government doesn't answer for a word. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met. We'll continue work tomorrow at 9.30 p.m. on the 13th agenda. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-21-0.u32687	Final draft law on biofuels for transport, emergency procedure, P.Z.E. No. 321, the draft law is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. The amendment was submitted by the Committee on Legislatives and the Committee on Development and Reconstruction. I would ask the applicant's representative to be shown about the amendments submitted. Ms Tamara Obradović Mazal, State Secretary. Here you go. First, the Committee on Development and Reconstruction, Amendment 1 to Article 19?
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-21-0.u32688	The government accepts.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-21-0.u32689	It becomes an integral part of the proposal. Amendment 2 to Article 33?
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-21-0.u32690	The government accepts.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-21-0.u32691	It becomes an integral part of the proposal. Amendment 3 to Article 34?
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-21-0.u32692	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-21-0.u32693	It becomes an integral part of the bill. Amanadman 4 for Article 37?
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-21-0.u32694	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-21-0.u32695	It becomes an integral part of the proposal. And Amendment 5 to Article 38?
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-21-0.u32696	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-21-0.u32697	Thank you very much. All amendments have been accepted. And we have a Legislative Committee, 1st Amendment to Article 32?
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-21-0.u32698	The government accepts.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-21-0.u32699	It becomes an integral part of the proposal. 2nd in Article 33?
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-21-0.u32700	The government accepts.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-21-0.u32701	It becomes an integral part of the proposal. 3rd of Article 37?
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-21-0.u32702	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-21-0.u32703	It becomes an integral part of the bill. So, all amendments are accepted. I am voting on the Final Proposal for a Biofuels Act for Transport. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? This law was adopted by the majority of votes, 67 votes for, 21 abstentions, nothing against along with accepted amendments. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen, MPs and counsellors! We'll proceed with the Parliament's session. After consulting with most of the representatives' clubs next week, the Assembly will not be in session but on 3rd, 4th, 5th, we start on the sixth because of the reasons they are known and this is because of the second round of elections so that people can engage on the ground and that they can do the part of the job normally. With the Assembly able to make up for that time by having space until the end of the session for another two, three days if necessary to convene the Assembly. He's not calling, he's calling to work those days. So he's been summoned to the end. So next week wouldn't be Parliament's session. And now we move to the agenda point - Proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Consumer Protection Act, with the Final Proposal of the Law, an emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 336 The draft law is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You received the proposal by mail. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Rules of Procedure. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the The Registrar's emergency procedure unites the first and second readings of the law. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on European Integration, the Committee on Economic Affairs, the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system. You received the report at the session. The amendments were submitted by the Committee on Economic Affairs and by representative Dragutin Lesar and the Committee on Economic and Legislative Affairs. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. State Secretary, Ms Tamara Obradović Mazal. Here you go.
