ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-30-0.u38464	Thank you very much, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. In front of you, the proposal for a law on tourism and other building land is unrated in the process of conversion and privatisation. It's an extremely important law. This law aims to create fundamental formal and legal assumptions for the regulation of ownership and legal relations on tourist and other construction land that has not been assessed, and thus could not be introduced into the basic capital in the process of conversion and privatisation. The figures that we've cited in the reasoning of the law speak for themselves enough by some assumption, that's 22 million square meters in camps, about a hundred million squares means the rest of the land, and if we see the value of that land, multiply with all of this, then we get to what that value is. Today, the situation is that this land is absolutely property-legal unregulated. We don't have a landowner today. Therefore, neither the commercial companies which own that land, which are owned by that land, have property and legal documents that would result in them being owners, cannot invest in that land, cannot raise mortgage loans and neither the Republic of Croatia nor the units of local self-government therefore have all that of that land that should be regulated and regulated. This law, I must say, is, in its basic and fundamental principles, still attached to the one that we had in the procedure of 2005 and some fundamental solutions that we offer in this law, which refers to 3 types of land. One is camps, the other is land on which hotels and apartment settlements were built, and the third is the rest of the building land. As far as camps are concerned, we are starting from the assumption that the land that is marked in spatial documents and plotted as a camp if it is therefore not in the core capital, if not estimated, that land would become the property of the Republic of Croatia. If there is a part of that land assessed and entered into the underlying capital, it was impossible to regulate through ownership and legal relations, this law offers that if there are such situations, and of course there are in practice, a co-ownership community between the company and the Republic of Croatia is formed in such a way that co-ownership is co-owned in the proportion of how many squares of land there are. The solution we offer is that the co-ownership community is divided in a way that the Republic of Croatia pays the company or, exceptionally, if the company has more than 50% co-ownership, that the company can pay the Republic of Croatia and become a self-owner. We are also introducing a concession institute, which means those companies that are owned, which are also co-owners have the right to apply for a direct concession which could, in fact, enjoy and use this land. As for the land on which the hotels, apartment settlements were built, we have very frequent situations where the building was entered in the underlying capital, the hotel was registered, however, without land and thus again we have unregulated ownership-legal relations. With this law, we offer opportunities, we create assumptions that we get the owner of ownership, that we get the company to be able to form a new particle tomorrow by making that remaining land a unit of local self-government, and the unit of local self-government would be obliged to sell to the company that is necessary for use, meaning for the function of the hotel itself. In this way we could form a separate particle, the company would acquire ownership rights, and the unit of local self-government would be the owner of that other particle that would come from that remaining part of the land and there is also the possibility that the company would get the right of concession, meaning the use of this remaining land. The same principles are for other construction land, and what is also very important about this law is that all these revenues that the Republic of Croatia would make from the concession, from sale, would be poured into a single fund, a fund that would have a special purpose for the development of tourism infrastructure and all other tourist reference bases, and on this side we believe that these funds would therefore return to tourism. I wouldn't spread my opening statement any further. In this law, therefore, the basic principles on which this issue would be regulated by the regulation of ownership-legislative relations are laid down. As you can see for yourself, the law provides for the Government of the Republic of Croatia to adopt 3 very important regulations, those implementing regulations that would regulate the way in which prices are determined both in concessions and in the decomposition of the co-ownership community. Without those regulations, of course the law would not be enforceable. What I can say right away in this first reading, we've really given a little too long a deadline for these regulations to be passed, within 6 months of the date of entry into force of the law. For another reading, we will certainly fix it because there is no need for it to be six months. We will be able to do so within 30 days of the date of entry into force of the law. The law is very important. It's in the first reading. We expect suggestions, we expect observations, and we will consider everything of course before the second reading and see that we are also installing the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-30-0.u38465	Thank you. Do the workers want the committees? Mr. Jerko Roshin, on behalf of the Committee on Spatial Planning and Construction.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-30-0.u38466	Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State with an associate, colleague and colleague. At the 23rd session held on 28 July 2009, the Committee on Spatial Planning and Construction of the Croatian Parliament discussed the proposal for a Law on Tourism and Other Building Land, unrated in the process of conversion and privatisation, which was delivered to the President of the Croatian Parliament by the Government of the Republic of Croatia by an act of 24 July 2009. In order to rationalise a little bit in time, I will not read the part relating to the applicant's presentation, so I would just mention the text of the debate. The committee discussed the following comments, proposals and opinions. The importance of removing legal gaps regarding the ownership of legal status on those properties is highlighted and points out the need to adopt and regulate this issue as soon as possible. During the debate, it is individually indicated that provisions which are necessary and nomotechnically to work together in order to avoid different interpretations and inconsistencies in its application. It is proposed that Article 9 which provides that if the camp or part of the camp is located on a maritime good, the commercial company referred to in Article 8 of this Act shall be entitled to apply for concession on the maritime good, for the sake of indemnity in the application of the saying that in this case it is a concession obtained under the Law on the Seaports and Seaports. With regard to the identification of land necessary for the regular use of the building, the role of the Ministry of Environmental Protection, Spatial Planning and Construction is highlighted in the definition of what is meant under that land. First of all, here is the question of the treatment of parking spaces, access roads and the like. In the case of land which is necessary for the regular use of the building, which will be sold to a commercial company at market price, it is proposed to define in a word what is meant by the market price in this law. In the case of acquisition problems by the company, ownership rights, construction and land under the building, the land of the floor area has been warned of the importance of the link with the applicable regulation, i.e. Definitions that the above is determined in accordance with the Law on Spatial Planning and Construction. There were opinions on the need to re-examine the proposed model of the concession grant for which 60% would belong to the Republic of Croatia and the remaining 40% to local and regional (regional) self-government units. Due to the importance of the Tourism Infrastructure Development Fund and the tourist resource base, which will pay part of the concession fee belonging to the Republic of Croatia, it has been warned that it is important to regulate its purpose, way of using funds and so on. The question of eligibility of the defined period of two years in Article 29(2) has been raised. It is estimated that Article 36(2) defines an excessive period of 6 months from the date of entry into force of this law in which the Government of the Republic of Croatia will adopt implementing acts and is suggested to the Proposer to consider the possibility of a reduction of that period to 30 days. After the debate was held, the committee decided by a majority of votes of 7 votes in favour and one vote against to propose to the Croatian Assembly the following conclusion: the Proposal for a Law on Tourism and Other Building Land is accepted unrated in the process of conversion and privatisation. Secondly, all comments, proposals and opinions presented in the debate will be addressed to the applicant in order to prepare the final draft law.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-30-0.u38467	Thank you. On behalf of the Committee on Tourism, Mr. Representative, Chairman of the Committee Marin Brkaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-30-0.u38468	Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Committee on Tourism of the Croatian Assembly on... The session held on 28 July 2009 discussed the Proposal for a Law on Tourism and Other Building Land, which was not evaluated in the process of conversion and privatisation, which was submitted by the Government to the President of the Croatian Parliament by an act of 24 July 2009. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The Tourism Committee discussed the Act on Tourism and Other Building Land in question, which was not assessed in the process of conversion and privatisation under Article 140. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament as an interested working body. On behalf of the proposer's representative, the opening statement on the Proposal for a Law on Tourism and Other Building Land was submitted by Mrs Vesna Zulj, v.d. Director at the Justice Department. ... at the beginning of their presentation that they have tried to produce on several occasions a satisfactory bill of which some have passed the procedure of the government, but due to certain legal doubts they have not finally been adopted. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The fundamental tendency of the bill is to resolve open issues, to regulate equity relations on building land which are not assessed in the process of conversion and privatisation in the value of social capital of social enterprises, i.e. companies. It is estimated that in the camps, the circulation of 22 million land has not been estimated, while the total area of land that is not converted and privatised has been entered into the social capital of legal entities estimated at 100 million square metres. This bill defines the concepts of tourist and unrated building land, then the titlers of land ownership, especially on the land camps and especially on the land on which hotels and tourist settlements were built. The titleholders of ownership, i.e. co-ownership, are also determined and related to the scope of the assessment of the value of social capital in the process of land conversion and construction. The question of concessions is arranged where the ratios are that 60% of concession fees belong to the Republic of Croatia, 40% of units of local and regional (regional) self-government in which camps are located. The issue of the decomposition of the co-ownership community between the Republic of Croatia and the commercial society is also regulated. The government will also set up a special Fund for the Development of Tourism Infrastructure and Tourism Resort Base, to which the establishment of a concession grant will be paid into the budget of the Republic of Croatia. The question of remaining tourist land on which the social enterprise had the right to use management, availability, which is not assessed in the value of social capital, is now becoming the property of the local self-government unit, as well as the fact that the local self-government unit cannot alienate the land, except for the exceptional sale of it to the company if it is necessary for the regular use of the building. The right is also established as well as the condition for the natural return of the seized land to previous owners who have applied for reimbursement in due time. Proposer representative Mrs Vesna Žulj referred to her statement to the Croatian Association of Employers, Association of Food and Tourism, pointing out the data formed by the working group made up of representatives of the Ministry of Tourism and the Ministry of Justice, which will consider any objections and suggestions from interested parties. The fact is that the proposal is only in the first reading, and it is a common desire for all to adopt a truly effective and effective law. In their discussion, the Committee members stressed the need to pass laws in order to define the ownership status of unrated tourist and other construction land during conversion and privatisation. As the land is at the most attractive locations used without compensation, regulation of the legal status of the land creates opportunities for investment activities to further develop Croatian tourism. It is requested that the applicant review in accordance with the draft law with the Law on Property and other real rights, the Law on concessions, and that the short deadlines laid down in Articles 29 and 36 of the Law. The opinion was given to amend Article 15 of the Law in a way that the concession fee is shared so that one third belongs to the Republic of Croatia, one third to the municipalities and the city and one third to the regional (regional) government of which the land is located. On the basis of the debate held, the Tourism Committee of the Croatian Parliament decided to accept the Proposal for a Law on Tourism and Other Building Land in unrated conversion and privatisation processes, mostly 5 votes for, 3 abstentions. Secondly, all the comments and proposals tabled in the debate shall be addressed to the applicant in order to prepare and draw up a final draft of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-30-0.u38469	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the SDP club, Mr. Representative Ivo Josipovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-30-0.u38470	Your Honor, Mr. President. Dear proposings, colleagues and colleagues. We have a really important law ahead of us. It's about one of those laws that should have solved some of the things that happened in conversion and privatisation, that weren't good. In this regard, of course, it should be borne in mind that part of the problem arises from the fact that the state has given instructions that land is not always being evaluated in terms of conversion and privatisation, and that it is thus culminating in this poor state that we have today. The land estimates that are subject to this law vary and reach up to 600 thousand square meters, so it is a great national wealth. And it's good to solve the problem. We've been asking for it to be settled for a long time, and here comes the law. Unfortunately, although the law is necessary, although it is necessary to settle questions, it is not good for him to look what he looks like and I must admit that I am disappointed that this text of the law is coming out of the Justice Department. In fact, this law is in line with some basic legal principles on the one hand, and on the other hand I recognize actually the handwriting of another ministry in this law, and I hope that the Ministry of Justice will take a conductor's stick and change those things that will not only solve the problem, but will lead to new problems precisely because of poor legal regulations. Let me take my turn. The definition of tourism and other building land is discussed, with the need to be aware that it is not the only tail from privatisation and conversion and that there is no reason not to arrange other properties in a similar way. Second, if we look at Article 2 here, what is it? In fact, it is said in paragraph 2. does not speak at which point the land is considered touristic at which point. Is it according to the one whose purpose is determined at the moment of conversion and privatisation, or at the moment of the law's entry into force? So that's something that needs to be done absolutely. Article 4 states that this land enjoys the status of the interest of the Republic of Croatia enjoys special protection under the Constitution, a restriction on ownership rights. Therefore, there will be some compensation for such regulation. There are also some elements that are contrary to the Constitution, simply opposed to the Constitution. Here's a little bit if you can. For reasons why the state does not have the same status as co-owner, as the other co-owner. Article 7 refers to the decomposition of the co-ownership community, in a way that Croatia pays the other co-owner the market value, which determines the way and the assessment. And this will introduce disputes that I am sure will last for decades and that the law of this aspect will not achieve a purpose because it will simply be a dispute over how this compensation is determined. And is it possible that if we have two contractual sides, one determines a unilateral fee and offers it to the other side. We have further article 14 in which the Government determines the most favourable bidder and the Minister of Tourism makes a contract. I'm not sure that's the most functional solution. This should probably be considered with this aspect. Furthermore, when the concession is divided, Article 15 shows that a political agreement has occurred, I will not say oligarchy, but certain factors of state level and local level that will be shared in one way or another income from the aspect of the concession, i.e. sales. The problem is that it introduces an unequal treatment compared to that other property from the conversion and privatisation that has been sold and the assets that have been marketed. Why is such a political arrangement made up? That's what you'd be able to talk about, but that's who he is. But then when the local community has already received some money, then the question is why does it impose a restriction on how to spend it, because all other assets, including those it has received on different grounds and sales, have no such restriction. And the question is, is it really necessary to put such a restriction on local self-government? Likewise, the termination of the concession is due to public interest. It will be interesting to see who will determine how many disputes will come out when the Republic of Croatia says it has a public interest in breaking the contract. Furthermore, there are undefined terms that will also cause problems. Article 18 discusses that the company will acquire the right of ownership and of the buildings below. Is it acquisition ex nunc or ex tunc? So that's a serious legal problem. I personally think he's been the owner since the beginning, at least as indicated. But what is particularly inconclusive is that it will become the owner of the floor surface. So, that's consistent with the basic principles of ownership and land law. How you're going to cut out a small piece from a large plot, even by the rules that exist, that this country has prescribed. It's not possible to do that when there's a smaller surface. There are restrictions on parcels and it simply won't be feasible. Besides not saying that it really cuts with the principle... And that what it says here is a serious violation of civil law. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Article 19 refers to the assessment of the part of the land particle. So there's the same problem. It's the same formulation, it'll get real property for the estimated land. Therefore, the decision of the Governing Body, which is contrary to the Convention, and this decision by the Governing Body should in this way not acquire land. Article 21 again provides for dead capital for local self-government because it is said that units of local self-government cannot alienate in any other way with acquired land other than it can give the Republic of Croatia, can alienate what is the same issue of rationality. Imagine if local self-government wants some "joint Venture" or if it wants to raise a loan or anything under this provision it's for local self-government simply dead capital and it's not good. It could go even further. And the question is, of course, which is essential, and that's if you're already going to resuscitate injuries from conversion and privatisation whether it's done in a good way because let's say camps. Those who had camps used them for how many years for bad and it is not predicted how much I see any compensation for what someone 19, 18 or 17 years used land of great value and it is a serious political problem because it turns out that the Republic of Croatia does not care about its property and that it has allowed someone 10, 15 or 18 years to use agricultural land, excuse building land, camps without paying the Republic of Croatia any compensation. It is a political problem, it is an economic problem, and at a time when the Republic of Croatia has serious economic problems, such a solution is actually a denial in the name of private interest and we should consider a solution in which the Republic of Croatia gets a fair fee for free use, until now free use of camps and other land. Also, Article 32 opens serious constitutional and legal problems relating to the regime of that land where applications for reimbursement are submitted under the Property Compensation Act taken away during the Yugoslav communist rule. There will be a conflict between the norms of this law and the law governing basic matter. And I expect that there will also be serious litigation here, not only in the ordinary trial, but also in the dispute of constitutional and legal nature. To conclude, in principle, this law should and I support on behalf of the SDP club the decision to join the law. However, solutions that are not good here even from the economic point of view regarding the interest of the Republic of Croatia because again, the issue is inconsistencies, some still benefit, some are sanctioned by that paraphrased principle of "who put up the pit" simply grumbles over the fact that someone has used Croatian property for twenty years without paying anything for it. And I say, legal technical solutions are very bad and will create a number of practical problems and will open up a number of disputes that will ultimately prevent the purpose of the law from being achieved as it should. In one word, a recommendation to the ministry. Let the Justice Department take this law into its own hands, let it not be a "gost rider" as it would say behind this law, and let matter be governed in accordance with the principles of law rather than in accordance with the principles of some interests that do not care about legal plantings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-30-0.u38471	Thank you. We have one correction from Mrs. Dubravka Shuica.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-30-0.u38472	I would correct the incorrect allegations by Mr Josipovic, who said that otherwise the local community is not limited to the purpose of the funds provided for in this law by Article 15. It is precisely that money earned from the sale of tenancy rights is limited precisely to housing funds, so it is not true that there is no situation where there is a limited spending of money at local levels.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-30-0.u38473	Thank you. On behalf of the HDZ Club, Ms. Ana Lovrin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-30-0.u38474	It's a nice hall. Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. The Croatian Democratic Community club will support the proposal for a law on tourism and other building land that was not assessed in the process of conversion and privatisation. We believe that this law is necessary to adopt as urgently as possible and as soon as possible in order to protect the general social and state goods, as well as in order to enable further action of the development and investment of companies in the field of tourism and catering activities. The issue of unresolved ownership-legal relations and ownership-legal status of land which is not estimated to be the underlying capital in the conversion of social enterprises dates back to the time of the adoption of the Law on the Conversion of Social Enterprises and the Law on Privatisation, hence from the early 1990s. In particular, the Law on the Conversion of social enterprises from 91st established a way of converting social resources into funds with a well-known holder of ownership, so that the difference between active and passive enterprises constituted social capital and all land for which the right of ownership, or the right of use, management and availability could be demonstrated. The law was to create a basis for further privatisation. But it's happened in a lot of cases, and we've heard a colleague say before that the state has been cooking up this poor state, but I'd say it like this. In the case of the conversion of companies of tourism and catering activities, it was indeed the conclusion of the Ministry of Tourism at the time and on the trail of a strategy for the development of Croatian tourism which said that in the tourism management policy it was based on the principle that the building land in social property on which tourist facilities were built would not be sold but would only be given in a concession. With regard to land, the privatisation process is exempt from the assessment of the value of the social enterprise and, in accordance with these principles of the policy of concessions in tourism, it is necessary to present, develop and adopt appropriate legislation. So, the situation is bad because it hasn't been solved for almost 18 years, but I'm now wondering if it would be worse or if there was another speech about who made the guarantee that it was then estimated at the prices at which the land was privatised in one part, that the most valuable state resources in the area, in the tourist area, are now someone's property at that price. In 2000, the Tourism Committee committed the government to a bill that would resolve the issue. In the meantime, it also entered into force the Privatisation Act, the Law on Property and Other Permanent Rights, the Property Compensation Act taken over during the Yugoslav Communist Government, which all contain provisions on the resolution of the ownership status of unrated properties, but which in practice did not apply until the end because of the lack of determination, collation, or different jurisprudence and administrative bodies. For example, Article 47. The Privatisation Act made it clear that all unrated shares, shares of things and rights become the property of the Croatian Privatisation Fund, of course, if this does not affect the technological whole and the operation of this company, but because of the lack of a series of sublaws, this article of the Privatisation Act was not implemented in practice. This Regulation shall enter The ownership law also said and established exceptions to the right to acquire ownership by converting governance, use and availability in the case of unrated properties and said this would be determined by the adoption of a special law. The amendments to the Property Act have clearly defined which properties can become owned by a transformed company, so only those whose value has been assessed in the capital of the company and which are shown in the decision on the statement of capital. I have to say that this was set before the amendments and the addition of the Law on Property, but the fact that because of some legal understanding, legal theorists happened in practice differently, so the theory of universal succession that was suggested by courts, in fact, there was a series of illegal books. Moreover, the Property Act also resolved the relationship between conversion and denationalisation where it clearly stated that ownership by converting the right of management, use and availability can be acquired provided that it does not conflict with the rights on which other persons belong in former social matters under the rules on denationalisation. And finally, I'm talking a little bit about history because it's been a long time to solve this issue, so in 2002, the IDS Club referred to the parliamentary procedure a bill of law, but then it wasn't adopted by the coalition government because it was said that it couldn't be done by amending the Privatisation Act, but it's being imposed and it's going towards resolving it by a special law. Here, today is this special law right here in front of us. In practice, like I said, unfortunately something worse happened. Not only did the ownership and legal status remain unresolved, not only did certain companies use these resources for years without any compensation, which should be resolved, it was even worse, that there was a whole series of illegal books in the area of individual courts in Croatia. And that is precisely why, as I said, what has been suggested from certain legal circles is that this is exactly how it is solved according to the principle of universal succession theory, which means that it has been transformed into a new company, transformed into the owner of everything that has ever been in the regime of the right to use, manage or dispose of the former company. I repeat, this today resulted in hundreds of thousands of square meters of illegally registered property that some entities acquired without paying for both lip and kuna to the Croatian state. Something worse is happening, and because of the, I would say, bickering between state institutions about whose job it is to correct it, because of the jurisprudence around jurisdiction given the admission of culture in land books and catastros, it is interpreted that nothing can be done anymore, rather than all the legal forces, all the brains, and to find a way to return to the state of Croatia and the Croatian people what was taken from it. So today's situation is next. In view of the unrated land in the camps, this is about 22 million kuna square meters, which is another calculation of about 30 billion kuna, that we are not talking about other unrated building land outside the camps, but also above tourist areas, because the preparation of this law has led to data that the unrated building land is not only in the Adriatic coast, only in tourist areas, but that even in the case of the conversion of social enterprises into the interiors of the factories remains unrated building land. So I repeat, it is necessary to pass this law. This law, I would not agree with my colleague Josipovic if all the legal institutes were, all this law has resolved is bad. It will certainly need some work, and this is why today’s first reading is to help all of us with our suggestions to obtain a quality text of law in the second reading. Therefore, this law defines the concept of tourist land as non-evaluable land in the value of capital, which is determined by the documents of spatial arrangement that they are intended for the catering tourist purpose, defines the concept of the rest of the building land within the meaning of this law, to define the concept of a commercial society to know that it is the company that was created today, which was created by the conversion of a social company in the field of catering tourism activity. This law establishes tourist land as good for the Republic of Croatia and as a good that enjoys its special protection. It's a good thing and all the restrictions we've heard about are not good, I think they're exactly the way they're being stipulated. Why? Because it is the most valuable state resources and because such solutions remain on the mark of the concept that this land is not sold out, it remains in state property, or owned by units of local self-government, and is used in a way that is given in concession or given the right to build. There is nothing wrong with the state saying that some of this land will be transferred to units of local self-government, but it will not be transferred to units of local self-government to sell it, to make money, and so it will not remain for tourist purposes, so this law says the state will transfer it to local units, but it will use it exclusively for tourism purposes, so it will give concession or give the right to build according to proto-plan documentation. It is equally determined that the money obtained from the concession fee will be used exclusively for the purpose of encouraging and developing tourism activities and that tourist infrastructure will be built from it. That also makes sense. What I keep in mind is what we and I can think about, which is the provision of Article 15, which promotes the establishment of a special fund for the development of tourism infrastructure and tourist resource base. We doubt that since, here is exactly the government's intention to search all the funds, the agencies, the seductions, etc. the question is whether it is necessary to establish a specific fund which then requires its management structure, means of work, space for work? Is that necessary? Because we think that we should consider whether, for the purpose of tourism, these resources can be used simply through the position of the Ministry of Tourism's budgetary position. Of course, like I said, this law is in the first reading. There is a series of institutes that are well placed on the trail of the concept of what and the reasons why this land was not evaluated in the early 1990s. Of course, the institutes that are scheduled can be upgraded, especially in the part of the plot where it is unspecified for some of the procedures that are set, let's say for the parcel where the deadline is imposed on local self-government units and tourism companies. No consequences are provided that if they do not land these particles within a certain period of time, and the following article establishes the consequences and sanctions if those particles are not established before the property-legislative authority, they do not establish ownership and ownership holder that they will then become State property. The result should also be incorporated in the preceding article on parcelation. It was also said that some dubious, constitutionally questionable provisions are mainly in conflict with norms compared to former regulation of former owners' rights on this land. Of course, these provisions can also be broken down, but we hold that it is not affected by a different solution compared to the Compensation Act, but only in this law, as a lex specialis, is defined and specified by the question of the detention of the use of once-deprived properties which are now in the process of returning under the Law on Refunds and in all the conditions and under all the conditions prescribed by the Law on Receipts. Once again, the Croatian Democratic Community club supports the bill's proposal and suggests that it suggests that all the remarks that have been made listen to and try to install them until the 2nd reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-30-0.u38475	Thank you. On behalf of the HNS club, Mr. Representative Miljenko Doric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-30-0.u38476	Dear Mr. President, representatives of the Croatian government, colleagues and colleagues. We are facing a very important law, a law that aims to cover an extremely harmful legal void that we have in this area. The objection we received from our colleagues in cities, municipalities and counties is that unfortunately they are not consulted in the preparation of the text of the bill, which is not good and should certainly try to correct it until the second reading. My colleagues and colleagues, if yesterday I used the term emmenter to tax on vehicles, vessels and aircraft, then today I would talk about a subgroup of super emmenter. You'll see why. In fact, the legal gap allowed for years and years these most beautiful terrains to be used without any compensation, without any single lip that would enter the state, county or local budget. My colleagues and colleagues, I invite you to be patient, to try to create a small simulation, not to underestimate the importance of this law. One hundred million square meters of land, we're discussing this today, a hundred million. If we had managed to charge a concession fee of at least 1 euro per square metre in the last 18, 19 years we would have been, how many do you think we'd have picked? 2 billion euros, or translated into Croatian 15 billion kuna. My colleagues and colleagues, what would the Prime Minister do today to have someone put 15 billion kuna on her desk? What did Minister Shuker make me put 15 billion kunas on his desk? But colleagues and colleagues, that's not the end of the story. This legal gap, unfortunately, has made it impossible because of the lack of ownership to make investments, to improve the quality of offers from accommodation, sports and recreational, catering and other facilities. My colleagues and colleagues, let's be honest, this isn't 15 billion kunas. That number because of this second damage we have to multiply by a factor of at least 5, 10, and far more. And we're reaching an amount of over a hundred billion kuna in 20 years. My colleagues and colleagues are the sum of the entire Croatian budget. My colleagues and colleagues, it's only one law I put into a group of law-makers and one law, and there's a lot of them. See where the money went, or didn't come and why it didn't come. Now we can ask ourselves why this law has been in someone's drawer for so many years? That's a good question. This applies to all governments, meanwhile, that Croatia had. That someone doesn't think I'm calling this government alone. My colleagues and colleagues, this law here is packed into a group called anti-recession laws, clearly without any basis he found himself here today in this group, because this is not about guilt and recession that started from North America and Europe. This is about my colleague's guilt. You know who? South America and Africa. This is where coffee is made, and the mixture of these two coffees is the most valuable and the best, the best quality coffee to be sold. We will only have the obligation to pay for coffee in the Croatian Parliament the day after tomorrow. So far, our coffees have been free, however. Please. You know what I mean. You didn't pay out of your pocket when someone came to visit you, you paid. Please. You ordered at the club and you got it at the club. Please. My colleagues and colleagues, unlike us, it's irrelevant, you'll see for what I'm about to say next. However, in some Croatian state institutions, some coffee funds have never been free, up to 50,000 euros were paid for. And after you paid well for that valuable and quality coffee, then you were protected, you got an angel guard who protected you from further duties for years. And these coffee lovers certainly didn't care about these damages resulting from the lack of legal regulation in this area. It's a coworker and a fellow crime. It's a crime. So I'm going to do it one more time, the huge damage that only in the simulation I showed you is over a hundred billion kunas. As far as the law itself is concerned, I will be very brief because my colleague Josipovic explained in detail the legal aspects and I can only tell the proposings that the HNS club has the same objections that we heard about Article 11, Article 15, Article 28, Article 23, regarding the Tourist Infrastructure Development Fund, related to Article 36, we must therefore tell that classic Croatian story, colleague Lovrin has already warned of part of these illogicalities where implementing acts are said to be adopted within 6 months of the date of entry into force of this law. However, those implementing acts are necessary for the actions referred to in Articles 21 and 27 of this Act and 6 months are also foreseen for that purpose. So let us try to correct a series of illogicalities until another reading. This law is necessary for Croatia, this law is very necessary for Croatia, but not in this form.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-30-0.u38477	Thank you. We've got corrections. Mr. Damir Cain, first.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-30-0.u38478	I give up. I'll tell you everything in the discussion. I won't.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-30-0.u38479	Thank you. Mrs. Christmas School.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-30-0.u38480	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Here's a respected colleague, Doric, on behalf of his club, the HNS club, who said the lie in his debate, so here I am obliged to react and correct it. And that's that in the Croatian Parliament you don't pay for coffee in cafes. And that's not true, colleague Doric. In cafes, coffee is paid in the Parliament and all the representatives who are here in the Croatian Parliament, and I was also an official from '95. For years, coffee was always paid in cafes. Payments were released by the committees and cabinets of the president for the reason that such a domain is a business, because they receive parties. That's true, but also clubs. But my colleague Doric, you are the second term here in the Parliament, and I suppose you've had one coffee at the expense of your pocket, not at the expense of your club. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-30-0.u38481	Thank you. Mr. Kresimir Gulic, correction.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-30-0.u38482	Here's what I'd like to correct is the inaccuracies of my colleague Doric, who said there's free coffee in the House. My colleague, here I am, personally, reading on the portals yesterday, that Parliamentarians will no longer drink free coffee or read the newspaper for free. I haven't had one free coffee in a year and a half, nor have I read free newspapers. That's what clubs get, and we Assembly representatives get their coffee, their newspaper, their gazelle and their parking lot are paying neatly. Please don't spread the false public, then we're not surprised when the newspapers write about it, and we're saying it ourselves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-30-0.u38483	Correction, Mr. Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-30-0.u38484	Mr. President, I will correct the inaccuracies of my colleague, Doric, where he has claimed that parliamentary deputies drink free coffee in the Parliament and that there is a lot of it. We have never had free coffee, we have always paid for our coffee and we have paid for our juice in the Croatian Parliament and there have never been any free orders paid for by a third and God forbid Croatian citizens. We characterized together with the Croatian media by you, your club HNS to drink for free, to have everything for free. You heard the parking lot and everything. Your HNS club should take a lot of different care of your staff. Like Mesic said the gangster over the gangsters was your Mr. Radimir Cacic. Perhaps Mr. President is right.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-30-0.u38485	Let's not. Let's let whoever said let him talk. We don't have to repeat. And two. We still have one correction, let's be patient. Mr. Angelko Mihalić.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-30-0.u38486	Well, Mr. President. Here I was going to say everything my predecessors said, but there's no point in repeating for both Mr. Djakic and Mr. Gulic. Namely, it's really true and that fama around that restaurant here in the Parliament etc. Everything we've been up to today, at least the years I've been here, I've had the same price I paid for in that firm where I've worked before, the municipality anywhere else. That's what the paper says about the restaurant. I expected it to be a restaurant like in Esplanada. It's not. The most common restaurant, like any restaurant like in a little better factory. I didn't mean the mess. Big mess. If he cancels out, we'll go out somewhere. And this garage thing. I came here today for the first time with my car. I think that's enough for Parliamentarians and underestimating and demeaning that you have to leave a dozen miles of cars and drive here just like when we were students. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-30-0.u38487	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-30-0.u38488	And that's mostly because here's what Mr. Doric was saying today. He's aware he wasn't telling the truth.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-30-0.u38489	Thank you. On behalf of the HSS Club, Mr. Representative Stanko Grcic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-30-0.u38490	The Honorable President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable Secretary of State, respected colleagues and colleagues. Tourism is undoubtedly one of the most important economic branches of the Republic of Croatia. This legislative proposal takes a positive step forward in the further development of this sector through the creation of better quality operating conditions for operators involved in this activity. Namely, one of the most complex issues that so far has burdened tourism and tortured hotels but also camps is certainly a matter of tourist land, i.e. its own status. It is rarely the land in the most attractive locations that hotel companies and camp owners use for the time being without any compensation. According to estimates, as many as 100 million square meters, only in the capital camps of society were not evaluated and more than 22 million square meters of such land introduced. The remaining land on which tourist settlements and hotels were built without resolving this complex issue cannot be expected to develop tourism, as the property situation has just been arranged is a prerequisite for restoring and expanding existing hotel facilities and camps. We in Croatia support the adoption of this law for several reasons. Privi is that for 18 years the property issue has not been resolved over the best tourist land. Which is why for 18 years, no one has been collecting land-use fees, which we can see that there are as many as 22 million squares in which camps are spread. And more importantly, the state loses over a billion kuna a year, which means that over the past 18 years, the state has lost out of its budget or not picked up and has had opportunities, over 10 billion kuna. In the rebalancing debate, we heard that the goal is to rebalance and increase budget revenues, not just reduce expenditure. And it's right where the new tax isn't an extra burden. We need to figure out where to catch what, and that's exactly what we're talking about right now, because we see that we've missed over tens of billions of kuna in the past 18 years, which means that here's the number of squares used in the camps, you can definitely earn over one billion every year. As early as 2004, a debate of the Assembly Committee on Tourism was held on the subject of "Problems and possible resolution of ownership and legal status, etc. tourism land in the process of conversion which did not form the cornerstone of the capital of companies in the tourism sector." And then the debate was attended by experts from different areas, as well as representatives of ministries, representatives of tourism associations. I mention this because there are already existing problems, as well as possible solutions to them. Today, we must agree that the status of the land in question which is not assessed in the core capital of society, which is owned by society, which means that the masters are not resolved with it. Neither local self-government nor state benefit from such status. And the companies that own it have been prevented from investing in it, i.e. to contribute to economic development. The development of tourism as an extremely important economic branch would allow these problems to be resolved, but also by paying compensation for this land would ensure a large or good amount of revenue in the state budget. The uncertainty about the ownership and use of these properties prevents investment investments as well as the conclusion of legal transactions related to the use of this land. All of this makes it impossible to improve the quality of the tourist product. We believe that this unsustainable situation in the development sense is still beginning to be resolved, and through these provisions of this law are determined by holders of ownership, concessions are determined, or concession fees, and a number of other problems have not been solved so far. These provisions remove the legal vacuum and place legal certainty in the use of real estate, which means opening up the possibility of investment activity over tourist land. The regulation of the status of such land is a very complex legal problem, which needs to be regulated not only for the safety of current users, but also for the interests of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. The resolution of this issue will also allow for the realisation of the fees that hotelers should pay, i.e. the owners of the campsites for the land on which they are located. Since that was not the case so far, the state has suffered as I have pointed out quite a bit of damage before. On the other hand, even users of this area cannot be satisfied with such a situation. In particular, this is expressed in campsites as the definition of land ownership is a prerequisite for work and development, and without it it is difficult to expect investment and construction towards improving the quality of the offer as the outcome of the permits needed for the work and legalisation of existing facilities and the new categorisation of camps. Thus the unresolved status of this tourist land creates legal uncertainty and prevents the development of tourist products and, unfortunately, also leads to conflict situations. All this scares potential investors in tourism in Croatia. But it is also important to point out that the interest of the citizens of this country is to make their most attractive land the longer and better used and not to make a single profit by selling it. This legislative proposal ensures protection of tourist land as well as land from interest in the Republic of Croatia and with regard to the acquisition of ownership, availability and use of land. We believe that the law is development-oriented and that the Government will, as we heard it, regulate the criteria, criteria and conditions relating to the award of concessions and thus enable further investment in the tourism sector. The Croatian Peasant Party representative club welcomes and supports the adoption of this long-awaited law. We believe that this legislative proposal will allow better quality investors to invest in Croatian tourism to continue to develop the offer but also protect the interest of Croatian citizens in terms of long-term use of this most attractive land. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-30-0.u38491	Thank you. On behalf of the IDS Club, Mr. Representative Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-30-0.u38492	Dear Mr. President, Your Honor, Mr. Secretary of State, It is clear that this question needs to be resolved once. Even back in '97 12 years ago, IDS first suggested that this question be so-called. put an ad act on tourist land. It is true and what Mrs Lovrin said, we proposed it to the coalition government, but neither was it then in 2002, and then there was no willingness to solve one thing I dare say about Croatian tourism but I would also say about the country's escalation of one of the key issues. What I personally regret is that this issue will probably not be resolved this year either. The question is whether it'll be time. I'm sure none of these tycoons will start paying for that tourist land in this year, but only possibly in 2010 if they do. Unlike the manuscripts, as Mr Josipovic said, some other ministries, not the Ministry of Justice, I see in this law the hand of some Croatian tycoons. I do not see the problem in the agreement between how Professor Josipovic said state and local oligarchy already see the problem in the agreement between the state and the tycoon oligarchy. What are we talking about today? We are talking today about tourist land that has not entered the core capital of transformed tourist houses. However, the same fate concerns many agricultural systems. So, neither did that agricultural land that the big agricultural combineds use without a kuna fee get into their core capital. Individuals in this country used, individuals use hundreds of acres of so-called. tourism land and understandably how it can often be in the Republic of Croatia those who have no one pay anything. What, so this tourist plot as we heard it is let me conclude it at the most attractive locations in Croatia, means by the sea, at sea. The value of this land I dare say is invaluable, the benefit of this land for some individuals is evident and the Croatian state has left the rent to its tycoons. You in this country have to pay every square meter for the stand, say on a street, in a square but a hundred acres, for example, of tourist land, you have never had to pay anyone and so on 15 times in a row. It's easy for our tycoon to be easy, but let's just say it's so easy that they didn't pay anyone anything, but they did sign up to that country and it should be clearly challenged. A man normally asks himself the question of where justice is, where there's honesty, where there's state interest, where there's one word of reason at all. For example, for one stand in Poreč 4, 5 square meters if you can get it at all you have to pay for one season, here is Mr. Memedi can be a witness, at least 10 thousand euros and if in that same Poreč you use a hundred acres of camp, say in Coversada or Lanterna, or in Kajla down by Pula in Medulin you are not obliged to pay anyone anything. Now that is honesty in this Croatian way, and that practice must surely be challenged. The IDS managed to challenge the books of all hotel companies in Istria from Rapco via Anita, Arenaturista, TDR alone in Rovinj we challenged 200 hectares and about a hundred more in Vrsar. We challenged the books of the Riviera, the Blue Lagoon, etc. Because of all of this, we've had a little bit of trouble, which is why some tycoons showed up in the election, previously clearly hired some media, there's money why they shouldn't. As a result, an honorable judge, Mr. Radolovic, almost did not pass for the Constitutional Court judge in this House, I would even say that when we voted against him, it was not the majority but the opposition. And that should also be known. What is this law to be solved? First, which will participate in all this will be citizens, municipalities, county, state. Second, this land needs to be put into service urgently so that something can be built on it. I welcome this agreement yesterday from the president of the state and the Prime Minister to put military facilities into office. Third, municipalities, cities and counties need something to earn because it is land, it has to be emphasized, until 93, and it would be the most honest land to return to our municipalities or cities. Fourthly, the rent for use must not be such as to destroy the hotel society or farmers, but I also agree that it must be strictly intended for the tourist planning of the city, building a road, infrastructure and hospitals, why not, sewers etc. and the right of the championship clearly to have existing companies using this land. If we have about 22 million square meters of land in the camps in Croatia plus, say, someone says up to 100,000 million square meters around the hotel, etc., I personally estimate that we are at least losing between 200 and 500 million kuna a year. Surely that 15 billion kuna bill is an exaggeration, but we're losing at least between 200 and 500 million kuna. In Croatia, for the help of the municipalities, the cities of the state allocate 5.3 billion kuna annually. I don't know how much of it Istria gets, probably nothing, so I'd like to ask you to leave that land at local self-government. Get your hands off him, in four, five years, you can build a general hospital in Pula or build all the roads in Istria. This land, and that is to say, did not equip the state, nor did the land be equipped by new owners who had received hotel systems, but workers in these systems, tourist companies or former municipalities, and it would be their turn to return the money and return, e.g. through some social programs, hospitals, etc. That would be fair, but it won't be anything. In 2009 the law itself will allow our tycoons to pass without having to pay anyone a single kuna, so in 2009, we will give the tycoons between 200 and 500 million kuna, I dare say to those Istrians about 40 to 50% of that money. No one can tell me that, say, that money doesn't finance the team in power. Representatives, not MPs, but representatives clubs can't get money, coffee, parking, or a card, no one has a phone, etc., minimum severance, but some journalists get up to 2 million kunas, but the government is knowingly leaving between 200 and 500 million kunas to someone on the other hand. And I agree with my fellow MPs that there is no need to bring down Parliament's integrity, because the Council is weaker the government, that is. The executive power will be stronger, which is the Council's weaker media are the only measure of value and credibility. They're more often right maybe we're here in this House, but they're not always right either. But now let's just let it go so we don't open the polemics of that kind. In ten years, we've given the tycoons, donated, and the Istrians would say they're nicking at least a billion, up to a billion and a half kuna just through that free land. I'm saying that's not an accident, the tycoons must have been generously funded by the team's plural in power, against the IDS they ran campaigns, nothing for it. But what's the point? All hotel houses in the Adriatic, which are privatised to the state, have not brought nearly as much money as the state has left to these tycoons through the non-payment of tourist land, i.e. hotel and farm houses. So we have underrated privatisation plus land use without one kuna and that practice should end, because it's too, too, it's just not fair. Same thing he said with agricultural land. For these, say, one and a half billion kunas over ten years, we could have built a tunnel of Učka, one rail or we could have built a dozen ferryways to connect the land to the islands, we could have built three general hospitals where nearly 3,000 people worked. We could have built 50 km of highways on condition that the prices for construction were determined at 2003 prices, not 2009. We could have built 3, 4 to 5 tankers and, say, saved from bankruptcy one "3. May," and on the other hand, we see that money leaks in every way possible through such a form of aid to those who have the most in this country. What is interesting is these provisions, Article 6 of the tourism land in camps whose value is not fully estimated in social capital in the process of conversion or privatisation is owned by the Republic of Croatia. Then, the tourist land or building in camps whose value is estimated in part by social capital in the process of conversion or privatisation into co-ownership is the Republic of Croatia, the company in ideal parts, the proportion of the estimated and unrated land and buildings. But I'd like to ask here as one particular question of what happened to the installations, either the roadway, or the gas, or the water, or the electricity. That's what's worth in some camp. One toilet or one pool, let them hold it, it's not really worth it, but this infrastructure that's underground that's what raises the quality of this camp or the price. The co-ownership community referred to in Article 6(2) of this Act shall be broken down in such a way that the Republic of Croatia pays the other co-owner the market value of its co-owner. I would ask here to insert a provision that one of these tycoons, the owners of these systems, ask or ask so how did you gentlemen get to the first million euros that you could buy a "Adriatic tourist"... or down the tourist company "Arena tourist" or something. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In Article 8, the concessionary pays the Republic of Croatia a concession fee for its co-ownership. What's that supposed to mean? We're gonna pay them more because they're using someone else's? Article 15, concession fee is divided in a way that 60% belongs to the Republic of Croatia, and the remaining 40% to local and regional (regional) self-government units, which will say that then 60% of the money should go to the Republic of Croatia, 20% to the city, the municipality where the camp is, tourist land, and 20% to the county. We in IDS suggest that this ratio be a third, a third, a third, a third, because that would certainly be the most honest and that these coins are strictly intended. Article 19, 18, if the conversion process, i.e. privatisation of the social capital of a social enterprise, is an estimated structure and part of the land particle on which the building was built in the conversion process, no specific land particle of the estimated land will be formed by the commercial company to acquire the right of ownership of the estimated land and buildings. It's like our tycoons were writing not to name them now. And now that it's red, once again for the end, that question needs to be regulated, the law should be applied as soon as possible, the land is the only way we can put the land in place to finally start building there. On the entire Adriatic coast in the last 15, 20 years, it hasn't been built from the foundation to the roof of 10 new hotels, let's release these adaptations, reconstructions, 10 hotels haven't been built, which is warning and should start from this year or the next arrival of 300, 400, 500 million kuna, and the most honest would be to return to local self-government.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-30-0.u38493	Thank you. At 10:54, it's past 10 minutes' notice time. There is one correction, Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-30-0.u38494	Mr. President, I'm going to correct a series of inaccuracies, an incorrect allegation that says that today the tycoons in the purchase of land at a cheap price, and then it's like agricultural land turning into construction land. Namely, that possibility was in your hands when you in Barbariga and Dragoneri did so when you turned the demand from the tycoon for villa Valentin into 10 thousand squares of farm land and then, by your amendment as president of the assembly, turned it into building land. There are doubts about the tycoons and the supply of material resources. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-30-0.u38495	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, we will now vote on the conclusions of the agenda, then we will move on to an individual debate and we will conclude this individual debate on this agenda point, we will return to it, and tomorrow there will be a vote on rebalancing, amendments, and probably this item of the agenda to direct it to another reading. Ladies and gentlemen, the legislators, the Proposal for a Law on Special Tax on Salary, Pensions and Other Receipts, with the final proposal of the law, we will vote tomorrow as the Government has its amendment to which we will therefore discuss and vote tomorrow. Therefore, there remains a continuation of this agenda point, a vote on it and this one that I have now said and the budget rebalancing tomorrow at 9:30, so I think it would be a good idea to start early to finish early, because this is still an extraordinary session and, of course, we all want to go a little more peacefully, let's say. We continue with an individual debate on the agenda point that we are today, about tourism and other building land. First in this individual debate, Mrs. Dubravka Shuica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-30-0.u38497	Your Honor, Mr. President, ma'am.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-30-0.u38498	Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-30-0.u38499	Dear Vice-President of the Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, Mr Secretary of State. Here I want to express my satisfaction that this law has finally come to the agenda. We heard this morning that it's 22 million squares, the least that cover autocamps and about 100 million squares that cover the rest of the tourist land. It is obvious that this law defines the concept of tourist land, that the concept of a commercial society is defined, and this is clearly about large amounts, not only in land, but also in value.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-30-0.u38500	Please, a little peace.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-30-0.u38501	It is obvious that according to some of the articles of this law, this is a good thing of the interest of the Republic of Croatia and that it enjoys special protection. However, the fact is that the financial effects of this law will probably not be seen in this year in this budget, but in the next sureness. And I would therefore suggest, as I already did on the Tourism Committee several accelerations, and as the State Secretary said in his opening statement, he would. This applies primarily to Article 36, which states that the Government of the Republic of Croatia will, within 6 months of the date of entry into force of the law, adopt all implementing acts, i.e. those three regulations on which it speaks. I think it's too long a period of six months because then, especially when we go to another reading, this deadline should definitely be reduced. Secondly, I also have two remarks that might be that they have someone... an explanation. [[A speaker away from the microphone, you don't understand.]] It seems to me that a year is a long period for applying for concessions to the state and hotels for 6 months to local administration and self-government. I don't know why such a long time was left to apply for a concession. I believe there may be a reduction in the time limit, too, if those funds were to be made. Because this is where we heard it, and I'm asking the question myself. Why could this valuable land be used for free all these years? Since we're not going retrograde in charge, at least what's ahead of us I think we can cut deadlines. It's definitely the problem that so far this land has not been able to dispose of, could not be invested, could not be raised mortgage loans. It's definitely got to be settled. However, we know and we are aware and it is well known to the Croatian public that many illegal books have occurred, precisely because of this disorderly situation, even in the Dubrovnik area. And I believe this law will significantly improve that state. And that this mess is going to get rid of. I have another observation, Mr. Secretary of State, and it refers to this regular use of the building. It seems to me that I have experience with this in local self-government that this regular use of the building should somehow be specified. Because it's left to local self-government units that they can't alienate or dispose of land, except when it's extremely common use. So there's one space left for possible abuse and manipulation. I therefore believe that this regular use should be specified so that there would be no doubt in local self-government, which means regular use of the building. Also when it comes to this market price, I believe that this market price should also be determined somehow. We know how to set the market price in local self-government, art and there are parameters. However, it seems to me that here, since the Government, or the Republic of Croatia, is going to set a market price, it is talking about the dispersion of this co-ownership community, where more than half of it is possible to have in a commercial society. Then they have the right as far as I understand the additions in accordance with Article 7. Perhaps that this market value, i.e. the market price, should also not be nominally precise, but should specify who determines who it is and how. Here would be some remarks that I think could be corrected by the second reading. And in order for us to be fundamentally my intensities and my discussions to get the financial effects of this law as soon as possible when we've had to wait so many years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-30-0.u38502	Thank you. Now it's the guest of honor Jerko Roshin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-30-0.u38503	My colleagues and colleagues. I absolutely support the adoption of this law. I think the bill was made in the first reading. Now for first reading a good basis for discussion, any additions, especially since I've been dealing with this problem for a long time. And from the time of the definition of space while I was still president of the government's council for the state's spatial order. And in that sense, I can certainly commend the efforts made by this bill. What I think is important and actually starting with this law, it's a matter of taking care of the situation. One condition that has been undefined lasts for a long time, and which is as such hampered by all possible development projects and does not allow certain revenues to be made to the state and units of local self-government and regional administrations. 23.07.2011 is the date from which the whole story begins, so the state in the law is found, and some fellow MPs have not registered it. So from that date it moves with everything this law applies to. What we find in the space of that date, those purposes, becomes the subject of our interest. It is important for everyone to establish the title of private ownership, but it is important to highlight exactly the dimension that some colleagues have either missed or commented on in a different way. This is the hundred million square, not a hundred thousand, as one colleague said, but 100 million square meters of land, or 10 hectares that could be estimated at one average price of 100 euros. For example, it has one value of 10 billion euros in potential that could be launched in one way or another as an investment base for everything that can happen on that land and which, in the end, enters into the value of a company's capital. This value under this law is proposed in a certain way, to be treated in different ways. And that is to first establish what is the area of land, tourist land that allows for regular land use. The second is the right to direct concession in a certain way, that whoever is already there has a priority right to obtain a concession. And the third thing is that element of the value of land that remains out of it and which is distributed to units of local self-government and which is then distributed to 60% of the state and 40% to local self-government and regional administration units in the same way, says Article 15. So it's not true that it only goes to local self-government units but also goes to county level on the same part as these. But what does it matter? That the state does not retain those 60% as part of its own budget that will be used in other ways, but the state is obliged to transfer it to a fund from which the development of future tourism infrastructure in the area will be financed. Therefore, the advantage of this land remains still within the scope of use, i.e. in favour of the units of local self-government, i.e. the field itself, and not the state itself. Of course, in this sense, this fund should be activated as soon as possible, so that it could be active and that the money would not accidentally flee to some other side, although the question of the viability of the establishment of a single fund as a control of that capital, which would be alluded to by the solution of today's undefined situation after conversion and privatisation, or that would be enough to find itself in one particular account of the Ministry of Economy, the Ministry of Tourism already doesn't know which, some account that already exists, which would only have a basis for that purpose, so that the money would not go on a different side. Speaking of what that money would be spent on, I must mention a statement from the law that speaks of tourist resources. I can't resist not commenting because it's so linguistically not quite clear, although I found a basis for what the Ministry of Tourism is dealing with, but it's like this some possible and linguistic debates, but it's not just language discussions, because there's still some content behind every word that is, and in this case, resources are, and based on some way, fighting for the right of the championship. In order for this law to go full sails, of course we still have some time to do this first reading, there will be a second reading if there is a need, I see no reason not to be more, but I believe that through the second reading it can all end together. It is important to point out that its function will not be right until at least three regulations are adopted, and that is because Dubravka Šuica has said, it is a question of regular use, what is meant by this, and I think that the word for that definition should nevertheless come from the Ministry of Environmental Protection, Spatial Planning and Construction, because there are some differences in interpretation of what this property is under the facility, whether that area of contact between the building and the terrain, or whether it is a vertical projection of the house on the ground, but also what allows for regular use is access to the facilities and most of all because it will spend a large part of the land, and that is the question of parking which, according to the Law on spatial planning, must be solved on the building plot itself, the one that builds on its plot must solve the problems of parking lot. Therefore, whether parking areas are the same area within the period of regular use. I think that the definition of regular use is very sensitive and that it needs to be given enough attention to be applied in practice without any doubt. It is also a question of the definition of market price even though we have concluded in the debate that the market price issue of the Ministry of Finance has been very well regulated lately, but of course aside from the state and individual private or legal entities I do not see in a third country anyone who could define the issue of price, such an observation in relation to the fact that the State will do itself harm to someone else that I do not see such a problem and a different option of solving whether it is legally cared for or not. Of course, it's a matter of political will and a question of assessing how much it goes into the fund like this, how much it goes to local self-government units. However, it should be said that there should be political will and strength to deal with problems lagging behind from the time of privatisation and conversion and taking the broom into hands and cleaning up for some others who missed it. So in any case, I support this bill in the first reading, and I suggest that everything we have proposed through the discussions and the committee's session be included for the second reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-30-0.u38504	Thank you. We have one replica of the distinguished representative Anna Lovrin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-30-0.u38505	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President. Comrade Roshin, you mentioned that someone may have misread the amount of 100,000 square meters. It is true that 100 million square meters of land remained unrated in the core capital but I was also talking about something worse, hundreds of thousands of square meters that were illegally recorded as the property of the companies that were created by conversion. Unfortunately, this will not be resolved and cannot be resolved by this law because the law cannot act retroactively, but as it is illegal in books under already existing laws, so it can and must be settled in order for this law to take effect. Prior to that, the State Attorney's Office, together with the Croatian Privatisation Fund, must make an audit of all the books of transformed tourist companies and challenge any... a lawsuit if no deadlines or property claims have expired so that the land would be returned and that this law would then be applied to it. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] That's what we talked about, but today there were speeches and unpaid fees for the use of this land, so also the prominent lawyer, Mr. Josipovic, spoke about how this should be charged, but he probably knows that there is no institution below the wealth without a foundation. It is a mandatory legal institute that is subject to limitation. So maybe if the coalition government were a few years ago, and this and those before did something then something could have settled down, I'm afraid that today, with the best will, just a few years back. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-30-0.u38506	Thank you. The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative of Jerko Roshin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-30-0.u38507	Comrade Roshin, I'm not contesting anything you said. You said everything exactly and I mean what you said. My note applied and I didn't want to mention the name of the representative who said it. I only wanted to correct my colleague Caine who said it was a hundred thousand million. I just wanted to say that one number, probably that's the lapus lingue was but I considered it necessary to point out that this is about 100 million, that's what it's about. But you know what it is? There's a lot of things that you don't actually read. The law says that there is a general debate, not a law to be read, and specifically some articles are commented. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-30-0.u38508	Thank you. It's our guest, Dino Kozlevac. He's gone. He's losing his right to debate. Next, the esteemed representative, Josip Leko, is on the line. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-30-0.u38509	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President, the honourable representatives of the promoters, colleagues and fellow MPs. I immediately say that I believe that the Government has proposed in good faith the Law on Tourism and Other Building Land, but when I say so, I would like to hear the answers from the Government why now. Why now and in an extraordinary session and in times of crisis after almost 20 years? Secondly, I would like the government to say why there are no precise quantifications of this land when on behalf of the Government here we have several statements that in Croatia property is being arranged in land books. Thirdly, I would like this procedure to apply in principle or resolve the problem in principle. Why did the state in the '90s give up or ban or interfere with the so-called '90s. tourism land, but primarily I mean building land, which is usually located on the coast not being carried out in the process of conversion and privatisation and not being sold, and now there are conditions to do so. What changed the view, I might say, of the same party? You should get an answer for that. The second thing I would like to point out is that there is building land and there are washed persons who have turned, privatized and privatized and some of the land on which these buildings have been built. Why should we not use the same principle by wishing to be in each of the articles here, which are Articles 19, 20 and 26 where, for example, it is stated in Article 18, the company will acquire the right to own buildings and land under the building, that it will explicitly indicate in those articles the property by way of payment, at the price which is marketable and that that price is market-based on the principles of how the market value is otherwise determined at the time of the acquisition of the right of ownership. So, when do they get it? They get it when they get a tabular registration card, or it's written in land books. It is now a legal question how property can be acquired on the basis of an administrative act or a parcel. So, first of all, the state would have to acquire ownership because it can't carry more than it has, and in other words, it means that we would have to identify the land first and nationalize it or say that the property will be acquired under the Law on Conversion and Privatisation, or one or the other. If it is based on the Law on Conversion and Privatisation, there is a problem when they acquire ownership rights, because until then they have had ownership rights, so they have had the availability, management and use of as it is now said, and in fact there is the availability and use. In that version, the state will lose a lot at the price, and that is not allowed. This is not allowed from a social aspect, nor from a legal aspect, and is irresponsible to the future of generations to come. I think we should, and time gives us a chance because we can't implement this law tomorrow, each particle has to be identified, and every particle has to be worked out in a parcel lab, regardless of whether the company that privatized has signed in and even paid for a piece of the particle on which the building lies. Because here the people who have already debated know that the principle of Roman law cannot be applied to superfico solo cedit, that it only gets ownership of the land on which the building is based, but must be provided for the use of these particles, and there are also urban and construction standards that speak of the construction of the plot. So it won't be possible to achieve the effects of this law quickly. It will last at least, under the proposed law, that it is effective 100%, one year until the laws are developed in regulations etc., and another few years until the construction, geodetic and urban lobby makes all these parcels and is verified. So, we'll secure business with some professions. So, my pledge is welcome law absolutely, the problem has to be solved, but I don't think it's the time when it's solved and we haven't quantified or seen all the consequences this law is going to cause, and what's most important is to see how negative the consequences are. I mentioned some of the negative consequences. Of course, positive effects can be expected when the right to ownership of tourist land, businesses, companies, etc., camps, but it can only be positive for them and not for society. If we use the acquisition of ownership rights to exploit the possibility of building up the plot, then we would fight to protect the area, and through this law we will probably allow the space to be overcrowded. One of the consequences is possible. And one more thing I would particularly like to stress is the return of land that was nationalised during the Yugoslav communist rule. In that version, we're doing something that seems we're not going to say directly. We're making it very complicated for people to exercise that right. So verbally, rhetorically, we are for the establishment, restoration of justice and justice, etc., and then when we feel there's an interest in a lobby or we can even interest the current government, then we derivate it by a new law. The younger law is always in force and is valid before the old law if it solves the same thing. Therefore, I support the government's attempt to propose legislation on the resolution of this tourist land, the construction land in the end case, but we would have to have very well-designed bases, quantification and the number of entities that will come out of this in two years. So, we can't rush because it's the state's task to have precise records when it comes to building land, it's not disputed, and when it comes to the availability of this building land that the law itself says that the state has a special interest and that particular interest, Mr. Prime Minister, we would have to state what it's made up of, within the limits of ownership. Because in the plot it will indicate whether it's a service pass, whether or not I know what you're thinking, but that should be indicated. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-30-0.u38510	Thank you. We have two replicas. First is Honorable Representative Antun Vujic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-30-0.u38511	Dear colleague Leko, you have actually welcomed the need to pass a law that would regulate these issues. In the meantime, you've stated so many arguments that it's not this law, that I'm actually talking to you the following way whether what I think is right, and it's that this law is not only necessary, it's also harmful. It actually changes social, economic, global relations on one of the fundamentals, and this is about ownership that is actually public good. And so to go into that law, and first, to sell without being prepared not to know how much it is, not to know what the price of it is is to forgive, very strange. So it's not serious work and it's not a serious time to go into such a law. Secondly, it's amazing that you don't go first to determine how much there is where to pay for it. Instead of making us pay for what is not paid for by the tourist land so that we can get some sort of basis and for our opinion on how much it is worth. So we're going with a law where we completely skip all this stuff that was said before, so it's actually the debt of those who use it. That's why this law is, in fact, because it is directly based on the privatisation laws that have given birth to affairs, something that connects the state, local and tycoon oligarchy into one to say the combination that has been recognised in this society as the ultimate damage. And let me just say one more thing, whenever you mention the titler's question, I have a good memory, then that's to say so at some point when you intend to rob something. I'm asking you nicely, I don't know how the lawyers understand the concept of title, but it's not just a legal question. Titular, if you think the clerk doesn't have any, that doesn't mean he doesn't have property. The property is a state, it's public, and this is actually something that I'm just saying is liquidating a public good. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-30-0.u38512	Time. Thank you very much. And another replica, the esteemed representative of Jerko Roshin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-30-0.u38513	I'd like to replicate my colleague, Lecki, to establish the use of this land, the rebuilding, etc. I think this is about two different things, pears and apples or peaches, whatever you want. The question of the use of one land is the question of the Law on Spatial Planning and of all those plans that are based on this Law on Spatial Planning. Therefore, nothing can happen on one land that is not foreseen by the spatial plan. And will someone change the spatial plans? The spatial plans change the local environment according to their needs and to look at their development pathways. So this law does not allow building on that land. This law only allows for the realisation of what is a spatial plan to date because all spatial plans were to be made. And in that sense, if this law didn't solve everything, it solved at least one part of the problem, and it opens up the possibility that problems are solved, which means that whoever didn't solve everything doesn't mean they have to solve everything at the same time, but it opens up the possibility, solves some of the problems that we've closed our eyes and we haven't solved, this is trying to solve.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-30-0.u38514	Thank you. Replication response, distinguished representative Joseph Leko. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-30-0.u38515	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Roshin, I know the process of changing spatial and urban plans, but I'll say it like this, in your replica, I'd say I know us. I know us. Therefore, the interest here is a lobby in the law very precisely established. From the lobby I can even put power because the current government may have a very narrow interest in changing any PUP, either DUP, any of the urban plans, in the interest or under the pressure of a strong player in its field. And that's what's happening. And the task of the state is to disable this, not to make it possible through the adoption of such laws, to achieve very, very narrow interests, even if it was a tourist firm.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-30-0.u38516	Thank you. We're moving on with an individual discussion. It is up to the honourable representative, Zvonimir Puljic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-30-0.u38517	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. This law also solves a lagging problem from the period of conversion and privatisation relating to a significant land area of about 100 million square meters, and thus a significant value that has so far been paved in the legal void of unresolved ownership-legal status. This is precisely the unsettled land ownership situation that remained outside the assessment of the conversion and privatisation process and was not introduced into the core capital of commercial companies, there was an obstacle to any investment investment because, without proof of ownership of the land, no building permit could be found, but also an obstacle to the conclusion of valid legal transactions in connection with the use of that land and was caused by huge damage to the state. I therefore welcome the adoption of this legislative proposal in the debate in this Croatian Parliament, and it seems to me that it is particularly important, so on. tourism land located in the property or in the use of economic operators from tourism camps, tourist land on which hotels and tourist settlements are built, etc., because the designation of owners opens up the possibility of investing, making valid legal transactions, legally using these properties and general activation of this significant economic resource. The same applies to other construction land which has not been assessed and entered into the value of social capital, social enterprises in the conversion process, which is not defined by spatial documentation for tourism purposes. The tourist land in the camps becomes the property of the Republic of Croatia or the co-ownership of the Republic of Croatia and of the company, which is partly assessed and incorporated into the fundamental capital of the society. A way of disposing of co-ownership as well as the possibility of obtaining a concession on the co-owned part of the Republic of Croatia, particularly if the camp is located on a maritime good. It is good that part of the concession fee is provided for local and regional self-government and that the purpose of the funds is unequivocally determined for the development of tourism infrastructure and tourist resource base. Protection solutions are also foreseen in case of disorderly behaviour of concessionaries. For tourist plots on which hotels and tourist settlements were built, land owners under the buildings become companies, owners of buildings, and the rest of the tourist land is acquired as the owner of the unit of local self-government in which the property is located. The local self-government unit has limited ownership rights, i.e. it cannot alienate the land, but it can grant concessions and establish the right to build in accordance with spatial documentation on that land. These solutions seem good to me, and will certainly be corrected through the proposals that will be made in this debate, and I support this law to go through another reading.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-30-0.u38518	Thank you. We have two replicas. First is Honorable Representative Jerko Roshin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-30-0.u38519	Mr. Chairman, just for a little while. The replica of fellow Pula, not in a negative but in a positive sense, because it opened one topic that has not been mentioned so far. It's a matter of maritime good. Maritime well-being is certainly one category of extremely important in the definition of this and I think that the Law on the Sea's Good and Use of Objects on the Sea's Good is extremely important so that this law can function as well. So as one of the following laws, I suggest that the work be done as soon as possible so that such a law is passed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-30-0.u38520	Thank you. The second is the distinguished representative Željka Antunovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-30-0.u38521	I wanted to replicate with my colleague's claim that this is a decision on the law under which part of the land in question is transferred to ownership, i.e. the holder of ownership in the units of local self-government. This may be a good solution in some situations, but in some situations it will remain open spaces, and I don't think this solution will satisfy the activation or resolution of open problems. I'm going to give an example of who I know. It's a piece of land that is formally legal on land books in the use of a tourist facility. Indeed, the user never needed it, that part of the land, really owned by the nationalized land he always had to use for agricultural and small economic purposes. Today, when this land becomes important, when it comes to privatisation, the previous owner cannot come, has been slow for years, has filed a request under the Property Return Act, has been slow and cannot reach that land. This law of such a situation, and such situations will not solve countless things. It won't contribute to the resolution. Because if that could have been resolved then it would have been settled under the Restitution Act. I really don't see how this law will speed up endlessly long multi-year processes in which people can't realize the return of their property, although it is de facto available for return.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-30-0.u38522	Thank you. Replica's reply, distinguished representative Zvonimir Puljic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-30-0.u38523	Dear colleagues, I actually think that this and this replica of yours and this debate is an opportunity for all those who will definitely enter this law to be helped to solve as many cases as successfully and efficiently as possible, and this one that you have indicated in your replica. So I am not opposed to your replica, but only to mention that solutions and returns are indicated in this proposal, and perhaps the debate encourages them to be completed.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-30-0.u38524	Thank you. It is next to the distinguished representative Nevenka Marinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-30-0.u38525	Thank you very much, well-respected President of the Croatian Parliament, State Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. Here I will support this Proposal for a Law on Tourism and Other Building Land, unrated in the process of conversion and privatisation, and in the first place, for the reason that almost two decades later, it proposes to resolve the status of about 100 million squares of land used without compensation. I will not particularly talk about its attractiveness, the attractiveness of many locations in the Zadar County and just like that. It is about land that is owned or used by economic operators in the fields of tourism, campsites, tourist land on which hotels and complete tourist resorts are built. According to the Ministry of Justice's estimates, the total area of land that has not been introduced into the social capital of legal entities is almost 100 million squares, and almost a quarter refers to the camps. The consequences of this current legal gap are also direct damage to the state budget, for local self-government units, but also for the legal entities that use them. First of all, I think about the development capacity of these legal entities, but also about improving the quality of tourism products and thus direct and total tourism product of the Republic of Croatia. This proposal establishes the titler of property rights on tourist and construction land and thus removes, most of all, the legal gap so far related to the property's legal status, and this proposal also means legal security in use, the possibility of investment on that land and the legality of the use of these properties is established and, in my opinion, it is important that the tourist land on which the documents of spatial arrangements are provided for tourism purposes and land on which construction tourist buildings are built, meaning and this is about camps, hotels and tourist settlements, this proposal becomes good from the interests of the Republic of Croatia and enjoys its special protection. I would not agree with my colleague, Josipovic, that it must, as a rule, restrict the rights of ownership. I think it's a special interest but protection means it can be achieved without restricting property rights. It is certainly good to go with this proposal, and the above-mentioned shortcomings mentioned by his colleague Josipović, but also by colleague Ana Lovrin, whom he has, and also by deadlines, and by implementation, and with respect to compensation, and simplification of the procedure, I hope that we will correct the second reading. The established working group, which is both the Ministry of Tourism and the Ministry of Justice, with the involvement of the Ministry of Spatial Planning, as well as the association of directly interested in solving this problem, is in my opinion a guarantee that we will have a more quality proposal in the second reading. I therefore support this proposal in my first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-30-0.u38526	Thank you. It is next to the honourable representative Marin Brkarić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-30-0.u38527	Here's Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. I will personally support this bill in my first reading, although I believe that the text of this law is also valid through remarks, opinions and suggestions that have been given here to improve and remove I would say constitutional legal doubts which have been raised in this House. We will support the first reading, first of all, because over 10 years in this House are demanding its adoption, but so far it has failed. There were two suggestions that ended only in the first reading. I will also support it because about 100 million square meters of land is being used today without legal basis and without compensation. I'm going to support him because billions of kunas have been lost for this last time from concessions or land sales. In the meantime, illegal books disappeared, the word "missing" millions of square meters of land, and the state's attorney's response was missing. And I will support it because the resolution of ownership and legal status will give a new boost to the development of tourism, the new investments we need at this point. I also expect until the second reading to respect all comments, suggestions, suggestions, opinions. But also to request the opinion of a local or regional (regional) self-government not present in this bill or not to be asked for their opinion. Is this the opinion of the Association of Cities, i.e. the Association of Communities of Croatian Countys, especially those of the Countys and those of the cities, or the municipalities on which the tourist land is located? And so, until the second reading, consider the opinions of the professional associations that have already been delivered on this first reading. Normally they're opposed to this bill. I certainly believe that this House should request, in its conclusion, what Commissioner Lovrin said, that all those books be audited, for which, the revision of all the accounts of the land of tourist companies and to determine whether they are illegal. And if they are illegal, then the State's Attorney's Office should act in that area, dispute by court through such an illegal book. And what I would like to make as proposals is the very text of the first-reading bill, which is Article 10 and Article 27, where it is determined that the Government of the Republic of Croatia will regulate the procedure, the way and the conditions for obtaining concessions, i.e. the sale of land and determine the amount of compensation, i.e. the amount of land price. I think that's also said in some of the board's remarks that this land price should be determined through this law. Also, at least in principle there should be specific conditions. Because if all government will determine, then this law is just some form, and government regulations will regulate it means it's the essence. Secondly, I am making my point, which is Article 24 and Article 6 where it is said that building land which is not estimated in social capital should be owned by the Republic of Croatia. I think that one analogy of building land in the area of municipalities and cities should be owned by units of local self-government, meaning municipalities and cities. Since we know that agricultural, or forest land is state property, it would make sense for this land, especially building land to be owned by local self-government. And my third remark is to comment on the distribution of concession fees, where it says 60% belongs to the state 40% to local, or regional self-government. I think the fair distribution is that one third belongs to the Republic of Croatia, one third to the municipalities, or the city, one third to the county. For the purpose of this. These are the funds used to build tourism infrastructure. I think the tourist infrastructure in areas where this land is located is building units of local, or regional self-government. And in that direction, I think it's normal for her to be like this. I also believe that it is not necessary to create a new fund, because it is a new burden to the administration, but that precisely the funds that will be intended it cannot be used for other purposes. And I agree with all those who said we should cut deadlines, and that's what the secretary of state said. So that six-month deadline, that's two years. Because this law won't be able to produce all those effects in a short time. And first of all, to settle one ownership situation on that land that is extremely valuable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-30-0.u38528	Thank you. Dear Zgrebec's distinguished representative is coming. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-30-0.u38529	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Secretary of State with a co-worker, co-workers and colleagues. Already in determining the agenda of this extraordinary session, our club is having an objection to including this item on the agenda. And the question really arises, why did this first-reading law take place at the second extraordinary session of this year, and for three years there was absolute silence. Three years ago we had a good debate on the solutions of this land, but beyond that, the law never came to another reading. This shows, in fact, that the government as the owner of the bad lords with its property, or the state, has bad lords with its property and often does not know what property it has. We do so almost in every finding of the State Audit we come to the fact that we do not know or are not established, or are not listed property, state property and often own local or regional self-government. This law comes as a result of poor solutions in the process of conversion and privatisation. THAT this process is a painful place in the Croatian economy and society should not actually be repeated. The attempts at review have actually identified major irregularities even under the law that most citizens think was bad and immoral and nothing really happened behind that. Therefore, even attempts to correct irregularities and illegalities identified in these processes must not in fact lead to new problems, new illegalities, new benefits to certain groups of citizens, and this law could also happen. Now it's actually harmonising so-called. State tourist land as part of building land. However, just these days here are yesterday the Prime Minister and the president of the state discussing how it should be put into office and ownership or facilities at the disposal of the Croatian Army, which has been transferred to the Privatisation Fund or the Office of State Property Management, and perhaps this is a good time, the time of the financial, economic crisis of our budget, when we are in all ways trying to collect as much revenue as possible to patch up the budget gaps to start discussing how the state manages with its assets and how many incomes it does not actually collect from its assets. When the conversion process started, then we had the Law on Conversion, after the Law on Conversion and Privatization. However, the assessment of the underlying capital was not carried out only in accordance with the provisions of the Conversion Act. There was a lot of guidance from the Agency for Conversion and Privatisation of today's Fund for Conversion and Privatisation. I'll just say a few examples. One of these is how to assess and what to enter into the capital that applied to tourism societies. It was similar with agricultural land related to former agricultural combinations. First it was said that the land was imported into capital, then it was said no but, let's say, long-term plantations as one of the types of agricultural land were half imported into core capital. So now, fruit or cane has been evaluated, entered into capital and not land. This also brought a lot of confusion today when it comes to what land will be sold, which will be given in the concession, how it resolves, who will be compensated for the costs etc. It was similar with social housing, selling social housing. First, it was said that due to the need to be a unit of buildings, buildings and land for those who buy a social apartment, they must buy land. Some have paid for it, so it was later returned to them, and today it is a question that more problems will arise. And so, I don't have much longer to say, I'd just like to say a few comments on some of the provisions of this bill. I've already said that tourist land is actually part of the building land, and what about ownership should have the same treatment as the total building land. I think that's what my colleague Brkaric was saying about, if the tourist land is a building land then it should be owned by a local self-government unit in which it is located, it should not be transferred to the property of the Republic of Croatia. The Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 13(3) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 of the European Parliament and of the Council and of the Council on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the Union and repealing Council Regulation (EC) No 2111/2005 and Regulation (EC) No 2111/2006 of the European Parliament and of the Council and of the Council and repealing Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 2111/2006 establishing a European Parliament and of the Council as regards the European Parliament and of the Council. We have now recently passed a Law on concessions which is in fact in line with the legislation of the European Union, and as I recall there, we said that all concession procedures must be implemented under that law except for concessions given on agricultural land. Now we're putting an exception here that we don't have in the concession law. I think we should change the concession law in that sense. What does that mean, then, is it in line with European legislation or not? Probably not. When it is said, when it comes to Article 14 that, in fact, the Government determines who the best bidder is, it would be contrary to the concession law because it is said to be a special commission implementing the tendering and award procedure. Article 15 states that revenue is shared from the concession and talks about the establishment, establishment of a specific fund for the development of tourism infrastructure and a tourist resource base. Before that, paragraph 2 states that these funds are intended exclusively for the development of tourism infrastructure. In order to end, it would be said that this portion belonging to the state is paid into that specific fund, while funds belonging to local self-government would be paid into their budgets. Who will keep records or controls for what purpose that unit of local self-government spends those funds when they are paid into its local budget. Is this going to be the State Audit, who's going to do it? And if these are her assets she has the right to dispose of these funds herself. So that really question is how it's going to be controlled at all. And then article 18 and 19 already discussed it, colleagues discussed it, it was said on behalf of our club. Indeed, or perhaps it is simply incomprehensible for those of us who are not legal professions, but how property can be obtained by law. Practically, when we read this way, the company will acquire the right to own the building, the land under the building. Why would the state give it away for free? In this situation, when we introduce additional revenues to 3,000 kunas, we will give someone free land that he has already used for 10, 15 years. It is also similar to Article 19 where it is not only a property under construction, it is also a functional or technological unit relating to the construction of that company. So we should really explain certain provisions, review them, and perhaps give some better solutions until the second reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-30-0.u38530	Thank you. It is up to the esteemed representative Ingrid Antičević...... Correction, so you have to if no one's looking knockin' to see it. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Correction of an incorrect allegation, the esteemed representative Ana Lovrin.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-30-0.u38531	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I apologize, I held a tile and banged, but no one heard me. And here's what I'd like to do is correct the alleged distinguished Zgrebec representative because she said that free land is given for some kind of, I can't exactly repeat it, but you probably meant land for regular use of the building and that's why it would be given. So given, this law stipulates that land under the floor surface of the building is intended for unity, the principle of unity of land and building that, as it is and in the purchase of social housing, all those who had the opportunity to buy out a social apartment are free of charge and the share in the land under the building. ... Yes, and as far as land is concerned for the regular use of the building, this law allows those who have assessed and paid the building to be sold at the market price of land for the regular use of local self-government units. [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-30-0.u38532	Thank you. It is up to Commissioner Ingrid Anticevic-Marinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-30-0.u38533	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Secretary of State with a co-worker, co-workers and colleagues. The very title of this bill leads to an unrelenting one, i.e. it seems to me that it is very clouding the situation. Namely, the bill bears the name of the bill on tourism and other building land, and now here is the catch, unrated in the process of conversion and privatisation. What's that invaluable? It's priceless, but it shouldn't go into the name. It's state land either the property of a local self-government unit or it's owned by individuals who should have been returned long ago, and it hasn't been done. So, first of all, the name should be clear about what this is about to be fair and that the law would at least correct so many injustices so far without creating great injustices, especially in these times of crisis when the people, when the citizens are new to the wrongs, the haraks. In fact, we remember in the '90s when this whole bizarre process started with unfair, unfair privatisation, and that wasn't enough, but these big tourist complexes, or their owners, owned the property they didn't pay. But what happens then? So, it wasn't an accident, it was systematic, because in the 1990s criminal law, the crime of unauthorized possession of social, i.e. state property was missing. Therefore, criminal responsibility was excluded so that all of this would appear in the light of the authorities of the time. So it was no accident at all, it was one system of robbing state or social property. So what's already been said here so that we don't get it up to date, but the principle of "who's yawning, yamio" still has to be very careful. Therefore, it seems to me that the basic message of this law and that the Government with this proposal should be made clear and loud, but it seems to me that this has not happened, and therefore, by the second reading, it needs to be corrected and done according to principle or pay or pay or return, the third one is gone, the tertium on a non-date, otherwise we will have a new robbery and kidnapping. And what's that? The most valuable of what remains of Croatia, which is tourism and construction land owned by the state. Namely, how did this proposal come into this session? This is an extraordinary session, this is no anti-recession measure, as the Prime Minister wanted to explain, explain and demonstrate to the SDP club's proposal to exempt this session. In fact, if we remember, we had a debate here in the Croatian Parliament a long time ago, a time ago, a bill like this, so he was withdrawn and a new one came. But when is he coming? Let us remember that Mrs. Kosor was recently in Brussels, and I remember a meeting also in Brussels where Mr. Degert beat his hand with a table dissatisfied with such a bill, one where no one in Croatia was satisfied, and at least the previous owners who expected to improve their way back of their land and asked us what was going on with this bill, why hotels were not being visited and all the surrounding land. Then I asked him nicely, and I beg you on what basis. He shut up. So it is obvious that this one lobby, it is not the official position of Brussels, but there are obviously lobbys of a powerful financial that, then, through the Brussels administration, want to put pressure on Croatia. The then, already former prime minister, said we do not give a millimeter of our territory, when it was already showing atrophied muscles in relation to these unfair and rude demands by Slovenia. But will we, then, not give a millimeter, and here we're going to give millions of meters square, miles and miles in exchange for millimetres. It can't happen, it can't happen. So this priceless land is no abstract property without its owner. He owns either a state or a unit of local self-government, and often in a large number of cases, they are former owners who have been waiting for their land for years. The question now arises, therefore, how this injustice, most often by companies i.e. The hotels hold, here as the proposer shows us here to hold around 20, holding over hundreds of millions of square meters illegally. Only in these last years, so it's been 15 years somewhere, about 10, somewhere close to 18 years if they paid 5 kuna per metre square would Croatia now be in this kind of trouble? Sure, sure you wouldn't. It's huge, huge amounts. So I'd like to start something now, even though it's first reading and order. It is certainly necessary to determine and amend the provision of Article 7 because it is already in the beginning, and Article 6, and in particular Article 7 speaks of the contradiction, the disagreement of this law with the basic Law on ownership and other real rights and is contrary to the anti-corruption law adopted, so we have represented it, the Law on concessions. In fact, the Law of Property and other real rights clearly states how property is acquired, how the co-ownership community that applies to all owners is to be broken down. Therefore, this law cannot violate that unity established in the basic Law on Property and other real rights. So that's why the co-ownership community would get rid of and disintegrated because they're looking for hotels, and where they're co-owners with the state, so in that priceless part that owns the state. Are we going to track down the already passed anti-constitutional golf law where the state is obliged to sell to individuals, i.e. golfers when they ask for the most valuable land and even agricultural land? Are we taking that lead? That's gotta stop. So, in no way does it allow the state to depose the co-ownership community when requested by the hotelers. The state has to do it by its own free will. How the country whose primary task is to take care of each citizen will take care of him in particular if he does not care about his property, and I say again, it is also contrary to the Law on Property and other real rights. Therefore, and when the state decides that this is due to the economic importance of good and for the development of the economy, and it is very important to take account of it, and I think that the proposer and led the idea, but then in any case one supplement should go and therefore, after the value of the co-owner's share of the property has been beaten with a concession fee for use for all time until the concession expires. Let them pay for what they've held so far. Because please, usurpation, so that would mean we're legalizing an illegal incursion. Then this would be the law on legalizing usurpation. What would they tell the citizens? That they're free to break into other people's apartments, or state housing, if there's more like them somewhere else? Or local self-government units? And then we'll hold them in such a way that they're illegally held and passed a law that we can legalize. It's a bad message for respecting legality, and we can see that even the slightest illegality committed by a citizen is highly sanctioned. That's why justice and the whole state are very effective. The provision of Article 10 is indeed contrary to that obtained, or adopted, the Law on concessions. Likewise, the owners won't do it this way, whichever luck they'd have if they got to their real estate faster. But in some ways they are brought into an unequal position with those former owners whose properties have already been returned. Therefore, here in this sense, and Article 18, which has already been said, is really worth the unity of the principle of property unity, and I don't mind that they really have to follow that law... [[The speakers speak in the same voice, of course.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-30-0.u38534	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-30-0.u38535	...but let them pay. So either pay or return the basic principle.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-30-0.u38536	Or it's over. We have one correction to the incorrect allegations, the esteemed representative Anna Lovrin.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-30-0.u38537	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, there's a series of incorrect allegations, and it would take me half an hour to make this right, but here's one. That this law is being passed under pressure from the Brussels administration and that we're going to give millions of meters of badlands here. On the contrary and vice versa. This law resolves ownership-legal status in a way that we return this land to the state, that whoever wants to use it to pay. It was said that the first thing to do was to pay and then to pass this law. The other way around. If this law is not passed, then by law no one will be able to pay the state anything. So, exactly the opposite of the pressures of the legal European lobbys representing companies, this law solves this matter in a way that will determine on this land the ownership of the state and ownership of units of local self-government. And one more thing, in article 7, on the dissipation...
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-30-0.u38538	Thank you. Your time is up.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-30-0.u38539	...the co-ownerships of the state are not obliged, but the law says...
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-30-0.u38540	Thank you. Your time is up. We have one replica, the esteemed representative of Dubravka Shuica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-30-0.u38541	Well, I wanted to replicate Mrs. Anticevic since it seems to me that she has repeatedly found herself in her own contradiction in her own presentation. First of all, why this law is on the agenda when it is not anti-recessional, and then at the end of your debate, you say that the promoter has been run by economic reasons and economic situations, etc. So it's very anti-recessional and this is when it's not before, it's a good time for this law to be discussed and discussed in the first reading. Mr. Leko used to say the same thing. So it's very important that this law is on the agenda and I personally also advocate this syntagma of yours or pay or return. I believe that there is room to consider how to regulate the use so far in some way because it is indeed huge resources and certainly that it could be discussed. We have one example in the Dubrovnik area where the Croatian Privatisation Fund has charged from one such owner who has not entered into the conversion of core capital and are now conducting court proceedings etc. I believe that this situation will settle, and if we don't start now, when do we start? So it's time to start fixing this situation, and I believe this is anti-recession law, and it has nothing to do with Brussels, but the situation in our budget.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-30-0.u38542	Thank you. Replicate response, distinguished representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-30-0.u38543	.... /The speech room is subsequently included./... polymize because you are well-right in terms of the development of the economy, but we cannot, under anti-recession measures, consider that we get rid of our own land and the most valuable of all just like that. There should be very, very careful. In that sense, I say that there was no place at this very session to discuss it at an extraordinary session. However, so as not to waste words. You see the provision of Article 27, which says that the Republic of Croatia will sell, sell, and why not in concession? Why not the right to build? The trading company, you see, on its request the land that is now coming to this is one big trap, which is necessary for the regular use of the building at market price. Well, every time, hotels and such companies will say it's necessary for them. And if there's miles around, another neighbor and a mile that's possible for the state, it'll tell us it's necessary. And who will be able to challenge that? We already know what the intent is or is not being brought in for the purpose of how many administrative bodies have had difficulty with such a rubber norm. That's why I'm asking, here, Mr. Secretary of State, that what's more specific because I know how such disputes go. It depends solely on the economic strength of the one who appears before the court, and we cannot allow that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-30-0.u38544	Thank you. We're continuing the debate. We still have three discussions. It is now up to the distinguished representative Tatjana Šimac Bonačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-30-0.u38545	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Secretary of State with an associate, colleague and colleague. I also belong to these groups of MPs who said the law, this law must be 15 years later. However, the bill does not fall into the essence of the problem, which is a revision of conversion and privatisation and how to really return that tourist land. Although of course it is what the value is, it has been declared of interest for the Republic of Croatia. Thus, this law deals only with the interpretation of Article 47. The Privatisation Act, what to do with the land already based on this article, was acquired by the Croatian Privatisation Fund, i.e. the Republic of Croatia. I'd also like to mention the example of Babi's hip in Dubrovnik. From the beginning of the 90s to the present land area that was to be estimated in the underlying capital, and the surfaces ranged from 300 thousand square meters to 650 square meters as much as registered today as the property of Babin hips, but clearly without a clear legal criterion. In these 650 thousand squares there are over 200 thousand square squares of land that could have been, or which is the subject of this bill, but for who knows what reason instead of becoming the property of the Republic of Croatia, it is based on Article 47. The privatisation law entered through the conversion of the basic capital of Babi's hip. So it becomes evident that there were no clear criteria according to which certain land could enter the fundamental capital of a society in conversion. This bill annuls, unfortunately cancels any possible revision of conversion and privatisation. So now on Babi's hip, we have the land where the camp was. It's a huge area that today's plan for building a villa in greenery, then we have land that's a green area, today's plan is designed for a recreation zone, etc. So that's all in that area of 200 thousand square meters. And if that country were to be located away from the existing hotels and does not represent with them any technological whole and could, under the existing laws, that the state acted as a good economicist, it could have returned. This land is one of the most valuable in Dubrovnik, you know we don't have as much land as we can, with which we can dispose of our property. It achieves up to a thousand-and-a-half euros per square metre, thus the Republic of Croatia, as well as the local community damaged by 300m euros, since it has not achieved even a approximate amount through the privatisation of Babi's hip. Therefore, the lack of clear criteria that land should have entered into the underlying capital and, by adopting this bill, would ultimately legalise all ambiguities of conversion and privatisation. And now we're wondering if there's anything that local leaders can do? Well, they could at least accept the amendments that the previous opposition made in the adoption of the UPU, and they were making amendments to exempt this particular disputed land. However, the UPU was adopted, unfortunately without predetermined ownership of this disputed land. Therefore, I can conclude that we have a final legalisation of conversion and privatisation by this law, because we give privates attractive land to the state on the edge. What we can say is that it's the final legalization of the robbery. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-30-0.u38546	Thank you. We have two replicas. First, she is a respected representative, Ingrid Antičević Marinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-30-0.u38547	So here's my colleague Bonačić, so you mention local self-government units, which they can do and what they could do so far. In that context, I would like to particularly apostrophe the provision of Article 21 The truth is that local self-government units are very hardworking and responsible somewhere. They're irresponsible somewhere, so they've sold it all out, more than the state. But it's not fair for the state to simply offer hotelers to buy hers, and here it prohibits local self-government units from owning that land that will belong to them and restricts the availability of these properties. It just can't be, can't be, can't be a few different situations for the owners. So the state offers its own, whenever you want us to sell you, the state is obliged to sell, and in the units of local self-government, it limits this right to possibly just grant concessions. But when local self-government units have everything, their properties and otherwise the constitutionally guaranteed such one freedom, we here until the second reading should also think well about the possibility that units of local self-government freely have their own property.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-30-0.u38548	Thank you. We have another replica, the distinguished representative of Dubravka Shuica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-30-0.u38549	Mr. Vice President. I'm sorry that Mrs. Shimac-Bonacic is using this pay phone for some local topics here to bring out, so of course I can't keep my mouth shut. It's about Babi's Cook settlement in Dubrovnik on all the wrong facts. So this company Babin Cook was in general, there was a legal job between the former Minchet company and the then municipality of Dubrovnik, when the then president of the municipality in 1971 sold the land to Minchet. And it absolutely doesn't fit into this subject and you've completely abused the podium and to explain it. Therefore, it is a topic that will be discussed for a long time. It was a major topic in pre-election times in Dubrovnik, where falsely placed data to the public got a lot of points. And I'm sorry you're continuing this topic here at the Croatian Parliament. That's what the Croatian Privatisation Fund will say, the courts will say, and I think you've completely missed the topic of land conversion. It's about the urban planning of Babina Kuk, it's about the city of Dubrovnik's spatial plan, it's about the city of Dubrovnik, where your current partners are, and today it's about... Dubrovnik also raised his hand for the spatial plan of the city of Dubrovnik and the town of Dubrovnik. And the spatial plan determines the purpose of space. So the purpose was determined by a spatial plan, and the UPU's are still being elaborated. Therefore, do not casually and without knowing enough matter to inform the Croatian public, and at least in the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-30-0.u38550	Thank you. Replica response, distinguished representative Tatjana Šimac Bonačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-30-0.u38551	Thank you very much. What about Minchet? Mincheta is actually the predecessor of Babin Hook, or Babin Cook is a follower of Minchete. So we know that the deal from '71. He didn't respect years. We also have the audit results. And that is why the amendments relating to the exemption were to be accepted, i.e. the UPU should be worked on land which is actually known to be the owner, not this way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-30-0.u38552	Thank you. We're moving on with an individual discussion. As the last one, he is a respected representative of Shimo Djurdjevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-30-0.u38553	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. I think it was time to give up but only one segment. Of course I am so as to settle this problem that has been highlighted along our coast from north to south. But I would like to highlight a problem that colleagues and colleagues, not even clubs in their discussions, have not highlighted. And that's the problem of highway buildings, mostly those highways that were built during the former state. People invested their houses, apartments, employees in these motels and bought them out. But not in privatisation, they're the second or the third to say the hand. They bought the building, they bought the building, they work, they pay off their loans. But the land beneath that object, I would, I didn't exactly look at the documentation, I would also call it touristic. Because he serves the same for tourism, for transition. People use these objects. And when the owners of these buildings set out to solve these problems, they started from the garter shop, they come there, for example. in Brod-Posavina County social property, agricultural land used by agro combination Jasinje. Thank God, no more than unfortunately the combination is gone. So I would like to point out to you, Mr. Secretary of State, that you should try to do another reading, that this problem in the interior of the country, especially along the highways, is resolved. I'm asking you to look at that segment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-30-0.u38554	Thank you. And we still have one discussion. It is the esteemed representative Miljenko Doric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-30-0.u38555	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. First of all, I'd like to thank my colleagues from HSS, unfortunately they're not here, I hope they're listening. Who have made every effort to calculate the numbers I've come to and my colleagues from my club about how we're going to benefit from this law in the future. Of course, I put the emphasis specifically on the fact that this law came in 2009 and not much earlier, and I emphasized it and therefore put it on the damage that we have so far, the damage we have suffered. Because here's a colleague of the HSS as well as I claim that about a billion kuna we could have in the budget every year that we passed the law earlier. Therefore, 15 billion kunas in the last two decades have gone into the wind, it is not acceptable. That's not good. Both colleagues and colleagues, it's only her direct damage. I was talking about that because there was no ownership holder, it was not possible to invest, improve the quality of the offer, build a sports-recreation zone, content, raise the level of competitiveness of our tourism. On that 100 million square meters. That's why I said it wasn't just 15 billion, it was far more than that. No co-workers or colleagues have replicated that. No one. Therefore, everyone agrees that the damage is here somewhere around the figures that are colleagues from the HSS and that I brought up earlier. But there was a huge reaction to it when I metaphorically said that coffee was free in the Parliament, wanting to stress that in one crime case coffee cost 50,000 euros in privatisation, which we are also talking about today, as well as in tourism. I apologize for correcting my guilty allegations. It's not true that coffee in Parliament is free. Coffee in Parliament costs 2.5 kunas. But it is true that 80% of the coffees that the representatives and officials in this building drink pay for the Croatian Parliament, and that less than 20% of the salaries are paid by the representatives and officials themselves. That's the exact information. And colleagues and colleagues, if it weren't for that, we wouldn't all get a memo from the secretary yesterday if you wanted me to read it, to see what the goal of saving he's proposing since the 1st column.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-30-0.u38556	Excuse me, Your Honor, what does this have to do with this law?
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-30-0.u38557	It certainly has something to do with it. Ten parliamentary deputies asked me to explain why I said so.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-30-0.u38558	But it has nothing to do with this.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-30-0.u38559	It certainly has something to do with it. It was a theme, and you didn't interrupt them. Right? When I was talking about 50,000 euros.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-30-0.u38560	Please, it has nothing to do with this subject.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-30-0.u38561	Therefore, colleagues and colleagues would do well to avoid trying to conceal the essence of what I wanted to say and what this law wants to say and to order. We must accept this law as soon as possible. It must be done hard. We heard all the remarks and objections. We will support this law when he makes clear the excellent remarks, the excellent suggestions we heard today in the debate. Why are we going to accept it? Let us not just proceed with the harmful action of this legal void that we have in the Republic of Croatia at the moment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-30-0.u38562	Thank you. We have one correction to the incorrect allegations of the esteemed representative Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-30-0.u38563	Mr. Vice President. I'll make it right again. Namely, the presentation that was and is now justified that it was not actually said was said that we were in this Croatian House obsessing about. That's incorrect, and I'd like to say coffee is a drink.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-30-0.u38564	Please, it's not a topic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-30-0.u38565	That free coffee is drunk on Pantovichka and who knows... [[The speakers speak out loud, the speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-30-0.u38566	Your Honor, this is not the topic we're discussing right now. And finally, on behalf of the promoter, the esteemed Drazen Bosnjakovic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Justice.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-30-0.u38567	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen. I, on behalf of the promoter, really thank you for this very good debate today on the Law on Tourism and Other Building Land, which is unrated in core capital. This is an extremely complex problem, this is an extremely complex question and let me believe that it has not been solved so far because of this fact that it is very difficult to solve. These colleagues who are lawyers, who are very well aware of how many different interests are here and wherever you approach this problem, new problems that are very difficult to solve are opened to you. This is what I would say and I'm wearing one impression from this House today that there's a really positive atmosphere to solve it together because the debate was definitely great, the remarks were extraordinary, and we're going to do it for the other, so if we have to read it three times, but we're going to put it really well. We're really going to have these questions that you've turned our attention to, look at them for the next reading. It is very justified that what the colleagues of the SDP have said and the rest of course it is necessary to define what is the market price and what is the fee, how it will be determined and we have foreseen it here in this first proposal to regulate it by the Government regulation because we considered it to be a more elastic, faster act, but I fully agree that it takes at least those basic frameworks in which this fee and price will be defined to be this law. For a second reading, we'll predict it. I'll remove everything immediately that this law has, that it's written by the hand of the hotelers of these or those. No, believe me, he's really written with the intention of solving the problem. If anyone recognizes that he's favored this one or that one, I don't think he's here. Simply, we want to find the owner of the owner because what's been said to charge back the use it's very difficult. Because to open one such question, we will have problems that neither of us in the whole of one large area are registered as the Republic of Croatia as the owner and owner of that land. If you're not the owner, then you can't even charge for anything. It's very difficult. We'll end up here in court, and I don't know how many processes we're going to be running. Our intention is precisely to say it's the owner, this one and that one, and that's why it's not the goal of selling powerful squares to tycoons, or to these, or to those, but to sell those necessary squares to form particles. I also agree with the observation that Article 18, which speaks, should be specified because in this way we really need to look at this article 18 in the context of articles 21, 28 and 29. But you know, when we have one land particle and on it when we have one building that building might have been paid through privatisation and conversion, there's a very common situation that it is. However, it is impossible to show this property legally because you cannot become the owner of a single particle just building, and you cannot become the owner of either the building or the floor area under the building, but it is simply possible to become the owner if a new particle is formed. In order for the new particle to form a unit of local self-government, the state where it is to be sold must sell a certain part of the area of that particle to form a new parcel. And here I fully agree that this law needs to be defined and determined which land is needed for regular use in order not to actually have some big sale and all that. But what we need, even though we have the Law on Spatial Planning, is the Law on Building That Speaks, in fact, even about how much the percentage of building up of a particular particle is needed to form it. And that's why all these remarks that are here today were very good and we're going to see that the more precise answers in this law for the second, so I said we don't run away again if we have to and three times we're going to read this but the problem is so complex that it's not simply solved. I'm glad that good intentions have been recognized, and I'm glad that one positive atmosphere is that we can work this out together and I believe that for another reading we'll really do better to prepare it. I already said in my first performance, we gave ourselves that deadline of some kind of six months because the regulations are also very complex. They are not just supporting documents and sublegal acts, but we will work on them this summer and we will certainly cut that deadline to what is possible. I thank you once again for a very good debate, for many suggestions, and I believe that we will see each other very quickly in another reading with even better solutions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-30-0.u38568	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when they get the necessary conditions. This concludes today's session. We start tomorrow at 9.30. We will vote on the remaining points, including the rebalancing of the budget with the amendments that have come in the meantime. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-30-0.u38569	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen of counsel and counsel. We continue with the work of the 13th extraordinary session and move on to the vote on the debated points. Please engage to determine the quorum. The quorum, let's see. We have a quorum We have a quorum, we can work. [[/Intruder: It wasn't you who got involved.]] We move to the Proposal for a Law on Tourism and Other Building Land unrated in the process of conversion and privatisation, first reading, P.Z. No. 423, Proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. I am voting on the following conclusion: "1. The proposal for a law on tourism and other building land is adopted unrated in the process of conversion and privatisation. 2. All objections, proposals and opinions presented in the debate will be addressed to the applicant in order to prepare a final draft of the law." Please get involved and let's vote. Score. The conclusion was accepted by most votes, 83 votes in favour, 2 abstentions and 19 against.
