ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-06-0.u26415	First we have a report on the start of the stay of MP Ante Djapic's term of office and the start of acting as deputy deputy representative of the Serbian Parliament. At the 16th session held on 6 February 2009, the mandate-immunity commission of the Croatian Parliament discussed the written request of MP Ante Djapic of 4 February 2009 informing the Commission that he had put his representative mandate in office for personal reasons, on the basis of Article 14(1). Law on election of MPs in the Croatian Parliament. As Mr Ante Djapic was elected representative in the 6th Assembly of the Croatian Parliament as a candidate from the Croatian Party's list of rights in the 4th Election Unit, the Croatian Party is right in accordance with Article 12(1). The law on election of MPs in the Croatian Parliament has been designated by Daniel Serbs as deputy representative in that election unit. The Commission has established that the conditions laid down in Articles 14 and 11. Law on election of MPs in the Croatian Parliament to begin the stay of Ante Djapic's parliamentary mandate as well as the conditions for the start of acting as his deputy, Daniela Srb. In accordance with Article 104, the Mandate-Immunity Commission shall, after the debate has been carried out, be based on Article 104. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament unanimously with 7 votes to propose to the Croatian Parliament a decision on the stay of the parliamentary mandate and the start of acting as deputy deputies. On 4 February 2009, the stay of MP Ante Djapic's term of office begins. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament of 6 February 2009 began acting as Deputy Representative Daniel Srb.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-06-0.u26416	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I am voting in favour of the proposal from the Mandate-Immunity Commission of the Decision on the rest of the parliamentary mandate and the start of the conduct of the deputy representative, Mr Daniel Sr. Who's in favour of this decision, please raise your hand. Thank you. Do you mind? Abstained? There isn't. I find that this proposal of the Mandate-Immunity Commission has been unanimously accepted by 119 votes. And immediately, I ask Mr. Representative Daniel Sr. to swear. After reading the text of the oath, I will call upon an advocate who swears by standing up and saying the word I swear. The text of the oath reads: I swear by my honor that I will act consciously and responsibly in my work and that I will stick to the Constitution and the Law and respect the legal order, and that I will stand up for all the progress of the Republic of Croatia. Mr. Representative Daniel Srb.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-06-0.u26417	I swear. ... [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-06-0.u26418	Thank you very much and congratulations. ... Congratulations to Mr. Representative and can take his place where Mr. Djapic was. [[Applause.]] Let's move on. The mandate-immunity commission.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-06-0.u26419	Reports of a request for authorisation to initiate criminal proceedings against Ingrid Antičević-Marinovic, a representative in the Croatian Parliament. At the 16th session held on 6 February 2009, the mandate-immunity committee of the Croatian Parliament discussed the request of the subsidiary prosecutor of the Croatian Party of Law 1861 for the authorisation of the initiation of criminal proceedings against Ingrid Anticevic-Marinovic for the criminal offence of the counterfeiting of the official document referred to in Article 312 of the criminal offence of the hiding or destruction of the official document referred to in Article 324. Member States shall ensure that the competent authorities of the Member States of the Member States of the other Member States of the other Member States of the other Member States of the European Union, as referred to in point (a) of Article 1(1) of Penalty law. Ms. Ingrid Antičević is a representative of the 6th Assembly of the Croatian Parliament and on the basis of Article 75. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Article 23 The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament shall have immunity until the term of office has ceased, and without a decision of the Croatian Parliament against it may not be initiated or prosecuted. The commission found that the decision of the County State Attorney's Office in Zagreb had been rejected since 22 October 2007 by the criminal application of the Croatian party of law 1861 against Ingrid Anticevic-Marinovic and that it submitted a proposal against the representative to conduct investigations as a subsidiary prosecutor. Following the debate, the Mandate-Immunity Commission shall, on the basis of Article 104. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament propose the adoption of the following decision to the Croatian Parliament: "During the duration of the parliamentary term, the authorisation for the initiation of criminal proceedings against MP Ingrid Antičević-Marinovic, on the proposal for the conduct of investigations by the subsidiary prosecutor of the Croatian party of law 1861 in case number 12... withdrawal 241/07. for the offences referred to in Articles 312, 324 and 337. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The Penal Code."
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-06-0.u26420	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. There isn't. I'm closing the debate. I'm making a motion for a vote. Who is the mandated immunity committee for the motion for a decision? Against? Thank you. Restraint? Thank you. This proposal by the Mandate-Immunity Commission was adopted unanimously by 120 votes. I'd like to ask the chairman of the Board for the selection of appointments and administrative tasks.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-06-0.u26422	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. The selection, appointment and administration committee of the Croatian Parliament's work at the 26th session held on 5 February unanimously set out a proposal for a Decision appointing a member of the Management Board of the National Foundation for Science, Higher Education and Technological Development of the Republic of Croatia. As a member of the Management Board of the National Foundation for Science, Higher Education and Technological Development of the Republic of Croatia is appointed on 25 February 2009 at the proposal of the National Science Council Dr Alemka Markotic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-06-0.u26423	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I propose a committee for the selection of appointments for the vote. Who's in favour of the motion for this decision? Thank you. Against? Thank you. Restraint? Thank you. This proposal for a decision was adopted unanimously by 115 votes. So we move to - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Value Added Tax Act, First Reading, P.Z. No. 186. Proposer: SDP representative club Proposer of this act is a club based on Article 129. Rules of Procedure. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading shall apply to the adoption of this law. You received the proposal by mail. The government delivered an opinion. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Finance and the State Budget. You received the reports at the session. Does the proposaler's representative want to further explain? Yeah. Mrs. Representative, Dear Zgrebec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-06-0.u26425	Thank you, Mr. President, Mr. Secretary with associates, colleagues and colleagues. This is the third law from the law package that we sent to the procedure in the 10th month of 2008 and which should be the basis for the 2009 budget policy as the SDP Club sees it. Unfortunately, an emergency procedure was also removed from these laws, and their fate was such that they were not discussed until after the state budget was adopted. We were guided to try to see how to mitigate the consequences of high inflation that began in late 2007, and to escalate in the first half of 2008. So already in April, it was 5.7%, in May 6.4%, in June 7.4, even higher than in July when the rate of inflation is measured by the consumer price index. Of course, the most significant share in such high consumer prices had the price of oil that escalated during that period and withdrew the price rise of all other products and services, in particular the increase in food prices. In July, the increase in food prices compared to July 2007 was almost 15%. With bread and cereals growing almost 20%, meat 10%, milk, cheese and eggs over 17%, and oils and vegetable fats over 30%, fruit over 21%, vegetables 11%. In this period, electricity prices that increased on average by 17.6% compared to the previous period were also increased, while current fuels were due to this particular reason that I had previously raised over 50%. The situation has not improved significantly by the end of the year, and we will probably end up with inflation in 2008. This is also the reason why prices grew, business costs and wages did not follow inflation, they stagnated, and in some periods they even fell realistically. This is visible from statistical data, but also from data on the price of a union basket, which in December 2008 was EUR 6 303 for a four-member family, for a tenant family of 7 883, and for a two-member retirement family of 3 598 kuna. If such a family owns a private car, its average minimum costs increase by 837 kuna. In December of last year, the average salary of a four-member family could cover 80% of its minimum needs, a tenant family of only 64, and the worst was the retirement family that could cover only 59% of the minimum needs with its average pension. The largest share in costs still has a 36% diet, a 28% apartment, education and culture somewhere around 12%. The lack of current income makes up for the family’s natural borrowing. Thus, at the end of November 2008, the credit debt of the population in the commercial banks amounted to more than 123 billion kuna. This per capita amounted to nearly 28 thousand kuna, per employee of about 80,000 kuna, and when we look at the average family, it is almost 100 thousand kuna, or those families have been anticipating through the credit debt of 19 of their average salaries, so more than a year and a half of the earnings that one average salary brings. A high rise in basic food prices affects a large number of families with average incomes, especially those with lower incomes. This also resulted in a drop in purchasing power, and during that period, consumption of food products dropped by more than 12%. And she's the lowest at a time when research is being monitored. So is Caritas, but also the Center for Promoting the Social Science of the Church, as well as the Center for Research of the GFK recently publishes alarming information about the financial state of our families. According to these polls, the results of the survey show that almost 1/3 of the population in Croatia lives in poverty, that more than 1/2 of the population can't cover their costs from month to month, and therefore the population's debt increases so rapidly. Speaking of what the population is saving on, then 1/4 of the population is already saving on food today, and 1/5 is saving on drugs. It is estimated that there are over 700 thousand people in Croatia, and our social programme covers only about 16% of the poor who receive some kind of social assistance. The drop in purchasing power is evident, and so on the purchasing power scale we are only 30 out of 41 countries in Europe to be monitored for research. Of course, we are not isolated, as discussed yesterday, and that the economic and financial crisis that is ruling the world cannot pass through Croatia. But that is why many governments of European and world countries are taking certain measures. That is, it should be said that the rise in prices of products and services also encouraged the European Commission to propose a draft amendment to Directive 2008/106/112 last year to reduce the value added tax rate and said that instead of the lowest rate of 10%, it cannot be less than 5%, so they cut it in half. The Member States of the European Union will be able to use it permanently on a range of products and services. These recommendations suggest that this lower VAT rate be introduced also on children's clothes, shoes, diapers, for buying and maintaining apartments, for books, newspapers and other presses, and on subscriptions, radio and TV subscription, for tourist services, i.e. hotel accommodation and food in restaurants, for natural gas, electricity, heating and cooling. Therefore, according to these recommendations and this draft, we have drawn up the text of amendments and additions of the Law to added value. We propose that the following products and services be added in Article 10a, which introduces a 10% value added tax rate in paragraph 2. Oils and fats as basic food products, and for one part such basic food products as bread, milk, dairy products, professional books and medicines and some other products since '99. For years, we have a zero rate, so we don't count and we don't pay value added tax. In accordance with these recommendations, we suggest that 10% of the value added tax be paid on children's food, children's shoes, clothing and diapers, natural gas, electricity, heating and liquid fuels. It should be said that just in 2008 and early 2009, energy just had a double-digit price increase, so just over 20%. This reduction in VAT rates to those products and services from 22% to an average decrease of 10% in retail prices could result in almost 9% or 8.94% respectively. This is a reduction that traders cannot ignore and which the state should ensure one proper control, therefore and consistently apply value added tax, where it is said when there is a reduction in the value added tax rate that inventory needs to be carried out, price fluctuations, and then the tax administration and other supervisory institutions should carry out their work. Looking through the monthly basket of use of such products and services, saving households at monthly level could be 250 kuna or almost 5% of the average salary received by our employees in Croatia. When assessing the necessary resources for the implementation of this law, we wrote that they do not need to be secured in the state budget because we estimate that neither income from value added tax would be significantly reduced, because the savings achieved by households, or households, or the citizen at the average level of wages would be spared but would buy new goods and services to which he would pay value added tax. This is also the reason why we believe that the government's opinion actually goes in the direction of misunderstanding of the social and financial status of our families, and we think that the assessment of the 2 billion and 200 million kuna tax revenues from VAT is actually a flat-rate assessment, because it does not count that a citizen at the level of income he has in Croatia would not actually save the difference in the consumer basket but only less would he have to be in debt during the month and some products and services you could afford. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-06-0.u26426	Thank you. We have one correction, Mr. Agent Andri Hebrang. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-06-0.u26427	Thank you very much. Well, I can't agree that the statement is correct. A colleague says the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Croatia is going towards not understanding the social state of our citizens. This government has shown a number of measures to improve the social situation, from increasing the social minimum to changing taxes to income, etc. So all measures were aimed at improving the social, not at misunderstanding of the social standard. And secondly, that inflation will be in 2009. 6%. You have the latest opinion in 2,000 900 you said. But neither in 2009 nor in eighth is 6% at year level, but it will be between 3% and 4%. And that's incorrect.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-06-0.u26428	Thank you. Does the government want a representative? Yeah. Minister of Finance Mr. Ivan Shuker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-06-0.u26429	Thank you very much. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. So, listening to yesterday's and today's debates with the government and me as a representative of the government, there is a fundamental issue. Are these three laws that are proposed anti-inflation or anti-recession? Because if the SDP club were to show what it was, then if they had answered an anatirecially in a different way, it would have been justified what the government had done about the recession, and if they were anti-inflation, then we would answer in one such way. But if I didn't have too much fun about it, I'd try to answer some basic things first. So if this law was done as anti-inflation, then given what is happening today in the Republic of Croatia this law is being passed. Why? Because inflation at 12 months was 2.9%. Because the price of unleaded gasoline at the time you proposed this bill was 8.7 kuna, it is now about 6.6 and until a week ago it was 6.27. That means almost 30% lower than that. The price of euro diesel was 8 kuna 99, it is now around 6 kuna and 46,6 kuna and 50. So again, a reduction of over 30% and a lot of oil that had a price when you proposed this law of 6 kuna and 38 limes, and today it's 3 kunas and 65 limes. If the main reason for your rhetoric and those who raised prices were the increase in energy prices, then today that argument no longer stands for you. Because today the energy prices are lower than they were two or three years ago. So, if it was an argument for some to raise prices in the Republic of Croatia because energy prices are rising, I will repeat by which times and I have said that several times after this pay phone, then today we still have to be an argument to reduce prices. Because if something was the reason for the price hike, then if that reason changed in the opposite direction, then that must be the reason for the price reduction. So much for inflation, for the causes of inflation, and not to mention that they told us that we are a kiwi for inflation, not a world movement. Well, gentlemen, if we were to blame for inflation, then we are now responsible for why inflation is 2.9% at 12 months. Because you can't get away from rhetoric. If the government was guilty then, it's due today. So, I'm only trying to make your statements within a year so you'll see that some things, some assessments as they didn't stand in the first half of 2008 don't even stand today. The second thing you forget is that one model that we have proposed and that you have strongly criticised when there was budget rebalancing here in the seventh month, which is that at the position of the Ministry of Finance, 600 million kuna funds for intervention measures in the economy and for aid for increasing certain prices to the most vulnerable groups of the Croatian population. So, we have decided that for those who spend up to 2,000 kilowatts of electricity per month that their electricity price is not growing but that this price increase will be co-financed from the state budget and we have done so neatly. Therefore, the price of electricity for the most vulnerable groups of Croatians did not rise in 2008. Mr. President, I'd like to ask you a little bit if I can get some peace to talk.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-06-0.u26430	... [[The speaker is not on, you can't hear it.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-06-0.u26431	Okay. The second thing, the gas price didn't even rise in 2008. So these are the basic arguments that are listed here to amend this law. But now I'd like to say something else. Are we, as a country that is in the final stage of adapting its legislation and the conclusion of negotiations for entry into the European Union, able and may we, we can, but is it wise, whether it is opportunised to propose a law that is contrary to the directives in the European Union? And this law is in direct contrast with several directives. And now I'm gonna say it. Therefore, children's shoes and clothing and diapers, that is Directive 2006/112 of the European Community, which clearly states: "A reduced rate of value added tax does not apply to children's shoes and clothing.". For diapers, it is said that if a reduced rate were applied then perhaps they could be classified as hygienic protection and that is point 3. Directive 2006/112/EC. So, it's about children's shoes and clothes. As for the directive that regulates the taxation of energy and heat, we also have a directive that clearly tells us what we can do. So that's the 2006 directive that says that, I'm going to quote that it wouldn't have been later if I had invented something, "natural gas, electricity, heating, liquid fuel doesn't apply a reduced VAT rate.". And now there's one explanation and I want to read it for the correctness of it, so I want you to assess for yourself whether we're able to do it at this point or not. It says, we note that it is in accordance with Article 102. The 2006 Directives can change the reduced rate of tax on these matters, but we cannot now prescribe a reduced rate since we are not a member of the European Union. It's just a fact. And if we were to propose such a bill, we should ask for an amendment to the Law on Value Added Tax to the consent of the European Commission because you well know that we have before us the opening of Chapter 16 – taxes. So this bill of law doesn't meet a few elemental things. One thing is that it is contrary to European Union legislation and we cannot be here when we talk about how much this Parliament or on a proposal from the Government discussed and passed laws that adapt the legal legislation of the Republic of Croatia with the legal legislation of the European Union criticise the Government. We've also heard these stories about European funds and a lot of things, but at the end of the year it turned out to be 94% and not 10%, as others have said. So, we can't do that when we like it to be Europeans, and when we don't like it, we don't care about the European Union. We cannot ignore that this law is contrary to European Union directives. I know that colleagues from the SDP can say this one way or another, but the European Union directives are something that stands, facts. You can say it's not like that, but I read you what the directive is and I quoted it as that. Therefore, it is about harmony. And in the end, there will be more opportunities to talk, I would like to say something to the distinguished representative and colleague Zgrebec. The government has not made a flat-rate estimate of 2 million and 200 thousand, 2 billion and 200 million losses. He's not a colleague of Zgrebec, we respect this High House too much, and we respect you MPs too much because in the end we were all in these benches to do something like that. Be assured that this estimate of 2 billion and 200 was made the most professional, professional thing that could be done. And now there's something else I want to tell you. These 2 billion 200 and those laws you proposed yesterday carry a government budget deficit of 15 billion kuna. Are you going to suggest that this deficit be financed by reducing the expenditure side so you don't have a deficit, reducing pensions, wages, social benefits, or suggesting that the deficit be 6% again as it was in your time. And tell me in a situation like this on the world financial market where we'll find the money to finance it. And that's why, ladies and gentlemen, respected colleagues and colleagues from the SDP club. I think that in these difficult moments we must all bear responsibility for what we say because perception is seen as people who are at the head of this country and I think that such proposals that are fiscally unsustainable and macroeconomic stability is one of the basic preconditions of something that the Republic of Croatia can certainly be praised for and I would ask you nicely. I would respect and appreciate this proposal if you had installed it in the state budget, if you'd shown the revenue and expenditure side. However, I repeat, because of Croatian citizens, because of the Croatian public, because of the people and the economy that pay taxes in the Republic of Croatia, these three proposals cost Croatia and the citizens at least 15 billion kuna. This leads Croatia to macroeconomic stability, which leads Croatia to a decline in credit ratings and that is true. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-06-0.u26432	Thank you, Minister. We have three corrections. First up is Mr. Boris Sprem.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-06-0.u26433	Mr. President. Mr. Minister said this law fits. Yes, the government has done everything in its power to be in time, in time, as the minister said, all because we have sent this bill to procedure 28. Ten. You have had enough time, however, to have had before you this and these other laws to compose it into an economic policy expressed through the budget and not just us, but primarily through the budget for this year, but only now did you put it on the agenda of this House. So much for this law being a dog. No, no, no. You did it to be a dog.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-06-0.u26434	Correction of the incorrect allegations Mr. Representative Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-06-0.u26435	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister said that because inflation has fallen in the last two months this law is at the wrong moment being debated, that is, with what Mr. Shmreme said "pass", I don't think it is. Because all the other costs, and in advance I will say the cost of credit to Croatian citizens in the last month, two days, three, have so much increased that they have advertised any price reduction effect in the last two months, which may be because of what the purchasing power of Croatian citizens of Mr. Ministers has fallen as well. Another incorrect allegation is, as Mr. Minister said, that this proposal is not in line with the European Directive. It means EU Directive 2006. 112 The EC prescribes that the lowest reduced VAT rate can be set to 5%. So for these products, which we have listed in our proposal can also be determined by the directive, the directive defines the lowest rate of 5%. So that's another incorrect quote from Mr. Shucker.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-06-0.u26436	Thank you. There's another representative of Milanka Opačić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-06-0.u26437	Mr Minister, you said that the European Union directive does not open a space for reducing VAT rates. Well, in the national population policy brought by your government, it's like this. Introduce preferential value added tax rates, on children's clothing, shoes, equipment, food and hygiene products, does this mean that you have deceived citizens, so you will not do this to them or that once the European Union directive applies when we propose, or when you propose, and the second time is not worth it?
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-06-0.u26438	Thank you. Let's move on. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? Yeah. First Mr. Maric, therefore, Goran Maric on behalf of the Committee on Finance and the State Budget.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-06-0.u26439	Thank you. Mr. President, Mr. Minister, government representatives, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. The Committee on Finance and the State Budget of the Croatian Parliament discussed at its 21st session held on 9 December 2008 the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Value Added Tax Act, which was delivered to the President of the Croatian Parliament by the Club of Representatives of the SDP in the Croatian Parliament by an act of 28 October 2008. In the debate on the Committee, the opinion supported the position of the Government of the Republic of Croatia was expressed in a written opinion not to support the law in question on the grounds of the provisions of Article 98. Directive 112/ 2006 provides that Member States may apply one or two reduced rates only to the delivery of goods or the provision of services listed in Appendix 3 to the Directive. And where, among other things, food products are listed, children's shoes, clothing and diapers, as well as energy supplies, are not listed. For those reasons, it cannot prescribe a reduced rate on products not covered by Appendix 3. Directive 112 of 2006 and, therefore, the proposed reduction in the value added tax of 22% to 10% for the proposed products would result in an additional reduction in the revenues of the state budget of the Republic of Croatia by at least 2 billion and 200 million kuna per year. After the debate was held, the Committee on Finance and the State Budget of the Croatian Parliament decided as the home working body by majority of votes, 7 votes for and 6 votes against, to propose to the Croatian Parliament the conclusion that the Amendment Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Value Added Tax is not accepted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-06-0.u26440	Thank you, on behalf of the Legislative Committee, Mr. President of the Committee, Mr. Emil Tomljanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-06-0.u26441	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Your Honor, Mr. Minister with Associates, at the 43rd session held on 10 December 2008, the Committee on Legislatives of the Croatian Parliament discussed the draft law amending and supplementing the Value Added Tax Act, which was submitted to the President of the Croatian Parliament by an act of 28 October 2008. The Legislative Committee does not support the adoption of this law and for the reasons set out in the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Croatia as set out in the act of 27 November 2008. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-06-0.u26442	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. The first on behalf of the IDS Club is Mr. Representative Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-06-0.u26443	Mr. President, Your Honor, Mr. Secretary, Clearly, we'd all like the VAT to be as small as possible. I'll try to remind you of this VAT history, the law if I'm not mistaken is introduced when? It's about 96 years back when it was decided by, but it's applied to 1. 1. '98. Minister, I know that very well. But on the same occasion when it was decided on that 22% VAT rate, the IDS proposal also decided that Croatia had at its general rate two differentiated rates of that tourist, catering of 11 as we then proposed 5% food rate, children's supplies and not to count further. We also knew then that the zero rate that was subsequently introduced, so after 98 years sooner or later it will have to be abolished, and that will soon happen in Croatia with zero rates for sure before Croatia enters the European Union. As much as I do today, I feel to be honest that this almost 13-year-old IDS proposal may be the most powerful in terms of VAT itself. However, what happens this year in 2009 began there sometime during the 2008 season. Which we do with taxes mostly VAT.? Where do you start here? How's it going? Who to protect? What do you suggest? What do you just define yourself for? We're sort of thinking that in 2009, there's going to be a year of personal business bankruptcy, we're afraid that it's a year if nothing is done and a year that's going to be a pension break, I'm talking about the second pillar that we talked about yesterday, where it's seen that those who are second-degree users and are going to retire at this point have a 20-40% lower pension than the rest of the first pillar. and the year of retirement. Now I'm talking about the second pillar that we talked about yesterday, where it appears that those who are second-degree users who are going to retire at the moment have a 20-40% lower pension than that they stayed in the first column. And so I appeal clearly to the Minister of Finance, to the Government that something in this regard is done. It doesn't matter what the law was passed during the 3rd January coalition in 2002. It is simply necessary to help those who will find themselves in an extremely unpleasant situation. Clearly, there is a question of how to help a small man. I say there's no greater help at this point down there to save that individual a job. Right, the prices we have in this country are rudely high, they're a problem, but it's an even bigger problem if a man loses his job. The individual will then, for example, have no salary, no job, clearly have no credit, no children to buy shoes, to pay for electricity, etc., for food, and then the biggest humiliation that can happen to someone, and the rich and the state will not have any contributions, taxes and anything else that we see in some way and all of us here. I agree that tax reform is clearly needed in the VAT section. However, what the IDS suggested in 95, 96, is actually a question of whether this is a priority. I mean differentiated rates. Today, the Croatian priority may be something else with VAT, which is the deadline for VAT maturity, which should be extended from 30 days to 60 days. That's the point. Listen to me, it's a simple thing. It depends at this point on the survival of tens and tens of thousands of jobs. I would even dare say so today is not the time to bid who will be faster and offer lower rates. The point is that the payment deadline for VAT from 30 days extends to 60 days because this is what I say is being saved, helps tens of thousands of people in small companies. We have on the other hand even a case that this unfortunate VAT on import pays within eight days. Well, there's no such thing as gentlemen anywhere in the world. And it should be returned for at least 30 days or should be extended to 60 days. So who's able to pay these small companies that VAT in eight days? The big ones always go out to meet, give some guarantees, guarantees, so they're long gone for 30 days, but the little ones pay the VAT within eight days. Well, that's crazy. Because of such standards, thousands of small businesses and thousands and thousands of people are left out of work. The big ones always get this possibility of prolonging their payments, which will say that the normal state favors the tycoons and that's why the small ones fail. And that's why I'm saying at this point in this country the capital of small people in these business entities is also the most endangered. Little craftsmen, small employers, and they are even worse placed I dare say from workers because the worker corresponds to his work and the kid corresponds to all of his assets that he and his family have simply acquired for decades. I also claim that in this country, grotesque jobs are held simply by these small subjects, not large, and it has to be all of us in mind. The state is now de facto able to say we withdrew all the credit assets of our business banks. The big one's going to get some kind of loan, but then there's a question of what's going on with these little subjects. I can even agree with those who publicly say that the state doesn't have too much space to save banks, or to intervene in the economy, which was, that should be understood by our shipbuilders. I've always stood up for them, that they don't let the state go bankrupt because it doesn't make sense that one Oilman does a positive, that de facto doesn't get a single kuna and that the other one spends every year, that I don't say they list 4-5 billion kunas which will say that the state for the recovery and subsidisation of one "3 May", "Trogira", "Kraljevica", "Brodosplita" gives more money every year than the total of those shipyards is coming in by selling ships. The state has no space. Don't let God make that happen, or help the consummation. We see what kind of problems they're in. The state can't help exporters, it doesn't help tourism. She's put herself in one situation so she can't do anything and then she's flaunting herself with bridges, halls, promises, now handball home, etc. Mr. Minister, INGRA and this home in Zagreb handballed for 15 thousand 200 seats built for 644 million kuna. The payments over 28 years will cost the state and the city of Zagreb a billion 800 and some million kuna. Well, we're not simply Kuwait so that we can throw ourselves away for billions of kunas. So, if it wants to help the economy of the state employees working there, let that VAT extend from 30 days to 60 days, and let's get close to Europe when we have to think about eliminating a zero VAT rate because, for example, VAT is paid in Italy or IVA within 4 months. Especially those small companies, so they're survival artists. So they should be given, there's no Kotromanovic here, a folk hero's medal that keeps all of us in this country just keeping myself alive. And what are we doing? We're even defending them on Sundays. We don't let people work. So where's that? We transfer the burden from day to day to economy, these to the people, and, of course, one day it'll have to break somewhere. For the time being, it's probably going to be a job loss, there'll be no more exploitations say the unions, and there really won't be any exploitations, "exploitation" if a man runs out of work, etc. It is clear that the IDS advocates that this law goes to another reading. The positions of Mr Vidosevic's Chamber of Commerce, Mr. Mudrinic, are interesting. Does anyone have any presidential ambitions that I don't care about? But the same thing is the same thing they need to ask as a question. Where do we say Vidoshević has what he owns? Maybe you should ask yourself, where, I mean, what did you have until 93, and how did it suddenly start you so suddenly when you entered the government, cementists, Krass shares, etc. These tycoons of ours, they're certainly not going to get nicked. I argue, I know that this will not happen, if one honest revision of the conversion in this country with only one banal question would be carried out, to ask everyone you had in the '90s and how you came to the first million euros and what was then marks, dollars, to presently reach not 15 billion kunas, which we all now mention, but to reach 15 billion euros overnight but euros. That's where the 15 billion kuna money lies. The war profiteers, the tycoon, and the tycoons have none that isn't and the war profiteer, because I don't know who's fair about being in this country after '90. acquired when it comes to social clear assets. War profiting is something else, and guessing in the sale of banks to foreigners. So we sold the banks for 7 billion kuna. Winning a bank in 2008 was also 7 billion kuna. War profit is a bargain I don't know in THT sales where Mr. Mudrinic's director is not to talk about other companies. Profiteration is then ministers who led the privatisation of these major national systems, then become directors or remain directors in these same systems, but now normally in the service of foreign owners. That's how we lost not billions of kuna, but that's how this country lost billions and billions of euros. In this country, clearly no one intends to ask the question of privatisation, unfortunately, not even in 2000 when IDS was in government for a year and two, three months, not today, but also on these issues one day someone will have to at least tell the Croatian citizen the truth. So the question is, what is the best social policy? What is the best development policy in this country? What's the best economic policy? What would be the best government policy? Full-time policy. And that's why everything needs to be done to preserve this country's economic base, to defend this every job, so it's equally important to preserve both the workplace and the standard, but without a job, understandably, then there's no standard, in one word then there's no bread for anyone. Not for the state, not for the worker, not for the employer, not for the union leader, not for anyone. And that's why IDS proposes paying VAT not more than 30 days, but 60 days. A man without a job is not a man without pride. Far from being a man of work, a man with no dignity or honor, but pride and honor and dignity are damaged by the fact that he can't buy his son a pair of shoes, which he won't be able to pay for a loan, which someone will use to force him out of his apartment, which won't help his sick mother I don't know at the hospital, etc. It is clear that Croatia is having a difficult life, unfortunately it will be even harder and that is why the mind is in the head. A clear opposition will always blow on the neck, I will say to the authorities but the Parliament must also not marginalise or obstruct. And the obstruction was also an occupation of the pay phone, but obstruction is something else and then the same SDP rightly warns when let's say one of their proposals is 4.5 months, so to speak, standing on ice. It's simply not true, and it's true that these laws that the minister was talking about are heavy somewhere around 14 billion kunas, so there's really a question of where, where, who, etc. something to take. I was going to say one more thing, but the time is running out and I'm not going to ask what I heard yesterday about the five-colonels from Osijek who killed Serbs and whether a Reich Kir might have been a five-colonach desk or was liquidated by the five-colonels.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-06-0.u26444	Before I give my word to the Proposer's representative, we have two corrections. First it's Mr. Davor Huška. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-06-0.u26445	Thank you, Mr. President. He didn't come out of the agenda at all, Mr. Cain, 'cause like we saw, and I'm repeating again what I said yesterday. We could correct his incorrect allegations throughout the afternoon, but I'm only going to correct one. The government did not borrow money from the economy, a 750m-euro loan was raised by domestic banks. This is not about increasing public debt, as old loans or commitments from 2001 and 2003 are being refinanced, and the government itself did not take money from the economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-06-0.u26446	Thank you. Another amendment, Mr. Berislav Roncevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-06-0.u26447	Thank you very much, Mr. President. It is really hard to correct this kind of speech, Mr. Cain, but I simply owe it to correct it not to build sports halls in the Republic of Croatia threatened shopping as he says. I'd say tennis, any Croatian kid. These shoes were equally threatened when 500 million kuna went to Victor Lenac, and the tennis shoes were threatened equally and even more when the "Rječka banka" was renovated, so Mr. Caina didn't care, and then he didn't show those tears for Croatian children's tennis shoes. Unlike those millions and millions of kunas, for which we may never know how much has gone into those two failed projects in Croatia, the halls remain for the benefit of Croatian children. If Mr. Cain doesn't see it, I'm very sorry.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-06-0.u26448	Thank you. On behalf of the promoter, Madam Representative Dragica Zgrebec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-06-0.u26449	Thank you, Mr. President. In fact, in the light of this law, we also said that the accelerated inflation in 2008 which in one part was the result of high oil derivatives prices has affected the price rise of all products. Of course, we're also registering this fall as said by Minister Schuker of 30%. However, the producers of certain products, and primarily here food, do not reduce prices in the adequate amount of the price of gasoline, as they have increased the prices of other energy products. During 2008, electricity, early 2009 gas. There's other costs going up. Inflation, it would be a disaster for inflation to grow in 2009 at the rate it grew in 2008 because inflation will be built on an average inflation of 2008 that will be there not at 3%, but somewhere at 6%. Because if it was greater than 6% over the year, it couldn't be reduced to 3% at the end of the year. ...the intruder can't be heard. Don't call God, you've got a pay phone and you'll answer me. We were not against intervention measures and the insurance of 600 million kuna in the budget for interventions in the social sphere. We were against how 600 million kunas were spent for interventions, because they did not go towards the citizens. They were heading towards the company because they did not refer to those who should be participating the costs of increased electricity, but were counting. I've already said here once, we who spend a little bit, who big families with small children who spend more electricity, they practically under your social and intervention measures didn't actually get anything and pay the highest price actually of energy growth. Is it wise to propose a law that does not comply with the directives? So we have proposed amendments to this law exactly in line with the amendment of the Value Added Tax Directive, because you are talking about the 2006 directive, and we are talking about the amendment of the 2008 directive where the products and services that we have stated are being paid by VAT at this reduced rate are listed there. It should be said that we, the Value Added Tax Act, did not even comply with the directives. 10 years ago, at the last session of Parliament in 1999, we discussed two identical proposals for the introduction of a zero VAT rate. Club of HDZ Representatives and SDP Representatives Club. So, not the government, but these two clubs. The same SDP proposal was rejected. We were satisfied because our proposal was the same as the HDZ Club. We introduced a zero rate on basic food products. Directive 2006 says there cannot be zero rates. Why don't we coordinate that, Minister? So you're saying we'd go back to the 6% deficit. No, we don't want to go back to the deficit of 6%, but isn't it time to analyze the tax system, say that some are overloaded by taxes and that it's time to think and start introducing new taxes for those who don't now pay tax on certain incomes and to comply with our tax system, with our Constitution, and say where it says, that each according to its economic power must participate in the cost of the state. And when you say that you have now settled into some normal frameworks of deficits, I will remind you because these days I'm reading a comprehensive report from the State Audit Office for 2007 saying that nearly 3 billion expenditures in the state budget haven't been recorded. Well, then what a proven deficit was real or maybe even unrealistic, maybe even bigger than we showed it. And finally, let me say, colleague Cain on behalf of the IDS Club, I thank the club for supporting this proposal, and it advocates going to another reading and proposing that the payment deadlines of VAT be extended. We accept such a proposal, and if our proposal will go to another reading, we will intervene in these provisions of the VAT Act, where we have now concentrated only on the part relating to VAT payment rates and which should be in favour of consumers and provide them with somewhat greater purchasing power than they currently have. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-06-0.u26450	Thank you. Before the Government's representative, one amendment. Andrew Hebrang. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-06-0.u26451	Thank you very much. So for the third time, I'm correcting my colleague that the inflation rate will not be 6% thanks to the government's actions that have prevented inflationary pressures by its measures. And I just remind you that in December 2008, and he can see on the websites, inflation was 4.2% which was less than a year earlier when it was 4.7 in December.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-06-0.u26452	Thank you. On behalf of the government, Minister Ivan Shuker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-06-0.u26453	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, I have to intervene for the sake of the Croatian public. It is simply not true that you can propose a law calling for the directives that are in the proposal. It's simply incorrect. So, what you said about the 2008 directive, Mrs. Zgrebec, because of the Croatian public, you cannot propose a law calling for a proposal for a directive. You can propose a law that is in accordance with European Union directives and you can correct as much as you want, but it is a notorious fact. There can be no other counter-arguments against notor facts. And what I have said here responsibly, as Minister of Finance in the Government of the Republic of Croatia, I stand. You have no right to deceive the Croatian public. You don't. So you can't say something that isn't. It's another thing. If last year at 12 months you attacked the Government of the Republic of Croatia for an inflation of 5.8%, according to the same criteria, by the same methodology, that inflation at 12 months this year is 2.9% and you simply deny it. It's another thing. If you do not want to accept the government projections presented in the budget, accept the projections of international financial institutions, accept the projections of the Croatian National Bank and you will see that inflation for 2009 is about 3.5%. Yes, I said a deficit of 6% because these 15 billion kunas that you have proposed with these laws to the Croatian wolf towards the 6% deficit. I'd be happy if after all the analysis we've done at the Ministry of Finance would come up with some new sources of income that you're talking about that wouldn't be so. Today, the international financial market, along with such a deficit, is impossible to repay. It's just impossible. And there's no one who's going to place bonds under any circumstances to finance 15 billion deficits. It just doesn't exist. With all these good macroeconomic indicators, we'll try to get out at 4.5 months to finance borrowing on the domestic market. Also, for the sake of the Croatian public, I would like to say something. The government has not taken money through the economy with these 750m euros. Why? Because the Central Bank operation has only been done and in practice it can only be made to finance the needs of the state. It's a simple fact and all those who deal with finance, with public finances, all those who know something about monetary policy know it's true. But why are we planning to go out in the fourth or fifth months out exactly that this deficit proposed by the central state of 0.8 is actually 0.87% financed outside, not on the domestic market, and in such a way we leave the money to the Croatian economy. I'd like to see you here say one fact that I don't know. No one at the Ministry of Finance knows it, and we haven't even received a comment from the State Audit Office that we need to revise the 2007 deficit. You said here that the State Audit found that there were 3 billion uninformed expenditures. I'd like to see where those expenses are and what the expenses are. Another thing, when you speak very often, you also mention the word indifference. Whoever's tied to the state budget doesn't pay in time. Who? Croatian roads are not tied to the state budget? Croatian highways are not tied to the state budget? However, when it suits you, when you did not show a billion and 500 million kuna loans for the reconstruction of Croatian railways in 2003, you said that the Croatian railways are not in the budget. But you simply owe a billion and a half million to a state that had to be paid out of the state budget, which you didn't record in the state budget. Second thing, I heard on the radio this morning saying Croatian highways don't pay. I would remind you of the decision of the Supervisory Board of the Croatian highways practically after the 2003 elections where 2 billion and 400 million will be paid from the 2004 budget. So then you didn't mind that Croatian highways have over 2 and a half billion unpaid works. However, speaking without arguments may be sweet at times. However, all the happiness of Croatian citizens is not naive and no one can sell them anything under the table. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-06-0.u26454	Thank you. We have a correction, Mrs. Dear Zgrebec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-06-0.u26455	Fortunately, the citizens don't listen to you or us, but look at their situation, so they're certainly not naive. But to correct an incorrect quote. It is incorrect for us to violate compliance with this proposal with the European Union, because our Value Added Tax Act is not in line with European Union legislation because it has a zero rate, which the European Union Directive cannot have, which we have not harmonised so far. And this proposal is, in fact, in line with the proposal to amend the directive. The amendment proposal and the bill, he's in first reading. Comrade Shuker! Today, highways may not owe anyone, but highways don't allow their works to be invoiced, so they don't owe them anything.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-06-0.u26456	Okay. Let's move on. Thank you very much. On behalf of the SDP club, Ms Milanka Opačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-06-0.u26457	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues. This law is therefore one in a series of laws that should help Croatian citizens, the Croatian economy, to deal with the crisis more easily this year. Therefore, the Law amending the Law on Value Added Tax, which is primarily aimed at citizens and helping citizens to keep as much as possible their standard, was sent to the procedure within the 10th month of last year, because it was already seen in the autumn of last year that some parameters show that the standard of citizens is falling, that the economy has more and more problems. And so we've already intervened with this law. However, the law only now came to the agenda in February. The fact is also that the indicators written under this law are now completely different. We also showed this yesterday at the Law on Value Added Tax and on the Law on Contributions. So some statistical indicators have deteriorated significantly over the last few months. However, it obviously does not worry anyone excessively in the government. That this situation that we are in today is not only ours, but the state in which many European Union countries are located. The only difference is that almost all European Union countries have already come out with their aid measures and the population in the economy, but the Government of the Republic of Croatia has not come out with anything yet. It should be said that when Mr. Shucker resists here by explaining how we have proposed a law that is inconclusive, which has no foothold at all, I will tell you. So our Value Added Tax Act says that a child food, clothing, shoes, and diapers should be introduced. In the national population policy adopted by the HDZ government, or rather this Assembly. He says: “Introduce preferential tax rates on added value to children’s clothing, shoes, equipment, food and hygiene products.” There's no difference. The difference is only that the SDP proposed the law, and what HDZ apparently wrote in the pre-election campaign, and whether it will implement it is very questionable. I think it can be said by now that with this part he has deceived the citizens of the Republic of Croatia and that, certainly according to what Mr. Shuker is telling us here today, there will be no preferential VAT rates for children's clothing, equipment and food. As for our others, so the second part of the law relating to the reduced VAT rate on natural gas, electricity, heating and liquid fuels is the fact that some, some energy sources are cheap, as the minister here said, oil derivatives. However, it should also be said that the gas has accumulated 25%, that citizens therefore pay the price of the energy, and that if we reduced the VAT rate to gas, we would certainly make it a little easier for our families to pay. As far as electricity is concerned, electricity is definitely cheaper only for those who live alone and those who have a cottage. They don't spend anything or possibly come over the weekend to look at their vineyard. Those who have a family, especially those who have a larger number of children, could not possibly find themselves in the category of those who spend kilowatts of electricity in those gauges that the government has given for some assessment that would not increase the price of electricity. So only singles benefit from this type of measure, and often these people do not have existential problems. Unfortunately, existential problems have families that have more children. We have therefore proposed this law as well as a series of other laws because we believe that citizens are becoming more and more difficult to deal with without the help of the state with its existing state of affairs. The fact that simply the situation is changing from month to month also shows that some data are saying that it's just a bit of a drop in trade, that the growth rate of industrial production is also dropping, that the rate of economic growth is dropping even though it's probably Minister Schucker going to come out now and say that I'm saying something that has nothing to do with official statistics. Also, the number of unemployed has been growing quite well for the last three months. So, from September to December 18, 238 people are newly registered to the employment office, and when it comes to employment, according to the data, so official statistics, 25 thousand people are doing less work than they did before. Therefore, these indicators show only that our citizens in this year can expect a growing drop in standards, that they will increasingly seek space they will not have in debt or credit, or in current accounts, that our citizens will remain absolutely jobless in one year, thus seriously threatened by the existence of this year. And that's why we've proposed this law and a series of other laws that we're about to discuss, but as we're about to go, probably somewhere maybe in summer, or maybe even in the fall of this House. And today, we've been trying to tell ourselves that everything we're saying here and that we suggest that it doesn't actually stand. Well, if you won't listen to us, if you think we're talking about something that has nothing to do with reality, I don't understand why you don't listen to the businessmen. For the past few months, the economy has literally been screaming. It's screaming at the problems they're in and trying to appeal to you to move, to open your eyes and start making measures that would help that economy somehow survive this year. All you've done, unfortunately, is take these measures within a few minutes. It would be good for you to spend the energy you have spent criticising all the measures you have given to both the economy and the Economic Institute and us from the SDP that you have spent at least one part of that energy to find measures and to propose measures to get out of this crisis. So it's amazing that those of whom we live, of which the budget is filled, and these are the businessmen, on all their warnings you've remained completely deaf, even more, if you dare say there are problems, that Croatia is in recession, that the economy can no longer deal with these problems, then you get from your side exclusively negative assessments, you look back at them, and at least it would be good for us to actually all in this country to shut up, from the businessmen to us here in the Parliament. I hope that you will at least let this law into another reading so that we may put some extras in this law by another reading, but according to this mocking of colleagues from the majority party, you gentlemen don't care about the problem in this country and to solve them, you don't care about most citizens who feel fired every day and that they don't have money, you obviously don't see poverty from Mark's square.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-06-0.u26458	Thank you. We have a few corrections. First it's Mr. Zeljko Turk.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-06-0.u26459	Thank you, Mr. President. In a series of inaccuracies that the distinguished MP Opačić said, I will look back on only one or two where I quote that this Croatian or HDZ government has cheated or deceived Croatian citizens. I have to say here it's an absolute lie because everything that she's done in the budget and in the minimum balance of payments deficit is reality. And what is a fraud of the Croatian state, it is very difficult to understand through the warm words about the Croatian man and that these measures go in favor of him, he simply said once you get 2.5 billion kuna out of the budget, then you have to find them somewhere else 2.5 billion to balance it again and this proposal could be serious if you could at least tell me in some way where those 2.5 billion are going back to the budget because it is paid by Croatian citizens. You can't give them something if you haven't found a way where and from whom to take something in our 100s and a few billion more. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-06-0.u26460	This would be more of a replica, and I'm asking all the MPs who have come forward to correct the incorrect allegations to say that, and that's what I'm saying, and I'm correcting it. Okay. Please. It's a gentleman's turn, same for correction, Mr. Davor Huška. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-06-0.u26461	Thank you, Mr. President. I am correcting an incorrect quote when my colleague Opacic said this law should help Croatian citizens. How does this law, as well as the previous two, help Croatian citizens if it creates a deficit in the state budget of 14, nearly 15 billion kuna? Is helping Croatian citizens that these deficits need to reduce salaries, pensions, social benefits to cover the deficit that is created through these three laws that have been proposed. The SDP's relationship with workers was also visible in their mandate, and towards workers in the field, and to the officers who slept here in Mark's square, and in the church of St. Marka, and HDZ has been paying back debts for years, and today it is paying back the debts that have just come from this sensitive relationship with Croatian workers and police officers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-06-0.u26462	Thank you. Mr. Boris Kunst. Here you go. It's also a correction.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-06-0.u26463	Dear President, the incorrect allegation is that MP Opačić has said that gas prices have been drastically increased. Drasticly increased gas prices would be if households and citizens paid those prices because Croatia imports at higher prices than citizens pay. It means it compensates in that part. On the other hand, a drastic fall in standard. I will remind you that in early 2004, when you are so much, there was a basket with an average salary. In early 2004, the basket was covered with an average salary of 68.3%. And this year means at 12 months it's coverage 82.35%. Now I'm asking you, and you connected that basket to exactly this suggestion of how drastic a fall it is if you compare those two percent.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-06-0.u26464	Thank you. Mrs. Nevenka Marinović. It's also a correction.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-06-0.u26465	Thank you. I am correcting the incorrect allegations of my colleague Opačić who said that only the Government of the Republic of Croatia has taken no action to engage in the anti-recession. The Government of the Republic of Croatia, as responsible, knows that the possibilities of anti-recession monetary and fiscal policy are limited by a high degree of euroisation and foreign debt but also the internal possibilities for positive changes exist in the implementation of structural reforms from shipbuilding and the energy sector to further reform of the health and pension system, which, of course, makes the Government of the Republic of Croatia. However, the proponents of all these anti-recession measures and laws reject all these proposals by the Government of the Republic of Croatia and go in a different direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-06-0.u26466	Thank you. And another correction, Mr. Kresimir Gulic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-06-0.u26467	Well, I'd like to correct my colleague Opacic who said this government doesn't care about helping Croatian citizens. I think this government has shown its social sensitivity. So here's to providing free textbooks for high school students, free transport for the first and second periods. From maternity benefits so I don't count it all away. Also, my colleague Opacic said that this cheaper electricity only feels single. So I can prove to you, in the neighborhood I went to check where the pensioners are, where the foster homes are very sensitive and that they've been reduced by war and that they have cheaper electricity, so they're also the ones who are socially endangered, retired and not just single. So I think this government is sensitive socially and that it takes care of its citizens anyway.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-06-0.u26468	Thank you. On behalf of the HDZ Club, Mr. Representative Kreso Filipovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-06-0.u26469	Dear Mr. President, Mr. Minister, representatives of the government, colleagues and fellow MPs. Here yesterday we held a comprehensive debate until late for dinner, and today we continue this debate, several amendments and additions to the laws governing the tax system in the Republic of Croatia, some very significant, therefore, instruments of fiscal policy. Amendments and additions were submitted to the Croatian Assembly by the SDP Representatives' Club and therefore concerns the Law on Profit Tax, the Law on Contributions and the Law on Value Added Tax. In my debate on behalf of the Croatian Democratic Community's Club of Representatives, I will, of course, look at the proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Value Added Tax Act, which we are currently discussing, but also in the short lines, I will refer to the previous two proposals, because we of the Croatian Democratic Community Representatives Club consider this to be a united debate because it is a set, let's say the tax laws and that their effects must be found together and observed negatively and positively. At first, I would like to stress that the Croatian Democratic Community's Club of Representatives will not support the adoption of any of the laws mentioned above, we have witnessed this today because the first two laws have not been supported, but we will also not support the Amendments and Supplements of the Law on Value Added Tax. About why I'm gonna say something later. Therefore, the proposal for an amending and supplementing law on profit tax is proposed to further reduce the base for paying the income tax in such a way as to exempt from taxation the profits of the current year which will be invested for investments, therefore, the reinvested profits, or to retain for trade funds, therefore, the retained profits. I'll mention, I'd like to ask the president to provide me with the opportunity to finish this point. However, in the light of the bill's proposal, it states that there is no need to provide additional resources to implement this law. It should be pointed out as a proposaler, while ignoring the fact that this bill was not done here in the Croatian Parliament in part of the reinvested revenue of the budget would be reduced by nearly 2.5 billion kuna. Also, according to this proposal, major difficulties in the implementation of the law itself in the follow-up of the reinvested profits and their subsequent payments are possible. And the question of the economy of the whole process is raised. The possibilities for abuse of this instrument are also being opened, as counterpart Nevenka Majdenic spoke extremely well yesterday and argued. Furthermore, in the event of the adoption of the Amendment Act and the Supplements to the Law on Contributions which did not happen in the Croatian Parliament, the legal basis for redistributing and payment obligations for pension insurance would be created, based on generation solidarity, in a way that employees would pay more as taxpayers on the basis of individual capitalised savings, instead of current 5.9% and less on generation solidarity. At the same time, it is also proposed to reduce the contribution rate for the health insurance commitment by eight percentage points. Indeed, this measure would result in a certain increase in wages and an increase in pension insurance contributions based on individual capitalised savings, but should be taken into account the fact that this proposal would cause a deficit in the state budget of nearly 9 billion kuna. That is why I am talking about both the first and the second and the third proposal, because we must observe how much this would be if these laws were adopted in the Croatian Parliament in order to affect the state budget. It is important to stress that this deficit cannot be compensated by the introduction of a capital tax system, as stated by the applicant in its argument, because capital tax revenues are mainly at a time of general negative trends on the financial market is risky, unpredictable and most importantly insufficient to cover the predictable deficit. Also, when we talk about this SDP Club proposal, we should take into account the fact that this year we need much more than is provided in the 2009 budget for compulsory health insurance. Finally, the Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Value Added Tax is intended to extend the number of products and services to which 10% added tax rates apply to the following products: oils and fats, children's food, children's shoes, clothing and diapers, natural gas, electricity, heating and liquid fuels. The proposer's intention is to affect the reduction of retail prices of certain products, which would have a positive impact on the standard of Croatian citizens, especially at a time when the prices of certain products have increased sharply. Fortunately, in the second half of 2009, there was a mitigation of inflationary pressures and stabilization of the prices of a large number of products, as Mr. Shuker spoke of. It is known that the value added tax is the most significant instrument of each country's fiscal policy, as well as the Republic of Croatia, which participates in the total revenues of the Republic of Croatia's budget with around 36%. It is precisely because of its importance, i.e. the fiscal importance of VAT, that is, the European Commission is seeking to level the rules on value added tax between the Member States of the European Union and their harmonisation is based on Directive 112 of 2006. The Common Value Added Tax System of the European Union is designed as a simple and practical system with one standard rate, a broadly defined tax base and a small number of exemptions. In addition to a standard rate which cannot be lower than 15%, one or two reduced rates are allowed which for certain categories of goods and services listed in Appendix 3 of the aforementioned Directive should not be below 5%. Of course, as part of the accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union, Croatian legislation and in this part will also need to be harmonised with the acquis of the European Union, i.e. with the provisions of the relevant directives. I will only say a few sentences about the value added tax system in the Republic of Croatia, which was introduced on 1 January '98. years as a substitute for multi-phase sales tax. The basic system, in accordance with the Value Added Tax Act, was applied at a unique rate of 22% on a broadly defined basis with a small number of standard exemptions and no zero rate, except for those for export. It is important to say that, at that time, the value added tax system was very similar to European Union legislation. In the meantime, however, a zero rate was introduced for some categories of goods and services in domestic transport, and for some paying taxes at a reduced rate of 10%. Then, a different approach was introduced in the definition of exemptions, in the taxation of construction land and at a certain threshold for entering the VAT system, leading to a significant deviation of Croatian practice from European practice. But it should be pointed out that what the minister also talked about here, that all the products and services applied to zero or reduced value added tax rates, according to the applicable law belong to the categories set out in Appendix 3 of the Directive for which a reduced rate is offered in the European Union, but not below 5%. Since we are expected, as I have already said before, to bring legislation in line with this segment, which will be based on the provisions of the current European Union Directives, rather than on certain draft amendments to European directives, as in this case the Club of Representatives of the SDP is based. I find it unacceptable to prescribe a reduced value added tax rate for products not covered by Appendix 3. In its explanation of the amendments and additions to this law, the Proposer also states that there is no need to provide additional resources in the budget of the Republic of Croatia, once again ignoring the fact that by reducing the value added tax rate from 22% to 10% for the products covered, it can expect a reduction in the revenues of the state budget of at least 2.2 billion kuna per year. Respecting all of the above, and particularly the information that suggests that, in the event of the adoption of the proposed amendments and the addition of the laws, budget revenues will be lower by nearly 15 billion kuna at the annual level, which could lead to the stability of state finances, as well as the possibility of meeting the necessary public needs of the state, the Croatian Democratic Community Representatives Club holds all three proposals, so two have already said, and now we are talking about a third, unacceptable one. We must also point out in front of the Croatian Democratic Community club that these proposals are unsettled, so they are not complete because there are no simulations. There are no simulations of the positive and negative effects of these measures proposed, meaning also those positive for the economy of the Republic of Croatia, to the standard of citizens of the Republic of Croatia, but there are no negative effects that the adoption of these laws and this lack of 15 billion kuna would have on the stability of public and state finances. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-06-0.u26470	We have one correction. Mr. Representative Nenad Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-06-0.u26471	I am correcting your claim that HDZ will not accept the Law on Profit Tax and the Law on Contributions, as HDZ has not already adopted this morning. I'm surprised you didn't notice. All I have left is to paraphrase your famous statement when you defended the government's policy by saying "and bad politics is still politics". I can paraphrasise it and there's been a missing debate after all.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-06-0.u26472	On behalf of the promoter, Mr. Representative Slavko Linic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-06-0.u26473	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. On the basis of several of these discussions, however, there is an impression that all of us would be very happy to introduce a step-by-step and try to make it possible for citizens to step-by-step and let's say, let's say, something cheaper energy, but also those needs that mean our most important policy, which means secure supply and easier survival of the poor part of the population. I feel like we're all thinking that way. And now we've got two completely conflicting situations. How do you rule the defenses of the inability of what you would otherwise like to happen? First, to justify why they are against trying to say so perhaps it is not such a bad life in Croatia, perhaps the economic environment in Croatia is not so bad, so unstable and perhaps we are all wrong and we are more vulnerable to feelings than to numbers. Therefore, it may not be so bad in Croatia. These are messages from the ruling party. What may be more disturbing is that the clear messages do not give us the European Union, would be between us the electricity and gas step, not the European Union, these are the express views of the ruling ones. And now imagine, the European Union has allowed everyone to care for cheaper energy in 2009, but ruling in Croatia says no, I would love to, but not Europe. Imagine. And now comes the third. Neda Europe, it's not such a bad situation, but here we have on this left, we have this opposition that has to turn into an advent, it has to turn into an advent. You must intimidate the citizens with that crazy opposition. You know, they're proposing such cardinalally bad proposals, so we're going to enter the enormous dubiosis in the budget and the citizens of Croatia if you listen to them, you'll have less pay, you'll have less pensions. That it is necessary to intimidate the citizens of Croatia, because fear is something that may paralyze reason. That these are defences, these are arguments in discussions on the fundamental problems in the Republic of Croatia. The true deficit, we're trying to tell the citizens of Croatia not a deficit, we don't need a deficit, the deficit is a problem, we won't get credits. Yeah, and we're making a bogeyman out of something that's the other way around. The whole of Europe says that you do not have to respect the level of deficits in the European Union, the monetary union in this year if you have certain measures to save the economy and negative developments in the economy. But in Croatia, the ruling one orders fear the deficits. And now, of course, the fact is that some of us still can't forget that in 2003 it was these very ones who feared Croatia with Argentina, Argentina when the debt was about 18 billion euros, then in Croatia it was exactly the same ones that Argentina predicted. Now that it's close to 40 billion, it's not Argentina's problem, it's not because they're now the God who's going to protect Croatia. What does that mean, gentlemen, citizens? Fear. It's fear that has to paralyze you to even think about these crazy opposition ideas. Only fear and argument of fear are getting more and more often because these are arguments that might still work. What are we trying to say in the SDP when we talk about this proposal of the Value Added Tax Act? We don't just have that feeling. Unfortunately, it is the citizens who declare to all the measuring institutions that they live badly and that they want to live better and that they do not feel that it will be possible and seek an active role of government, are looking for an active role for us here in Parliament to provide them with this very better status than they have today. It also requires economics, although the economy that says it is impossible to work in these conditions anymore. We're looking for active measures. That's what they ask of us, of the ruling but also of this Parliament, and that's why we feel that we need to talk not to be afraid, not to be afraid. We need to discuss proposals, including proposals related to value added tax. If it's in the economy with payment deadlines, if they're citizens with how to have very clearly cheaper energy. Or if it's not cheaper to prevent further collection. The main reason for the gas crisis is also bad price policy. Apparently, no one was responsible enough to create losses and manage the government's security of gas supply. Therefore, we know that we are expected to have new gas prices and we need to have a very strong battle for smaller VAT on gas. We know that we have the same thing on the electricity part, and we're going to have to fight for economic prices. But if the economic prices are at least lower the citizens in that part of the VAT. And of course, there is always a question that citizens will make up for it in a certain part by other consumption. But the question remains what do you do with problems in the state budget? Look, we don't have a responsibility here anymore. That's where we differ. Have you wondered, my dear gentlemen, that in 2003, the salary expenditure was 14.3 billion, that you had 23.4 billion in this budget. Nine billion more. Someone would say in, uh, nice, increased wages. No, it's not true, there's no increase in wages, because if wages were increased, they'd be different relationships, more satisfied people. No increase in salaries, increased employees, an enormous number of employees. Yes, the minister couldn't stop it. In that part, we're trying to open up the debate. Gentlemen, where your responsibility is for irregular employment, enormous employment, for creating a burden on the budgets and on the citizens of Croatia and on the Croatian economy. Yes, you created it nine billion. That's how much more money you pay. And you know how many basics have just grown? The basics grew by about 28%, and this increase is 68%. Who's to blame? Where are these reform forces of this authority that shouldn't have allowed it? Where's the minister who shouldn't have let that happen? Because he needs to know that neither the citizen can pay for it, that it cannot pay for neither the economy nor the Croatian economy. That's what the businessmen say. That's not what we want to hear, no. It's the ones from 2003. It's these crazy suggestions. We're going to endanger the citizens. No! No! Citizens must clearly know the uncontrollable budget, uncontrollable employment, irresponsible behavior. That's why we can't talk about the interstep today. These are reasons why citizens must really be concerned, because this government could not be responsible in its economic policy, did not even know about its budgetary policy and therefore, apart from the argument of fear, we cannot talk about it, we cannot talk about it. That's our problem. Of course, the minister only knows someone's costing him, someone has enormously increased his costs, and my dear gentlemen, give me the money. He's only interested in money, irresponsible, irresponsible. And that's where we claim to be irresponsible, and that's where we differ. We don't have to get along. So there must be different policies between us. You know, a table and some agencies. Each other agency has imposed its parafiscal impose. Who's paying him? Business. Let's count these parafiscals, see the website of the Ministry of Finance Tax tax, all introduced in the last five, six years. [[Intruder President: Finish please!]] And these are the problems, and when we find solutions there, it won't be a problem to introduce a step-by-step.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-06-0.u26474	Thank you. We have two corrections before I give the Minister my word. First it's Davor Huška. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-06-0.u26475	Thank you. Mr. President, I want to correct the inaccuracies of my colleague Linic, who said we have two conflicting situations. We do not have two conflicting situations when we talk about changing the VAT rate, but our colleague Opačić said that the change in VAT rates was contained in the pre-election programme of the Croatian Democratic Community, which means that we agree, that you have used our programme, probably copied this proposal from the pre-election programme of the Croatian Democratic Community, and the difference is that the Croatian Democratic Union and its coalition partners are using one systematic approach as stated by counterpart Goran Maric, a systematic approach to resolving this problem, and thanks to the citizens of the Republic of Croatia we have at our disposal this term in 4 years, unlike you in SDP. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-06-0.u26476	Thank you. We have another correction, Mr. Boris Kunst.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-06-0.u26477	Thank you very much. Well, there was more inaccuracy. First inaccuracy, it's not exactly what you say pay didn't grow. First of all, the average salary, net salary in early 2003 was 3 270 kuna, today 5 270 kuna, is here somewhere. So I don't know if it grew or didn't grow, so we could show it. Then you're saying it's a disaster to live a bad life today and so on. Here's the information you called in your introduction for a four-member family basket. In early 2004 in Zagreb, because we could talk about other cities, how much the four-member basket is, it was 6 044,27 kuna at the beginning, and now it is, it is you who brought the data, 6 303 kuna. So 303 kunas increased from 2004 to 2009. And you're talking about such a catastrophic state. It is not more difficult to live today, regardless of this recession, which is the fact that people do not live well, but that they lived somewhere between 2001 and 2003. Nothing worse, as much data as you want, I can prove it. Now, normally that the situation would be better, but secondly, if we will, and why wouldn't you, since you have such an opportunity as the party that proposes this law and influence the reduction of the tax in the City of Zagreb. It would make it easier for people to live, for citizens who pay very expensive expenses in this city.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-06-0.u26478	Thank you. I'd like to inform you that at 13.45 P.M., the time has passed for a ten-minute hearing. And now on behalf of the Government, Mr. Minister Ivan Schuker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-06-0.u26479	Thank you very much, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. When you have no arguments, fire at all, so does your colleague Linic. I have not said at any time that something the European Union does not give. But let me, as a representative of the Government and Minister of Finance, have the right to warn you that you have proposed something that is contrary to the positive legal regulations that are in the European Union. If I have no right to, then you tell me, and I won't do it here, I'll do it somewhere else. Therefore, at no time have I said that the European Union is not giving, but I must warn you that you have proposed something without reading the EU legislation. That's your problem, the government has made it clear to you, you haven't at any time given the counterargument that this is the case. The second thing, this about wages, so Mr. Linic, I know what you were doing while you were, you cut people's salaries like this, but there's no argument for you to increase the pay mass exclusively because of the increased number of employees. And you know how many tens of thousands of new people would hire? And it's simply not true, but you go out, you say, and I'm just not going to say that word, you stay alive, but it stays that way. The other thing, the agency. Are these agencies the wishes of the Government of the Republic of Croatia or are these agencies the consequences of something we need to do. You cannot say that the Competition Protection Agency is the invention of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You can't say that. We can list a number of other such agencies, therefore, do not talk about value added tax about certain things that have nothing to do with it and ultimately, none of us scares the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. But what's true is you've proposed three laws that carry 15 billion downsizings, which increase the cost of the state budget. It's something that you simply can't dispute, and if I say it carries a 15 billion deficit, you say I'm scaring Croatian citizens. I have no intention of scaring anyone, but I have the right and the freedom to warn someone. Secondly, you are experienced and you are too long both in politics and in the economy not to know that at the moment when a 6% deficit would occur, that 15 billion would be impossible to find on the financial market. It's something you're not going to admit, and you know it very well, because if you admitted it, then you'd practically disabling what you suggested. Secondly, you cannot compare Croatia with some of the old members of the European Union for several reasons. First, the strength and power of their financial market that will help finance both the country's deficit and business. Unfortunately, Croatia does not have such a powerful financial system because the state is who it is. And don't be contradictory to yourself. On the one hand, talk about Croatia taking money from the economy, and on the other hand, when it suits you, let the Croatian Government take measures to fund... None of you, very interestingly, will say that we have secured HBOR nearly 500m euros in loans exclusively for financing and encouraging small and medium-sized enterprises, infrastructure and agriculture, and most of these loans will still go into a subsidised interest that is subsidized from the state budget. [[You can't hear the speaker.]] These are the measures of this government regarding the economy. Scare Croatia... and borrowing. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Look, you left the head of this country, you left a nominal deficit of 14 billion kuna. So the state had to be in charge of 14 billion kunas to finance it. Today the deficit of this country is about 2 billion 700, 2 billion 800, I'm talking about the central state. So, nominally 10 billion less and for these 10 billion, the Croatian state needs less debt and there is a difference between your policy and our policy. The other thing is, you're talking to me about the regulation of public finances. Well, you know what, I mean that's what we found and what we have today, that's two things I can't compare. You left a budget with 300 and another sub-account on which there was money on ho, ho, you left parafiscal charges in HBOR as much as you will today. ... I can tell you. On average, it was 800, 900 million. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] On those sub-accounts that were on the sidelines, and at the same time my predecessor had to be in charge in the short term to pay his pensions and salaries. So much for what it's like today, what it's like. And I'd be glad if you'd proved to me with one argument that there's no telling where the money's being spent. But I'm saying, your performance is like this, you have the right to do it, but don't take away my right as a representative of the government to tell our truth. The second thing, you can't say that the government hasn't proposed certain measures, they will propose them, and will succesively propose them properly. As for the employers' demands, we had the Prime Minister and I with the heads of the Croatian Employers' Association ten days ago. Then there was a joint statement, which is the diametric opposite of what you're saying, diametrically opposite. The fact that some individuals, because of their political ambitions, say all sorts of things, and at the same time they have a monthly salary that one taxpayer in the IRS can't make in three, four years, you don't care what you say at another point. But that's the truth. And therefore, a little responsibility would not hurt anyone, because all of this is written out there, all of the financial markets record, and when Croatia goes into publishing... Then it's going to be quite a record out there. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So I don't want to scare anyone because you're not going to negotiate this, but I'm going to negotiate and bear responsibility. Thank God.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-06-0.u26480	Thank you. We have corrections, first Vice President Željka Antunović, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-06-0.u26481	First, it is incorrect for you, Mr. Minister, to know what the SDP Government has done in its relatively short term, because if you knew then you would know that it has fallen on its knees as you will today, in what way you are still leading it and the public finances riot in those four years of your term, it has brought it to a decent level from which you have continued to work. Unfortunately again as we can see today in the opposite direction. It is incorrect that we as proposings do not know European legislation or any conditions in which the Croatian budget and the Croatian Government are located. On the contrary, from the position of opposition we try and do something for several months to stop the negative trends we face in Croatia, as is true that all this time the government is just announcing measures and has not yet come out with one.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-06-0.u26482	Thank you. Correction Mr. Representative Gordan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-06-0.u26483	Thank you very much. I'm going to correct my colleague Shucker in an allegation that said he couldn't compare what he inherited with what he inherited today. I agree that Croatia's 18 billion-euro debt cannot be compared to nearly 40 billion euros in debt and that it cannot compare the cost of the administration that today, as counterpart Linic said, is almost 70% higher than it was back then. These things are incomparable and because they are incomparable today we cannot cope with the situation in which our country is located.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-06-0.u26484	Thank you. Correction Mr. Nenad Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-06-0.u26485	You incorrectly claim that the increase in the bureaucratic apparatus was not so great and that it did not cause such damage in the budget. Total expenditures for employees over the last 5 years of HDZ authorities have increased by as much as 9 billion kuna. If only the pay base had increased, that was the pay adjustment in... with the agreement, and had not increased the number of employees, the increase in salary funds would have been only 3 billion kunas like this he is 9. In contrast, if you hadn't hired relatives, friends, party friends and all those whose hungry mouth should have calmed down, you would have had enough in the budget today to help the economy and help citizens, among other things, by accepting SDP's bill proposals.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-06-0.u26486	And Mr Davorko Vidovic's correction. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-06-0.u26487	Mr. Minister, insufferably and irritantly for you, believe the counterproductive mention of what is who when you find it, when you insist. In 2000, we found Croatia with a negative growth rate. We found the country in recession. A country with half a million unemployed, completely isolated states. We left the country at the door of the European Union, financially stabilised, all of the 17 billion dubiosis we found solved, and Mr. Minister, in a civilized sense, Croatia has made a giant leap when you mention it. Seven years of good years are the consequence of the work we've done in those four years of blood, hard, with great denials and with the reforms we've been through. We'll find again I'm afraid after your term, again the country in recession, this time you just can't avoid it because you're no longer capable of borrowing the country, because we've reached the level where it's no longer possible. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-06-0.u26488	Thank you. ... It's not 7 years, it's 5 years. You've increased two years. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Seven good years are a big question mark. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Please tell us at least the facts if nothing else. And now it is on behalf of the club HSS Mr. Representative Josip Friščić and Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-06-0.u26489	Mr. President, Ministers, Secretary of State, colleagues and fellow MPs. First of all, I want to say hello. Yesterday and today, the HSS Club related to two laws that are in pain at the debate today and several of those who announce them read and observe in one atmosphere in which we live, in which life flows both us and our citizens on one side affected both by crises and recessions, and also in preparation for the upcoming local and we see already presidential elections. I'm sure there's too little here to say about what's good. All or many speakers said in Croatia there is no foreign capital flow, no new entrepreneurs are coming to Croatia. My dear friends won't come if we send this kind of climate and image to Croatia outside. These were given both yesterday and today formulas and expert interpretations and what is a crisis, and what is a recession. And I think some of us would like to call it a disaster together. Unfortunately for them, there was no disaster. We have to be aware of that because the media is carrying it, that news is saying that they are certainly much stronger and much stronger in the world to bring much more rigorous measures than ours were because they wanted to, but because they made them do it. But the same should be said here, and I want to point out that some are right and I want to speak to the Croatian public and citizens because thanks to their voice we are sitting here, but we need to tell them and repeat that Croatia is financing its debt unlike some countries that could no longer, that the Croatian banking sector has remained intact, but it is not just the banking sector, it is Croatian citizens. And thanks to the debate in this House, thanks to the urgent measures and thanks to the confidence in the state or government. Because if our citizens went to the banks, pulled out 130 billion of their savings, there is no minister of finance, there is no government and that prime minister who can save the financial sector by means of measures, moves or by law. Fortunately, that didn't happen with us. About a month and a half ago, we brought into this room the budget and part of the debate that should surely have been lagging behind and now we have opened through these three laws and announced through the next twenty budget rebalances because each proposal either reduces revenues or increases expenditures. It's nice to tell the citizens we'll give you more and we'll take less, especially if you're not responsible for it and create it, that all together I guess through some other channel should come first to give and then also to create conditions for creation. There was talk here and it's good to fight a battle and we're talking about the need to keep every job but then in a series of discussions there's obviously a category that anyone can hit on. It's an administration because there's not all of us, there's not our civil servants but there's theirs and ours, and we're gonna fire them. HSS and my club, and I personally don't advocate firing, we advocate an effective state administration because she needs us, she needs an entrepreneur, she needs a citizen, she needs us all together. It was said here about the same category in three ways because not once was repeated, it was said that entrepreneurs were screaming with Shuker to bring them certain measures. Then it is said that we will facilitate their situation by reducing the profit tax but since it is tycoons, frauds, conversion thieves and privatisation we will catch them so it is dividends as if it is not spoken of in the rule of the same group of people. Not from hollow to empty, my dear. It's said here that it would be very transparent for the market to say that we have a lower labour price, but then we reduce the pay-off so let's increase the reach of entrepreneurs as if in his invoice he particularly invoices the price of work, and then the price of material, then the price of capital and then is paid to him in that way. He sells a product or service and with his product and service he is competitive. It has been said here and the proposal is that it would be convenient and good to reduce and introduce differentiated rates of this VAT law, which surely each of us ultimately wants to make something cheaper for him. But we need to know that we had such moves, that we had low and no rate for cars, then they were reselling import permits. If we had introduced certain categories, then others had used it, so we had to hire some other services to determine who it was and how it worked. Just remember the latest reductions while it was said that this people did not read enough, that they were not available to them, so we reduced VAT, no newspapers were cheap, many even collected and people read as much as they read and what they want to read. There's a lot of debate about energy and there's talk here about whether someone's scaring people or brave people. I mean, it's our role and our job to encourage people, and just when it comes to gas, they need to be encouraged. And about what's ahead of us this spring, it's local elections because the government, ministry, INA and MOL create the conditions to go to the gas station in front of each distributor, which is a few hundred meters away or that a mile to our citizen gets gas at the price under the kuna and fifty, and then the citizens in their invoices get it from 2.50 to 3.00 kuna. And I'm sure there's room there. And it is certain that citizens should be encouraged to say that we will pay to do so or we will be with those who will change that. It is certain, and here it is said, that accepting certain solutions would lead to the collapse of some activity. I dare say that because in the debate on the budget, through discussions in the health system, no one has denied that the existing level of health services costs between 23 billion and 24 billion. No one said there was a prescription without additional health insurance and additional budget allocations to ensure this. And I'm asking you now, taking 9 billion from this system is the collapse of that system again. Maybe he can survive a few months, maybe years, no invoices, no medications, etc. But in the long run, he can't. And that's why, no matter what, I'm not an advocate, and I'm never gonna raise my hand to close our eyes and because we'd like it somewhere. Good, we, through these laws that are proposed we open up another reform we start talking about it because one day it's going to be her fault. That's the other pillar that apparently got away, but that's another story. Surely that pillar will not be strengthened if we put health care in trouble. The change in the tax system, so each budget and one who has been doing the budget and the one who has made the budget first takes legal regulation. And he was based on this regulation and if there was a measure, here we had a break when it was estimated whether the government had the right to propose such a reduction that the minister came and suggested here to us, that we don't go into debt because it was already read that loans would be difficult to find. And we've defined ourselves for that. Maybe with too little debate, but we've defined ourselves because we knew and these are the measures and that's the way to react, that's what we'll always know and know and support when it comes to it. It is certain that, and here we all agree, we will need to change individual regulations regarding our tax system. And I agree with Mr. Linic when he said we must and change even places where we will... It's property taxes. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But as an expert, he will surely agree that there is no land that introduced property taxes before it was established and spent at least seven years on that. Therefore, these are not moves and measures that can be given or which can be implemented in a short period of time and time, and to this end what has been established, provided for as expenditure to be incurred and to be able to wait. And that's why we're changing the VAT bill. And it's not, it's not even the minister said it won't work, but then we'll talk if, I believe in a good way and then there'll be a chance for a part of what's being said here. If we need to introduce a tax of at least 5% on bread and milk, then we will release diapers or something else and make sure that this citizen is not going to be additionally burdened or that his hand will not be pushed into his pocket. But it's something I expect, and I believe it will prepare both our government and our finance ministry. That's why the HSS Club will not support this proposal and these kind of partial procedures in the budget, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-06-0.u26490	Thank you. We have a correction. First, she's Mrs. Gordana Sobol's representative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-06-0.u26491	Well, Mr. President, you said that in these two days of this debate it would be shown that some would like to call the situation in Croatia a disaster. Mr. Fristic, not by discussing these topics and these laws these two days now, here in the Parliament, we actually want you and your colleagues here in Parliament, but also those in the government finally waking up, Mr. Fristic, I'm afraid you're not because since I'm not wrong yesterday from your party, no one has found the need to discuss this issue. Because what you're doing right now, that you're doing nothing, that you're not doing anything, that's what could lead us to disaster.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-06-0.u26492	Wake up! Let's not put awakening into corrections! We woke up. There you go, Gordan Maras, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-06-0.u26493	Thank you very much. Mr. Friscic said, in his presentation he really covered a wide spectrum, he didn't limit himself to just this, but that's why there's a lot of corrections he should say now because he said a lot of inaccuracies and what I'm going to fix is where you were when the budget was being made. We sent this bill before the budget at the session when the budget was being passed, how much vigilance is yours, your government, talking about that you delayed it for two months or a month and a half and thus brought us all into a situation where the situation was much worse than it was a month and a half ago. So much for your vigilance and our vigilance has proved that we have prepared all these laws much earlier than the Government has even begun to think about the crisis.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-06-0.u26494	Thank you. Mr. Representative Davor Bernardić, correction.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-06-0.u26495	Dear colleague Friscic, in a series of inaccuracies, I will only correct one. You said it was nice to tell the citizens about the problems. No, it's exactly the opposite, it's not nice to tell citizens about problems, but it's responsible. It is not nice to tell them that their salaries in 2008 have fallen, it is not nice to say that 720,000 people live in poverty. It's not nice to say that 11,000 people have lost their jobs in the last three months. You have the right to believe that the situation in Croatia is phenomenal, but let us have the right to believe that problems should be discussed.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-06-0.u26496	Thank you. As I recall, he said we should encourage people. And the fourth amendment, Mr. Nenad Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-06-0.u26497	It is incorrect, counterpart Fristic, that the adoption of this legislative proposal, as well as these others, would cause a collapse in the state and indifference. You said, non-payment of invoices, non-payment of drugs, etc. The indifference, and without the adoption of these laws, is in effect. As we discuss here, I've been informed that here at the SDP club they call citizens and say ask Shucker why no unemployment benefits paid by the Employment Service, why they're not paid off, the debt that goes to HZZO's burden. Impersonality is here without the adoption of this law. Individence is there as a result of this government's poor work. We have to figure that out.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-06-0.u26498	This isn't, it's a question of citizens and it doesn't fall under an incorrect assumption. But okay, let's move on with the widest access possible. The only way I'll be able to intervene is if we start talking about Mars or Venus, and then maybe it's not a correction to an incorrect quote, the rest could be. There's an individual debate coming up. The first is Mr. Gordan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-06-0.u26499	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Mr. Secretary. I'm glad you're here with us today and you've devoted a little time to these topics that we opened here yesterday, 25 anti-recession measures, and I hope you'll be on the rest when they get into Parliament's procedure. What the Croatian Government may be the only one in the European Union, not in the European Union, but in Europe, unfortunately we are not yet members of the European Union, which is that the only government that has not adopted a single concrete measure to deal with this moment in which Croatia is located, which is definitely in the recession. These are all indicators of the last static we have, telling us that Croatia is in recession. It has not brought a single measure towards the citizens, not a single measure towards the economy. In fact, to correct myself, she has taken one measure, but that measure is not anti-recessional, that measure is exactly the opposite. The measure that will further encourage recession, which is that on two occasions in the first month and now again took money from the Croatian capital market, it is necessary for Croatian entrepreneurs...... Mr. President, please warn Minister Shuker not to throw. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Please, Minister Shuker, while you were talking, I was listening. You have a chance to call and then correct what you think is wrong. You took 2.1 billion kuna in the first month to pay off the operating costs of the state... And now you have again, or you will be in charge of 750m euros on the domestic market. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] And whose money is this, or whose money is most needed today? And that's not what I'm saying, that's what they tell you from the HUP, that's what they tell you from the Chamber of Commerce. You can wave here from the bench, but that's what they tell you, Mr. Minister. You took the necessary money from the Croatian economy to preserve at least minimal growth or not to go to recession or minus. What all Croatian citizens are aware of today in Croatia, whatever you say, is that today lives far worse than it was a year ago. Live no matter how hard you tried to tell the ministers that it was not, Croatian citizens well know that the costs of life are much higher than they were a year ago. And these measures that the SDP has put forward today mean measures that specifically relate to the current aid to Croatian citizens. The proposal yesterday that currently wanted to help Croatian citizens to raise their net wages, to increase their savings from which pensions will increase tomorrow and ultimately, today to save an additional part of the Croatian citizens' budget by reducing certain prices. What the Croatian government is offering is nothing. There are no measures besides saying there will be crises, that we should prepare for the crisis, but that Croatian citizens will survive the crisis, the Croatian government does not speak. Croatian citizens must have a responsible government, have leadership, have one that will show them how to get out of this situation. But with what did this Croatian government show that it has any vision? There is no measure, except to listen from month to month we will propose, it is done etc. Isn't it strange that everyone was alive with something other than the Croatian government? Yesterday, he mentioned Minister Schuker's Chamber of Commerce, the other day employers, the economic council, for the sake of the proposals, are going everywhere. Europe has been measuring for six months. Europe has taken measures of 200 billion euros, and the Croatian government is nothing, as if everything will be resolved by itself. Unfortunately, we are all aware that this is not the case and that in the end we will pay the price for all of us Croatian citizens because the crisis will be more painful and lasting and we will need more to get out of it. And for which we are unprepared, counterpart Vidovic noted well. Seven years in which a sufficient reserve of Minister Shucker could be made, so that today we can be prepared for the crisis ahead of us. But you can't bring the country into a crisis situation and expect us to get through painlessly when the state isn't ready because it's been misbehaving for the last five years. She was acting rashly because, said counterpart Linic, people's employment had been unfairly carried out. This is not about decades, but perhaps 30, 40, 50 thousand people you have brought in the last five years and thus increased the cost of administration and that is why Croatia is not able to deal with the crisis today. And that is why today the Croatian economy is not able to pay the costs of the Croatian state and, of course, everyone is unhappy. Well, isn't it amazing that people from, even members of the HDZ come out of speaking economies, so this policy is not good. That's something to change. You're doing the wrong thing. Well, I hope you don't have an enemy party colleague telling you over the media yesterday, the day before yesterday. Mr. Shuker and you and the Croatian government must regain consciousness and see that we will no longer be able to do this. We don't want to, believe me, we don't want something bad right now, because everyone's going to go wrong not just to HDZ, HSS, etc. Croatia is in trouble, and above all Croatian citizens who will not be able to meet their basic needs and will not be able to live with dignity from their salaries tomorrow. And that's why today, even today, this third of 25 anti-recession measures, today the President of Parliament, Bebic, told me he had 50, 50 points of our agenda. The SDP has directed 25 anti-recession measures. Today we have referred to a parliamentary procedure of 10 new points 5 directed by the SDP, 2 directed by the Government, and now look at the names of these points and you will see, the SDP proposals all that go in order towards the economy and citizens and on the other hand the laws that speak of noise damage, etc. by the government. I think we need to be aware that we need to start dealing with those problems that Croatian citizens are struggling with and that we need to enable them to go through this crisis as painlessly as possible. And finally, as far as this law is concerned, I don't think there's any problem with these VAT changes being adopted. I am glad that fellow Friscic said that they are thinking in that direction and that the proposal may also come from the government that will take over some of these things. We won't be angry. You're welcome to take it. It's in the interest of Croatian citizens. As far as we're concerned, you can rewrite the law and propose it in the form of a government tomorrow. Here's the real deal. You'll get full support from our club. We believe that, especially with regard to the price of the most basic needs such as energy, food, we need to create additional space to reduce these costs, to make it easier for Croatian citizens to survive and to be able to welcome the difficult times ahead. Finally, to say only these three measures that we have discussed so far, yesterday aid to the economy of 2 and a half billion kuna today and yesterday to Croatian citizens 9 billion kunas who cannot be watched just as much as will be missing. That money will go back to the budget with great measure, through VAT, through other taxes. Croatian citizens will not put it in stock and leave the country without these revenues. This is a unilateral view of the situation and I believe that these measures are realistic and that all this deficit in the budget I would say is called a deficit because, on the other hand, increased revenues can be compensated through additional tax revenues, i.e. through additional and new VAT revenue, can be compensated through certain redistributions and savings in some investments in the budget which are not needed now. But what is most important right now is that we must help Croatian citizens, we must help the Croatian economy because otherwise there is no way out of this difficult situation.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-06-0.u26500	Thank you. We have one correction before the minister, and this is Mr. Krunoslav Markovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-06-0.u26501	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, here's what I have to do to correct the wrong quote. He says we don't want bad. That's not true. What we're listening to is what you're calling bad. They're also pushing potential investors. Do something concrete. You have a series of mayors, mayor. On Monday, we will announce at a press conference that we are lowering the price of building permits, municipal contributions by 20% to 30%. So do something. It's just talking, yelling, crying time. But it's a lot better done by Ray Charles than you have long ago.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-06-0.u26502	Mr. Minister Ivan Shuker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-06-0.u26503	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, it's just funny to listen to Mr. Maras and some of the others from his club say the government took the economy of 750 million and 300 million. It's something that's simply false and I'm sorry. But if you want to talk about public finances, take some laws and read them so I can tell you. This is a coordinated action of monetary and fiscal policy to repay the debt for bonds that a proposal of truth have been issued for the term of office of your government. And now if you've got something against it, then say it in public. It's another thing. 2 billion and 100 million in the first month is also a co-ordinated project by monetary and fiscal authorities to pay for pensions and salaries due to a clean calendar disorder that occurred in the first month. And look, if you're against what we did together with the Croatian National Bank and paid for pensions and salaries, then say it publicly. But, Mr. Maras, the thing is, you can't deny some things. And you weren't talking about the VAT bill at all today. You're telling the truth, but Croatian citizens are not that naive. I've been saying that for a while. So you must be aware that this operation that was carried out in agreement with the Croatian National Bank and the decision made by the Council of the Croatian National Bank on Wednesday can only be implemented for state financing. And therefore, do not say that the state has taken money from the economy. We're about to do another thing in four months. We will go to the international financial market, finance the deficit of the state budget and the need for a reprogramme that comes in the second part of the year precisely to leave the money to the Croatian economy. The other thing, Mr. Vidovic has been talking about seven years. Well, you had a 6.3% deficit. You've spent far more than you've earned. And we today have a deficit of 0.8 nine, 0.8 or 9% you're talking to us about waste. Well, the deficit is a sign of waste. The deficit shows that you spend far more than you create and fortunately, so we've created fiscal consolidation, set up a state treasury, set up a series of control instruments in public finances. Otherwise, ask God what would happen to us today. However, I say in view of all these statements of happiness, so international rating agencies know well what certain operations are of the central state and central bank so they won't take this mother into account.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-06-0.u26504	Correction Mr. Gordan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-06-0.u26505	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I'm correcting the inaccuracies of Minister Shuker that this money was taken, let's say so to the economy, or he said it wasn't. That's not what I'm talking about. That's who I talked to in the banking sector. No, I know who I was talking to, that's what people in the banking sector say, and that's very easy to explain, so that means money from the Croatian capital market. And where they are in charge of these 2 billion and 100 million kunas, where Croatian companies are in debt rather than on our market. You paid the operating costs of the state in the first month with 2 billion and 100 million kuna on the Croatian capital market and thus took the money needed by Croatian companies.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-06-0.u26506	Thank you. So listen, simple arguments neither of them are accepted. It's the only one wall we're going to have right now, but let's just tell this story about what we've got and so on. Is it? Here, and Mr. Zdenko Franic, correction.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-06-0.u26507	I'm correcting Mr. Shucker's incorrect allegations that the SDP government has been decommissioned due to the state deficit. The fact is that a good part of that deficit went to cover the liquidity inherited from previous governments, if you remember January, February and good beginnings in 2000, we couldn't see in the turnover of 500 or 1000 kuna bills because all transactions went solarly, i.e. The fact is, we're in a similar situation now because you can't see in almost these bills, so it's assumed that many of the transactions are being made in cash again. If that were to be prevented, there would be more money in the state budget.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-06-0.u26508	Thank you. It's Madam Representative Gordana Sobol's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-06-0.u26509	I would like to thank Mr. President, Mr. Minister with his associates, colleagues and colleagues. Here, these two days here in the Parliament we are discussing amendments and additions to the laws that the SDP referred to in the procedure last year on time. We wanted to discuss it here in the Parliament and before the draft budget came to the agenda, but unfortunately, here we are only discussing this session in the second month of 2009, and that is what is called the obstruction of proposals coming from the opposition. In the meantime, the Croatian Parliament, which is you, has passed the budget you have brought, and I would say that it is only today that Minister Shuker knows that this budget looks like because, in the meantime, at the same time as the budget was passed, the anti-constitutional provisions of the Law on the implementation of the state budget which allowed the Government, without the knowledge of the Parliament, to transfer funds from the column to the column at that time, and without informing the Croatian Parliament. So about what our budget is today, how much money is inside, how it's loaded or not charged, how it's paid or not paid from that budget, unfortunately very rare in this country they know. You can't object to us in the SDP that we haven't warned, that we haven't warned here and in this House that we're having a difficult time, that we need to do something about it. Then we were also told by the prime minister and the minister, and that's you here colleagues and colleagues, don't just talk, criticize, come on, suggest something. Well, the SDP has proposed not only something, we proposed last year, but today you have included in the 5 new billing agenda, killing all of these are part of a whole package of anti-recession measures that the SDP team has developed or anti-crisis measures, or let's call it whatever you want. So we have proposed these days a series of legislative proposals, amendments and additions, a series of concrete measures and several reforms. These days, your colleagues and colleagues warn you and the government and various experts, entrepreneurs who are bigger or smaller, however anyone wants to look at it and from church circles you get warnings that you should do something about it. I mean, everybody's wondering what the government is doing, if they even know what to do. We're aware of that. I don't think anyone in this country has to be Nostradamus, so I don't know how much ahead. Some things were probably not predicted. But let's put it this way. Well, in the world, in Europe, but in our case, the situation actually changes from day to day. But in this world and in this Europe, unlike us, the current governments are doing something about it. They're taking over before they come to a complete collapse. Governments adapt, they do something. And I'm actually asking you what the Croatian Government is doing. My colleagues and colleagues, you can sit like this now and you can watch me, you can smile, but I'm not the only one asking you, you're asked by the citizens of this Croatia what are you doing? You have any intention of doing anything. According to Minister Shuker, and besides the government's explanation, we are limited by the European Directive, which speaks about the Member States of the European Union, about this law on the introduction of a VAT measure. Great. I don't know when we're going to be a member of the European Union, but I understand that we have to respect the directives, but you know what. I will now say, in all these measures which are European governments, the governments of individual countries each and specifically for their country have brought, I would very much like to know whether all possible European Union directives are respected, which, as Member States of the European Union, should be respected, and if no one says that what we propose and this step must be something permanent, so take this, suggest it as a temporary measure, as something that will be worth, I don't know, in the next year or two years until we enter the European Union. I am sure that precisely because of the crisis that is everywhere in the world and in our environment and in Croatia, that the European Union would not mind a single step in this part. And what this rate specifically means is that it also refers to the reduction in VAT rates for energy, is to the reduction in the rate for children's clothing, shoes, oils, fats. Well, that means 240 kunas minimum monthly for one average family more income. Here, that really means it. And now you're trying to convince me here, me and all of us who suggest it's not worth mentioning. That's cute. Tell it to the citizens of Croatia that these 240 kunas that, with this amendment of the law, they could get more monthly if it wasn't worth mentioning. Minister Shuker spoke here several times about how last year's energy prices were increasing, and in the meantime it decreased, etc. I'm asking you, and I'm asking the minister what's happened over the past month? Didn't he pick up the gas cca 20%? Didn't he collect gasoline, or motor fuels, a lot of oil on two occasions, on two occasions already. I don't know what's gonna happen in a week. Is that something that's not worth mentioning? Maybe it's not worth mentioning to some. But those we are talking about, which is I will repeat, a third of Croatian households living on the edge of poverty or half of all households in Croatia who are barely joining the end. My colleagues and colleagues now say that this is not true, now say that all the research done by the agency outside Croatia, but also within Croatia by Caritas that it is not true. Tell that to them. Those 240 kunas I was telling these citizens about would certainly mean in these difficult times ahead of us. And in the end, I ask myself a question, but also to you. How long will the government in Croatia, the ruling coalition, or when will they agree on what is in Croatia? Is it the beginning of a crisis, is it a crisis, is it the beginning of a recession, is it a recession? Is there a crisis at all? There's little, there's little. Is there any measure to be taken, is it going to be a little bit, a little bit won't be? Now that's what I ask the Croatian government and ask you here. Because to repeat what I said and my colleague Fristic, we don't call disaster here and scare people, I don't scare anyone. With those I hang out with every day, but I guess you and you know it shouldn't be afraid of them, because they themselves know very well how and how they manage to survive from month to month. And Minister Schuker here said that everyone in this Assembly speaker has a responsibility for what he says. That he has responsibility for what he says, but we also have responsibility for what we try to do or do but also for what we don't do. And in the end, I can't help but think that the citizens we speak of in the Croatian government are not important. You know why? Because it is a category of citizens who did not give a vote to HDZ in this Croatia. After all, Prime Minister Sanader has repeatedly, and then his government associates said they only match those who gave their vote to HDZ without being interested in others' opinions. I only conclude that the opinion of this third household, that is, half of the households that barely make ends meet, is not interested in this government.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-06-0.u26510	Thank you. We have two corrections. First Mrs. Šolic, then Markovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-06-0.u26511	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Here, listening to this debate at the beginning, I'm going to say that I'm asking myself if Mrs. Representative lives in Croatia at all. ... That she barely sat down with Caritas, I guess, 500 times. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] That's one thing. It is not true that the government does not view all Croatian citizens equally. social categories and over the past term... have also passed a series of laws to improve precisely those citizens who are weaker property. It's also families with more children so I don't count the maternity benefits that have been paid back, and you took them with three children and more. What about what you're scaring us and you're surprised that we don't take your measures? Well, you're to us in '91. ... for Yugoslavia, not for an independent Croatian high... /Conversation disabled./... Don't keep your head down. The citizens know very well who you are.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-06-0.u26512	This Yugoslavia is not correcting an incorrect quote. So that's the addition. Let's go, Mr. Markovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-06-0.u26513	Well, here's what I have to do to correct the incorrect assumption, which is it. ... No thanks. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] And that's what my colleague said that it's not true that we're calling for disaster, you're calling on her. Each one is your sentence, every one of your words. And how thin your arguments are then seen, because suddenly you have the relevant opinion of "Caritas", the Church. The Caritas was a criminal organization until recently, and I'm not talking about the Church. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-06-0.u26514	Let's move on. I'm notifying the MPs if it's relevant to any of the relevant facts of the second programme. No matter what you laugh about. So what are you laughing at? What are you laughing at? What's this all about in the end? Whatever a man wants you to laugh about, who you're all very smart about, and we're all stupid. Right? Here's the thing. Croatian television does not broadcast this session. So you can be more moderate in your statements. Davor Bernardic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-06-0.u26515	Dear President of the Parliament. We're not laughing at you, you're a very funny person, and then you cause a laugh here and there. And it's nothing personal and don't take it that way. Well, I'm also sorry that I was in '91. I couldn't give a measure, I was only 11 years old, but I hope Christmas doesn't mind me. ... Christmases I didn't turn you off my hands were in the air. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] So this is today we're talking about one of our 25 proposals. Two were rejected, this is the third one that didn't pass, and why, yeah. That's what I said in the introduction. Because for the first time we could see it from the CNB's real salary reports fell in June 2008 and continued to fall. Because Croatia had 720 thousand poor, because 11 thousand people remained in the last 3 months because of work and because the share of food costs is 40% in the average basket and dwellings at 30%. And that's why it's important to talk about these things, especially about lowering VAT to basic life products. And there was a question from the minister whether this law was anti-inflation or anatherian. He's both. And now you'll hear why it's both. Because the European Union is also in its first guidelines to protect citizens from the energy impact, and we all agree that inflation has been partly imported as the crisis has been partly imported, but inflation has not been fully imported because the expansion of fiscal policy has made the cost of goods and services and the crisis not fully imported precisely because the lack of structural reforms has led to the situation that we cannot make a small shift in the state budget. So it's a measure that's both anti-inflational and anti-recessional. Why? Because the European Commission has proposed to amend the VAT reduction directive to protect citizens six, seven months ago. And it is precisely in the European Commission's 200 billion-euro Recovery Plan that envisions a reduction in one part of the labour intensity of the value added tax rate. Therefore, the European Commission is proposing these solutions for the same cases. So, what's this about? The law is simple, it's universal. We did not invent hot water and I do not personally care or care about how a single citizen of the European Union will live, I am interested in how a Croatian citizen will live but I am interested if a European Union citizen, if the Government of the European Union, if all relevant political entities there have solutions to take those solutions and apply them, and that is why we have proposed it. We didn't invent hot water and we don't think we're the smartest in the world, but we have to, we realize that we have to offer some measures and we have to offer solutions. Directly to say the application of this law when we pass it, I hope that you will perhaps support us, would be directly the first day after the law is passed, i.e. After the entry into force of the law reduced the price of oil and oil, children's food, children's clothing, shoes and diapers, natural gas, electricity, heating and fuel by 10%, but at the start of 10% would allow lower cost of living for Croatian citizens. I'll remind you that in the 2003 pre-election programme, you've also predicted a change in VAT rates from 22% to 20% that you haven't achieved so far, it's been six years and this is one of the ways that we're helping you to realize your pre-election promise in at least one part, and we need to. The three laws in the package mean more salaries of 500 kuna immediately, less cost of life due to 10% lower prices of these products, more investment and higher pensions. And that's four effects of these three laws, and that's how they should be watched. And our momentum in the bill was not to burden the state budget, to do something but to finally become aware that something must be done in Croatia. Vidovic spoke of seven good years, Parliament Speaker Luka Bebic spoke of five good years and I agree that there were five and that there were seven. However, in a period of good years it is worth saving. It needs to be saved to have a more flexible fiscal policy, i.e. a more flexible budget in the coming period and that is the basic point and intensity. We have proposed to you over the last five, six years thousands and thousands of amendments. There was no room to accept any. A pack, a hundred laws, there was no room to accept any. This means that even the smallest intervention in the state budget is completely destroying the state budget tectonics. That's not good. This means that the budget is too tight, it's tectonically unstable and it's actually an exception to the implementation of structural reforms at a time when they could be implemented and could be carried out on a wave of economic growth when we have more money and when we have created and we cannot implement the reforms that are necessary today when we have no money. And that's the basic point of the story. It's hard to make now... Well, I agree it's hard. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Well, I agree that it's hard to intervene in the budget, but finally something has to be done to implement the reforms, and the intensity of this law is exactly because the budget seems to me and acts like a sore muscle wherever you touch the pain. And unfortunately, this is a practice that needs to be changed and that is why these three of our laws are once again intensified to allow for higher wages and lower cost of life, greater investment and higher pensions in the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-06-0.u26516	Thank you. We have two corrections. First Mr. Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-06-0.u26517	Thank you very much. Mr. President. Just one correction to an incorrect quote in a series of inaccuracies made by the gentleman. And that is that it is incorrect that your amendments could not have been included in the budget but it was impossible to include them since they were unwarranted. You wanted to take down the Security Intelligence Service all but more than planned for them, you wanted to take down the police more than planned for the Ministry of the Interior and on the other hand you asked for the safety of the citizens, on the other hand you asked to do your job, on the other hand you asked to be on the streets. I mean, what are you talking about if you haven't taken the side of the budget and justified your desire to represent through the budget the interests of all citizens and the positions of all institutions in the Republic of Croatia in a timely and timely manner. Don't insinuate in front of this High House because it's really visible from what you suggested.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-06-0.u26518	... [[The speaker is not on, you can't hear it.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-06-0.u26519	I would correct Mr Bernardic's incorrect claim. Thousands and thousands of amendments the government does not accept. It's just not true. A colleague was not represented in that previous term but may ask older colleagues. It's just not true. It's about the quality of the amendment. When the amendment was a quality government accepted it. And as for the state budget procedure of my colleague Bernardic, so the citizens don't want your procedures, they're telling you twice in a row we don't want you to have anything to do with the state budget. If they wanted your procedures, the election results would be different.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-06-0.u26520	It's Mr. Representative Franjo Lucic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-06-0.u26521	Thank you very much. Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, respected ministers, state secretary. Here, since we listened yesterday to everything and everything and since today and Friday I will not talk about what I meant but I will look back on just a few words and all the illogical things that we heard today and yesterday. Of course, today I'm going to look back on this last law of yours. And why did I say he was illogical? Well, it's illogical what you're proposing today when Croatia is in such a difficult situation, when the whole world is in recession today you're looking for a change or you're proposing a new law where you would reduce revenues to the state budget by 2 billion and 200 million, or rather speaking through your anti-recession programme of 15 billion. It is really not clear to every reasonable man in today's time how and how this resolute Ministry of Finance, the Croatian Government could implement it in 2009. It is certainly only clear to you and you certainly have your own program but it is founded only today to make you public and citizens because your mouth is full of citizens allotted in any way. I'm really telling the truth, you know that's how it is, but of course you won't admit it. First of all, if we know that our budget cost is 80 billion fixed, if we know at the same time that you would reduce the budget of 15 billion kuna through your anti-recession programme, so I ask you respected friends how and how anything would be built in Croatia so that any capital assignment could begin if you are so thrifty today, if you love citizens so much today. And at the same time when you were in power, I don't remember what year it was, long ago it was, you didn't even know how to apply a similar anti-recession programme because even then Croatia was already in difficulty. Therefore, in today's time when the whole world is talking about the crisis, you are also accusing the Croatian government, at the same time proposing a budget reduction, while you are looking for those who were burning fire under the union and asking for a 6% increase in income for civil servants while neglecting that there are other officials. At the same time, neglecting that there are those who have been fired today not because of the government of the Republic of Croatia but because of the global crisis. And you didn't ask your respected friends who would provide these people with not a minimum personal income but a single kuna. At the same time, you've been cocking unions and government to increase 6% of your personal income to only one employee. At the same time, you're ready here today to drain the blood and the trees and the stones on the government because they don't know. So you had a chance and if you knew, you wouldn't have been here for eight years you'd be in opposition and I believe for longer because you really didn't know, you really didn't know. And therefore, this is embarrassing that in this difficult time today, not for Croatia, as I said time is difficult all over the world, we do not collect heads together regardless of who is in opposition or position and try all of our proposals but also real indicators to perform this Croatia from the recession that has affected us. But less than other countries in Europe. And that's why I'd like to help with my correct contribution and my proposal, and not this way, get away like you're doing here today and yesterday. And especially yesterday when they were recording the cameras you were very active, on 100 replicas you appeared and without any justification. It is a shame, gentlemen, because we here in this House must contribute to the development and improvement of the economy in Croatia. In this way you reduce it with your proposals and you want to show yourself to the citizens as the great benefactors of this country, because this government doesn't know what it is doing, and once again I repeat, you had a chance in 2001, you didn't take advantage of it, and you will be in this opposition for a long time where you are today. I told you about the personal incomes you fought so hard to increase, that's 880 million kuna of direct cost increase in the state's register. At the same time, these today were heard, you are now re-proposing that the personal incomes are reduced and I do not know all the measures you are not proposing, and they are indeed not standing and at this point do not use the Government of the Republic of Croatia. I would very much like all of your proposals that you have proposed to be enforceable, but these gentlemen can't be implemented today, they may be enforceable, and that's what the government has discussed before, and eventually the government has reduced certain taxes on certain products and I'm sure the government will do so when the time comes. You just in this time of day, hard time, are hitting on the simplest words of the citizens to collect political points, or to get their hands on each other. Well, it's not the time for that today, you're using it in another time, and today it's time for us to try together to help this Croatian government, to be unique, not divided. And when we talk about Croatia entering the European Union and talking to Slovenia, I get the impression that you are showing up in one sense and doing things differently. That's really not fair today. And I certainly could say a lot more here, but it's certain that what I said is behind it and I can't agree that these are programs. These are not programs for this time, and the government would certainly apply that if they were, and it will apply when necessary. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-06-0.u26522	We have two replicas and one correction. The first is the replica Mr. Nenad Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-06-0.u26523	My colleagues, in all of your completely illogical and contradictory exposure, perhaps only the peaks of these illogicalities should be touched. First of all, you call our bill, our activity, our measures embarrassing, you say we're getting away. One minute and a half later you say that you would like these proposals to be accepted and that the government would surely accept them once only now. So wait if you really think they're embarrassing and I think it's embarrassing to say something like that in Parliament at all what you said. Then how can you wish they come true? You have absolutely no understanding of these measures. Because you said it was our intention to reduce the revenues of the state budget and that we are proposing 25 measures to reduce the revenues of the state budget, so it's not our intensity. Well, our intensity is to invest money in an economy on the one hand, which is done to you by the US government, which is done to you by European governments with billions of euros, hundreds of billions of euros and dollars. So wait, so do you and their actions find it embarrassing and I don't know what you called it all here? On the other hand, it's not our intensity to cut budget revenue. Helping citizens to live, the citizens you've distanced yourself from. You're away from the citizens, you only see Prime Minister Sanader in front of you, you want to court him, and that's the only thing on your mind. As citizens live, what happens to citizens, it doesn't matter to you...
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-06-0.u26524	Okay. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-06-0.u26525	And it's from this exposure of yours clearly.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-06-0.u26526	The line was, now the answer would be. Here you go. Mr. Franjo Lucic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-06-0.u26527	Mr. Stazic, your demagogy in this High House is really enough for all of us. But when we speak, then we speak truly honestly. I have made it clear and loud that at this point absolutely nothing is possible to do about your proposals of all the laws, and I have not spoken nor we are advocating to the government, nor to the prime minister, but this government and the prime minister and we are all working together for the benefit of the citizens. And in this difficult time, you're courting and showing false to the citizens, that's the basis of everything. And the citizens will recognize you, and therefore you will be in opposition for a long time, because you punish them falsely because everything you say today is not justified and cannot be in this difficult time. And you are falsely showing yourself to the citizens, Mr. Stazic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-06-0.u26528	I'd like to pray for words, it's nicer to hear you don't tell the truth than to say you're lying. Here, that's my only observation there. And now we have Mr. Zdenko Franic, also a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-06-0.u26529	My dear colleague, you have used the word "encourage unions." And you have one union in your ranks. I don't see anything in it... He's gone, but otherwise, I don't see anything controversial about it. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] It is a legitimate and legal form of political action that parties connect with trade unions. It could be said that the moment we, in your words, stormed the unions you were working on the Split coast, on the street. We did not go out on the street but used legal and legitimate methods of political struggle. I don't think it's embarrassing that these laws are being discussed in this High House and the power of the arguments should be accepted or rejected, it will be decided by the parliamentary majority, it is its legal and legitimate right. But what is good is that we have initiated a conversation about it and that an exchange of views may have been strengthened, but in other words I will quote our dear colleague Shex: "The Parliament is a political stage for different opinions." And finally, I'm glad that you're just one of the HDZ elites that the explicates used are in recession, I don't know what Minister Shucker will tell you, but here's the first time public recognition from a multiple HDZ nomenclature that we are in recession. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-06-0.u26530	Thank you very much. Replicate response, distinguished representative Lucic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-06-0.u26531	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues and distinguished professors, I don't know, you certainly know that better than I do, but the union thinks I haven't heard or heard that word anywhere yet, but I think unions or trade unions are the right word in the Croatian dictionary, but what you used really haven't heard or read anywhere. But when you mention our representative who was once in the union, he really represented the interests of the union today and through this Croatian Parliament and through the government, he certainly represented it. So all of this is not true, but if I were to talk about everything that you've been doing with the unions, or at the latest, when we're looking at all these possible pages and facebooks, you're certainly the ones who are the main organizers you're just not going to admit, but you're hiding behind everyone. And you're the ones who support, the truth and unions and all this facebook stuff that's been going on. So don't hide, so people recognize you and expose you. Therefore, do not let me repeat the same word to you why you are not in power. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-06-0.u26532	Thank you. We've got one report of a rectification. Dear fellow MP Slavko Linic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-06-0.u26533	It's an incorrect claim that the SDP has been instigating trade unions. Prime Minister Ivo Sanader, to enter the elections, signed with the trade unions a way to pay back government officials' salaries. He signed 6% in two years, 2008 and 2009. These are the signatures of your party leader, our Prime Minister. That's true. And of course, that's why the Prime Minister also realized that when the unions won't give up, they'll somehow accept the increase. To invite us to the store for... And to tell the truth, I have nothing to comment on. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Surely with men who speak falsely, deceive, we shall not cooperate together. We really won't. So much, Mr. Luciche, about your truths.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-06-0.u26534	Thank you. Next comes the debate of a respected colleague, Josip Lek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-06-0.u26535	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Honorable ministers, colleagues and fellow MPs. Can we get back to the subject? The Social Democratic Party Club of Croatia proposes to the Croatian Parliament to adopt an amendment to the Law on VAT to pay value added tax for oil, fat, children's food, children's clothing, shoes and diapers, natural gas and electricity, taxed with 10%. Do you have any idea why the SDP club would suggest that? Because according to undisputed research that no one here has disputed 1/3 of households in Croatia in poverty, and 1/2 of households cannot draw up the beginning and end of the month from income. And the next reason is to estimate that 720,000 people in Croatia are below the poverty line. The SDP Club knows, and you know that the economic crisis does not affect all parts of society identically. That's what you know as well as we do, and that's not where we argue. No one is contesting anything, and it is our job for all of us in the Parliament to take care of those whose existence will be threatened when the crisis is poured into Croatian society. That's our job. Thus, it is certain that much harder on the standard of living will be existentially threatened by people who are now at the poverty line. And that's what the SDP Club is proposing, and there's no dispute between us. If so, and our proposal allegedly is not in line with something, so the more logical it is to expect from the government than it says we were well warned. You will receive a proposal that is consistent with the possibilities and with the acts. But colleagues and colleagues, so we are not illiterate that the European Union's sides are not affected by the same minor crisis, nor are the measures of the European Union countries to mitigate the consequences of the crisis identical. So it was not the same measure that introduced Britain and Germany, and the leading countries of the European Union, France and do not have the same problems as Croatia. The causes of the crisis in Croatia are not the same as the causes of the crisis in the countries of the European Union, nor will the measures be the same, nor will the consequences be the same. Neither measures will be the same nor the consequences will be the same. And we do not dispute that the facts as we have brought them here, that 720,000 people in Croatia are on the poverty line and that the crisis has not yet come to Croatia. And now we can have school discussions about what who, how who. But the consequences of the crisis will obviously be felt by these people, not by those who discuss it in such a dramatic way. So, we must agree that the causes of the crisis are not identical, nor are they in Croatia for now, so to speak, primarily imported. They're domestic causes, domestic. So the economic crisis did not create half of Croatia's households so that they could not put an end to the end, but rather Croatian politics, Croatian politics created it. For this reason, let us not close our eyes to facts, and let us not debate it. We can have a debate on how to help these people, how to help these people. The debate who better viewed the crisis also couldn't be the way I better, you better. Give us gentlemen from the Government, give us some indicators that are indisputable at least to a group of experts or to official institutions dealing with the matter of the Croatian Statistics Institute, the Economic Institute, the Economic Institute or you give yours. Give us a chance to analyze the same on the basis that decisions must be made. Our responsibility as an opposition is to ask for it. The consequences of our law will not, unfortunately, be felt in a positive or negative sense because they are regularly rejected. List the laws, which are the Croatian government, this five-year-old government that it adopted, any law the government and opposition have proposed. But the truth is, she's passed a lot of suggestions through her laws. And I will be happy and satisfied if fate and this bill of law be... We reject it because the opposition suggested it. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Eww! But the government gentlemen will meet. They've really noticed the problem, they've noticed the problem. There's a lot of households, a lot of citizens who can't handle the crisis. It would be wise for us to see that and find some measures that will make it easier for us to overcome the crisis at least this year. Why am I saying this this year? Calling on the European Union and the Directive for one year to delay the application of this Directive shows even the regulations of the Government of the Republic of Croatia which adopted the regulation, of course, is not legal, it is anti-constitutional, that the Foreign Exchange Act is amended. The law was in line with the European Union. Mr. Minister, it's an honor to have you as a Croatian minister, but let me finish. So the government amended the Foreign Exchange Act by a regulation, by a regulation and was in line, liberalisation was in line with the European Union, and now we cannot find a way to make life easier for people who are existentially threatened. If the task of politics is to respect the norm, the regulations then above that is the task of politics to ensure a man's life, it is above that. It's a national interest, at least in a year until we see where they're going and where they're going and which layers of society are going to step on this crisis. But we can't wait for him to come, so we'll react. Well, the government's mission is to predict, hire experts, scientists and tell us that's it. Those are the bases, so on those bases let's talk. It is not possible to reject this law simply because it is as the minister says contrary to the directive. So says the minister that he's the opposite. That's not an argument, because there's a problem. The problem is that half of the households in the Republic of Croatia cannot exist at this level, cannot put together needs, their life needs from the first to the last of the month. And it's lucky that we have this data that no one's challenging no matter who's going to call on ideology, Caritas over here, Caritas over there. There's no point in saying that to close my eyes to the problem because the problem has been detected by the opposition, I suggest to the government, especially Minister Shuker, that the perceived problem looks into the frameworks of possibilities and suggests what measures the government will propose to protect the existence of the people that are concerned. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-06-0.u26536	Thank you very much. We have one application to correct the incorrect allegations, dear colleague Daniel Srb. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-06-0.u26537	Thank you very much. My first day in Parliament, this is my first call, but I felt it was necessary in a certain way to intervene for this speech. It is certain that there are extremely many families in Croatia that have difficulty bringing the end to an end. Surely there are also those who are on the verge of poverty. However, what are the real measures that can be corrected? I'm sure it's the hardest thing for those who are out of a job. And in this regard, I believe that Croatia needs precisely those measures that raise the competitiveness of the Croatian economy. The increase in competitiveness of the Croatian economy will also lead to a decrease in unemployment, an increase in jobs, and a rise in opportunities for higher social giving. Therefore, I see all the measures to be taken by the Government in this direction, and this is to every extent possible to find a way to increase the competitiveness of the Croatian economy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-06-0.u26538	Thanks, buddy. Next is the debate of distinguished counterpart Nenad Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-06-0.u26539	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. First of all, I think it's extremely good that we had a debate on this bill today, which we didn't spend late last night. That's good for a few reasons. First of all, yesterday all day and last night, the Honorable Minister Schucker probably had pre-arranged obligations, so he couldn't be here with us. Today can and this debate is certainly more quality and fruitful when we have a representative of the Government here, and that is exactly the Minister of Finance. That's why that insistence by the Vice-President of the Parliament that we're still having this debate last night is showing up today, it wasn't particularly wise. Another reason is that today, both the larger number of clubs and the representatives could be involved in this debate, including you fellow Fristic, because last night it would not be possible, since you were not there either. What are the reasons for this legal proposal? Well, certainly not the obstetrics and boredom of a SDP club that has nothing to do, so it writes legal proposals and burys them with a plenary session. It's an emergency. Unfortunately, it's an emergency. Unfortunately, the state of the country no one wants and no one is looking forward to. To determine what kind of condition it is, to show your concern that it will become even worse does not mean to spread defetism or to scare the citizens, but rather to be responsible. Everyone has a responsibility. The ruling party has its responsibility, the government has its responsibility, the opposition also has its responsibility. She can't pass some legal act because she simply doesn't have a majority, but she has a responsibility to prepare a solution, especially when she sees that the government doesn't. It's not bad when I say the government doesn't do anything because we here hear the government's defence from many fellow MPs, the government observes the situation, the government will, when necessary, government will, but we are tragically late. The fact that when the government takes a good look at the problem, it will unfortunately come too late, the question is what measures are coming, we don't know anything about it. They don't even announce themselves. We are deeply convinced that the government should have and that there was time and warning for the government to react. If the government had come with its proposal for measures, so certainly we would not write countermeasures, but we would have discussed this government's package of measures and adopted it for the benefit of the citizens, as we adopt 85% of the government's laws because we have our opposition responsibility, because we are not acting as a government that refuses anything that comes from the opposition and then we are equally irresponsiblely rejecting everything that comes from the government. We don't act that way. We're a little more responsible than the parliamentary majority. We accept what we think is good for the citizens of this country. We're concerned with the state. The economy suffers, that's what the businessmen themselves say. We are looking at what other governments are doing, from the United States government to the European governments. Hundreds of billions of dollars and euros invest in the economy from their budgets, where else, from the budget. Why? To give oxygen to the economy, so that the economy can resist the crisis, it's that engine. To keep jobs, it eventually opened up some new ones. We expected our government to do the same, but we didn't welcome it. When we haven't arrived, we're proposing our own measures. We are convinced that the difficult situation in Croatia is still not the result of the global recession crisis. The tidal wave, the tsunami has not yet reached Croatia's coast. We're afraid when it comes that this hour can't judge the scale or the power of that wave. What will he sink in Croatia, and what will destroy everything? But we're afraid when we see that it doesn't react to the consequences of a crisis that hasn't yet been caused by that tidal wave. This is just a reflection of how this government has ruled in the last five years. One piece of evidence that proves it. The price of bread in 5 years has increased 57%. What global crisis, what recession has affected that? No world crisis. But the price of bread in the five years of the government's mandate has increased 57%. That bread buys every man, every citizen. We're scared, we're scared. There is no family in Croatia that has no mortgage credit, and jobs are already losing their jobs today. Every day. Every day, lost yesterday, lost today, will be lost tomorrow. How are these people gonna repay those loans? So today we are proposing in this day we have extended the agenda, among other things, that proposal. Let's propose a moratorium to pay off for those who lose their jobs. Because we predict that this loss of jobs will never be prevented, not even the most brilliant government would be able to prevent it, let alone the one we have. But we act in the interest of the citizens. It's here today, it's called obstruction in the work of the Parliament, it's called shameful, it's called our concern. We are proposing 25 measures, mostly for the economy yesterday, to encourage the economy, today in the interest of citizens. These VAT changes in the system are primarily in the interest of citizens. According to Minister Shuker, this is not in line with the European Union directive. But says his coalition partner, the esteemed Mr. Friscic, will do so, the government will propose it just not now. So wait. Is it or is it not in accordance with the European Union Directive? A colleague of mine thinks he is when he says you're going to suggest the same thing. When you wrote the pre-election program, you wrote it the same way in the pre-election program and election promises. So did you make sure that this was in accordance with the European Union Directive or not? Did you knowingly then deceive the citizens when you promised them, and you knew that you would not keep it because it did not comply with the directive. Here in the Assembly, some statistics are read constantly from the HDZ bench, as if citizens do not know. They're not crazy. So let us not offend them, as if they do not know how they live. It's like they don't know that electricity pays more, like they don't know that gas pays more, like they don't know that bread pays more, like they don't know that their wages are real, that their standards are going down. Well, they know that. Well, they need help. Well, life won't fix them because a few HDZ deputies are going to read what statistical data and say that we're scaring people. It won't help them. So they can be helped by concrete measures. That and that. And that's all we're offering. Six billion kunas in the budget. But the National Council's assessment of the fight against corruption doesn't fit so much in corrupt affairs annually. Six billion kuna. That's why we say fighting corruption is a fight against recession at the same time. That's why we've been calling on this government for months to deal with corruption. What do we experience? That members of that council are insulting their president, they're looking for his shift because he warned. Because that's not the way. You can insult Jovanovic as much as you want, and that's not the way. It will continue to disappear 6 billion kuna in corruption and will continue to lack those 6 billion for such measures as can help both the economy and the citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-06-0.u26540	Thank you very much. We've got one application for correction of the quote... [[The speaker is not enabled.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-06-0.u26541	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I want to correct the quote of fellow Stazic who said that in fact these recession measures they offer are measures they want to help the government. That's not true. The truth is actually on the other side. You and all of you who are proposing these recession measures are, in fact, taking these short-term aids that you think can help citizens, you want to hand over to citizens before elections, because if it wasn't, then you should know that these 15 billion that look small to you in that short-term help that you think you're offering to the people are actually the money that someone needs to put back into the state budget, which is citizens. They're citizens. Therefore, do not use demagogy anymore.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-06-0.u26542	Thank you. An esteemed colleague of the Lovrin has also appeared to correct the allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-06-0.u26543	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. It incorrectly shows counterpart Stazic that the assessment of the Anti-Corruption Council is that 6 billion kuna is spent, or goes to corruption in Croatia. On the contrary, the president quoted a survey by the Economic Institute, based on an estimated 3 to 6% loss in corruption in the world, so if it were applied to the overall economic activity in Croatia, it would be 6 billion. So these are the estimates of one research. And I don't insult any of us who disagree with the council, we don't insult the president for that. He quoted it. But that's exactly what the problem is that he presented it as the Council's conclusion, which is not true. And I'm calling him because... meetings of that Council by violating the Rules of Procedure and at least 8 of the provisions of 23. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-06-0.u26544	Thank you. Following is the debate of the distinguished co-worker, Vice-President of the Parliament, MP Zeljke Antunovic. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-06-0.u26545	Thank you very much, Vice President. I'll just briefly remind you, no matter what we discuss only one law in this package of measures, but I'll remind you that our package is quite complex. Here first came the turn, it came to a debate on these tax laws, but he in general, this perhaps also because of fellow Serbs who intervened very well, but he may not have heard yesterday's debate and he doesn't know, he can't see the whole complex. Yes, it is true, the SDP primarily pushes and thinks that the most important measures that will trigger the economy or help the economy are to amortise job loss but certainly there are those measures that are aimed at maintaining the achieved level of citizens' standards because we think it is at that level that it should not fall more drastically. And that's why there's this moment at the hearing of the law that we wrote when we wrote it, and I'm going to mention it and we wrote it in the 10th month of last year. The one we discussed yesterday, one of the ones we discussed yesterday, we wrote it before the 2008 budget was adopted. So it's not them and it's convenient, it's not propaganda political, it's laws that give suggestions for application and it's a pretty thorough change through these tax system laws. Well, we're not the only ones talking about how our tax system should be up-to-date. That's almost what all experts on one side or the other are talking about, politically engage or those who are not political. I'm sure, I've spoken to some members of the government council, the Advisory Council of Sanader, none of them come from the political structure, who agree that the budget needs to be rebalanced, who agree that some changes in our tax system should be made as one of the important measures. Yesterday we proposed a change, another standard measure of change in profit taxation. Today, we again propose one standard measure and a change in sales taxation or value added tax. Our goal is to stop the decline of citizens' standards, reduce the tax burden, and thus affect the reduction of retail prices because we know that the economy has problems and that they can no longer save, that they can no longer tighten, that they cannot affect price reductions because their costs are growing. Their costs are increasing as a result of high public spending and large liabilities, which is due to completely objective market developments, the financial market, etc. But despite all this, I'm most interested in exactly what a few people here have said today, how to keep the number of jobs, how to ensure that as few of these existing jobs shut down or create new ones in the ruins of the old and how to keep that minimum standard. I'll remind you, especially the ministers of their recent performance on the current clock as some have called it but actually an attempt to make it very clear, simple and picturesque to show what's going on. Those apples I've shown here for a year have collected 70 percent and more on the market. The cheese I showed is up 33%. The bread I showed is between 25 and 50%, depending on the type of bread. And these are the problems our citizens are dealing with. We can stress it harder on this side, you can keep your mouth shut about it. No matter how quiet you or we our citizens know how they live. And our common duty is, yours more than ours to try to help them overcome these problems. And how different than reducing the cost of the state. The main argument used against this and against these other laws is that it is too much budget cost, that there is no budget for this space. I will again refer to my talks with several non-political experts, all of which claim that our budget as well as any budget of local self-government in Croatia and many other budgets from the European Union countries can be reduced by 10% without any particular problems, 10%. Maybe the cost of this reform is bigger but let's try to agree on about 10%, at least let's do it. Except that it is possible without asking for additional sources of income to make that 10% reduction I think that through good analysis and good suggestions and in the context of tax system reform it may be possible to find some additional sources and not be burdened by the average citizen we have to think about the most. For a long time, there has been a lack of logic in our tax legislation that we have now installed in this package of measures, the SDP package of measures, which refers to taxation, or to excise duties and vessels, on excise duties for vessels. I've heard comments about it like it's a banal measure, so there's nothing to make. It is not exactly true that nothing can be earned but there is one indirect profit, one indirect benefit that we will make our tax system fairer by correcting that law and even more so make those who buy a vessel for economic activity not to pay the same tax for fishing as those who buy the same length of a luxury vessel, for a funeral, for hosting their friends. That's a fact. ... Here, the minister already from the bench warns me not to be paid on the economic vessels, but I mean the barb that buys the boat, as they say in Dalmatia 6 meters, buy it and import it from the outside and pay the customs and taxes per meter as much as when you import a yacht of 6 metres. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] He's with that boat. ... There are six-foot yachts, I'll show you that there are 12-foot boats like that. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Wait a minute. There's a six-metre boat that costs money when you buy it out there, this is data from the Internet, it's about vessels outside, 3.5 thousand kunas with which someone can fish, supplement their budget, and they're going to pay for it at the current cost of the 15 grand, at the cost of a 35,000 kuna boat, they're going to pay the cost of 15 thousand kuna. If you buy a 12m boat that costs 200 thousand kuna, it's obviously not a luxury yacht, it'll be paid for by a fee of 60,000 kuna. If you buy a 12m yacht that costs 400,000 euros, it will also be paid by 60,000 kuna. But I don't think that's the point. The goal is to do something that needs to be fixed, something that on these examples that I have here you calculate about a positive inflow in the budget of 7 million, it's 1, 2, 3, 4, 5 boats of different lengths comparing now the calculation or that calculation. Or more simply, to understand me, it would be the same to you as if you were paying car charges according to that criterion and then paying for a Fiat punto and I don't know the Rolls Royce almost identical, almost identical excise duty. I don't know why he refuses to talk about it so much. This device is not fair, it is not fair to our citizens and it can bring revenue to the budget without it being a burden to the average resident of this country but to one who has many and more. And here's where I'm going to end up because I'm running out of time, so suggest these measures, we'll consider them, we won't throw them away like you throw away every one of ours.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-06-0.u26546	Thank you very much. Next is a debate between distinguished counterpart Miljenko Doric. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-06-0.u26547	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. I give up my prepared exposure because many would not like it and would probably get a heads-up from Mr. Vice President. Namely, you can imagine what I was going to say, listening to this debate today and yesterday, but let me just say a dozen sentences. A colleague from HDZ said today, put our heads together, the situation is serious, she demands it, I agree with my colleague. However, I am surprised that no HDZ counterpart, not a single HDZ colleague supported a single sentence, not a single sentence, not a single opinion, not a single form of thinking by colleagues from the SDP and similar passing other opposition laws is good. My colleagues and colleagues, look at what's going on in the world. The American president, the German Chancellor, the British Prime Minister, did what first? They went into opposition and tried to reach a national consensus on the measures to be taken in these difficult moments. It disappoints me that in my country I am not able to see it, to see it, to experience it, to participate in it. I can't help much, but I can in the segment of education, science, health care make my contribution, but no one wants to hear it, no one wants me to participate, because it's thought that I'm doing something against this country and this government, which is incorrect. So I'm asking you how honest we really are in our statements, how good our intentions are. I even have the feeling of a colleague and colleagues that the recession will be a cover for the consequences of many forms of unhappiness, ignorance, incompetence, tolerance, thieving and what has been going on in the last 10 years. It'll be a cover that's not good, it can't happen at all. We all know what's going on from 90 to 92 with production, with exports, with import-export balance, we all know what's going on with external debt, we all know that the government will have to pay back 2,000 euros per capita this year, these are terrible amounts, this is a terrible mission, and we all have to participate who have good will and good intentions. I'm just asking the government to give us a chance to take part in this, these are too serious moments to get involved here, confront, challenge, etc. My colleagues, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-06-0.u26548	Thanks, buddy. And now as last reported for an individual debate, distinguished colleague Nadica Jelash. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-06-0.u26549	Dear Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues, it is quite clear to us at the SDP Club why the government does not want to accept this legislative proposal as well as yesterday's two. Because it is going to reduce VAT as the primary revenue of the state budget. Unfortunately, it is not important for the Government to have this proposal hand-in-hand to the economy and cities in order to reduce their energy and food prices, therefore, those goods that are in economic terms and in life terms of great importance. And some of them also have characteristics of the measures of the invention policy, such as children's food, children's clothing, shoes, food for newborns and diapers. It's amazing, in fact, that one chamber and the shortsightedness of such government behavior. It is only important to ensure the revenues of the state register so that the state can move on, so I will feel free to say it is easy to function, and what will happen with the economy and with the citizens is completely irrelevant to it. It is ignored that the economy and its citizens are filling the state register, not creating the state, creating the economy and creating citizens. And where does the state save? So far, we have not seen her saving anywhere, but in this difficult situation, the responsible government should start by itself in this savings, it should start with this vast crowd of state administrations. As many predecessors have reiterated, like other European governments, they should have more hearing and understanding about difficulties and propose their own measures for tax discharges and economies and citizens, in a rather notorious fact. To keep the economy and the citizens alive. Why? So we can keep filling the state register. Because who's going to charge the state's register if a wave of bankruptcy and bankruptcy is strengthened by entrepreneurs and workers are left out of jobs and out of permanent income? I'll mention a folk wisdom, she says, "she has to cut the sheep's hair, not take off their skin," because when you take off their skin, they die. So, you need to think about tomorrow and you need to adjust. Don't close your eyes because the problem won't go away if your eyes close. And it should not be afraid of citizens that if VAT revenues are reduced on the spending side they will have to take someone, therefore, that citizens will be left without pay, without pensions and without social benefits. You don't need to take it. The problem does not have to be solved only on the expenditure side of income, budget, because it is the government's obligation to also take care of the revenue side of the state budget. Let's just think of millions of unpaid VAT from sports clubs, but it's an old case. There's a lot of new ones, actual ones. How hard is the failure of state institutions? For example, yesterday I talked about it, the customs service in 2008 did not charge 3.5 billion old customs debts, so customs and VAT. What have the state institutions done in the sense that the VAT is charged? Nothing. Why nothing? Because they don't need it, because everything in this country will be paid. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-06-0.u26550	Thank you very much. On behalf of the promoter, the esteemed representative Milanka Opačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-06-0.u26551	Don't sigh. I won't be long. I know Friday's four o'clock. I won't be long, I'll just thank all those who participated in the debate today. I know that this law will not get the support of the majority, as well as the two who were discussed here yesterday, but in any case, I hope that there may be little Minister Shuker we have agreed that the entire government, together with him, will move forward and that as soon as possible before this home, measures by the Government of the Republic of Croatia that will help the economy and especially the population to get over this year, so a year of crisis and recession in Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-06-0.u26552	Thank you very much. This concludes the whole debate on this agenda point. In the name of the government, no one ever calls in a word again. This will bring today's session to an end with the announcement that we will continue on Wednesday 11, 9:30 with the point of the proposal for a law supplementing the Law on Public Roads. Have a nice weekend and good-bye.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-06-0.u26553	We're going to vote on the debated agenda points. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Value Added Tax, first reading. Proposer of the Club of Representatives of the SDP. I am giving the vote the conclusion in accordance with the proposals of the parliamentary working bodies and the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, which reads: "The amendment law and the additions of the Value Added Tax Act are not accepted.". Please, let's get on with it. Please, let's vote. Score. The conclusion accepted by 74 votes in favour, 2 abstentions and 33 against.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-06-0.u27315	The Committee on Internal Policy and National Security proposes to remove the confidentiality mark from a specific section of the 2007 Business Audit Report. Does the president of the Committee want to further explain the proposal? No, I don't. I am voting on the committee's proposal. I mean, I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on the Committee's proposal to remove the confidentiality mark from the 2007 business audit report. Who's in favour of the motion for this decision? Thank you. Against? Thank you. Restraint? Have we published 115? We didn't. 115 for, so unanimously. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-06-0.u27316	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, good morning, everyone. We continue with the session and move to agenda item (a) Report on the work of the State Audit Office for 2008 (b) Report on audits carried out for 2007, with attachments 1, 2, 3 and 4 (c) Report on audits carried out for 2007, Special Part Carrier: State Audit Office of the Republic of Croatia On the basis of Article 32. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament and in accordance with the provisions of Article 11. The State Audit Act. You received the proposal by mail. The material under point c) you received it personally. I would like to remind you that on the proposal of the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security, we have decided to remove the designation of secrecy from the 2007 report on audits carried out – a special part. They held the debate: for local regional and regional self-government, so the Committee on Local, Regional (regional) Self-Government, the Committee on Finance and the State Budget, the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security, the Committee on Defence, the Committee on Agriculture, Fisheries and Rural Development and the Committee on Health and Social Care. You received the reports at the session. Ms. Šima Krasic, chief state auditor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-06-0.u27317	Thank you, Mr. President, esteemed MPs and others. Well, here we are, showing up again with the Annual Report of the State Office for Labour Audit for 2008 and the audits carried out for 2007. The usual way, the usual way of reporting to the Parliament, because we are obliged to once a year inform this High House about their work and the audits carried out. We always do this in a way that is as accessible as possible, because the reports are very large in order to cut short, to try in one way to bring our work, the results of our work and what we expect in the future to be brought closer to the representatives and the public. In order to carry out the tasks under its jurisdiction, the office shall, at the annual level, adopt a programme and a work plan which is mandatory for all budget users, and our Law on State Audit also requires that we do so. In the preparation of the 2008 programme and the work plan for the selection of audit entities as well as previous years, the following criteria have been applied: the legal obligation to review, an unfavourable opinion on financial reports and operations expressed in the previous year, the material significance of the audit subject, the number of applications submitted, applications, applications for the implementation of the audit per entity because you know that the office is independent and decides on the work programme. But we are taking into account all the facts that we come up with during the year and the other data collected from other institutions and public media. According to the provisions of the law, audits shall be made mandatory every year for the state budget of funds, i.e. they are being introduced at national level, and for the budgets of local units. All other audits shall be carried out in accordance with the annual programme and the work plan of the office according to the possibilities. The audit shall be carried out according to international audit standards. Notwithstanding the type of entity, the objectives of the audit were: to establish the truthfulness and credibility of financial reports and operations, to analyse the results of revenue and expenditure, to verify the compliance of the operations under the laws and regulations, to verify and assess the effectiveness of the use of the funds, and to verify other activities related to the operation of the audit entity. The audit shall cover the following areas: the work cycle and the internal structure of the entity with a reference to the organisation and performance of internal control and internal audit operations, accounting operations, income and expenditure. The audit checks the efficiency, economics of public spending. Special attention is paid to the procurement and application of public procurement rules. The 2008 report on the work of the Office shall contain information on the implementation of the annual work programme and on the number of audits carried out with a description of the audit procedures, and on the number of opinions expressed on financial reports, business according to types of opinions and types of subjects. The report shall provide a summary of the findings and recommendations made to the groups of entities and types of accounting system. We have three systems of budgetary, non-profit and accounting companies. Data shall also be provided on the performance of the tasks and recommendations of the audit from the previous periods. In addition to data on audits carried out, the report shall also provide information on the organisation and employees, the material working conditions of the office in the reporting period, with a view to international cooperation, and the implementation of the strategic development plan. Jobs from the internal audit work carried out during the previous reporting period have been described. During this reporting period, the office carried out 898 audits of which 616 audits of financial reports and business reports and 267 audits of local units and 14 outside parliamentary political parties. One review of the effectiveness of the internal financial control system in the public sector has been carried out. Five years ago, the government adopted a strategy for the internal financial control system and since then the system has been implemented, developed, passed laws, rules, regulations. A large number of internal auditors have been trained, and now we're looking at the implementation of this... We have reported on this system which is one of the criteria of Chapter 32. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The European Union has been carried out in accordance with regulations, laws, and we now expect that the work of internal audits and internal financial controls will be effective. Because when it works, it'll probably be simpler for us, or better for the findings in the audit entities. The audit of financial reports and operations was carried out in 616 entities: the state budget of 29 users, 309 local units, 7 pupils' homes, 96 primary and secondary schools, 14 institutes, 32 home health, 31 second beneficiary of the budget, 60 commercial companies owned by the state and local units, 6 projects, 15 parties and 9 independent representatives. We gave the report on them, but this is the work report on the yearly, so I'm mentioning here. As far as the projects are concerned, these are other projects that KARC... ISPA, there are, for now there are 6, we audit each year, and all those who are in the budget, there are 14, we revise them during the regular revision of these entities. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Public funds totalling 147.4 billion kuna have been audited, of which 144.3 billion budgets. As part of the budget, the revenues of the state budget amount to 120.4 billion or 83.4%. The City of Zagreb's revenues are 7 billion or 4.9%, while the revenues of all other local units are 16.9 billion or 11.7%. In addition to budgetary resources, the audit procedures also cover other public funds of HRK 3.1 billion, related to the revenues of the audited companies and the non-profit organisations that we have carried out the audit. In addition to tax revenues, the most significant revenue from the state budget is contributions to pension, health insurance and employment. These contributions are now paid through the budget and records are kept. In 2007, a contribution to health insurance amounted to 17 billion kuna, a contribution to pension 18.6 and 1.6 billion for employment. The expenditure of the Croatian Institute of Health Insurance in 2007 amounted to HRK 18.4 billion, and the inaccessible funding of 1.4 billion was compensated from other budget revenues. The expenditure of the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute amounted to €26.3 billion, so that the insufficient funds of €7.7 billion are compensated from other budget revenues. For pension payments, 25.7 billion kuna and 38.1% more funds were allocated than the collected contributions. The City of Zagreb and other local units' incomes amounted to €24 billion, amounted to € 3.4 billion or 16.5% more than in the previous year. This is probably the reason for dislocated functions, so they also get commitments and thus the funds. The audits shall be carried out by means of a report with findings and recommendations and an opinion on the financial report on the business of the audit entity. We, in our practice, give orders, recommendations and suggestions. The recommendation of our organization... is to give mostly recommendations. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] However, we still give orders in our findings, because if something is not done in accordance with the law somewhere, we cannot recommend, we have to order that something must be done, so we still use most of that warrant through our findings because we have to make a commitment to respect something, it can't be optional. The report shall be submitted to the statutory representative of the audited entity, requesting written evidence within 60 days of the actions carried out to remove identified irregularities. The office shall, before the start of the next revision, monitor the execution of the tasks and recommendations given. I have to stress here that 50% of the audit subjects respond within 60 days, which is already something better than in previous periods. The State Audit Act lays down the competences of offices that are in line with international standards, guidelines of the European Union and good practice of other countries. The Office does not have the power to take any criminal measures, it is carried out for that authorised institution. Before and after the audit is carried out, the Office shall regularly cooperate with those institutions, the cooperation shall include the exchange of documents of the report and the exchange of answers to requests and opinions on individual cases. During this reporting period, 66 cases were co-operated with the state attorney's office and USKOK, 43 cases with the MUP, 11 cases with the Croatian Privatisation Fund, and daily co-operation with the tax administration and the financial police. We exchange experiences, exchange documents, exchange information that we get, and they're in charge of a particular area. The audits carried out during the previous reporting period were carried out by the office of audit entities with a total of 3020 tasks and recommendations. I would just like to point out here that this is the 14th report of the office and if we take that an average of 3,000 orders and recommendations were given, then we can be satisfied that it is somewhere over 40,000 orders, and by following their executions and looking at those first, orders and recommendations, there has been a lot of changes, a lot of that has been adopted, but new laws, new regulations are passed, so when they go into practice, there are some problems in application again, so there are a lot of things being solved by practice. In addition to objective fact-finding in the business of entities and giving orders and recommendations to improve their business, it is the office's task to inform the Croatian Parliament and the public about how public funds can be made available. The data collected during the review are also a secret that the report is not delivered to the Croatian Assembly, and at local level representative bodies when they become available to the public. After the debate in the Croatian Parliament, the reports are available to the public and on the website of the State Audit Office, and for now they are on the Parliament's website, which facilitates our work, facilitates communication with the public. We don't have to copy as much as we did before and deliver it. The report on the audits carried out by this House has 696 pages, i.e. total contributions, additions 3381 pages, and when we consider that auditors carried out the audits made more than 20,000 pages to include reports, then in those 3,000 and something really tried to give everything that would be significant to the entities, to the public and to the others. The summary of the report carried out in the audit consists of 3 basic parts, opinions, general data and findings. In accordance with the audit standards and in accordance with normal practice, the institution of state audits shall, on the basis of the facts established, express its opinion on financial reports and the business of the entities. You are already aware that there are four types of opinions and it is unconditional, conditional, unfavourable and abstentional. In this reporting period, 616 opinions were expressed for financial reports and business. Of which, 107 entities or 17.4 audited have an unconditional opinion. 7 or 1.1% unfavourable, for one entity is retained while all other entities are 501 or 81.3% conditional opinion. I would just like to say here that the audit teams, after the audit is completed, propose opinions with reasons to make it as objective as possible. It shall be expressed, the threshold of significance shall be calculated at the value of... So we're trying to even the practice. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The broadest concept is conditional opinion and here there has been a one-way question on this conditional, because the conditional opinions of the findings for which we provide data to certain institutions but they do not go beyond that threshold set by standards, so they do not get unfavourable. Compared to the previous year, the number of subjects for whom the unconditional opinion has been expressed and the number of subjects with unfavourable has been reduced. A positive shift has been observed in the management of business books, the preservation and use of public property, the use of rational... Public funds. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Part of the report describing the general data refers to the basic financial indicators, audit entities in the section of the report under the heading Report... in a reduced form, the importance of irregularities relating to the financial report and business of the audited entity. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] After these indicative data on the number, the type of revision and the number of opinions given as the amount of the total audited funds allow me to give you information on the findings of the audits carried out during this reporting period. The most frequent irregularities as so far occur in accounting business, planning and spending of funds, public procurement procedures, internal financial control systems. In accounting operations, the lists relate to the list of assets, liabilities and claims, the lists are not complete or not in line with the real situation. The records of individual revenue and expenditure, revenue and expenditure are recorded on the wrong accounts or on other... Registration of expenditure at the time of payment instead of at the time of continuing obligations to that system we have passed for five years but it still does not apply to a sufficient extent. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Most of the formal errors in keeping records were discussed with audit entities and in cases where possible it was corrected in the course of the audit procedure. In the part of the planning and spending of funds, the most frequent irregularities relate to unrealistic planning or implementation of expenditure that is not in line with the financial plan. The Office warned of insufficient control of the transferred or transferred funds to budgetary and other users. The Budget Act requires responsible persons to seek enforcement and control the spending of those funds, as transfers must generally be made according to programmes which have been reported and the implementation should be in line with the programme. Certain irregularities also relate to the implementation of the procurement procedure. The total value of registered public procurement in 2007 according to the Public Procurement Office amounts to 44.4 billion kuna. The expenditure on the procurement of audited entities during this period shall be € 21.3 billion covered by the audit and shall relate to the users of the state budget and shall be... 1 billion of it 4 billion for drugs. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Local units 309 subjects 9.7 billion kuna. Other audit entities 1.5 billion kuna. It is important to stress that audits are being carried out to check the procurement procedures from planning to realization. In addition to the Public Procurement Act, the provisions of the Law on Mandatory Relations apply to procurement and certain issues are regulated by the Budget Act. The most frequent irregularities were observed in the adoption of procurement plans that must be in line with the financial plan for the establishment and keeping of the prescribed procurement records, the appointment of commissions for the implementation of the procurement procedure and... the same purchases during the year in order for procurement to be carried out through public or limited collection of offers, rather than through public competition as a basic method of procurement. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The audit found that a significant part of the procurement was carried out directly through the application of Article 6 of the Law, which provides for exemptions under certain conditions, and that is 2.2 billion kuna. It's in accordance with the law. However, we are here warning of some budget users who have become a rule rather than an exception, which should have been an exception. Therefore, we give our opinion. We can't give orders here because it's in accordance with the law. And without applying the prescribed procurement procedures, purchases worth 600.2 million kuna or 2.8% were made. You all know that in 2008 there is a new Law on public procurement of goods, works and services. I think that law is in line with the laws of the European Union. We will only see this year what its application will be, whether there are some ambiguities and in what way. It means that we will again have the harmonisation of practices, etc., but I think the law is very well prepared, that various seminars are held, meetings where we are present, and that this law will probably also be reflected in the procurement of public funds. The number of irregularities and their frequency appear in the business of the financial report of the audited entities point to the need to establish a more efficient internal financial control system. Therefore, the office also warned in its reports about this fact. You all know it well. We also know that there is a problem with personnel, employees who do these jobs especially in local units, but I hope that at least the internal financial control system will be established. They always existed but are now also formalised and will be implemented in local units. In this brief presentation, I wanted to draw attention to the office, its powers and tasks, the way in which the audit is carried out, and the most frequent irregularities that occur in the audited entities. All the jobs described over the past year have been carried out by the office for 284 employees of which 232 authorised state auditors. I'd like to point out here that we're always moving in that number even though we're trying to take 5 to 10 trainees a year, they should be trained. However, last year, in fact, the Ministry of Finance went to various jobs of 5 highly educated workers, two of them completed seminars at the European Court of Auditors for 5 months but were needed to run certain agencies for pre-accession funds, etc. As good as it is for the office, but they've gone back to similar jobs in the public service, so we're hoping they'll do some work there. Also, certain agencies have, offer greater material conditions, and some auditors leave. So we always move around the same number. Although we are trying, somehow there would be more than 300 auditors optimally so that we could do our jobs more easily, and in particular we got in the jurisdiction of reviewing political parties that must end in the first semester for the previous year. In accordance with the provisions of the Law on State Audit, the Strategic Plan of the Office for the period 2006-2012 of the Programme and the Work Plan, certain tasks and tasks are set out in the following reporting period, namely: to regularly carry out audits of financial reports in accordance with the legal provisions, to implement the measures and activities provided for in the Action Plan for the Anti-Corruption Strategy. Because we're in an anti-corruption program, we have our own representative. Thus, what is in our jurisdiction we try to report in time, or do. To conduct continuous education of state auditors, at expert seminars for the implementation of the most complex audits, with consistent application of the Code of Professional Ethics of State. Special attention will be paid to teamwork and team management with the aim of increasing the quality of the audit as well as raising professional and ethical quality of employees. The Office will co-operate with other authorities, professional and scientific institutions in the performance of the tasks set up. This must always take into account the independence and independence of the audit profession. And we will continue to develop and establish cooperation with a number of state audit institutions within... as well as other countries that have related audit systems. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] This not only improves the quality of the work of state auditors, but contributes to further developing international relations. The Office will continue the ongoing process of modernising the information system and linking it with other public sector information systems at national and local levels with a view to ensuring a high degree of application of the technical achievements of computer techniques, aiding in the implementation of the audit. The office is informationally well equipped. We have an audit monitoring programme, but we cannot apply it in all, because the audit entities are not adequately equipped and are not adequate to download data through electronic attitudes. It would be a lot easier for us to get on the CD than if we had to copy, but there's still a lot we're copying than we are. Because the office has Internet and good mutual cooperation, and we have mostly achieved this thanks to... the project we used the CARDS 2m-euro funds to equip the office. In the context of the process of including the Republic of Croatia in European integration, the office will implement international obligations and seek to co-operate in joint projects. Independence and work, the public work of the office must continue to be present in business. The publication on the office's website will ensure that the reports are made available to the public. This meets one of the basic principles of the work of the State Audit, the principle of the public, which helps us greatly. I would like to thank your attention, and we are here to give an explanation of the other facts that you are interested in, or which are not clearly written. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-06-0.u27318	Thank you very much. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? Yeah. On behalf of the Committee on Finance of the State Budget, Mr. Chairman of the Committee, Goran Maric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-06-0.u27319	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Respected state auditors with an associate, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. The Committee on Finance and the State Budget of the Croatian Parliament discussed the report on the work of the State Audit Office for 2008, the report of the audits carried out for 2007 and the report on the State audits carried out for 2007. The committee discussed various opinions and proposals, and it is important for you to note that it encourages the fact that individual audited entities have not removed the tasks and recommendations made by the State Audit Office in the previous audit for a number of years. In this reporting period, 3 000 and 20 orders and recommendations were given for 616 audited entities or an average of 4.9 per audit entity. Out of the 2 000 549 orders and recommendations given in the previous audit, only a thousand 330 or 52.2% were carried out, while a thousand 219 or 47.8% of the warrants and recommendations of the State Audit Office have not yet been carried out. This ratio of audited entities to the tasks and recommendations adopted by the State Audit Office after the audit is carried out is not acceptable, as the audited entities should carry out all the tasks of the State Audit Office. For these reasons, it is proposed that the State Audit Office in its next report, in particular, draw up a review of those audited entities which have been repeating the same particular errors for a number of years. It has been warned that the Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of Interior often use the provisions of the Public Procurement Act too often, establishing exceptions to the application of the law. In fact, most of the procurement procedures are declared secret by those ministries, which require special security measures and protection of the interests of the Republic of Croatia, so the legal procedures for the conclusion of public procurement contracts in these cases do not apply. The work of the State Audit Office has been praised in the reporting period which has done its job well and quality, pointing to irregularities, failures and errors in business and giving orders, recommendations and proposals for their removal. The State Audit Office has contributed to the reduction of irregularities, in particular for audited entities where the audit is carried out each year, as well as to improving public property management, the effective implementation of public sector commitments, and to increasing the responsibility of participants in the process of using public funds. After the debate was held, the Committee on Finance and held the budget of the Croatian Parliament decided unanimously to propose a conclusion to the Croatian Assembly to accept the report on the work of the State Audit Office in 2008, to accept the 2007 report on the audits carried out and the report on the audits carried out for the 2007 specific part. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-06-0.u27320	Thank you. Do the other committees want anyone? Thank you. I'm opening a debate. In the name of the SDP club, Madam Representative Dragica Zgrebec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-06-0.u27321	Thank you, Mr. President. Chief State Auditor with the Deputy. It would be good if someone from the government were present to us, colleagues and colleagues. The SDP Club assesses the work of the State Office for High Rating Audit. We are getting more and more quality reports from year to year, and business audits have already established the practice of assessing the rational and efficient spending of tax and public money. These reports are also information to the public as state, local and regional self-government, state-owned companies and local property, institutions and other state institutions spend public money. In addition to the supervisory review, there is also a significant educational function, so the audited entities gradually remove certain irregularities. However, we estimate that after 14 years of reviewing, there are still too many irregularities that are often repeated and are related to accounting business, planning and realization of income, carrying out expenditure, public procurement procedures and the functioning of the internal control system. In such cases, the audit shall give orders and recommendations to remove irregularities. Although the number of irregularities in the decline is a large number of audited entities do not fully act on orders and are repeated for years. It's a tampered with, for example. audited entities in 2006 issued 2 000 549 orders and recommendations and executed only 1330 or 52%. The most important warrants for the removal of irregularities are generally not implemented and relate to the records of assets, the presentation of all obligations incurred, the non-compliance of the records of financial commitments, public procurement and internal control. The planning as a basic document of the financial plans has been found to be incomplete and unrealistic in a number of audited entities. Changes in revenue and expenditure above or below the plan should be changed through the process of changes and additions, therefore, to rebalances. However, the revision finds it 2007. The government redistributed 3 billion 605 million 992 thousands, 712 kuna or about 28% more money than it did in the previous year. The audit shall have observations on the accounts, the reasons for redistribution, quotes, and rare reasons such as the settlement of the commitments made at the expense of savings on individual planned items. It is the opinion that the appropriations should be planned earlier in the context of the procedures and actions preceding the adoption of the State budget and the redistribution only benefit in exceptional cases. That's what we from the SDP Club keep pointing to. Since the government has introduced practice that the Law on the implementation of the State Budget introduces the possibility of redistributing all budgetary items other than the financing accounts. Irregularities within accounting operations relate to the list of assets, i.e. the non-compliance of the list of assets and the accounting and real situation which may refer to the irrationality of the use of state assets. The same business events are recorded in different accounts, making it difficult to monitor and control the implementation of the budget or data shown in the accounts not to show a true and objective situation in the financial position and performance of the business. Income and expenditure should be shown by so-called the modified accounting principle, i.e. the revenues, shall be expressed on the basis of the inflows over the reporting period and expenditure on the basis of the creation of the obligation rather than the payments during the reporting period. The greater the number of budget users do not work, the more the budget deficit is doubted and the reality of the budget deficit shown. I'll document that on concrete examples of several revised entities. For example, the revision of the state budget found that the main book does not provide full information on property, liabilities and sources of ownership. Business events shall be recorded in accordance with the principle of cash flow, instead of time-consuming, and data on individual balance sheet items shall be incomplete or not even recorded. There's a discrepancy of public debt records. For example. In the auxiliary records, it was shown at 85,751 billion and in the main book 61,163 billion kuna. Non-recorded parts of the liabilities for Trezonian records, loans from international financial institutions, part of commitments to the London and Paris clubs, and other foreign and foreign loans. No records of claims and obligations for the sale of social housing are established. There is no full record in societies where the state has shares, or decisions by their congregations on the distribution of profits. The amount of laws issued by state, financial guarantees for as many as 4.9 billion kuna has been exceeded. Finally, the audit concludes that the data on the total claims and liabilities in the financial reports are not complete as they do not contain part of the actual obligations and claims. For most of the irregularities described above, the audit has given orders in the previous period for their removal and part of them has not been followed. When it comes to the achievement of revenue, the audit finds that there is no single review or record of companies in which the State shares. In other words, it is questionable whether the revenues from the share and dividends paid in these societies and paid in the state budget. The same applies to concessions because the register is not complete and no data on payments and total commitments are visible. No claims for customs duties and customs duties and specific taxes, etc., have been recorded in the customs administration. excise duties totalling more than 3.7 billion kunas until the tax administration and during this period carry out continuous tax supervision in certain large taxpayers. Such findings indicate that there is insufficient consideration for the collection of budgetary revenue. In carrying out the expenditure with no record of expenditure, it is also indicated that irregularities in the control of the dedicated spending of money transferred from the state budget to other users. Almost all audited entities that have received a conditional opinion have not shown part of the commitments relating to the budgetary period and in the Ministry of the Sea, Tourism, Transport and Development, it is concluded that some attached documents do not maintain a business event which could also be called a counterfeit. That there is no effective control over spending budget money, I will point to two ministries. The Ministry of Agriculture should cover at least 15% of the funds paid for the incentives for agricultural production and only realized 12.7. Capital support and support for rural development has not been monitored at all and there is no record of unlawfully paid aid, i.e. claims for such payments. For support for rural development programmes, the share of the finance ministry has not been established in the contests, but this commission has established according to its own assessment because no quality and measurable criteria for project selection have been established. And for that purpose, 83.7 million kuna was paid. Such work allows individual users to benefit from these funds because they subjectively value the projects for which money is sought. In the Ministry of the Sea, Tourism, Transport and Development, most of the subsidies were paid to HZ, which is a billion 656 million, of which 1,133 billion are intended to maintain rail infrastructure and traffic regulation, 417 for the promotion of passenger and combined transport and around 105 billion for compensation for employees. The Ministry did not conclude this contract under the Law on Railways, and HH did not purposely spend these funds. It concerns the fact that the HH achieves the business of minimum income, as subsidies from the state budget amount to as much as 79.3% of total revenues achieved. Irregularities in public procurement operations are repeated, and this is exactly the area in which public perceptions figure as a place of bribery and corruption. The audit of projects assessed the effectiveness of the management system, implementation control, statements of expenditure at different relevant levels. The revision of ISPA's review also found that the management and control system was not effective, that only five of the planned 22 procurement contracts were concluded, that they were delayed due to insufficient number and inexperience of the people in charge of the implementation of the projects. This could also be the reason for the low use of these funds during that period and for the education of people working on these projects should be done more. The already frequent irregularities have been repeated with the Croatian Privatisation Fund. The portfolio value records have not yet been established and the difference is more than 927 million kuna. That's how you do it, for example. the sale of shares of the nominal value of 992 million for only 4,1 % of the nominal value of 443 million for 1 kuna, and that the documentation does not show on the basis of which the criteria set the selling price. The demand of state creditors in excess of billions of kuna sold at a discount of 99% and only 1%, respectively. Considering what has been happening at the Croatian Privatisation Fund since its draft, it is high time for this institution to be abolished. On the basis of the registered State audit irregularities for audited entities in 2007, we again proposed a number of conclusions in order to be as effective as possible, as quickly as possible to remove observed irregularities. First, a report on the work of the State Audit Office for 2008 and the report on audits carried out for 2007. Second, the State Audit Office reports shall be submitted to the competent authorities and institutions in order to determine any criminal or criminal offences. Third, the Government of the Republic of Croatia is tasked with delivering within 60 days to the Croatian Parliament a programme for the long-term removal of irregularities that are repeated and found to be audited and to submit within 60 days through the Office for the Management of State Property the current list of assets owned or used by the State and reported by the Croatian Parliament, and to carry out the full list by the end of the year. And fourthly, it is up to the State Attorney's Office of the Republic of Croatia to submit to the Croatian Assembly within 90 days a report on established criminal or criminal offences on the basis of the State Audit Report. We expect the Parliament to accept these conclusions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-06-0.u27322	Thank you. On behalf of the HDZ Club, Mr. Representative Goran Maric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-06-0.u27323	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear members of the State Audit with the Deputy Chief State Auditor. Dear colleagues and colleagues. We all know that the office performs extremely important social work, an extremely important social role, that the office performs extremely responsible and professional work, but also extremely responsible and complex work. Also, this report on the work of the State Audit Office for 2008 and the 2007 audit reports and the 2007 report, a special part, shows that the work of the State Audit Office is extremely and extensive. This is best confirmed by the fact that, during this reporting period, as many as 898 audits were carried out, of which 616 audits of financial reports and operations, 267 audits of the budget and financial reports of local units, 14 insights into the financial reports of parliamentary, outside parliamentary political parties, and all according to the work programme were carried out a single performance review. Of the several roles actually played by the State Audit Office, the most important supervisory role should not be ignored nor its advisory and preventive role. The State Audit Office shall give specific opinions on the basis of the report, for each entity, either unconditionally or conditionally, unfavourable or abstentioned opinion. The review provided in the report shows that the most favourable conditional opinions are 501 and 81.3% respectively, while the unconditional ones are only 107 or 17.4%, 7 unfavourable 1.1% and 1 abstentions or 0.2%. In the report on the audits carried out, there are data and findings and with a positive sign, but unfortunately there are also some perceived shortcomings and findings with a negative sign that we cannot fully be satisfied with the findings of the Office for State Audit, but it encourages several facts that there is only one abstention, that there are only seven unfavourable opinions, and conditional opinions, given that we know what they are expressing themselves for, then not a high percentage of conditional opinions are so particularly worrying. What is seen from this review is that below the average 81.3% of conditional opinions, even the state budget and users of the state budget that have 18 conditional on 30, so 60% of the conditional opinions, is above the average with the highest number of conditional opinions of the local units that have worrying 92%, so 283 out of 309 opinions. 92% have conditionals, and only 7% have unconditional and unfavourable 5 opinions. In fact, companies owned by local units are on the same track so that they have 87% of conditional opinions, or 50% of the total 57%. The most common areas in which audits have identified irregularities in the audit of the state budget and budget beneficiaries are irregularities in the field of planning, accounting, income performance, expenditure execution, and public procurement procedures. In the area of planning, the audit found that certain budget beneficiaries do not have full financial plans but are not realistic, and it is well known that a good plan is to assume the effectiveness of each business activity. The Office therefore also expressed its view that the budgetary resources should be realistically planned in the context of the procedures and actions preceding the adoption of the State budget and that the redistribution of funds should only be applied in exceptional cases caused by events and circumstances which were not known at the time of the adoption of the budget. In the field of accounting operations, the most frequent irregularities relate to a list of assets and liabilities which are not complete, i.e. the list does not include certain assets and liabilities, or does not comply with the accounting and real situation after the list has been carried out. It has been noted that certain business events are not recorded in the accounts or are misspelled and differences arise between the state of bookkeeping and those established by the finding. In the accounts of certain audited entities, similar business events have been recorded in the various accounts of the accounting plan and, as a general rule, this concerned the recording of expenditure. In cases where irregularities have been identified, the office has ordered compliance with the provisions of the Accounting Regulation and the accounting plan. Some irregularities have also been seen in the collection of income, as there has been insufficient attention, i.e. not all legal measures for the collection of claims have been taken. It also concerns the fact that the audits of the state budget of earlier years found that there is no single review and records of companies in which the Republic of Croatia has shares in companies, banks and other financial institutions. It is therefore justified that the office has ordered the establishment of a single register of companies from the government portfolio and that the decision on the distribution of the company’s profits is regularly to monitor the payments of the corresponding revenues to the state budget. And the area of concessions was the area where the office found certain irregularities. It has been established that the concession register is not complete, that the concession register does not record certain concluded contracts, and for the contracts recorded, the data on the amount of debt and the fees paid are not complete and no data on payments are visible as well as on the total and the commitments made. The office also expressed its opinion that it is necessary to improve the normative solutions governing concession issues and to parallelly improve organisational, human and procedural conditions for the establishment of an effective concession system. In public procurement procedures, the State Audit Office has monitored public procurement expenditures of 10 billion and 89 million 820 thousand kuna. Without the application of the prescribed procurement procedures, procurement was made with a total of 102 million 443 million kuna, and the most frequent irregularities were that a number of entities did not adopt a procurement plan as a special document or a procurement plan did not comply with the financial plan. With regard to the monitoring of the budget of local units, opinion 21 is unconditionally, 283 conditional and 5 unfavourable. Since 21 are unconditional 8 counties, 8 cities and 5 municipalities should indeed take advantage of the opportunity and praise those who have unconditional opinion, which is the Carlovack County, Koprivnica-križevacka, Krapinsko-Zagorska, Osijek-Baranja, Sibenik-Kninska, Virovitičko-podravska, Vukovar-Srijemska and Zagrebačka. Cres, Jastrebarsko, Mursko Središče, Ozalj, Pleternica, Skradin, St. Sundays and Virovitica and the municipalities of Belje, Farkaševac, Lovas, Netretic and Popovac. But also an unfavourable opinion needs to be made publicly aware of who has it. Unfavourable opinion is expressed for the town of Zlatar, and for the municipalities of Đurđenovac, Galovac, St. Run for the hill and the Striggs. Local units have also seen irregularities in areas, certain areas and, above all, accounting business, income and expenditure and public procurement procedures. The audit of financial reports and operations found that certain local units do not have a recorded share of non-financial and financial assets in their accounts. The write-off of assets and liabilities does not cover all non-financial assets owned by local units. In addition, no specific agreements or agreements have been concluded between local units and entities to which the appropriations are transferred in order to regulate the availability of assets financed by budgetary means. In the areas of revenue audits, it was established, by reviewing financial reports and operations that, partly for the prescribed purposes, no funds were spent in 78 or 25.4% of local units. At the end of the year, there remained neutral funds of 753 million 197 thousand and 246 kuna or 7.8% of total revenue and income achieved compared to the previous year, which is more than 220, cca 220 million kuna or 41%. In the areas of expenditure in certain local units, expenditure and expenditure beyond planned amounts shall continue to be carried out or expenditure not planned by budget. The planning of funds in municipal infrastructure maintenance programmes and construction of municipal infrastructure facilities and devices in certain cases was also not in line with the budget plan. The total expenditure on public procurement is 6 billion and 517 million 648 thousand and 646 kuna, and without the application of the prescribed procurement procedures, a purchase of 364 million kuna was made. The most frequent irregularities in the public procurement of local units were that the purchases, that the purchase plan was not adopted or incomplete in 26 local units, and for 128 local units the planned amount of public procurement was not consistent with the amount of the planned funds in the budget. In all cases where irregularities have been identified in the implementation procedures of public procurement of works and services, an order is given to act in accordance with the provisions of the Public Procurement Act. On the basis of the findings of the State Audit Office, the State Office issued a number of orders, recommendations according to the type of entities and the total number of recommendations were 3020, of which 1330 were carried out and 1219 were under way. And at the discussion of the Committee on Budgets and Finance, it was pointed out, so I would reiterate here that a recommendation is given to give a little more information in the future for those who repeat the most frequent errors and data compared to the previous period so that we can monitor trends, meaning what trends tend to be in certain areas and individual entities. This report shows that it has been extensive, that it has been professionally done, that there are both facts and data that encourage visible progress in certain areas and that there are both facts and data that point to repeat errors and we believe that the Audit Office will warn those who do so in parallel. As far as the content is concerned, the HDZ Club supports this content report and will vote in favour of its adoption for the 2008 State Audit Report and the 2007 Review Report, a special part. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-06-0.u27324	Thank you. HNS representative club, Mr. Representative Zlatko Koračević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-06-0.u27325	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Madam Chief State Auditor with an associate, colleague and colleague. Almost every year, when a report of the State Audit comes to the debate in Parliament and here in Parliament and in the Croatian public, there is a certain expectation of what it says, how the debate will take place, and what Parliament will adopt, take into account, reject, or draw other conclusions with these conclusions. True, due to the absence of concrete measures, and based on the State Audit report in all recent years, this expectation is becoming less and less intense, which is in any case not good, but that it is definitely present, that it is necessary, it is almost certainly known. And almost always ends up on the same and similar conclusion, forgetting that the State Review extended the hand of Parliament to which in law we have given the power to monitor on our behalf the rationality, legality and regularity in the business of those who receive money from the state budget or otherwise use the funds of taxpayers of this state. In view of the opinion of the State audit, each of the audited entities shall also be entitled to be manifested in accordance with Article 7. The State Audit Act states that this audit report shall be submitted to the legal representative of the legal person where the audit has been carried out and to the competent minister or fund. What does this provision mean? The right representative for the ministry and government, including the state funds, is this Parliament. For local self-government, municipal and city councils and county parliaments. Now I ask, have there been cases that the individual representative body of the municipality, city or county singled out one of the findings or opinions of the State Audit and initiated by law the procedures envisaged to determine possible illegalities, filed a criminal complaint which was processed and which was processed? Were there any cases that the government had singled out one of the findings or opinions of state audits so far and initiated by the law of the envisaged proceedings for the determination of possible illegalities, filed a criminal complaint which was processed and processed? It may have been, but I'm not sure either of us can remember any over-the-counter case that someone has been liable for irregularities identified by the State Audit, but at the same time I'm sure that in this, and also the previous findings of the State Audit, there is no such information, although it is not the obligation of the State Audit, the State Audit Reports, but it is the obligation of the State's Attorney's Office, did we hear that? I leave it to each of us in the Croatian Parliament to judge alone, but I personally think that this obligation of the state's attorney's office, which is the mediator of the State Audit report, is missing. In view of the significant amounts of budgetary resources, the taxpayers' funds identified by the State Audit finds unlawfully available and the management of funds in the reports of other Colloquially named institutions of the system, I do not recall that such a thing has happened. But we are convinced that after today's debate, the Croatian Parliament will bring, normally and logically, the ruling majority's already known universal conclusion: "A report is being adopted and it is being delivered to the state's attorney's office to determine whether there are any elements to initiate the criminal proceedings". Since it is a particularly interesting report for all our citizens and since this review report is an important indicator of the real situation in the state administration and we reiterate the need to shed light on and analyse all the issues that arise, and these issues can be reliably put into the heart of the general good of Croatian society. The 2008 State Audit Programme has been fully implemented. During the previous year, 898 audits were carried out, of which 616 audits of financial reports and operations, 267 audits of the budget and the financial report of local units and 14 audits of political parties. One review of the effectiveness of the internal financial control system has also been carried out. The implementation of the audit over the past period covered public funds totalling 147.4 billion kuna. All these audits were given an opinion of 107 unconditional opinions, 501 conditional, 7 unfavourable and only one abstention. In this debate, I would like to take a special look at the chapter of the State Budget and its users. 12 unconditional and 18 conditional opinions are expressed in the financial report on State budget operations and 29 budget users. In the 2007 report, when 32 budget users were processed, there were 15 unconditional but 18 conditional opinions. What needs to be pointed out in particular, the conditional opinion on financial reports and business is again and almost every year the same for some ministries and some services, very important services in the financial functioning of this country. The State Budget of the Republic of Croatia for the year 2007 conditional opinion, for the past year and previous years, Customs Administration also, State Hydrometeorological Institute repeats, Croatian Institute of Health Insurance is a conditional opinion, Ministry of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship, Ministry of the Sea, Tourism, Transport and Development, Ministry of Defence, Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Economy, Ministry of Justice, Ministry of Health and Social Care, Ministry of Science, Education and Sports, Tax Administration, Central State Office for State Property Management. All these are the authorities of the executive authority, where they repeat it year after year after year of the State Audit, the conditional report is repeated. The State Audit Office first points out that it was only able to give its conditional opinion, which actually means that in Croatia it is still not possible to carry out a full review at all and that it is not possible to establish the right situation at all. In the section of accounting operations, again as in previous years, it reads: "The most common irregularities in accounting operations relate to a list of assets and liabilities that are not complete or the list does not cover certain assets and liabilities or does not, after the list has been carried out, carry out the harmonisation of accounting and real situation.". From year to year, the exact same sentence. Property is a national treasure in this country. State property is the national treasure of all citizens of this country. And the report says: "The most frequently irregularity in accounting business refers to the list of assets and liabilities.". It was found that the Register of concessions, run by the Ministry of Finance, is not complete although compared to the previous year the situation was improved, this report says, "In the Register of concessions no individual contracts have been entered into and for registered contracts the data in the amount of debt and fees paid are not complete and there are no visible data on payments as well as total and due commitments.". I would like to remind you that the revenue from concession fees according to this report that we are discussing today in 2007 has been achieved in the amount of $1.87 billion. Defeating the fact that the beneficiary of the state budget has an illegal public procurement or a dictionary of this report without applying the prescribed procurement procedures of the total value of 102 million kuna. And it will happen again that no one will be held accountable. The textual part of the most frequent irregularities described in the chapter – Public procurement is almost identical in 2007. The only thing different is that a total of 85 million kuna were included in 2007 without applying the prescribed procurement procedures and last year 102. 17 billion more compared to the previous year. And in conclusion, too many users spend too much money past the law. The fact is that in the conditional opinion is the most representative Ministry of Finance. What does that tell us? The ministry that is obliged to take care of the finances of this state conditional opinion of the state budget, the Customs Administration, the Tax Administration, public procurement, concessions, I think that fact speaks extremely much. Furthermore, the fact that the Croatian State Those who manage it have not yet created preconditions for a full revision i.e. for the full verification of the entry and consumption of money from the state budget and cannot be by chance and cannot be without benefiting some other interests rather than the general good. The fact that the inability of the complete and complete audit of Croatia has been facing all over the past years has so far been an indication that the Government of the Republic of Croatia is primarily responsible for such a situation. In addition to other reasons, only conditional opinion, the State Audit Office literally states: "All the implementing rules prescribed by the provisions of the Budget Act have not been adopted.". This in other words means that the law has set something and prescribed something but at the same time someone who is considered not to want it above the law and does not adopt implementing regulations. This is how we at the club of the Croatian People's Party read this sentence. The full correction of the conclusion of the Office of State Audit and the sentence is, I will repeat: "All the implementing rules prescribed by the provisions of the Budget Act have not been adopted.". Since this is an evident example of law playing, and for this knowingly and intentionally, and for this conscious and deliberate act, no one is responsible for this, it is necessary to warn the widest public who will never, entirely logically, and cannot agree with the selective application of the law or to play the law in the absence of implementing acts when it is in the interests of the ruling and who is the responsibility of us in parliament and particularly the ruling in Parliament, I leave it to each of us or each of you to examine with yourself. This phenomenon is alarming because, in addition to perhaps the most drastic and few exceptions to these irregularities, no one will again bear responsibility. It is this failure-freeness, a non-response of responsibility that can be different from criminal to moral, the destruction of the legal system and a bad message to every citizen who, however, is very often trained by rigor when he makes a minor and inhospital mistake. And finally, we at the Croatian People's Party club will support this report but at the same time we call on the institutions of the system and, in particular, the state attorney's office to at least partially restore trust in the institutions of the system and at least partially to answer those questions that in a very high-quality, diplomatic manner, the state's audit in its report warns us every year.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-06-0.u27326	Thank you. IDS Club, Mr. Representative Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-06-0.u27327	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Mrs. Krasic, the Honorable Mr. Representatives. So here is one reason why the possible financial breakdown of the Republic of Croatia lies on this side of 23 of this report, as regards the income and receipt of the state budget. We see it's a state budget, let's say '97. It was $38.3 billion, '99. 52.3 billion kuna, 2000. 57.3 billion kuna, to be shown in 2007 at the amount of $120.3 billion. So that's in this incomplete series of ten years, the state budgets, and that's the same thing with local self-government, have grown between 3 and 3.5 times. One word, when it could be damaged, we didn't do it. According to that Bible account of seven fat and seven skinny cows. We're going to have to today in 2009 but we have nothing. It was clearly a war, as I know, people lived hard, they needed relief, but they lived above the possibility. Kuna was guarded in 2000 as the Holy Scriptures, like a snake leg, dimmed exports through war, encouraged only imports, i.e. consumption. The country lived at the expense of external borrowing and we see it from this report. Let us not forget that in 2009, it is due to be paid back 11.3 billion euros. That the foreign debt of Croatia at the end of the year was 39 billion euros or 50 billion dollars, that ex Yugoslavia owed 22 billion dollars. Citizens of the business banks at the end of 2008 owed 123 billion kuna, companies, all with a foreign exchange clause clearly, businesses additional 80 billion kuna. So there is a debt of citizens, economies, banks, which, according to the world or country, is 70 billion euros, etc. On the other hand, how did it live? Lived at the expense of redistribution. It was taken by someone who would work and give to someone else. The export economies of the tourism region with a strong kuna were further affected and consciously impoverished, although I agree clearly in 2009 is no longer a time for the loss of the kuna. But she is why nothing was worth doing in Croatia. Why did I mention the budgets of these countries, the City of Zagreb and local self-government on page 23? Because there's something else that's interesting to follow. Indices of the growth of the budget of the state, local self-government and the City of Zagreb. It's interesting that in 11 observed years, since '97. By 2007, the City of Zagreb's budget grew 6 years, meaning in those 11 years faster than the state budget, and 550 units of local self-government only 4 years, meaning their budgets are growing faster than the state budget in that period of 11 years. What to say is that the capacities of the periphery simply do not match the growth of the state and Zagreb budget. It's this policy of centralization, metropolision. I personally think it's a disaster for Croatia. Zagreb, which I think of best, is today in the position that Croatia will not only political, financial, banking, economic, demographically suck up. When Croatia was rapidly developing and we know that by the Constitution of '74. when she was most decentralised. I repeat here on the basis of this data that we have here from the state audit report, that this vacuuming of Croatia is unspectived. What is particularly, those institutions that are particularly neglected, I say, are the counties. Their budgets are seen from the report, ranging from 150 to 400 million kuna. These amounts are actually exaggerating. They're funny. So these counties should also be strengthened, not to be raised by some bureaucracy, but to make the government closer to the people, in one word, the more decentralised the state will be, the stronger it will be. This means that the part and the highest VAT tax should be returned clearly to that local self-government. What I hate most about this report, for which, in the towers, MPs call it holy water, is that it deals exclusively with ministries, cities, counties, and too little with state-owned enterprises. I claim that crime is there in these state-owned companies, increasingly in the ministries, in cities, in the districts that are constantly hit by both the public and the repressive apparatus of this country, at the impact of the opposition, the public, the media, the international institutions, and not to list any further. I'm sure it's a lot more perfident today, when it comes to companies. Former government spokesmans are taking over the PR for some of our biggest companies,... So a man asks himself whether they're just doing the PR or building some relationship between one such company and the government, and that their directors have always voted for HDZ, financed etc. On another occasion. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] However, what I would like to give us is a review of state-owned public companies. First of all, Mrs. Krasnic, this shipbuilding thing. If it's someone to help shipbuilding, it's Damir Cain, if someone's proud that they're from Istria, but from Zadar, helped Victor Lentz and these orders of "May 3rd" not to be collapsed, then I'm also proud of you. However, I cannot understand the irresponsibility of Croatian shipyards' administrations, which are all owned by the state of Croatia, have been sucking billions of kunas out of the budget for years and that no one is carrying any responsibility and it is time to tell them enough. Here's only 2008 on charge comes 4.5 billion kuna of shipbuilding debt, 2009 more so. That's nine billion kunas of which the Oilman doesn't get any lip, that we understand each other, and that the state today has nine billion kunas. Well, you can imagine for yourself, so we wouldn't be in the problems we're in. 9 billion kuna is the income of all business banks when it comes to interest, they make about 5 billion kuna profits, etc., etc. On the other hand, we see that the revenue from subsidies this year falls to us clearly because of these nine billion kunas of Croatian shipbuilding that they take for nothing is not suitable and it is not even a scandal, it is such a thing that should go its course, the state has become less and less, but the directors and those bosses of these smugglings have more and more. Look what's done. I will repeat once again, foreign policy endangers those who export, tourism, and shipbuilding, plus this resolution policy, is always at the expense of one economy, and I will say, openly, Istria that gives, in return, does not receive anything. What I would also like, and soon this report will come to these benches, to provide us with data from these mandatory pension funds that foreign banks are standing behind, so they are clearly foreign-owned and established by the mandatory funds and credited exclusively by companies in the Republic of Croatia in foreign ownership. The poor woman, literally thus turns out to be funded by Croatian tycoons both these and foreign companies. Lately, there has been a lot of talk in this country about reducing parafiscal burdens, especially those of local self-government in order to help the economy. I couldn't agree more. However, the state must go from itself. Because of the 145.6 billion kuna of budget revenues, it means all units of local self-government, county, city of Zagreb, the country's 122 billion kuna waste. However, it is a tragedy of the 145.6 billion kuna on the 35th side that only 6.4% or 9 billion 356 million kunas go for development. And then it's probably divided 50% into the state, 50% into the city of Zagreb, plus local self-government. About, I guess, the state has 4.5 billion kuna, local self-government means about 4.5 billion kuna. And that money goes to roads, waterways, buildings, hospitals, car procurement, I don't know, office materials, etc., not materials, but furniture, etc., etc. One word, that's the information that says that somehow we become our own purpose. And the state sees, from that example, allowing indirect funding again tycoon, etc. I understand that in these 135 billion kunas, there are salaries, there are pensions, there is health care, there is education, there is police, there is an army etc., but it says that the state of Croatia cannot be a generator of development and it has never actually been. The development is meant for citizens, businesses, especially small ones who get nothing from the state and it needs to be understood and the state only had to create some regulatory form that could work. Why am I saying that? Well, that's what I'm saying in some way in the context of this crisis. Just using these data from this report. That the Croatian state almost has no room for any intervention to help anyone. There's no room for some big budget redistribution, there's almost no room for rebalancing that's gonna happen after the election, there's room for a reduction, where? On these 4.5 billion kuna investments, if it does, then they will be further blocked by development, subsidies are a drastic reduction this year and may remain to reduce wages and pensions. That's where I agree with the Prime Minister not to touch them, but I don't agree with him that by 750 million kuna, we're going to raise the employees of the salary, what officials? Only loyal officers. So this revision here says that in 2009, the only budgetary savings are the deficits of 6% of the salary growth and some of those capital investments. And it wouldn't surprise me too much if the end of the year we could all end up with one pay less or one pension less and so mind to the head and let people work, etc., etc. There's room among other things for some savings to happen and radical centralization. It may help the citizens. Someone will ask how to help the citizens when God can't help them anymore. Perhaps they can be helped to preserve the workplace. All in all, I think that it is also the same after this farce that happened with the small maestro, it is necessary to see, analyse the work of the Croatian Privatisation Fund, which many have called the litter of crime, should have been abolished but also urgently reorganised so that the property is not blocked for 4.5 years, excuse me for 2 years because it simply doesn't make any sense. Because the country's blocked like that. Otherwise, it is interesting to see that there are fewer irregularities in political parties than in some state media. All in all it's clear, the IDS will support this report. I kind of pulled that parallel in 2007/08. from 2009 to simply describe through this report the moment in which the country as a whole is located. Once again in our heads, let's help the citizens, let the people work, give them back Sunday. Let us help the economy, not with a smaller VAT than to extend that payment period from 30 days to 60 days. And then maybe something will be, let's not build these halls, three billion kunas we shot at them, eventually it'll cost us 6.7 billion kuna and it really doesn't make any sense anymore. I guess life is more than handballs and we'll see what we can expect in the year ahead. All in all, regardless of what some MPs call this report holy water, the IDS Club will absolutely support it and I think that through these reports it is seen that from year to year in the audited, under the quotes of companies, that is, the state institution has become less and less irregular and that is certainly good.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-06-0.u27328	Thank you. At 11.04 will be the time it is, it will pass the time to sign up for 10 minutes. We're moving on to an individual debate. First up, Mr. Representative Dragutin Lesar, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-06-0.u27329	Thank you very much, Your Honor, Mr. President. My colleagues and colleagues. At first, I would like to say that this report on the audits carried out for 2007, as always, has not been a holy guide for me, it is extremely important for me, and it can become a holy guide if we do not set ourselves up properly and if we do not carefully read the recommendations from the state audit findings. So, only by the wrong approach of Parliament to it can we declare it a holy guide, and then the question arises whether the office and future should come with that report in front of us. And if the conclusions come to light after this debate that I heard both from the Finance Committee and according to my proposal for a conclusion, there will be no holy guide. Last year, and for 2007. The State Audit Office carried out 616 controls and, according to their estimates, 107 of them received a clean five or a passing grade, it's about 17%. Passing grade or -3 or +2, however you like, got them 501, that's 81%. 7 of them have not passed the state audit exam and these are the town of Zlatar, the municipality of Đurđenovac, Galovac, St. Juraj na Brega, Štrigova, the primary school of Oroslavje and the voluntary fire company Sisak. According to my proposal, the conclusions I made in the procedure and Mrs Krasic, please accept my proposal. These seven findings should be submitted to the State Attorney's Office, which should inform us within 6 months of the actions taken, because I know that the state's attorney's office is already familiar with these seven findings, but after delivery by the Croatian Parliament and accepting the obligation to present a report to the Parliament on their actions. It is one of the elements that this report really does not be holy guides, but that even those responsible for not passing the exams are sanctioned. I always experience this report not for the purpose of mere statistics, although in that report on the work of the Office of State Audit is an extremely large number of very high-quality and useful information, both on the structure of the state's budget, and in particular local and regional self-government, and it is good that you have such access according to this report because it is actually the most qualitative data of the fiscal capacity of regional and local self-government. I'd like that information to have, say, the Ministry of Finance, but at least if you did, that's good. However, those who have received a conditional opinion have therefore passed the exam with less and conditional opinion is approximately the result of minor or minor failures that did not have a major impact on your findings. I've only singled out some of them and that's because this is the fifth year, the fifth, since I've been following your reports and they're always in the parole category and they're always the same reasons. The Ministry of Health and Social Care received a conditional opinion. One reason is the purchase of goods, works and services worth 15 million kunas beyond the provisions of the Public Procurement Act. I'm just taking this out. The Croatian Health Insurance Institute is teaching this. The purchase of goods or medicines worth 4 billion kunas under the Public Procurement Act. And now for the fourth time I appeal to the responsible at the Ministry of Health, that this dilemma should be applied to the procurement of medicines by the Public Procurement Act or not, to clarify the obvious needs of the amendments to the law, because the fifth time I come consecutively into a situation where the Office of State Audit considers that medicines must be obtained under this law, while in the light of the institutions and the ministry, it turns out that the State Audit is misreading the law. So if the law is unclear, I hope that after this fifth appeal, the minister will realize that something in the law has to change, because it would be a shame to get the same finding next year, the same problem in the same resolution. The Department of Justice, conditional opinion, is one of the reasons why the purchase of goods is worth a million and 600 by the law. It's not a big deal. Someone will say they're getting terribly high values, but so long as the Justice Department in this country doesn't get an unconditional opinion, we can't be satisfied. The unconditional opinion of the Ministry of Justice is one of the fundamentals that in anti-corruption strategies and programmes their reports should no longer be discussed, because it is always unconditional. The customs administration received a conditional opinion because of the fact that the main book and the financial report did not show around 4 billion kuna customs claims. At the Anti-Corruption Council, I asked a representative of the Ministry of Finance to explain this finding with an additional report. Unfortunately, most in the council voted against my proposal and made it impossible for the finance minister to further explain these facts. So, I wanted an additional report, and against that, as well as an additional clarification of the tax administration which also received a conditional opinion also because of the procurement of more than 30 million kuna, and I was interested in why the tax administration either does not know or does not want to or cannot comply with the Public Procurement Act until the end. Tax administration, customs administration, Ministry of Justice in the context of anti-corruption and programme and action strategy. When we have an unconditional opinion in those three points, then we will be able to be proud of it, and possibly the State Audit itself, because it has succeeded in that second function educationally and helping them to do so. However, one address where apparently no one with their own advice can help is the defence ministry. In fact, they also received a conditional opinion in 2007. Three reasons. One reason is the public procurement of not military equipment, but, say, furniture, about 49 million kuna. And now I'm not taking that part out because of that 49 million, but because of what the Department of Defense wrote in the state audit report. Approximately not to quote now, and you have it on page 19, the Ministry has clearly said that it accepts this finding and that it owes all the relevant services to finance and material resources to take over the obligation, continues to take all measures, build up the information system, timely planning, call for tenders and carry out tender procedures in accordance with the law. Likewise, the same ministry gave the state audit results for 2006 as well. I compared you with the construction of sentences and trust me as if they'd prescribed the 2006 and 2007. So now, if the Ministry was aware in 2006 that there was a problem with the application of the Public Procurement Act in the Department of Material Resources and it was committed, it would do everything in 2007 to prove that this same administration and that these same sectors and these same Finance Administrations are repeating the same mistakes. I want to believe that the Secretary of Defense will hear this debate and invite someone to help these people at the Ministry of Defense respect the law. They also now have a public procurement service at the Ministry of Economy, which is also available to them. It's not good for the ministry's reputation or the military to be a problem for years. I could still understand when it comes to military equipment, come on. However, the Ministry of Defence does not know how to buy and accept the furniture it has arranged and store in some warehouses or spaces. Financial plans in December, contests at the end of the year, deliver to God when. And so five years in a row. So, I would like, in addition to the parliamentary representatives, to read these findings from the resolution ministers and to have them present to us and tell us what they have done so that these findings are no longer available. And I'm finishing my co-workers and colleagues, Mr. President, Prime Minister Sanader still hasn't dared answer my parliamentary question from November last year on privileged pensions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-06-0.u27330	Thank you. We have one replica, Mr. Zeljko Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-06-0.u27331	Thank you, Mr. President of the Parliament. Comrade Lesar, in your presentation in one part you touched the National Council for Combating Corruption where you pointed out that the National Council was not able to request a clearer report from a part of the members regarding the findings of the State Audit. Here, I'd like to read you what's on the 15 pages of this report. The programme is in line with the Action Plan in the Anti-corruption Strategy adopted in early 2008 at whose implementation the office plays an active role. Therefore, the Council has this task right now, given that the State Audit is also one of the holders of the anti-corruption strategy to insist that all other carriers respect the State Audit reports and, therefore, I think that it would be very important that, in all future discussions, one of the starting points be the State Audit Report, to insist that all the holders of the strategy be made known on the basis of the findings adopted by the State Audit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-06-0.u27332	Thank you. Mr. Lesar's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-06-0.u27333	That's exactly how a colleague of Jovanovic, which is why I also asked the National Council for further information on the reports taught by these findings. I'm terribly sorry that most in the National Council didn't give Finance Minister Shucker a chance to further explain this poor IRS report. But it would be just as good, and I will insist on it, and I will probably get your support that, with the State Audit report, when we get the anti-corruption reports of certain state resources on the table, we have the annual findings of the State Commission for the Control of Public Procurement Procedures, because then we see the whole of it in time, because it's always fresher and we may even have an advisory response to the ministers, but only on one condition, that the representatives of the ruling majority do not block these conclusions that additional reports get clarification from ministers if you agree.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-06-0.u27334	It's Mr. Representative Gordan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-06-0.u27335	Thank you very much, Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. When we talk about the State Audit Report, I wouldn't say that as colleague Cain said it was holy water. There are really things that we need to be concerned about as representatives, who need us to be concerned as people who are responsible for controlling, because yet the revision is the institution of the Croatian Parliament responsible for the controlled way in which public money is spent. And what my fundamental conclusion is is that reviewing your work, the State Audit Office is doing its job correctly. Unfortunately, though, those who should be required to respect and comply with the State Audit Orders are not acting by these orders. Because how else do you explain the situation where one data is, it means only what revision has given about the accounts in the previous year that out of 2549 orders 1330 and 52.2%, respectively. It's just a little over half, and I think it's a clear message and those who should respect the laws and audit orders and in this House to control you. We will accept what is acceptable to us, something that will not be accepted. I think that such behaviour should be put to rest, and I think that all those who do not accept the State Audit warrants may not have to be legally sanctioned, but they should surely bear some political responsibility from those who appoint them if it is the government's government. If it comes to local self-government, I hope that the awareness of citizens will grow from year to year that they will sanction them themselves if they do not behave legally. It is a shame that only 52% of the State Audit order from the previous year was carried out. It's a message that needs us all together worried. As I was saying, I think the review, it's doing its job properly. The job has grown terribly year after year, and we can see it by number, or by the amounts that are being controlled. From 2003 to 2007, it rose from 100 to 147 billion. It is a huge increase in work, and there it is worth congratulating the audit and ultimately giving it greater support. As for this amount of 147 billion kuna, it is a huge amount and everyone at this moment in the crisis in Croatia, that is to say, when we wonder if there is anything to be saved, the right question is whether the entire amount of Croatian state, units of local self-government can contribute to Croatian citizens, that the whole of Croatia and the economy pass this crisis as painlessly as possible. I think it is an amount of almost 60% of GDP, a huge amount, and I see what impact the countries have on the economy in Croatia and on the overall environment, and I believe that this message on the execution of the orders at the end of the year also contributes to the creation of an atmosphere of waste, an inefficient administration where of these 147 billion kunas, it is very likely to be very much saved and to contribute to further investing in the economy and ultimately to try this crisis year as painlessly or as welcome as possible. When we look at what I might still be, let's say, missing in the report, it analyzes, or certain recommendations, to help the entities to organise themselves as well as accountingly, to control whether public procurement procedures are legally implemented, but what I think should, along with these projects that are economically analysed, maybe we should include the economic efficiency of the state administration in part of the audit, because when we talk about the state being too expensive, and that we are all witnesses today in Croatia, that our economy and citizens who finance, by the way, be said, with 60 billion taxes, of course the entire budget, the whole state, is it possible to analyse whether it is justified to increase the costs of employees in the state administration by nearly 10 billion kuna? Does anyone think about it whether it's economical? Whether business has increased so much that it is necessary, and not only are we talking about wage increases because if wages increased every year by 5.6%, that growth would be around 3.5 billion kuna, not 10, but we're talking about hiring people by party criteria in government services, administrations, companies and so on, sometimes totally unnecessary and unwarranted as far as the size of the work is concerned. And I might find it interesting in some future audits to see whether there has been a legitimate increase in the number of employees in an institution or whether the operational costs of that institution related to the work they perform have been reasonably increased. Because if over the past 5, 6 years we've established a whole series of agencies that should be taking over part of the state administration's work, and the number of employees hasn't been reduced in the state administration, it's not people who moved into those agencies, it's exactly the opposite. It's getting bigger. Then the issue of efficiency of the state administration comes naturally on the agenda, and I think that, with the legality of business, more attention should be paid in the following reports. What I would like to comment briefly on in my opinion, of course, is that a large number of entities that are controlled get conditional or, most often conditional opinion, very few subjects get an unfavourable or unconditional opinion. I don't think these conditional opinions are the same. 283 conditional opinions cannot be ranked in one category because there are various gaps and there are those who repeat the same gaps year after year and do not change anything, and each year surrounded by 300 subjects deliberately use the situation and may not correct their mistakes. And I think that, with the conclusion that we had about unfavourable opinions, we should also ask that the terms of the opinion be further analysed and sanctioned if it is not possible legally, and that I said politically if someone in the ministry in particular for 5.6 years is doing the same mistake, it does nothing, that it is politically sanctioned, or in other words, that it is being replaced. As for unfavourable opinions, when I look at it, it's about one city and four municipalities, it seems to me that these are more or less, I wouldn't say small fish, but small budget users who got an unfavourable opinion partly because they didn't prepare their business because it's not an institution that's been stalking, let's just say that, but that there are much greater gaps in the ministries that have passed unfortunately with conditional opinions. If that had gone a little deeper, it would have been evident that for five years someone had been working the same failure and could not simply pass with a conditional opinion, but perhaps a more unfavourable opinion should be given. As for the most common failures, almost all of them repeat the same. So, accounting business, planning and realization, and most often is public procurement, and of course the operation of internal control systems that are mostly either missing or very badly implemented. And I would now, as a single sprawl of an interesting ministry, set an example for the Ministry of Defence in 2007 which has four procedures which, i.e. 4 effects or procedures that have affected the statement of conditional opinion. It was that they did not have a comprehensive financial plan, did not carry out a full list of assets and did not respect the Public Procurement Act, i.e. goods, services and works worth nearly 50 million kuna were made without the public procurement procedure. And now I would say that this ministry is almost similar or the same gaps are in all ministries. As the state administration relates to its assets, it is seen from the very findings of the Ministry of Defence where, now, look out for this information, of the 545 properties that the Ministry of Defence has, 290 have not been evaluated. So the Department of Defense has no record of the value of the assets it has. On the other hand, when you look at the public procurement process, it is planned to be 1.6 billion kunas, 1.2 billion kunas were made, and that is most often related to those public procurement procedures that are not defined by the exemption Act, Article 6. That part of the public procurement of 980 million kuna was carried out completely, meaning almost 910 million kuna. So, when it comes to the exemption, let's do public procurement in full, and when we have a public procurement procedure, it means you have to go to competitions and so on, then almost 400 million kunas have not been made. And what I especially want...
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-06-0.u27336	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-06-0.u27337	Time's up. Oh, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-06-0.u27338	There will be opportunities in replicas.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-06-0.u27339	Okay. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-06-0.u27340	Thank you. The replica was Mr. Berislav Roncevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-06-0.u27341	Thank you very much. Mr. President. Dear colleague Maras, you noticed, and in your presentation, you mentioned the Ministry of Defense several times. And I agree, the fact is that the Department of Defense should look at it with one special prism given the way this ministry is organised. It would be almost like looking at the regularity of all schools in Croatia through this report by the State Audit Office and showing it through the Ministry of Education or all hospitals, health homes and looking through all possible irregularities through the Ministry of Health. It's the Ministry so organized, it's decentralised, some things you have to let go. However, I must say that as a minister of the year in which an audit of interest has been carried out, and I hope that those colleagues who are now managing that ministry will answer why I have deviated from the decision that I, as a resolution minister, made at the time a decision on the implementation of the procedures for the procurement and procurement of goods and services, because what is stated in the State Audit find, I certainly do not know reliably, is listed as objects, goods and services to which the exemptions will be applied. I hope that my colleagues from the ministry and the administrative part but also the armed forces will know that a large part of the procurement is being carried out, why the procurement plan was not respected and why this decision on the implementation of the procurement procedures was not respected. What is mentioned for this 50 million, some 49 million certainly are not specified there to be obtained by the exemption procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-06-0.u27342	Mr. Maras' answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-06-0.u27343	Thank you very much. Mr. Roncevic, it's a little strange that you as a former minister ask me why it's not so respected. Well, you were, and you yourself said the minister, so at the end of the day, you could ask those people out of that position, which is why they did not respect certain public procurement procedures and what was planned. What you've noticed is that it's a dispersed ministry. I took a random example of the Ministry of Defence but the procedure is, and it's very similar to repeating in the Ministry of Education and the Ministry of Health. It's about the same situation everywhere. But it can't please us. I wanted to point out by some estimates some 40 and a few billion kunas of public procurement that must take place in Croatia very likely some data speak 4 to 5 billion kunas go in a transparent manner. So maybe from there we could finance this deficit, and eventually we could free some of the money from the economy that they need. And that's the point of what I'm trying to say. Our country isn't effective and it doesn't have enough good control systems and we need to change that. I cited your example, or you were a minister at the time, but unfortunately, the examples of all ministries are very similar if not identical.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-06-0.u27344	Thank you. It's Mr. Representative Nenad Stazic's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-06-0.u27345	Thank you very much. Mr. President. So I think that at first we should all ask ourselves what the State Review can and can not at all, what are its limits, what are its range, what are its possibilities, what are the limits and then what is the policy ratio and what is the general public's relation to the reports that the State's audit is year after year. In fact, we read mostly the same thing year after year. It would be possible to apply a proverb about passing caravans and pets barking at them. The example is again and I think I could have taken any, in preparation for the debate I took the Ministry of Defense, I'm sorry to repeat it so many times. But perhaps the example is striking, which is why his colleagues point it out. We have the Public Procurement Act, we also have Article 6 of point 5 of that law, which says that the law does not have to be applied to the supply of arms, military equipment and special equipment. Now, I'm going to jump to the National Audit report for 2004 just for a second. It is said that goods and services have been obtained in some amount and that an exemption has been made from the application of the provisions of the Public Procurement Act, in accordance with Article 6(5), for what? In the case of supplies, official, working and protective clothing and footwear, office materials, cleaning and maintenance materials, hygiene and care materials, computer program maintenance services, computer equipment, medicines, car tyres and airports and cleaning and washing services. That's what the review found in 2004. Now by revising the 2007 revision, the audit again finds that 909 million kunas are 561 thousand kunas, meaning 71.9% of the total value of the procurement procedures carried out with the exception, almost 72%. So 72% of what the MORH acquired is with exception. Then what's the State Audit for? She has been warning and writing since 2004 in this report as well. I quote: "For the previous audits for 2004, 2006, the opinion was expressed that certain purchases for which certain procurement procedures were applied were not to be determined by the provisions of the Public Procurement Act."that's what the revision says. And in the light of the audit carried out in 2004, 2005 and 2006, the ministry accepted those opinions. The ministry accepted, admitted that this was not the way to work and continued to work both in 2005 and 2006 and in 2007 and will likely be in 2008 and 2009 as long as it exists. The audit said that there is also a need to unite here, not to quote now, mainly to combine that procurement, that it was scattered in the Ministry of Defence, that this was also established by the audits in 2005, 2006 and that the establishment of full records of the procedures conducted and completed contracts on the purchase of high and low value. The ministry accepted the results and recommendations, accepted and did nothing again. The D.O.D. got a conditional opinion, and it's still saying why. Goods, services and works were obtained without public procurement and for materials and parts for ongoing investment maintenance and construction facilities, on office materials, on current investment maintenance services, construction facilities, failure of construction works. Everything that happened in 2004, 2006, was also happening in 2007. So the ministry got a conditional opinion and what then. Who's going to be responsible? Who ever took responsibility for what was stated in the State Audit report? Look out, 909 million kunas without a public tender, according to special rules for car tires, for food, for airships. Who knows what's in that 909 million kuna deal? Because that audit can't determine. She's finding out herself. That didn't work out. And why it didn't go according to the law, which was supposed to go. How many thongs is there, how much money did it end up in private pockets or in the pockets of party registers? It's a revision by analysing the Ministry of Defence and the way the procurement can't be established. The audit controls irregularities and determines them, possibly and illegality, and reassessssss them. The audit does not file any criminal or criminal charges, as there is no legal mandate. She only had in the conversion of privatisation in the revision of conversion and privatisation. In his regular business, there is no legal mandate. We didn't give them a legal mandate to file criminal and criminal charges. When is a single verdict, a criminal offence, due to the findings of the State Audition given in Croatia? Never, never, never, never, never, never, When some minister has stepped down, let's let the penitentiary go, let's let the offenders go. Let's go to politics. When a minister stepped down, when one was removed, because the State Audit found that he had been doing the same thing for years, that the revision was saying, don't do it for years, and that same minister won't say it for years. I won't do it anymore, I'll fix it. When did one bear political responsibility? It's just irregularities or illegalities. But where's the other one? Because corruption happens to you by law. No one breaks any law, it's all by law. Well, at the end of the day, if you want this, the application of Article 6(5). Is that an article that exists in the Public Procurement Act? There is. What? A little misapplicated article. Very important. But the review can't at all, it can, for example, revise, as do political parties and find that the party has received a million kuna from some donor. And she got it. Is that legal? It is. But the fact that this donor is also the Skiper Agency, which now has, which uses on its golf course 40 hectares of state property in rent, pays rent to the state for it. And according to the Golf Act, he'll be able to buy it, and the state has to sell it. That review doesn't look, nor can it watch, nor is it her mandate. It's a matter of politics and it's a matter of the public, because that's how corruption happens. By law and by law. To thank someone for being a donor of some 3 million kuna political party. Therefore, when we observe the State Audit report, any optimism should be excluded, that it will improve the state of the country. Because as we can see things don't change at all, sanctions don't stand any, no one removed, no one far away, no one to resign, no one to be convicted, no one to be convicted. Nothing. Therefore, the State Audit report should commend the audit for what it can do. What can people do? Revise it, watch it. Is that on the papers? But it will be an effective means of fighting corruption that must be a priority in this country. We can't hope for that. No, no. Until we make a political decision in this House, or to extend our powers or to take a different view of those who insist on breaking the laws, which is what the revision insists on warning them about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-06-0.u27346	Thank you. We have a replica, Mr. Davor Bernardic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-06-0.u27347	Dear President of the Parliament. Well, my colleague Stazic mentioned figures that have been repeated for years and years. And that's what you definitely need to worry about. And I have a few details according to this review report that should be mentioned well. We have already heard that 40 billion kuna is spent in Croatia on public procurement. That we've saved only a billion and a half kuna, acting on audit orders every year. So that every year, the state made sure that those who broke the law in a certain part, sanctioned it, not to repeat it in the following year. For a billion and a half kuna, every year we could build a highway Zagreb-Sisak which has not yet been built, we could not even build a Pelješki bridge that has not been built. We could not announce the freezing of salaries in the state administration because it costs so much and not freezing salaries in the state administration, a billion and a half kuna and a whole series of things. Well, after all, there was this debate and help rebuild, i.e. Let's say that in investing in the prison system. What I want to warn you about, and what when we are on the data that we especially need, is data on the share in the public revenues of certain counties, which are more than every year the same, or similar. So, for example. Lika-Senjska, Zadar, Krapina-Zagorska or Virovitica-Podravska County have the largest share of state support in their budget. And that's at 30, 20 or 23%. Until, for example. Zagreb has only 0.3%, the Primorje-Gorski County and Istria is 5%. In order not to repeat this, it would be necessary that the money targeted from the state budget is aimed at investment to enable incentives, i.e. to enable employment, i.e. higher income from local self-government units. That would be a real...
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-06-0.u27348	Thank you. Answer Mr. Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-06-0.u27349	I agree with my colleague Bernardic, if he had been treated, he would have saved a billion and a half kuna. The assessment, the assessment of the National Council for Corruption that 6 billion kuna in Croatia disappears in corrupt jobs, 6 billion a year, says that only if the state audit had been carried out would it save a billion and a half kuna so many more schools could be made, so many more kindergartens could be saved. But then you wouldn't travel to an opera in Verona, you wouldn't have a house and you wouldn't have watches.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-06-0.u27350	Replica Mr. Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-06-0.u27351	Thank you very much, fellow Stazic, you have noticed that nothing happens year after year, no criminal sanctions for those who do not respect the law. But you've noticed what I've already pointed out and what I'm missing in the reports, it's not just a question of the law of corruption. At times, even under the law, it is very, very easy to play some bidder and do some corrupt work. You run public procurement, you arrange for two companies to report, one to a little higher, one to a little lower price, all by law but essentially immoral. And what I'd like to see is that it's really economical and that it's trying to compare whether the state is spending more on things than it really should. I'm convinced you do. And what you said 6 billion kuna a year, taxpayers, or state-owned companies, pay more goods and services than they should. We could also finance the deficit that we planned for this year and most probably many other things that we will need this year to get through it more easily. We could simply return 6 billion kuna to the Croatian economy which are very likely to cost and pay that part of what the National Council for Corruption estimated how much more is paid for goods and services than should be.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-06-0.u27352	Thank you. Answer Mr. Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-06-0.u27353	How's this legitimate and public procurement going, where millions and billions disappear? Public tender is announced, three companies a, b and c come forward. The most favourable offer has company c, because companies and b are more expensive than it and business gets company c. And then the companies and the b that were more expensive in the offer work as subcontractors for the company c. So how did they get to work as subcontractors, how is it worth it to them? And they didn't pay their initial downgrade in the public competition. When that happens, when such a case happens, that state audit doesn't further question someone got a job, watched if a tender was made, if, is. When that happens, then we have work to do for the state's attorney's office. But we all know it's happening, it's a daily phenomenon in Croatia. That's how it's done in Croatia. And taking one example and making a scandal and checking how it happened, but there's got to be a political will to do it, and then we could talk about fighting corruption. Then we could talk.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-06-0.u27354	Correction. First, Mr. Berislav Roncevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-06-0.u27355	I'm correcting Mr. Stazic's incorrect allegations that nothing has been fixed for years. It's just not true. Here, I gave myself a little effort, reports to the State Audit for the Ministry of Defence in 2003, the MORH did not carry out public procurement procedures in accordance with public procurement regulations. In the view of the 2003 revision, their own revenues of HRK 86 million have not been paid to a single State Treasury account. Where are they paid, Mr. Stazic? Maybe some kind of party register? Maybe a million of them went to the party register? Also maintenance of computer equipment 10.2 million kunas, counter-requirements of the Public Procurement Act. 20.4 million maintenance services... funds on the basis of orders outside the rules of the Public Procurement Act. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In short, something over 100 million kuna irregularities, Mr. Stazić, I hope you know something about the state of the party's register and that perhaps you will tell one Croatian public maybe which one million went there too.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-06-0.u27356	Thank you. Namely, this report for 2007 and 2008 and every historic return in 2004 is unacceptable as in 2003. Because this isn't a report on those years, so it shouldn't be too much, though, it's looking forward to this dynamic debate that inside clubs there are differences, otherwise there wouldn't be any replicas, is there, in view of the problem. But how rich is our debate. That's how much I'd warn you if we were to stick to the actual reports for certain years that are there, if possible. There's still a correction Mr. Zeljko Turk.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-06-0.u27357	Thank you, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-06-0.u27358	... What's the breach of the Rules of Procedure? [[You can't hear the intruder.]] In what? Here, here, a breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-06-0.u27359	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Article 209 has been injured and it is said that my colleague Roncevic first corrected the incorrect assumption and then gave his opinion. And you noticed it well at the end, only that other than what you noticed in the end you should have interrupted it at the moment when it started to work. Yeah, well, you should have, but look, if you're correcting an incorrect quote, you can't give examples from 2002. I think that, but it's not a correction to the incorrect assumption, I just asked the president to react about it in the future and there's no need to be insolent.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-06-0.u27360	There's no if you'd have the same... Was for everything. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Because you don't do any damage to the Rules of Procedure when some representative of your club does the same. That's the difference, you know? We should have the same criteria there, and then somehow we'll get some results. But shut up and I'm not saying it's not on the other side, which is why I'm saying you don't have the same criteria in relation to your own club and the representatives from your own club that make it the same. I'm telling you that, you see that I'm trying to balance it here and there. But we're not convincing unless we have the same principles. But call me if it's a breach of the Rules of Procedure, whoever's hurting him. And those injuries to the Rules of Procedure don't have color because they are, with everyone they are. I say it so well-intentionedly without the illusion that it will continue, that it will not be repeated. I don't have an illusion like that. Thank you. Mr. Zeljko Turk, I'm sorry we're here because the gentleman asked for a correction, this, a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-06-0.u27361	Thank you, Mr. President. I am taking the opportunity to be well-adjusted by Mr. Stazic, who said in the context that every optimism should be excluded, and with regard to the work of the report of this body, and given what will be in the future, it is simply not true. The very fact that every year the number of negative reports or those conditional statements in favour of this claim is reduced, and I will add the fact and the finding that several years ago new legal provisions have been set up and the internal audit system in the units of local self-government and administration and other bodies and internal control, and thus, in a new way and through the educational segment, there has been a new shift in the understanding of the quality of the audit and in some way of getting to know the units of local administrations and self-government, and so the state bodies in that part.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-06-0.u27362	Thank you!
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-06-0.u27363	And in the end, when it comes to the same archaic, colleague Stazic, by chance...
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-06-0.u27364	Thank you very much. This is no longer a correction. Thank you, thank you!
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-06-0.u27365	Repeated things related to incidents in Zlatar, there is nowhere else to be mentioned.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-06-0.u27366	Thank you very much. Let's move on. Mr. Boris Sprem has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-06-0.u27367	Dear Mr. President, Madam Chief Auditor with an associate, colleague and colleague. Let's move on, I hope so, because what I'm going to say in short lines is primarily work profile and mode and work content through this law and practice of the State Audit Office and what to change to fix it. That's why I said let's move on. I hope so. Therefore, it is the role of the State Audit to control expenditure and receipts from the State budget, to examine it through documents, documents, etc. But there is now one task prescribed by law, which is the legal use of funds. Now we have a paradox. On the one hand, this is also observed in the report, the State Audit Office underlines this in its role to control the legal use of funds, but at the same time when it is determined it will not say that it has no right. Under this law, in a narrow sense, there is no right or criminal application to be filed by the State's attorney. But he can file a complaint with the State's Attorney's office. You know why? Because there is a law that we recently adopted as new here in the Croatian Parliament, it is a law on criminal proceedings. And there it says that every citizen and every body in the line of work thinks there's a reasonable suspicion of a certain... He can file criminal charges. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Well, I'm already saying and I'm saying that the State Audit can do that, too, but if something is unclear right now, I suggest that the State Audit Act be amended and that it is explicitly put in place so that the Criminal Procedure Act is clear in that area that is so important. Furthermore, given this position that the State Audit Office has, it has one active position towards the Croatian Parliament and it also makes this report. And it does it in a very good way. But what does the Croatian Parliament do then? The Croatian Parliament is not in an active position, because for years, I hope that the Croatian Parliament will not do so, it does not accept the conclusion, therefore the majority of the SDP must be in charge of the State's Attorney's Office to take the appropriate actions that are in its jurisdiction within 6 months, and this concerns, above all, the launch of certain procedures which are within that order of illegality that the State's Attorney's Office can very well see if it reads only a little of the findings of the State's audit. And there's one more thing I noticed, last year I didn't discuss it because I was a new representative, and now I already have experience with the State Audit, which is that such a relationship between the Croatian Parliament, its majority, according to the report of the State Audit, has been hampered by a very interesting legal institute, and this is an official secret unlike last year when we took off the official secret, so to speak, only at the plenary session, so we didn't even allow the working bodies to discuss a special section, and that's the part of the Croatian public that talks primarily about the illegalities in the business of the three ministries where the conditional opinion was given. And so we come to the fact that this year, we were a little bit more skilled, so we asked and the Croatian Parliament took down that state office at the meeting on Friday, so we could discuss it more openly on the working bodies. So another shift, which says the debate so far, small but some shift. So, of course, I'm proposing no matter what official secret, there's no official secret. I know that this possibility of official secrecy is prescribed, prescribed by the Statute of the State Audit Office, which is otherwise confirmed by the Assembly, but I also suggest that this mortgage be taken down in reviewing the report. And as for the concrete allegations, I'm just going to look back at some of them so that I can arrive today to say something concrete about this report. So, I'm going to look back at how I'm a bit more involved with the president of the Defence Committee for 2007 on the MORH's behaviour. So, if you'll excuse me, Mr. President, but I have to go back a little bit in 2006 because this is really mentioned in the report when it is said that in 2006, a conditional opinion of the state office which is therefore negative means a negative opinion for the general public. And then, what he was doing, so the State Audit Office gave the order, which Mr. Stazic repeatedly told the MORH to detect irregularities in 2006, why I mention in 2006, because Mr. Roncevic was then a minister. And then what happened, according to the government office's order, did virtually nothing in two spheres, I'm precise, and that's what the report says, it's in the area of the list of assets and in the area of non-public procurement, and it's supposed to be public procurement and it's being followed by the Public Procurement Act. So, by order of the State Audit for 2006, nothing was done in 2007. So the question is why did the Minister for the State Audit Office's warrant received earlier do nothing for 2006? Don't just answer by correcting my incorrect allegations that we are now discussing the 2007 report. And maybe something more concrete that they haven't spoken yet. There's internal control of the legality, the legality of the payment. Namely, when the accountant gets a payment order, he has the right under the law not to execute that order because it is illegal, because that's what the accountant thinks. And then, with a written warning, he directs his boss to the commanding officer, the one who signed the bill to pay. And then he gets, it's interesting to me again from that commanding officer even though the accountant as a responsible person warned him that he had acted illegally before he said again, I don't order you to pay for it. And then this one does it. It's just 67 of this, just... 67 million kuna in 2007. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So I ask whose means are these? Are these the assets of the grandfather, the one that so decides by a re-arguing order, or are these the funds of Croatian citizens. We know that these are the funds of Croatian citizens, and yet nothing happens to anyone, and so from year to year. It's not the minister's answer, it's not the accountant's. The question of whether the computer owner can answer there at all because he warns, re-emerges, then he does it. Maybe if it were a little bit more conscious, I really don't know who the particular ministry is, I don't know a person. Maybe you should insist on some things and say, "No, I won't do it if it's illegal and that's what he's done before." So, in conclusion, I don't repeat what my colleagues said before. I believe that if there is even a little bit of consideration under the SDP Club proposal, that is to make a commitment to the State's Attorney's Office to report to us within six months what it has done about this report in order to make sure that we are really going towards the better, rather than actually towards the bad. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-06-0.u27368	Thank you. We have a replica, Mrs. Maria Lugaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-06-0.u27369	Comrade Sprem, you're a good warner, you're asking the question of who is one step further to this audit. Ninth year,... I'm spinning through my hands, it's always a question, and you've noticed that actually the real problem here in the Parliament, in the political will of the ruling majority to say ok. We'll take this in mind, put our heads in the sand, or we'll draw conclusions like we've been doing for years, and we suggest that the whole thing be referred to the State's Attorney's office. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But there's one other thing about budget planning. We here as a Parliament are responsible for the adoption of both the state budget and the budget law. Example one. Government neatly, I know this section of the Department of Science for Student Standard plans an amount of 97 million kuna. For the past 5 years, the audit finds that this is not enough and warns of unintended spending of funds. Every year I submit an amendment to increase it, because it's simply not enough. Blindly refuses any reasonable proposal that is not impenetrable, opposition clucking to say so, but indeed the need that even determines the revision. Or, for example, when we say that we can't monitor the flow of money and what's actually happening that determines the revision here, most of us again make a decision that allows the government to redistribute however it wants and spends the money however it wants. And I don't really think it's a problem with the revision, in the Audit Law, that makes it possible for the audit to do something or not. It even seems to me that it's good that here we have to determine what will happen to the findings, and that's why the revision ends up reporting to us, and then the question of most of which is clearly appropriate to the state that doesn't know who or what it does. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-06-0.u27370	Replica, Mr. Nenad Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-06-0.u27371	Comrade Sprem, you have nothing to apologize to the President of the Parliament for mentioning the 2004 revision. And you have nothing to apologize for the fact that on page 15, paragraph 10.1 of this report, which we are currently discussing is the sentence of the State Audit, which reads: “The previous audits for 2004, 2005 and 2006 do not require an exemption from the application of the Public Procurement Act” etc. etc., and the President of the Parliament, when correcting me and completely counter-business commenting on the presentation of representatives not to return to 2004, does so in the interest of his party, to protect his fellow minister, both in 2004 and 2006. But because it's done by the President of the Parliament, don't apologize to him.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-06-0.u27372	Well, I also mentioned in 2003, Mr. Stazic, you're the only one who doesn't hear what's before 2004. And you just ignore it, and whether Mr. Shrem apologized or not it's his business. Don't make me or Mr. Spremo right. We have Gordan Maras, also a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-06-0.u27373	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Comrade Šprem, you have warned of one thing that unfortunately is not only symptomatic of the Ministry of Defense. The state has no idea what property it has or what it has in the way that it is defined in the manners of a good master. Because how else do you explain that 290 properties are not evaluated and introduced into books to see at all what you have. On the other hand, you're talking about there's no system. It's amazing to me today that the Ministry of Defense or any other ministry within its system doesn't have a centralized procurement to know how much it's gotten into it, under which price it's listed in the review report that it's not there. Well, that would be, imagine one trade chain that has 150 stores that each gets the goods for themselves. Well, that's not possible, so, of course, it's not effective, then, normally, that our money leaks all over the place. Well, I'm not saying that sometimes there's an intention to do it that way, but surely that a more efficient, more responsible management would save billions of dollars a year in the state budget of money that, unfortunately, we don't have right now and we need it all the way.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-06-0.u27374	Mr. Shrem's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-06-0.u27375	I agree with you, Mr. Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-06-0.u27376	Thank you very much. We enrich our debates here and briefly. Thank you very much. We have two corrections to the incorrect allegations, Mr. Beristla Roncevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-06-0.u27377	Thank you very much, Mr. President, although this isn't a report, an audit report on the work of a minister, but that's how colleagues put it there. But I'll tell you, Mr. Shrame, it's an incorrect quote. The minister didn't do anything. It's completely incorrect. By 2004 and the arrival of this minister at the Ministry of Defence had not even been developed a procurement plan, until this minister arrived there was never a decision on public procurement procedures, so if you do not see a significant shift in that, that is your problem. 67 million you stated, you know very well that this is about how to book the value of 2 helicopters from the clinical debt resolution program with the Russian Federation, don't deceive the Croatian public because it's not about any missing millions, you know very well what it is, you were the head of the Office of the President of the Republic and you are fully aware of what this is all about, just the way it is. And in the end, don't put into business practice, but let me tell you what I'm going to say when I'm correcting the quote, I'm not going to ask you that.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-06-0.u27378	Correction of an incorrect quote, Mr. Krunoslav Markovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-06-0.u27379	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, here's what my colleague, Shramm, incorrectly states that after he's done the review, he doesn't do anything. He probably wasn't at the beginning when Mrs. Šima Krasic said that the audit, even the figures, co-operated with the state's attorney's office, the MUP, the tax administration, after and after the police, the Privatisation Fund continued. But unfortunately, Mr. Spremo, the road from the revision to Remetinco leads over several democratically elected institutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-06-0.u27380	It's Mr. Ponzimir Mršić's turn. He's gone. He's losing his right to debate. Mr. Representative Arsen Bauk. Here you go. He's gone. He's also losing his right. Mrs. Representative Nadica Jelash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-06-0.u27381	Dear President, state auditors with assistants, colleagues and colleagues. Here, we have an annual report from the State Audit Office, which is this time, and I will express myself to them, so the auditory termology deserves an unconditional opinion. And not only because of quality work, but also because of credibility and representativeness. And the representativeness of this report gives the fact that the revision of the period from 1 October 2007 to 30 September 2008 covers public funds totalling 147 billion kuna, which is almost 50% gross domestic product. It is obvious that the State Audit Office is independent and independent, so one professional, professional body is actually the strongest link in the chain of public money control. However, there is still a question of what else should be done, so the valuable and self-prepared work of the State Office's audit officers on the identification of irregularities and illegality results in even more visible shifts, therefore even more visible by reducing the number of irregularities and illegalities on the ground because there is clearly this reduction, but definitely too little. Why do I say that? Because the State Audit for 14 years, so for the correction of fellow Members Lugarić, 14, not 10 years on the ground, determines numerous irregularities and illegalities, and what it looks like in 2007, is best confirmed that out of 616 audit opinions in the business of entities at the state and local level, only 107 or 17% were unconditional, while even 509 or over 83% were more or less problematic. Or evidence other, in the audit reports with identified irregularities in the business of entities, the State audit also gives orders and recommendations for correcting irregularities, of course with a view not to repeat them. And here comes the expression of one instructive role of the revision. Of course, the State Audit shall monitor the execution of the tasks issued and the recommendations issued and the following audit report shall specify the tasks and recommendations to which it has been followed, as well as those which unfortunately have not been followed. For the aforementioned 616 audited entities in 2007, the State audit issued over 3,000 orders and recommendations, or almost 5 per subject audited. Out of a total of 2549 orders and recommendations issued in the previous audit, only 1330 or 52% were carried out, while 1219 orders remained incomplete. So every other warrant is practically not executed, or ignored. The work of professional people paying taxpayers is ignored in order to re-exhaust and re-expend budget money next year by detecting the same irregularities and the same illegalities. Obviously, something has to change around here. On the Committee on Finance, the State Audit is suggested to make a kind of review, we could say a conditionally different black list of those audited entities that for years ignore its tasks and repeat the same mistakes. Unfortunately, the question remains, then, what about that list? Perhaps, in the context of international cooperation, ask more experienced than we do? What makes me say that? I am quoted from this report that out of the six projects that have been audited during this period, an unconditional opinion has been given. So, around projects that are being followed by our institutions and the institutions of the European Union, there is no problem or there is far less than is the case when the spending of public money is being monitored by ourselves. Logically, then, the conclusion is that only the European Union can make us improve. The immediate occasion for this debate on ignoring the warrants and recommendations of the State Audit and Recurrence of Errors is, in fact, a special part of the audit report, which originally bears the designation of official secrecy, which includes the findings of the Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of the Interior, the third ministry, those foreign affairs and European integrations, received this time unconditional opinion, so it is not problematic unlike the first two mentioned ones. A series of participants in the debate have already talked about it, but obviously this needs to be repeated, it needs to be repeated as a mantra to make things change. The Ministry of Defense and the Ministry of the Interior are in the right sense the words two... Croatian executives when it comes to public management, so budget money, or Croatian citizens' money. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And these are two huge systems, very expensive systems, I'd say two giants who employ almost 50,000 people. The defence ministry has 22650 employees, while the Ministry of Interior employs almost 24 thousand, or the two ministries employ around 4% of the total number of employees in the Republic of Croatia. In fact, it's an incredible tenacity and social insensitivity that repeats the same gaps year after year. So the Department of Defense, for example, doesn't even know today how much property he has. We've heard a lot about previous speakers. The financial plan for him is unknown. He doesn't plan on income, but he does, and he certainly spends it. It does not record hundreds of millions of commitments and material expenditures. Material expenditure on liabilities incurred in 2007 does not book them in 2007 but transfers them to 2008 and thus actually shows an unreal financial result. It declares most of the procurement procedures to be secret, i.e. to benefit from the exemption provision due to specific security measures or to the protection of state interests, and to a large extent, to the extent that it has declared the secret purchases without the public procurement procedure. In one word, this ministry is today acting as in certain special circumstances and it is no longer wartime, there is no arms import embargo, nor are there any other circumstances that would justify hiding purchases or which would be an alibi to obtain contrary to the provisions of the Public Procurement Act. Or, for example, the Ministry of the Interior has in 2007 a lack of income or a simplified said loss amounting to 73 million kuna and another 74 million kuna of transferred deficits from previous years, so that the total shortfall for cover in the next period starting with the year 2008 and further amounts to round 150 million kuna. Although they decided in their decision that the savings in 2007 would cover the deficit from previous years, this was not done. But in certain cases, they redistribute funds in budgetary items without the approval of the Ministry of Finance for not being allowed under the Budget Law. All of this here's the State Review finding from year to year, the same failures, they're just different figures, and there's nothing going on. It just stays on that people's side: "The dogs bark and the caravans pass!". Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-06-0.u27382	Thank you. Ms. Representative Susana Bilic-Vardic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-06-0.u27383	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Madam State Auditor with a deputy, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. I would like to begin by saying that, unlike all of my predecessors who have participated in the debate, I will support the full report on the work of the State Audit Office for 2008 and the report on the audits carried out for 2007 in accordance with the provisions of the Law on State Audit of the Croatian Parliament. Likewise, I won't agree with those who said the reports were the same year after year. That's not true. And this report, that is, the 2008 report, the 2007 report on the audits carried out shows positive developments, and I hope that this will continue in the next period. The report shows that the Office has achieved the objectives of the audit and that it has established the truthfulness and credibility of financial reports and accounts, analysed the achievement of income and receipts and the implementation of expenditure and expenditure in accordance with the plan, verified the compliance of business with laws and other regulations, verified and assessed the effectiveness of the use of funds, as well as verified other activities related to the operation of audit entities. And such entities during the reporting period were 898 of which 616 audited financial reports and business entities at state and local level 267 insights into the budget and financial reports of local units, 14 of them taking into account the financial report of extraparliamentary political parties and one review of efficiency. Although the report on the work of the State Audit Office and the entire material, we heard on three hundred pages, we can be satisfied with the transparency, transparency and detail, and in the end with the positive opinion of the office that the number of unconditional opinions issued and the number of unfavourable opinions issued over the observed period has been increased and the number of unfavourable opinions on the business of the audit entities, which indirectly results in a reduction in the number of conditional opinions being expressed, I believe that we do not need to end up and we cannot be satisfied with the speed and number of unconditional opinions reached. It is precisely because of what the state auditor said in her opening statement, which failed to comply with the law became a rule rather than an exception. Even though the report states that those business entities who are registered to repeat the same mistakes year after year are more often subject to audits, the situation is slowly changing and we cannot be satisfied because the law applies to everything equally and we are all equal before it. Confirmation of this is non-execution of issued orders. In the previous period, therefore, 2,000 549 orders and recommendations were issued for 2006 and only 330 or almost 52.2% were made. And speaking of 2007 out of three thousand and 20 orders issued, all one thousand 330 were executed and a thousand 212 were executed in the execution process. As I have experience in order in the units of local and regional self-government, I will agree with the state auditor when she says that some audited entities who have managed to correct their state of affairs by amending and supplementing the law and by applying new laws and by applying them are once again making mistakes. Well, I know a unit of local self-government that can't afford to pay off the funds from sold apartments to the state budget and nothing to anyone, as well as those who constantly care about the collection of claims without using the mechanisms and actions that the law provides for. The report shows that out of the 576 units of local and regional self-government, 309 budget audits were carried out in 2007 and issued 21 unconditionally, 8 for counties, 8 for cities and 5 municipalities of unconditional opinions, 283 conditions, 12 for counties, 115 for cities and 156 for municipalities, and 5 unfavourable for one city and four municipalities. All who have received unconditional opinion should be highlighted because they deserve it, but I will not praise them on this occasion because it is our obligation to all of us to comply with the law. It is clear that these units of local and regional self-government, which express their unconditional opinion, may and may need other units of local self-government and the area to serve as a role model. I particularly highlight the way in which the State Audit Office performs its supervisory and advisory and preventive role in the audit of budgetary users, as in this report, has been carried out in 32 homes of health of which even 14 have unconditionally expressed opinions and 18 conditional, 14 institutes 3 unconditionally and 11 conditional opinions, 7 student homes of which 2 received unconditional opinion and 5 conditional. Even 96 elementary and secondary schools where 33 received unconditional opinion 62 conditional and one unfavourable. And 31 other users of the budget were units of local self-government or state budget, of 31 users of 5 received unconditionally and 26 conditional opinions. I believe this school, which is the only one who has received an unfavourable opinion, is in any case the founder should be helped. Since the audit is carried out once a year for the state budget, the funds, i.e. at national level, and the budgets of local units within the scope established by the annual work programme of the office, and that the budget is spent every day, by calling for the fulfilment of the provisions of the Budget Act and of the Internal Audit Regulation and of the budgetary beneficiaries prescribed by the obligation to set up an internal audit in local units. They are obliged to establish the City of Zagreb, large cities above 35 thousand inhabitants, county, county headquarters as well as local units, with the relations of cities to which the funding of decentralised elementary school functions and local units has been transferred if they employ more than 50 employees in their bodies. Of the 58 local units that have an obligation, they were set up by 44. If we add to this the obligation under the Internal Financial Control System Act in the public sector to be established by the leaders of all local units, a system consisting of two elements, financial management and internal audits, the appointment of a person in charge of financial management and control of 309 audited local units, in all 99, is appointed such a person or all 32%. As the commitment has been made since 2006, and we are talking about the report on the audits carried out for 2007 I hope that we will have progress in this area in the 2008 review report. By using and respecting the provisions of the Budget Law and the use of budgetary resources, I expect that the upcoming trend of the increasing audit findings for 2008 will continue, and I will also use this debate on the audits carried out for 2007 to invite and encourage all leaders of the units of local and regional self-government, as well as the heads of budgetary users, to use the findings of this audit responsibly and in accordance with the law, to spend the budget in this year 2009 and thus show that we are all equally responsible for the financial situation in the country, each at their own level of responsibility, and all in order to improve Croatian citizens. And finally, by commending the work of the State Audit Office, I point out that I will and I repeat that I will support the report on the work of the State Audit Office for 2008 and the report on the audits carried out for 2007. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-06-0.u27384	Thank you. We have an adjudication, Mr. Representative Boris Sprem. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-06-0.u27385	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Fellow Members of Suzana Bilić-Vardić, therefore you said in this context that I believe we are discussing this report, and I do not hope in general that we are all equal before the law. Well, this is an eclectic example that we're not all equal before the law. That's exactly what I was talking about. So I was talking about this report showing that some officials in some ministries are never responding for anything. And if that's the case, well, I'm not gonna keep going, no sense. ... No, that's how I respect her. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-06-0.u27386	Thank you. Mr. Representative Tomislav Culjak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-06-0.u27387	President of the Croatian Parliament, state auditors, colleagues and colleagues. Here is how the 14th report of the Audit Office is already said before us, and it is a joy to see that there are more and more entities that have received unconditional opinion from year to year. There are fewer irregularities in individual ministries, as well as in other budget users. Progress is visible especially in local self-government units. I am pleased that my Vukovar-Srijem County has received unconditional opinion, and also here is what from year to year and the city of Vinkovci from which I come here in 2006 unconditional opinion now, and only one remark which, of course, is immediately removed. It is obvious that the educational part of the work involved in the state audit has been achieved in this way. Here I want to take a brief look at the part about the Ministry of Defense. Each year, the review report deals in detail with the defence ministry's operations in depth. We also see by following reports in recent years that in such large systems as the Ministry of Defence, each year there are improvements and improvements in the functioning of the system. Each year, in accordance with the findings and recommendations of the State Audit Office, the system is complemented, deficiencies from the asset list area, to procurement procedures are eliminated. The internal control system and internal control system carried out in the form of checks on the legality of the documents shall also be established. Legal, formal and accounting control of the document before booking and payment shall constitute a compensation for the control. It shall be carried out by each establishment unit of the Ministry of Defence and Armed Forces, in accordance with the Rules on Budgetary Accounting and the Accounting Plan. The procedure in cases of malfunctions has been governed by the internal direction of the Ministry of Defence under which payment is carried out under the re-arranged order of the authorising officer. In accordance with the Law on the Internal Financial Control System in the Public Sector of the Ministry of Defence, an independent internal audit department has been established with the task of independent and objective monitoring the tasks of the Ministry of Defence, the introduction and proposal of measures to remove identified irregularities and discrepancies with legal and other regulations. A system of internal management and control has been established and implemented, which means previous control with the possibility not only of identifying but also of managing risks during the course of the business process. The Ministry of Defence’s financial plan in the year under review was fully developed in accordance with the instructions of the Ministry of Finance for the construction of the state budget as well as in line with the long-term development plan of the Armed Forces and the defence programme. The procedures between planned and achieved revenues as reported in the report amounted to 2.3% of total planned revenues. This year was also important because it carried out the organisational separation of real estate and activities from the armed forces related to catering and service activities and the establishment and operation of the company... all employees are taken care of or employed in a newly established company or through a care programme or incentive severance. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The Ministry of Defence has taken action to update the records of apartments, garages, business premises and military properties and to establish their estimated value, this is an observation that the revision has been repeating for years and this job is ongoing and should soon be recorded as the law provides. Therefore, data are entered into the register of state property, the exit is the tour of all business premises, for which the data are entered into the apparent state property, and the field check of use of garages and garages. By accepting the order of the State Audit Office for the full recording of the data in the search and charging of the rents for business premises, garages and apartments, and the recording of the real situation in the books, we see that this was the case during that period. The Ministry was also shown to be aware of the observations of the audit in this area and committed to taking measures to carry out the tasks of the State Audit Office. I believe in the following findings this question will be left out. An order under which the Ministry shall act and record revenue and expenditure with the application of the modified principle of occurrence of events and the generally accepted accounting principles of accuracy, truthfulness, reliability and individual demonstration of business events has been accepted. As the report explained, the defence ministry represented commitments carried over from one to another fiscal year. By reading the section relating to public procurement procedures in 2007, the State audit pointed out that, following the adoption of the 2007 MORH financial plan, the Minister of Defence laid down the procedure and made a decision on the implementation of the procedures for the procurement of goods and services and works prescribed by the procurement procedure for that financial year, and that the adoption of the procurement plan must precisely distinguish what is obtained in accordance with the procurement procedures prescribed by the public procurement procedure and, with the exception of the public procurement law, which includes Article 6! Moreh is a specific system and, therefore, Article 6 of the Law is a norm which cannot be avoided in the procurement procedures when supplied for the needs of the defence system. That Article 6 itself speaks of the acquisition which is marked by a secret and when it requires the protection of the essential interests of the State. By listing this report, we see that much has been obtained and much has been done to improve and equip our Armed Forces in order to successfully carry out their missions and tasks prescribed by strategic documents. For example, it lists the purchase of field vehicles with anti-ballistic and anti-mining protection, vehicle facilities, equipment for... and telecommunications systems, engineering and electronic equipment RBK equipment etc. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] They obtain both for the needs of our members who are on peacekeeping missions and for those who exercise training on a daily basis with the aim of developing and achieving key abilities. The State Audit Office proposes to pay particular attention to quality preparations before carrying out the procurement, goods, works and services procedures in order to avoid being able to cancel the whole procurement process due to insufficient preparation. The State Audit Office pointed out in its final review in 2007 that the Ministry of Defence acted according to the State Commission's decisions to control the procurement procedures, that the cancellation of the procurement procedures was not repeated and that a procurement procedure and concluded contracts at the lowest unit prices and framework contracts were carried out for the purchase of certain goods and services. The problem is where the supply takes place decentralisedly in certain structural units at the depth of the system. This problem has been identified, and it has been pointed out by the state audit and has already begun to establish records of the procurement procedures carried out and completed contracts at the level of the entire system in order to avoid these observed irregularities. With the aim of carrying out the tasks of the preliminary audits proposal not only in the part of public procurement but also in the planning of the Ministry of Defence is included in the project of the integration of the financial, information system of the Treasury and the information systems of the users of the state budget launched by the Ministry of Finance as part of the strategy for improving and modernising the process in the State Treasury system. I am convinced that the Ministry of Defence will also complete the equipment and construction of the Croatian Armed Forces in accordance with the procedure and deadlines prescribed in the field of public procurement and that these observations of the state audit will not be repeated in the coming years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-06-0.u27388	Thank you. We have one replica, Mrs. Christmas School.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-06-0.u27389	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Here's my colleague, Chuljak, mentioned the Ministry of Defense in his debate. Today we've been listening to the Department of Defense, irregularities, nothing happens after these irregularities. However, no one mentioned the city of Zagreb today, and in fact, in the city of Zagreb, the law on public procurement is the most violated. Don't laugh, that's true, but nobody mentioned it today. I'll try a couple of just situations in this short line of mys. For example, in the town of Ogulin a kilometer of footposts comes 80 cm is the width, its price is 300 thousand kuna. In the town of Zagreb, yesterday I saw this price, this nogostop that will be built in the area of Brezovica, a kilometer of this foothold of 80 cm width comes a million kuna. So I ask you, 700,000 kuna, who does that go to in his pocket? Does that go to HDZ in your pocket? And you know who runs the city of Zagreb. The second thing, in 2008, on the turn of the tram, the bus, actually the terminal here in Crnomerec, we all know where, of 5.5 square meters, one house price was 5.5 million kuna. I'm asking you, is that number normal? Was the Law on Public Procurement Respected? Who's got the money in their pocket? Is it possible that HDZ, who runs this town? I could count it by tomorrow. What happened? You're all saying nothing is done after these irregularities. The town of Zagreb has done, replaced Ljubicica, sent Ljubicic on maternity leave with 20 thousand kunas of maternity care.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-06-0.u27390	Thank you!
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-06-0.u27391	I think it's the most paid diaper changer in Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-06-0.u27392	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-06-0.u27393	And that's how you work and respect...
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-06-0.u27394	Thank you. The answer, sir...
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-06-0.u27395	Public procurement law, you of the SDP.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-06-0.u27396	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-06-0.u27397	Since I personally have no knowledge of the City of Zagreb, nor was I particularly interested in it, I have to tell my colleague Christmas, and I want to actually believe that everything she said is true. So I mentioned that positive example where I mentioned my city, of course, Vinkovce, who year after year, means more and more and more and actually there are less and less irregularities, actually there are none. As well as County Vukovar-Srijemska and of course I want to receive such reports in the future from the City of Zagreb.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-06-0.u27398	Thank you. It is Mr. Representative Zeljko Jovanovic's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-06-0.u27399	Thank you, Mr. President. Mrs Krasic, colleagues and colleagues. I am also pleased with the review report, however, that this hard and hard work of all people employed in the audit, and we see that even by systematicisation, not fully completed systematisation as envisaged, that it would make sense should satisfy two more conditions. The first condition is to become a textbook that everyone who spends the budget will read and act on it. And secondly, that the offenders who repeat the same offences year after year are sanctioned. In addition, Mrs Krasic, on the 15th page, said she co-operated with the Croatian State Attorney's Office for the Prevention of Corruption and Organized Crime, with the Tax Administration, the Financial Agency. However, in order for this sentence to be complete, it should be continued to see what came from this cooperation, so what happened to all those cases that Mrs Krasic, in collaboration with the State's Attorney's Office, put into follow-up procedure. There are a number of examples that show irregularities in the report's report. Here I would take the opportunity to point to two regarding the Croatian Health Insurance Office. In fact, the Croatian Institute of Health Insurance is very concerned about the collection of supplementary insurance from patients whose scope they contracted reduced, but did not reduce the price of the policy, and on the other hand the money collected from the contribution was not overly carefully, e.g. Pays a private sanity team 88% more than the state team pays. Let's take it in a row. The Croatian Health Insurance Institute has charged an additional 80 kuna per month for two years of 600,000 citizens, although it itself has decided that it will receive 60 kuna worth of services and that the decision and the policy should be charged accordingly. The institute, however, ignored its promise, disregarded the State Audit warning. Not only that, it wasn't obvious at all. And to remind you, in 2002, an 80 kuna supplemental insurance policy was introduced, covering 10 to 70% of the cost of drugs from the list, specialist and other reviews. In November 2006, however, the Institute said it no longer covers drugs, reduces the services it covered to 15 to 50%, thus reducing the rights of 600,000 Croatian citizens, but continues to charge 80 kuna. I don't have to ask you what would have happened if one of these citizens hadn't paid a month's insurance policy, he'd have lost all his rights. However, the Croatian Institute of Health Insurance allowed itself to continue to behave and dispose of money until January this year for which the service did not actually deliver. Another example, the review warned that out of the 37 million kuna, the cost of sanitary transport, the company contracted 7.2 million kuna with one company. The contract was signed in 2005, repeated in the following year with 5 add-ons to the contract. 10 sanity teams cost no VAT 491 thousand kuna, i.e. 5.9 million kuna per year. This means that such a team average cost 49 thousand kuna or 590 thousand kuna a year, while at the same time costs... The Sanitation Team, employed by the state service team, amounted to 313 thousand kuna per year, so 276,000 kuna less than the employed privateer, with a figure of 2.7 million kuna for 10 teams. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] This was sent from the Bureau an indication, unlike the previous one where they did not favour or respond, where they state that part of the costs that are different is because this private team does not have part of the costs of decentralised funds. However, the audit did not assess how much it amounts and they again received that this private team paid 160 thousand kuna, i.e. 10 teams, that is 1.6 million kuna. In five years 8 million kunas are gathered, so I ask if these 8 million kunas could not have gone to the Fund of Expensive Medicines for which I read these days that it is very, very difficult to get medicines that go on the basis of hospital budgets. It's just two examples. However, there are no reports of public procurement from local self-government to state-owned companies, to ministries that show no irregularities. Here, I looked at only some, so these irregularities move in a way that have been annulled, that they are indicated for funds that are not used in accordance with the Public Procurement Act, in percentages of 1 to 30% where we have state-owned companies 5%, schools 20%, health homes 17%, other budget users 16%, companies owned by local self-government units 30%. And if we add it all together, we'll get to about 10%. If we know that in 2007 44 billion kuna was spent on public procurement, and 15% of the total value is 15% of the gross domestic product of the total value of public procurement, it is very easy to come to an amount that may not have just gone to corruption, but there is a reasonable doubt that part went to corruption because the value of the public procurement was two billion kunas. Therefore, it is clear from this that the area of public procurement is one of the areas where the State Audit, together with the State Attorney's Office, along with the Tax Administration, had to find ways to start spending these funds rationally and that these billions of kunas we lose in public procurement were actually our greatest contribution to the anti-recession battle that awaits us all. I therefore expect that in some future report, if not today, we cannot get information about the concrete cooperation of the State's Attorney's Office and the audit, which has resulted and what results we have as a result of this cooperation.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-06-0.u27400	Thank you. We have one correction. Mrs. Carmela Caparin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-06-0.u27401	Thank you very much, Mr. President. A series of incorrect allegations, but I'll fix two. One of the false allegations, if you don't pay the policy for one month, you have no more rights. So don't speak wrong and especially to patients who listen to you now and watch, because the patient doesn't lose the right especially if it comes to urgency this right will come true and will be able to solve his problem. Another incorrect allegation is it is difficult to get medicines that go to the hospital budget, which is completely incorrect. All the drugs are available, and I'll tell you from my practice, in my hospital even the supplies are a big increase in consumption. So what do you think they're not there, and also those other medicines that have to be approved can be obtained. If you work at the hospital, then you know it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-06-0.u27402	Thank you. Mr. Representative Rajko Ostojić. He's gone. Mr. Representative Slavko Linic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-06-0.u27403	Mr. President, state auditors, assistant, colleagues and colleagues. I think we Parliamentarians can be proud of the work of the State Audit. Therefore, I would say one of the few bodies of our Parliament in which more or less everyone is positive, all of which are positively declared. Indeed, when we observe that this body was created immediately after the origin of the Republic of Croatia and that, year after year, extraordinary results were obtained, I think that we in the Croatian Parliament can also be proud and satisfied with this work. What is it that we cannot be satisfied with? I hear here from the debate many expect that essentially certain improvements, suggestions, solutions offered by the State Audit. I'm a person I don't expect from the State Audit and I think that we in the Parliament should see who it is that offers us solutions. And it is evident that he finds State audits except as they serve us to watch, see, assess how public money is used they serve primarily the Government of the Republic of Croatia which should essentially monitor and give solutions how to improve the work of all bodies for which it is responsible and which in some way through its work audit and processing. They're city councils, they're county congregations, they're obviously schools-controlled bodies, health homes. Therefore, it is a finding that the leaders, the leading institutions, should motivate them to address certain shortcomings with their work programme. It is evident that there may be less and less of what we can call a crime, or I would say the acts of the State's Attorney's Office, and I estimate that we should be less and less interested in this because that is what the State's Attorney's office only has to do with its powers. So their job is to clean up, read these reports and find crimes and process. But what we are interested in is the efficiency of spending public funds, and the efficiency of spending public funds will not achieve an audit in communication with the authorities that are being examined and supervised for reasons that it is not competent. She can keep repeating, trying to influence them with her orders, but we realize that it's just a very, very difficult job. We should speed up after these five reports in the last five years where we know everything, where we see that these are the usual mistakes that are repeated, that these are the failures that are the expression of negligence, irresponsibility, mismanagement. I'd even say maybe certain boastfulness. That's what their superiors must do. They're not ministers. It's the government. And our basic problem here in the Croatian Parliament is that we have to ask ourselves what our conclusions insist that the government delivers us a programme of measures to remove the shortcomings. So we see what the problems are. We ask ourselves whether 20 years of independent Croatia is enough to finally resolve the issue of property and to know what property we have. Because when we know that less is going to happen, I'd say both failures and illegalities. But who are we gonna put in charge of that? So the Croatian government, which within a certain period, must give us all action plans within which a particular ministry must detect its assets, settle its assets and solve the problem that the audit is constantly imposing on us. We see that the adoption of the Public Procurement Act has not resulted in satisfactory results. There may be fewer of these illegalities and actions for the State's Attorney's Office. But we can't be satisfied. Why? The efficiency of spending is something that is worrying, and that is what must especially motivate us to task someone with internal control, amending the rules, with greater responsibility trying to remove and this lack of this often does not appear in the findings of the State Audit. We in the Parliament must do so through the Croatian government. It must give us an action plan to address irregularities and raise the efficiency of public funds. That's what we need to be interested in. And let's get away from crime. It's the State's Attorney's office. Let us observe his report and assess whether we are satisfied with the results. And as long as we have all our demands, all our proposals for decisions as the Croatian Parliament do not turn towards the Croatian government, I fear that more efficiency in the handling of public money and we will not have any. So let's be honest. Last year, the SDP proposal in which we have just tried to obtain some relevant, relevant action plans before the Croatian Parliament, which will take place in relation to certain ministries with concrete measures to sort out the issue of property, to address the issue of public procurement and to address the issue of cost management. In that part, we did not get satisfactory results, for voting in the Parliament did not make any commitment to the government. The SDP Club is proposing it again. I believe that all of us can improve these proposals that the government should do. Because as a Croatian Parliament, we must be interested in certain government measures towards the competent ministries, funds and bodies for which the Croatian Government is responsible. And as long as we don't commit to the government's handling of this surveillance and control we won't be satisfied with the results, we won't be satisfied with the findings that will further point to the same mistakes. Here we see one problem that must be of interest to us, which is the problem of planning and income and expenditure and commitment. It's a matter of budgeting. So we have to ask ourselves if we're going to change anything in the Budget Law. Why? So for the simple reason that the audit indicates that there are huge deviations between the planned funds and the funds spent. When we speak planned, it's the first budget we make. Is it possible that the budget that we make at the end of the year is so different at the end of the year? Is it possible to change the six-month rebalancing so significantly in the last three months with redistributions? The audit indicates it's a misplanning. It's irresponsible behavior again. It's all done in a hurry. It can't be efficient in managing this kind of planning. So we need to change something. And then the question really remains whether we're going to change the law, so we're going to have that, the inability to coordinate and change at a higher level, at a lower level, we're going to give freedom, just so it doesn't turn out that we're planning so wrong. There are clear assessments that we are also told that simple calculations are under-qualityly planned and that is why we have these common changes, so we have this deviation and we should do something about it. And I'm still worried about one point in these findings, which is that we're not showing the exact state of expenditure. The audit noted that there was an increasingly frequent and more frequent occurrence of a book signing or a cost being entered only when it was paid, not when it came into existence. And given Croatia's problems at this time of great indifference, it is indicated that by the state authorities, the users of the budget are not paid in time, that simple documents are not recorded, that there is no payment of commitments to the creation because either there are no funds or that they are wrongly planned and that we also have to take this seriously if we want to solve today's problems with the Croatian economy. And of course, what we certainly need to be worried about, but here, I don't have time anymore, so I'm finalizing my debate once again by giving a great recognition to the institution that is making our accounts to the State Audit.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-06-0.u27404	Thank you. And the last one in the debate is Madam Representative Marija Lugaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-06-0.u27405	Dear Mr. President, Madam Chief State Auditor, Mr. Deputy, colleagues and colleagues. If my colleague Linic and I had agreed, I don't think in any way my debate would have gone any better behind him, it turned out to be an accident. In fact, what my colleague Linic was talking about at one general level, I have actually come to the same conclusion as looking at the revision of the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports because it has proved that what, not only personally, my colleague Flego, some other colleagues and colleagues, for years we have been warning that the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports is ruled by disorder and chaos, that we warn that we do not know who drinks, or who pays, that I do not know what they want and what they will not, that crucial strategic projects are represented, that as a crucial strategic project, they are in fact semi-products that last as long as they come up with PR balloons and until they come up with some newer, even more important, even more strategic project that is then the exact same fate as the one that preceded him. And colleagues and colleagues, all of this together is not just my opinion, when we warn it as opposition representatives, it is not being heard, and according to the State Audit report, judging by the repetition of the irregularities, it is obvious that neither is listening to the State Audit, which, of course, established the exact same thing in its formulations. What has the review established? The audit found, quote, regarding the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports, "in most cases expenditure was not carried out according to the planned purposes and were not recorded on the accounts of the prescribed accounting plan. Also, in most cases there has been no control of the dedicated spending, that means budget users either." What does that mean to you? The revision also gives us some examples. For example, the votes for the construction facilities of the Ministry, in a narrow sense, from the mass of the funds intended to be used, were spent on the purchase of computer equipment. Or, for example, in the context of sports, the cost of official travel is recorded and paid for by the organization of school sports clubs championships. In the context of high education, the costs of subsidising accommodation and nutrition that I mentioned were already under-planned in the earlier debate, so the second item called improving the student standard was spent on a sufficient amount of funding for a completely different purpose. And here I repeat, this particular case I've been writing the amendment to the state budget for years and warning that it won't be enough. Every year, the ministry responds, no, there will be enough audits every year, if it wasn't enough to unintendedly spend funds. Five years in a row. And then to make the matter better, in the light of this all together, the ministry responds that when drawing up the 2009 budget, the amount of expenditure achieved in the previous year and the data on the total number of students using the funds of food and accommodation services will increase those funds. We've brought a budget for 2009, funds for this purpose less than last year. And they need to be bigger. Or another example that determines the revision. The audit therefore finds that there was a lot of wrong planning and so on and then the ministry says that because of the urgency of the implementation of projects at the end of the year when the changes in the budget were no longer possible have made payment there from where the money was. And all that would cost if the last redistribution in 2007 didn't carry a date of 30.12. So, they say they couldn't pay off the bill they were supposed to pay out of because it was the end of the year and, at the same time, in 30.12.2007, a decision on redistributing funds from the budget was made. Or, for example, about sports and technical culture funds, the funds were implemented in the range of 50% less than the plan to 50% more than the plan. That's not getting lost now, so 1% sim-tam, or 5%, 50% less or 50% more than the plan. Everything remains the same, and from year to year the same irregularities. Or, let's say, the funding for technology and research activities received for BICRO, this BICRO has been withdrawn for years from the State Audit reports because they have been granted 10.5 million kuna in their mood, and it's spent a little less than 3 million kuna in one detail, there's a lot of such details. And persistently, despite not spending the funds, despite the State Budget Act, the ministry has been paying the funds to a budgetary user who does not spend them in accordance with the law and in fact the ministry should not grant them according to the Law in the budget because the funds are not spent. And then the ministry in its obvious says well, we're going to plan it a little differently now, it's not going to happen anymore. Copy paste, each year the same thing. Crediting high school institutions, when I said there was no plan and no knowing what to want and what not to do, there was no strategy. Minister Primorac announces now we will do Croatian hardware, raise large loans. And what does the audit say? Credits were not used by contract dynamics and compensations for committed and unused funds amounting to more than 3 million kuna were paid during 2007. We said let's go do something, the money was up for it and there was no telling what would be done or how it would be done. And then we pay 3 million kuna a penalty on unused funds. And then the revision continues to determine. I quote: "The ministry should not have concluded loan contracts before the pre-conditions for their use were created. The use of credit within the agreed deadline would result in planned investments in non-financial assets of higher education institutions and would avoid payment of compensation.". And we're crying that we don't have enough money, and we have enough money to pay for the penalty on something we didn't do ourselves and we said we'd do it. That audit determines, I don't say it as an opposition representative, a state audit year after year to make things better. About the public procurement, there's already been a lot of words. The procurement plan for the needs of the Ministry of Science in a narrow sense has been made, however, a procurement plan for everything else that goes through, carried out through the Ministry of Needs and Sports and Primary and Secondary Schools and Homes, and scientific, technological, research activities, development and all other procurement plans have not been adopted at all. From year to year, the same thing. I personally had a particularly interesting revision of the development project of the education and education system. It is therefore a project adopted by the Government in 2005-2010 and I am glad that the State Audit Office has audited specific projects as well. And this example may best show how much what the ministry and the government have found to be done, how serious it is and how consistent it is with what is declared. What did the audit say? I quote the revision: "As the completion of the project's implementation plan is planned in 2009 and by the end of 2007, 18% of the planned funding has been spent, the State Audit Office proposes to develop a real project implementation plan with plans for activities and tasks, as well as to speed up actions and activities related to the implementation of the project. Furthermore, it is proposed to monitor the achievement of certain activities and the effects achieved related to the priorities and development objectives set. What does that mean? Because our review is very nice in its formulations. This means that everything that was planned was simply written on paper and in no way implemented in practice. Of course, there's plenty of arguments for that. In the end, let's just say two more details that actually speak about the credibility of what this ministry is about or is not about. The audit found 421 employees in the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports in 2007. I have no reason to doubt that. However, in response to my parliamentary question, which was the same question as how many employees you had answered 307. Now, the Ministry either lied to the State Audit for doubting or lying to answer my parliamentary question. It's my job as well as any of us here in the Parliament to check whether the funds are being spent on purpose, whether decisions are being legally implemented, etc. The difference between 421 and 307 is over 100 people and somewhere the ministry wasn't telling the truth. It's impossible for us to have two different data on the same thing. Or, for example, for HNOS. I also asked the MP's question how much they spent money on the entire HNOS. They gave me the amount for 2005, 2006 and said in 2007 we were nothing. And look, the review found that in 2007, a million and 300 and a few thousand kunas were spent for commission members, implementation of 183 thousand kunas, etc. Then I ask you in which way we as advocates and most who refuse to do this sort of thing can fulfill what we all took an oath to do, and it is to respect the Constitution and the laws and control the executive power. And to conclude, all irregularities in this ministry have been repeated since the previous years. And I don't know what's worse, that the ministry won't change its way of working or that doesn't know it. It's both fatal because it breaks over the back of children and over the back of students. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-06-0.u27406	Thank you. And we have one correction by Mrs. Ivanka Roksandić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-06-0.u27407	Thank you. Mr. President. I will correct a statement from the very beginning of the presentation of my colleague Lugaric who said: "In the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports there is trouble, disorder, chaos, no one knows what they are doing or what they want.". I think that's incorrect. You know exactly who does what and what they want. Look at the phonogram and you'll see and hear you say it. However, we must be aware that this is a very complex ministry, and we have also made changes to the law conditional on some redistribution of funds within the education division. It was we who changed the law in 2007 and free textbooks and free transportation and accommodation and home fees that did so that there was probably a lack of funds on some items and there was redistribution. I'm sorry, I don't think that's a mistake.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-06-0.u27408	Thank you. We still have five minutes on behalf of the SDP club, Mrs. Dragica Zgrebec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-06-0.u27409	Thank you very much. Mr. President. Very short. For us, it is undeniable that the Office of State Audit has been doing quality work since the beginning of its work, that people have been able to do the same quality as adequate institutions in other countries of Europe, so in the same quality. However, what we consider to be lagging behind is the elimination of the causes that condition the recurrence of irregularities. That is why we think that it is necessary for the Parliament as a body established by the State Audit and to which it submits its report to carry out its legal duty, which is that we start from eliminating the causes, that it is done by representative bodies in local and regional self-government, or as an executive body that needs to form such a programme is the Government that should not achieve that function that the State Audit can't do because, by law or character, it can't do. It is therefore unquestionable for us to accept every year the report on the work of the State Audit and the report on the audits carried out, and this is what we do for 2008 and 2007 respectively. We believe that all reports, not only those who have received a negative opinion of the State Audit, should be delivered to the institutions of the criminal programme. However, for us, the most important conclusion is the third conclusion that we have proposed last year and this year, and it concerns the government's obligation that within the appropriate period, we have written 60 days, but we can agree on a deadline, deliver a programme for the long-term removal of irregularities repeated year after year in the findings of the State Audit, and that we can also, within one appropriate time-limit, discuss through the Office for the Management of State Assets, deliver the current list, which is incomplete property, which is owned and used by the State and reported by the Assembly, and that by the end of the year, bring the programme to completion of the entire list of assets. Of course, the fourth conclusion is that the State Attorney's Office should submit a report to the Croatian Assembly on what it did according to the State Audit findings. In other words, the Croatian Parliament must take responsibility for removing irregularities that appear in 14 State Audit reports. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-06-0.u27410	Thank you. And there are five minutes on behalf of the HDZ club Mrs. Nevenka Majdenic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-06-0.u27411	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Ms. State Auditor, Mr. Deputy, colleagues and colleagues. Here, as every year, the State Audit Office submitted to the Croatian Assembly an annual report on the audit carried out for the year ahead. We see that the report is quality to see the expertise, coverage and truthfulness of the report and, of course, that these data from the report gives us a basis for realistic consideration of the use, the effective use of budgetary resources and other public funds. We can freely say that the State Audit Office was really recognizable by independence, professional excellence, awareness, ethics, timeliness, reliability, responsibility. I would just refer to independence, given that here's the report and I think all MPs agree with the opinion and chief state auditor that the State Audit Office is independent. I am particularly pleased with the fact that we are now on a path to harmonising our legislation with European gains and that the working group is working to build independence in the Constitution of the State of Audit. According to what we have today, the opportunity to hear and see the State Audit is already independent, so now we just have to enter it into the Constitution. And the task force that I'm in here in, and I'm in, is looking for the best definition that this independence of the State Audit Office is said to be installed and incorporated into the Constitution. As far as the data is concerned, I would just look back, I would start with the opinion, the conclusion of the State Audit Office, which says the number of irregularities in the fall is particularly with the entities where the audit is carried out every year. Of course, that is the result of the continued work of the State Audit, of course it is the result and the advisory role played by the State Audit Office, because we need to know that irregularities don't always come on purpose, but sometimes really, especially when laws change and that, those who are working on it, that there are mistakes that nobody really wanted. Therefore, in addition to this role of the State Office for Auditing this conclusion, the State Audit that the number of irregularities is in decline. I would say that this is also the result of the internal audit system, so as a key factor in sound and effective financial management of public specific budgets, that the internal audit system should continue to be developed, and I certainly believe that the single system of the state treasury that is in our ministry, that is, our government is constantly supplementing and that, indeed, already quality, has contributed to this very fall of irregularities. Therefore, in the end, we can safely say that we can certainly be satisfied with the data on the report, that we should continue to work, but that financial discipline, accountability and legality in the management of budgetary resources is on the rise, and we propose that the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community be fully accepted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-06-0.u27412	Thank you. And finally Mrs. Šima Krasic is the head state auditor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-06-0.u27413	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen. Well, I must be pleased with your comments today, your suggestions and your support. We need support, because it's really one big job here that we try to do in the best way every year. Thanks to all today's proposals, by thinking here, we already have an idea of what we need to fix in the future, how to present, what data to you to be more comprehensive, to make a more realistic picture of public expenditure on spending funds. At the same time, I'd just like to answer some things so there's no confusion. There's been too little exposure that we're covering. We are not required every year, and we cannot, we are only budgets, funds, and that is already 140, 140 billion kuna, the rest according to our work programme, according to the possibilities, or according to the data we have if there are any irregularities. We covered 60 companies this year for 2007, which I think was enough. We are currently in HEP, in forests, with all forest administrations, in Croatian waters, in roads, covering areas so that we can record the situation complete for the area. Then, as a whole, we present to the Parliament. The same question is also asked when we will give data to mandatory pension funds. The State Audit Office is not in charge. HANFA is responsible for controlling these funds and I think HANFA delivers reports annually to this assembly and discusses them. Unfavourable opinions last year, seven have already been delivered to the State's Attorney's Office. As far as I know, some are already working. We have a person in charge of working with these institutions and I know that most of them are. means the institutions that do it. What will be the results we don't know. These institutions report to the Croatian Parliament, or some according to the government, depends on who they are. It's a matter of official secrecy, our data. Our... Standards say that all auditors must have the data they come up with in the audits are official secrets. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Until these reports are made, completed and sent to the Parliament. Why? Because an auditor can promote someone and harm others. So the auditors sign one statement that all the data that comes to them and so on will be kept as an official secret until then. Therefore, we have joined the international institution and we respect these standards and I think they are good. We haven't had any problems so far, because it would be also likely to sue auditors and our reports to do damage to some audit entities, namely their suppliers, customers and others. Those who repeat irregularities, the lady is,... that you should make some sort of list of all those, and put them on that, what to call a black list. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I don't think the audit can do that. That the revision really has the continuity of the findings, we follow what is not done, not from the previous audits, but from previous audits and we give it that way and we ask who will deal with the implementation of these findings. Well, I just heard earlier that it's known that it's representative bodies, locals and parliament, that they're still doing it. That's the way it is with us in law, and I think it's everywhere in the world. We have the experience of other audits. I have personally been in several parliaments, England, Austria, Italy for experience, to gain a little experience in which way and I think some parliamentary representatives here have visited committees in which way, I think we follow these experiences and that this is the most effective way to ask through representative bodies for the execution of this. I've opened up here, I don't think there are any more special answers, and we accept everything else, and I think we'll try and apply it in our work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-06-0.u27414	Thank you to the State Auditor, the Chief State Auditor. I'm closing the debate. Since time has passed, it would make no sense to move to the next point, so we will move to 15 hours with the follow-up session on the final draft law confirming the financing agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and so on, in turn. Thank you very much. I'd like everyone to have a treat or something, nice, good time, good day, good night. I'll see you at 3:00.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-06-0.u27415	We move to the 2008 report on the work of the State Audit Office: (a) 2008, (b) a report on the audit carried out for 2007 with habits 1, 2, 3 and 4. And a report on the audits carried out for the 2007 special part. The state office submitted this proposal for a report. The debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal of the parliamentary working bodies, I am voting on the following conclusions. 1. The 2008 State Audit Office's work report is hereby adopted. Please, let's get involved and vote. Score. The report was adopted unanimously with 114 votes. 1. A report on audits carried out for 2007 with attachments is hereby adopted. Please, let's get involved and vote. 2, "A report on the audits carried out for 2007 with habits is accepted." Please, let's get involved and vote. Score. And this report was accepted by most votes, 110 votes for and 2 abstentions. And 3, "A report on the audits carried out for 2007, a special part is accepted." Please, let's get involved and vote. Score. This proposal for a conclusion adopted unanimously by 112 votes. The SDP club proposed the following conclusions. This is the first one we've accepted, we don't need to vote. 2: "The reports of the State Audit Office shall be submitted to the competent authorities and institutions in order to determine any criminal or criminal offences." Or I'd better read all this first. 3, "The Government of the Republic of Croatia is obliged to, (a) submit within 60 days to the Croatian Parliament a programme for the long-term removal of irregularities that are repeated by established audits and (b) within 60 days through the Office for the Management of State Property, the current list of assets owned or used by the State and notified by the Croatian Parliament until the end to submit a full list." And 4, "It is up to the State Attorney's Office of the Republic of Croatia to submit a report to the Croatian Parliament within 90 days on the established criminal or criminal offences based on the State Audit report." Mr. Representative Andri Hebrang called.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-06-0.u27416	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Here's what we've drawn up with the SDP's Club of Representatives, so I'd read our conclusions, if they confirm it, and I'd ask that such a conclusion be put to the vote. So we agreed that the first two conclusions would be accepted in the proposed form, so that the third would be changed by saying: "It is up to the Government of the Republic of Croatia to report by 30 June 2009 the Croatian Parliament on what it has done to remove irregularities identified by the revision, which are repeated." In that form we agreed then. We would support that conclusion. ... The first and the second are accepted, the third is changed, and the fourth is left out. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Should I do it again?
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-06-0.u27417	Is there a b) in the third conclusion or just a)?
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-06-0.u27418	The third is uniting in one.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-06-0.u27419	And point 4 is left out.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-06-0.u27420	That's right.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-06-0.u27421	Is that all right? Then this amended proposal, which Mr. Andri Hebrang read, I put to the vote. Who's in? Thank you. Against? Abstained? There isn't. Unanimity. We also have a proposal for a conclusion submitted by representative Dragutin Lesar, which reads: 1, "The findings of the State Audit Office, which have been given an unfavourable opinion, will be delivered to the State Attorney's Office of the Republic of Croatia for further action." It has already been consummated and accepted, and has already already been reported by the State Auditor that this is the case. And we accepted. And 2, "The State Attorney's Office of the Republic of Croatia is tasked with delivering a report to the Croatian Assembly within 6 months on the infringements based on the State Audit Office Report." It's something similar that was subsequently agreed upon, so we voted on it, but here I am formally looking at this second conclusion of Mr. Lesar's vote. Who's in? Thank you. Against? Thank you. Restraint? What? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-06-0.u27422	As long as it counts, just one technical thing. I'd like to ask them to step up because unfortunately we can't hear you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-06-0.u27423	Then I'm either gonna have to shout harder or they're gonna turn it up.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-06-0.u27424	No, don't yell. We have a technique for that.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-06-0.u27425	Thank you. This second conclusion by Mr. Lesar was not accepted. 30 MPs voted against him, 90 against him. Thank you.
