ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-23-0.u33999	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. The Croatian Agency for Mail and Electronic Communications has acted and decided in accordance with the Law on Electronic Communications, the Law on Mail, the Strategic Plan and the 2008 Work Programme in Annex 1. I will give you in short address only the most important facts of the event and the achievements that marked last year in the markets of electronic communications and the market for postal and courier services. First, immovable nets. Stagnation of the number of users at 41%, share of new operators 22.35% per user, per income 17%, 269 thousand transferred numbers, number of original local loops for new operators 93 000, realised co-location of 441 co-locations from... for new operators. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] EU average prices. Second, mobile networks. Penetration 132%, we can say that the service is available to every citizen of the Republic of Croatia. A sharp market game, the market only regulates. Market operators' share 12% per number of users and 7.6% per income. 66,000 numbers transferred. Further drop in prices, but still above the European average. The Internet. 51% of citizens use the Internet. In line with the strategy and action plan of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the goal was not to reach 500 thousand broadband connections by the end of 2008. 525 thousand were realised in fixed nets and 158 thousand users in mobile networks, a total of 683,000 or 15.4%. As a result, the Government of the Republic of Croatia has built infrastructure and 16 thousand 500 users are involved in areas of special state care and mountainous areas. And under the E islet project, a built infrastructure is installed telecommunications video conference equipment in schools, bringing 14 regional schools on islands connected to their home schools to conduct remote teaching. Infrastructure. In February 2008, the agency issued binding conditions for the joint use of infrastructure. The Agency’s professional service is working with the area offices for spatial planning on the development of spatial information plans, education, participation in public debates, and all in order to encourage infrastructure building. In order to protect the environment, and in collaboration with the Ministry of Environmental Protection, Spatial Planning and Construction, we designed and typed common pillars for the reception of all operators in mobile networks. The Law on Electronic Communications introduces a new legal entity, an infrastructure operator and a legal institute of the right path, which does not resolve ownership relations, but determines how to use the built-in infrastructure. Fifth, user protection. In accordance with the Consumer Protection Act and the Law on Electronic Communications, the Agency established a special establishment unit for the protection of users and the safety of networks. A committee for the complaints of users with two members from the Consumer Protection Associations was established. The Commission shall be an advisory body to the board of the Agency, and the Council may make binding decisions in the event of a dispute between the operator and the service user. The Agency established a call centre for users to inform about the state of the case and to teach users about their rights. According to the number of addresses received and the number of complaints received, we can conclude that there is room for improvement in this area and that users have confidence in the agency. On its website, the Agency warns users of services on risk numbers so-called "dialers" and it points to the protection of children on the Internet. Sixth, the Law on Electronic Communications and Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Mail entered into force on 1 July of last year. The Post Office Council ceased its work, employees and regulatory work under the Law on Post Offices by the Croatian Post and Electronic Communications Agency. We estimate that in terms of liberalisation, the postal and courier services market is 5 to 6 years behind the electronic communications market. However, this is not only a Croatian speciality, but 11 members of the European Union also asked for a delay in full liberalisation, which means the allocation of exclusive rights to a public operator by 31.12.2012. Public operator Croatia's post office started the process of modernisation and restructuring, agreed to fire 718 workers with stimulating severances. The public operator has set a new mass rate and a new price for postal service up to 50 grams in the reserved area. The public operator did not perform the accounting separation of the universal postal service in the reserved area. The public operator did not develop a network access rule as requested by the regulatory authority, so giving consent to a general network access act is still in the process. In preparation for this session, I requested a report from the Croatian Post Office and received the following. The development of the elaborate is near-end and will be dedicated to the agency by the end of June 2009, thus achieving all preconditions for mailing to get a solution for providing reserved universal postal services. Secondly, it agreed to the rules on the access of a public operator network that will regulate the way of access to the Croatian Post Network for any universal service manufacturer who is authorised to provide those services and we expect that we will receive it next week on board and that the agency will be able to give consent. 7. switch from analogue to digital broadcast of television signal. In line with the government's strategy, agency experts co-ordinated frequency plans with neighbouring administrations and the dynamics of switching from analogue to analogue. We held a public tender for the authorisation of a network operator for two multiplexes at national level. Today the population is already covered 85% in the first multiplex and 60% in the second multiple at national level. In collaboration with the central state office, Croatia and the Ministry of the Sea, Transport and Infrastructure, a complete transition from analogue to digital broadcasting with the shut down of all analogue transmitters will be realised as planned by 31 December 2010 which will provide us with a digital dividend and an increase in the capacity and quality of the television signal. 8th radio frequency spectrum control. We carried out systematic and thorough measurements during the summer of 2008. In accordance with the International Telecommunications Union procedure, adverse disturbances are routinely removed following reports. However, this does not apply to the Italian administration. Of the 110 reported disturbances, only one was removed. Since we have exhausted all possibilities for removing harmful interference, we have informed the Secretary-General of the International Telecommunications Union, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and European Integration and the Croatian Parliament, the Committee on Information, Information and Media. The 9th public works. We created a new advanced web portal with user-oriented applications. E-appeals, portability of numbers, market reviews of prices, purchases, employment. Regular meetings and workshops are held with operators. Before the rules were made, 7 were made in 2008 or important decisions, we regularly held public debates for 30 days. Finally, I point out three assessments from relevant European institutions that confirm that this regulator has worked independently, competently and honestly in the past year. First, the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development published the results of the evaluation of the legal and regulatory aspects of electronic communications. The Republic of Croatia is classified in a group of countries that are fully satisfied. Secondly, the agency received 4 million and 200 thousand euros from the IPA pre-accession fund, which confirms that we are educated and organised to run projects according to European standards. The funds are intended to acquire measuring equipment for radio spectrum control. Third, following the visit and evaluation of the European Commission section in October of last year, Chapter 10. - The information society and the media are temporarily closed despite everything. Dear ladies and gentlemen, please accept the Annual Report of the Croatian Post and Electronic Communications Agency for 2008. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-23-0.u34000	Thank you. Does the government want a representative? No, I don't. Does the committee's rapporteurs want to take a word for it? On behalf of the Committee on Maritime Affairs, Transport and Communications, Mr. Representative of the Committee, Slavko Linic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-23-0.u34001	Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. The Committee on Maritime Affairs, Transport and Liaison of the Croatian Parliament at the 27th session discussed the annual report on the work of the Croatian Post and Electronic Communications Agency for the past year, submitted to the President of the Croatian Parliament by the Croatian Post and Electronic Communications Agency. The Committee discussed the report as a parent working body. The introduction was given by the President of the Council of the Croatian Post and Electronic Communications Agency, who said that the Agency's annual report contains data on the state of development of the market for electronic, communications networks and services and markets for postal and courier services, data on the achievement of the objectives and tasks identified by the Agency's annual work programme, and all other data relevant for the demonstration of the market for electronic communications networks and services, as well as the postal courier services markets in the Republic of Croatia. As well as a specially processed state and development of broadband access to the Internet. He pointed out that the Agency's work in 2008 was aimed at achieving established principles and objectives, regulation of the market with particular emphasis on promoting effective and sustainable competition and promoting market access to new operators and service providers, taking into account ensuring good quality of electronic communications services at an acceptable price and taking into account the high level of consumer protection. In particular, it is pointed out that the Agency has a problem in its work, and refers to double accounting since different ways of financing mail and electronic communications commits the Agency to running double accounting. The Government's representative delivered his opinion and pointed out that the report reflects the Agency's work and that the government is giving full support for the continued work of the Agency. It was assessed in the debate that the report is quality and clear that the performance of the Agency as well as the state of affairs in the field of electronic communications and mail. In particular, it points to a problem that should be dealt with in haste, which refers to HTV-A "Kunolovac" for children who participate in primary school. It is used in fighting 060 for which the price of services is not indicated, asking them for personal data, name, address, school they attend. The Committee considers that this is inadmissible and that the Agency should stop such emissions there. The opinion was also expressed that the surplus resources, i.e. the neutral resources, should also be directed towards areas of specific state concern and mountainous areas, and should also be directed to the islands. After the debate, the Committee on Maritime Affairs, Transport and Liaison of the Croatian Parliament unanimously decided to propose to the Croatian Parliament to reach a conclusion on the adoption of the Annual report on the work of the Post and Electronic Communications Agency for the past year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-23-0.u34002	Thank you. The president of the Committee on Presentations and Appeals, Igor Dragovan, scheduled a meeting of the committee for today at 14 o'clock at the "Josipa Jelačića" hall. The Centre. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the HDZ club, Mr. Zivko Nenadić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-23-0.u34003	Dear President, Secretary of State, President of the Council, colleagues and colleagues. The annual report on the work of the Croatian Post and Electronic Communications Agency for 2008 shows us the state of development of the electronic communications networks and services market and the postal and courier services markets. It is thus evident how the number of users of a network of immovable communications is stagnating, as is the case in the European Union. And it is also logical that, contrary to the fact that the number of users of public mobile networks has increased significantly during 2008 and that we are also somewhere at the average of the Member States of the European Union. This has also contributed to a reduction in the prices of the use of mobile networks and I would say this combination of lower prices of higher traffic shows that it can be made even more. The development of broadband and broadband internets has become the driver of overall economic growth in employment and competitiveness in the world. In this segment, we are lagging behind the EU average. One reason is the uneven spread of broadband access by counties through mobile networks and therefore the Government of the Republic of Croatia has become involved in promoting faster development. There is also a replacement of analogue television in digital television. So far, that coverage is somewhere on 85% of the population, but this is due to the coverage of large cities, so not 85% of the population, of course, the goal is to have the entire area and the entire population covered. When it comes to postal services, we see that the only universal postal service provider, Croatia, recorded an 8% decline in 2008 compared to 2007, while all other postal service providers increased their profits. The Agency’s task is to ensure a good quality of service at an acceptable price as well as a high level of consumer protection. This is done thanks to further liberalisation and good regulation of the electronic communications market, as well as with incentives in the field of special state care and mountainous areas for the possibility of broadband use of the Internet. Thanks to the agency's work since early 2008, there has been no problem with the joint use of a built sewerage of electronic communications known as DTK, although the ownership issue has not been resolved yet. The report shows that there are also a bit of worrying data when it comes to Croatian mail. We see that Croatia closed down 14 post offices with a tendency to close down in 2008 as a public operator. This is certainly not encouraging because the Croatian Post Office has a certain monopoly in order not to deny services but to provide all of Croatia's territory and I think that closure should be stopped. It is good that the Agency is more actively involved and needs more to be in the problem of providing value added services. That famous phone call 060 etc. He had already said I would have received certain worrying characters and with the elements of deception and deception that others were talking about. Certainly, it is a joy and encouragement for the agency to permanently perfect its employees because the technique is going at a terrible speed ahead and the person who predends the market regulates and adapts to this progress must constantly learn, must move forward with new knowledge and achievements. And we therefore welcome the postgraduate study of the regulation of the electronic communications market. It is clear from why in this negotiating chapter 10 we have no problems in negotiations with the European Union because we have long been ready for accession. Here, colleagues and colleagues, it is clear from everything that the agency has achieved its purpose, that it is doing well and that the HDZ Club will accept this report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-23-0.u34004	Thank you. On behalf of the SDP Club, Mr. Representative Arsen Bauk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-23-0.u34005	Mr. President, distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs, agency and ministry representatives. Let me first at the beginning at the request of my colleague Linic to correct it is not about the "Kunolovac" show, but about "Teacher", so that he talked about in the committee's report. So, the report in front of us points to a very bad situation in the Croatian Post Office, to an inadequately regulated market in the fixed phone network, to a significant increase in the number of users of broadband internet and to the large profits of mobile phone operators, which shows that there are places to reduce the prices of their services. The report points to an improvement in the state of the postal and electronic communications system compared to last year and will therefore support this report by the SDP club. The report points to a stable growth in revenues from electronic communications activities in the past year of 3.43%, with the largest increase in data transmission activity of as much as 19.88% resulting from the accelerated development of broadband internet access. In spite of lower prices, the increase in revenues in mobile networks is also 3%. We would like to take this opportunity and point to the poor state of the public operator Croatian Post. Croatia's post office recorded an 8% drop in revenue last year compared to the previous year while other postal service operators recorded revenue growth by 17%, while other postal and courier service providers increased their profits compared to 2007. The Croatian post office has achieved a loss. And while in 2007 other postal service providers achieved a profit of 52 million kuna last year and increased it to 99 million kuna, Croatia's post office earned out of a million 240 kuna last year in the last year achieved a loss of 241 million kuna. For a long time, the SDP has been familiar with the poor situation in this public operator and I want to introduce the representatives to some more facts. Unfortunately, the Croatian Government has long delayed the start of serious dealing with the future of the postal sector and the public operator, which is mainly seen in the absence of any development plans, in the fact that in the last six-year period from 2003 to 2008, six presidents of the Croatian Post Office and as many as 12 members of the Croatian Post Office, or in the fact that the plan of business of the public operator and the plan for investment in permanent assets for 2008 were not adopted until June 2008. During that period, a public operator sank into even bigger problems by trying to get away with selling assets and ownership on shares of other companies. It is particularly worrying, in particular in terms of reducing the room for manoeuvre in the most significant segment of preserving the continuity of carrying out activities, which is to negotiate new businesses. In addition to this, the decision of the Public Operator’s Administration, which seeks to drive away users, was taken in a way that discriminated against business partners in such a way that a commercial discount for the reception services of letter senders was lifted as from 1 September 2008, while state budget users were excluded from the same decision. Also since 1 January 2009, it has collected the price of a common letter by over 50%. Therefore, it could be said that this is the response of the public operator, the resolution ministry and the Government of the Republic of Croatia to the increasingly difficult economic crisis that has hit the Croatian economy and to the even greater standard of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. Currently, 16 legal persons providing postal and courier services are active in the postal service market in the Republic of Croatia. Croatian Post Office d.d. is a public operator and according to the Post Act has the right and obligation to provide universal postal services throughout the territory of the Republic of Croatia and the only one has the right to provide reserved universal services. Public operator Croatian Post Office is state-owned with nearly 1200 post offices and about 12,000 employees. It owns about 3,000 own motor vehicles, owns about 650 properties of a total area of 135 thousand square meters. In the Republic of Croatia, one post office operates on average on an average of 47 square metres for 3746 inhabitants. The public operator delivers more than 360 million services, making up about 89% of the total market. How difficult Croatia's public operator crisis is the best picture of the fact that in the past 4 years it has experienced an annual loss of basic activity of 80 to 140 million kuna in 2008 and an additional 100 million kuna. These losses are fictitiously analised by the proceeds of the sale of assets and accounting acrobatics with the provisions of the reservation of costs and risks of companies. As financial information in the business is very transparent, neither are publicly published under the Accounting Act, it should be taken with a large reserve. Non-transparent and public procurement, which is suggested by the State Commission for the Control of Public Procurement Procedures, has annulled more than 60% of the purchases due to the initiation of the appeal procedure, which places Croatian mail at the very top of the most common violations of the law. The current situation in Croatia as a result of many years of internal and external influences is burdened with cumulative losses, technological lagging as well as other difficulties related to the business of postal activity. It is clear that there was no will or courage for responsible institutions to first and foremost the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Resort Ministry to deal with all the problems that led to this. In such conditions, it can be said that it is high time to take systematic measures that will enable the sustainable development of the public operator Croatian Post Office and its viability for the increasingly demanding European and world market to be picturesque in the film "The Postman Rings Twice", and in Croatian Post Offices it rings for an alert. Today's difficult situation is the result of years of avoiding responsible institutions as well as its management facing a real situation and taking appropriate measures. It takes a complete restructuring of a public operator that has never been implemented, there has been a lack of modernisation of the technological process of work, no introduction of new services because if we exclude the service of the HP express that was introduced 6 years ago, everything else is negligible. Failure to adopt standards by the Croatian Bureau of Standards which would describe the quality of postal services. Non-compliance with the provisions of the Postal Act by the public operator and other market participants, postal services as a result of the lack of administrative capacity of the national postal regulator and the lack of specific regulatory knowledge and powers to introduce, implement the Law on Mail. In that sense, we must say that we see an improvement when this matter has moved from the Post Office Council to the Postage and Electronic Communications Agency. The daily stay should be mentioned, 25% of workers on sick leave and progressive increase in labour injuries. Internal organisational problems are present and it is also impossible to maintain the public operator's right to settle the costs and resources of the state budget and to redefine the pricing policy due to the fact that it has been unable to calculate for years the cost of providing a universal postal service due to the lack of separate accounting and separate allocation of costs. Moreover, the profitability of the provision of a particular service cannot be calculated. And now a few words about other aspects of the Agency's work on mail and electronic communications. Although the report mentions the effects of liberalisation on fixed networks, we believe that this is not done enough. The result is the lack of good legislation in this area, which we pointed out when the Telecommunications Act was passed last year, which went hand in hand to Croatian Telekom. This specifically refers to access to the Croatian Telecom network at wholesale level. We believe that the report has failed to establish that this is due to poor regulation and that the Agency must propose the adoption of a law on the use of DTK. To describe, in a mobile network where there are three operators, the share of HT on the market is 49% and in the fixed network where 15 operators participate is 78%. The report shows that last year was crucial in introducing a broadband internet, the number of users on the broadband internet increased by 35% last year. We see that the political game has started to run on the Internet, and we see that it is also, in a way, more transparent of our actions. The SDP club, despite seeing the possibility of further... will support the Report of the Agency for Mail and Electronic Communications... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-23-0.u34006	Thank you. On behalf of the HNS Club, Ms. Danica Hursa. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-23-0.u34007	I would like to thank Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Your Honor... State Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We received the Annual Report on the work of the Croatian Postage and Electronic Communications Agency containing data on the state of development of the electronic communications networks and services market, on the state of the postal and courier services market, on the implementation of the established principles and objectives of the regulation of the market for electronic communications networks and services, on the review of the postal and courier services market, and on the performance of the objectives and tasks set out in the annual work programme... I would refer to some areas of the report. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thus, the review of the development of the electronic communications market, i.e. in the area of public immovable network, a marked decline in the number of public and voice service subscribers resulting from the replacement of immovable communications by moving and switching to broadband access to the Internet. Thus, the number of users of public mobile networks increased significantly during 2008. The most important reasons for the increase are the reduction in the price of users, increased competition, especially through the operation of the third operator and the general trend of greater use of mobile network services. Compared to the number of mobile network users with the European Union countries in October 2008. Croatia is above the average of the European Union countries, showing that the market is highly developed and liberalised. The analysis further shows a continuous reduction in the prices of the use of services in mobile networks. The only objection is that prices for the use of mobile network services in Croatia are above the European average. As for the Internet, the total number of Internet users in Croatia shows a trend of rapid growth, faster than the number of users in the European Union is growing. However, when it comes to broadband access to the Internet, Croatia is not at the level of European Union countries. It is also necessary to highlight the uneven spread of broadband connections across certain counties, which is why the government should pay attention and invest financial resources to achieve equality among the counties in this regard. The process of digitisation and change from analogue to digital television in Croatia is ongoing. So far, coverage has been secured by a digital television signal of about 85% of the population. All major cities such as Zagreb, Split, Rijeka, Osijek, Zadar, Pula and Dubrovnik are covered. A logical follow-up would be to ensure coverage by digital signal for other areas in the Republic of Croatia such as smaller towns, coasts, islands, mountainous and mountainous areas. In the area of postal services there is still a monopoly of the sole provider of universal postal services, the "Croatian Post Office", which participates in total income with 64% and records an 8% drop in income compared to the previous year. Other postal and courier service providers participate in total income with 35% and record revenue growth by 17%. The HP who participates in expenditures with 70% increased its expenditure by approximately 6% and the other donors who participate in expenditures by 30% by approximately 12%. The result of such movements is that other service providers increased their profits in 2008 compared to 2007, while the HP also achieved losses, which was particularly evident due to the restructuring policy and the lay-offs and severances. In 2008, HACOM’s work focused primarily on promoting effective competition, as well as on promoting market access to new operators. In doing so, HACOM took particular care of ensuring good quality of services at an acceptable price and of a high level of consumer protection. At the end of 2007, HAKOM published a list of relevant markets and operators with a significant market power and started implementing the market analysis process in 2008 to determine the effectiveness of the competition and, depending on the results of the analysis, set new regulatory obligations for operators with a more significant market power, which are T-mobiles and VIPnet. The market for mobile communications in the Republic of Croatia in 2008 marked a rise in the density of users of numbers transferred, an increase in the coverage of GSM and UMT signals, an extended supply of services offered to end-users, a significantly lower price, a further development of personalised tariff packages and a further strengthening of the market share of the third network operator of mobile communications. In July 2008, the HACOM Council agreed on new, standard network access offers and interconnection between mobile operators with a more significant market power, and in December 2008 it began a new process of changing T-mobile and VIPnet standard offers with regard to call termination prices. The call termination price has been reduced by 14.5%. In 2008, HACOM continued to work intensively on planning and ensuring conditions for inclusion in the work of the future digital television network. I'd like to say something about the postal service market. During 2008, a public operator, HP, closed down 14 post offices and applied for consent at the closure of four other post offices. HACOM did not agree to the closure of these offices, but called on the public operator to review the closure decisions. During 2008, a public operator informed HACOM of the intention to temporarily close 8 post offices. On the basis of the above, two interlinked processes in the HP business are shown which need to be paid attention, which are losses in business and policy, restructuring and closure of postal offices. It requires insight into the reasons for the loss of business of the sole provider of universal postal services and the work to resolve them. It is also necessary to ask the question of justification for the closure of certain postal offices and the release of new notices. Last year, there was an increase in the number of complaints from users whose causes are lower than the operator's attitude towards users, better user information and increased confidence towards HACOM, which is certainly commendable and encouraging for consumer protection in the Republic of Croatia. It concerns: (a) objections to public communications services and (b) to the quality of public communications services. More than 70% of the objections were found to be related to the invoices and that the type of objection increased by 60% compared to the previous year. It is important to note that out of the total complaints to the account, even 60% make objections to the operator's value added service accounts. The individual analysis of the complaints received by the users found that these complaints are, in the highest percentage, related to prize games and services that are implemented by commercial TV companies in various interactive quiz shows. In order to ensure efficiency, HACOM has redefined the consumer protection policy by a regulation specifically regulating the provision of value-added services. A particularly positive and commendable shift in the speedy resolution of the complaint is the provision of a law under which HACOM has jurisdiction to resolve disputes between subscribers and public communications service operators and the right to make a binding decision, which was not the case before, which is now ensuring a high level of consumer protection. Using the law-enabled framework and space, HACOM has joined the redefinition of access policy and the consumer protection process. Special attention is paid to the rules of conduct of the operator, a value added service which is equally protected by users and professional value-added service providers. The rules of conduct introduce the obligation of a value-added service operator to make calls at the beginning of each call and, before the start of the service, to announce the price of the call and start the payment and to allow the termination of the call after the price announcement within at least two seconds without the payment of the call so that the user may give up the service in due time. The high importance of HACOM is to protect children from childcare services. To that end, HACOM has prescribed the following. Under a, public communications service operators are given the obligation to ensure the possibility of placing a ban on access to services whose content is not suitable for children, if technical opportunities exist for this. Under b, public communications service operators are obliged to offer to the user the income of contract conclusion and to provide a ban on access to the content of inappropriate children and under c, public telecommunications service operators are obliged to keep records of access numbers and addresses which are not intended for children and to update and exchange them with each other. Finally, HACOM is focused on achieving two programmes in its strategic and operational plan. The programme, which focuses on the development of the market, competition and regulatory frameworks and other programme that is focused on raising capacity and its own market regulation capacity. The Croatian People's Party's Representatives' Club will accept the 2008 HACOM Work Report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-23-0.u34008	Thank you. On behalf of the IDS Club, Mr. Representative Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-23-0.u34009	Dear Mr. President, State Secretary, Directors, or whatever it is called, the Croatian Agency for Mail and Electronic Communications, distinguished gentlemen of the Parliament. Here, reading this report, a man could learn something. For example. One of the formulations I memorized, he wrote it down, he took it out, it was recorded in several places. Smaller price, higher income. Sounds familiar, like all 10 or 12 kunas. But I would say that the essence of this story that the Croatian Post and Electronic Communications Agency is also dealing with today is our naivety. The two cardinal errors that the government or governments have made, let's go to the plural of all governments so far, was the sale of T-HT and the sale of banks. Take a look at the annual incomes of T-HT which is clearly dealt with by this agency. They made a profit of 2.3 billion kuna last year. It is cca 50% to get all Croatian banks together. All Croatian banks together, which we rightly refer to in 2008 made a profit of 4 billion 690 million kuna. It was 15.2% more than in 2007, and T-HT alone earns a 50% profit compared to these Croatian banks. Banks like I said rightly call. Why? Because while the banks of mothers in Italy, Germany, as I know, Austria is losing profits here in Croatia, we see that these banks or our banks' profits increase on average by 15.2%. So the net profit of Zagrebačka banka grew 25.7%, Privredni banka Zagreb 18.06%, Reifeisen banka 23.3%, Erste plus 31.6%, OTP plus 41%, etc., and watch now Unicredito, the owner of Zagrebačka banka achieved a minus 38% profit last year, Inteza minus 65%, the owner of the Privredna banka, Erste Banka had a profit of 860m euros, minus 26.8%, while Hypo recorded a loss of 500m euros, and the Landes Banka lost as much as 5 billion euros. Now we see the same thing in ours or theirs, anyway, T-HT. Deutsche Telecom earns a lower profit from year to year, but in Croatia by logic, this logic that you state, a lower price-higher income, their profit is increasing year after year. I repeat, T-HT earns a 50% profit for all Croatian banks. This morning I was pulling myself off the Internet, a calf, which is a giant T-Croatian telecom in the first 3 months of this year recorded a total growth in income of 1.7% compared to the same period last year. In particular, T-HT has received 2.06 billion kuna. So on the annual level, it's going to be about nine billion kuna. The net profit increased by 6.4% in the first three months compared to the same period last year, i.e. T-HT stored 583 million kuna in its cash register. Not bad, says this comment, for one of the worst crisis periods in the Republic of Croatia. And it's really not bad because at the end of the year, their profits will certainly be 2.5 billion kuna. And what it looks like in practice now, I'm going to read an article. It's their lower price, their higher traffic. Of service 981 will collect 100%, general information service or 981 will collect T-com from 15 July 100%. In his flyer, T-com informed them that he was changing the unit from one minute to 30 seconds. While the price of the call remains the same, clearly, 2.5 kuna without VAT or ultimately 3.05 kuna with VAT which angered some readers etc. And then he says in the end in this service of T-com they say, so as in most countries, they respond from HT that the price hasn't changed in years, while the various costs over the last 10 years have increased significantly and blah, blah, blah. They're clearly not going to say that they fired between two and three thousand workers and I'm not counting any further. I'm reading the text from "Evening List." Now, it's clear we'll be as a nation, as citizens of this country give up everything. Understandably, we're not giving up our cell phones, we're not giving up our cigarettes, we're not giving up our coffee. We don't need to, I don't see any reason why anyone should give up, but it seems like everything else in this country the average citizen has to give up every day. Finally, and it should be recognised according to this information on many things when it comes to the mobile network, Croatia is far above the European average. It's your cell phones, etc. However, the European trend is that the poorer the country, the more developed the mobile network. And here we are, when it comes to the mobile network, only Czechs, Estonians, Bulgarians, Portugal, Lithuania, well Luxemburg, they are the richest European state. Is that they have problems with their banks. And clearly Italy, which is hardly always said to be a European state. Everyone else in Europe is far behind us. The wide-ranging Internet 683,000 230 connections were in Croatia in 2008 unlike THT. We see what all my predecessors were talking about, the Croatian Post Office is not well written, so among other things on page 21, it says only a little, that according to the data provided from the unaudited financial reports, i.e. estimated data for the providers who, apart from the provision of postal and courier services and other services, total income obtained by active postal and courier service providers in 2008 was 2.4 billion kuna and are approximately at the same level as in 2007. But what's the problem? The problem is that Croatia's mail has been reduced by approximately 17%. So the mail to a state-owned company is falling revenue or at the same level as in 2007, but that's why our competition, our postal revenues, has increased by 17%. Nothing unusual when we know how to say that after the election, we share the leading place in some Croatian companies. Of course it's all going according to the political key. After that, no one is responsible for anything, everything works according to the principle of "keep water until the masters leave", the pay goes, the loss of the sea ultimately doesn't settle the state, but 4.5 million taxpayers, from that smallest child who needs to buy a spoon to the one we're going to bury tomorrow, the sickening I hear is 25%, but so clearly no longer goes. What I am more interested in than post office at the moment is the fate of the Croatian Post Bank. Either we do something or those banks are gone. More specifically, it will happen that the only remaining national bank, if we do not capitalise on it and then more foreigners on the domestic banking market will not be 90, but it will probably be 99 or 100%. We've sold everything, we'll sell the shipbuilding now. Okay. I even understand that it's going to privatise one "May 3", the Queen, Trogir, Brodoplita, but why sell a shipyard that doesn't cost the state a single kuna, I mean here on Oil. And I want it to be known that I'm against that privatisation. The government has also been clearly agreed by the "Olinikova" trade unions and management and employees and local self-government, I will be silent, but I would be happier if Croatia had at least one shipyard in its portfolio. But that's not the point. The topic according to this report is television, the topic is radio networks, topics and expenditures in HACOM is for this Croatian agency or our Croatian agency for mail and electronic communications. You in that agency have 143 employees. What are they doing? It would be good to hear okay. You pay $28.2 million. Now if we divide these 28.2 million kunas by 143 workers. That's 197,202 kuna per year gross. If we divide it by 12 it means gross one salary in this agency is 16 thousand 433 kuna. So the net salary is over ten thousand kuna. Not bad. 20.4 million kunas are material expenditures, 48.5 million kunas are financial expenditures, 131 thousand 585 kunas are some donations. Who? I don't know. And so on. But now what's also interesting to me. This is the data on page 61, where then the fees are spoken here to members in representative and executive bodies, commissions and similar 783 thousand kunas, expenses for some services 14, some million kunas, shipping services with you are 2.1 million kunas, rents, 5.8 million kunas, intellectual and personal services 3.1 million kunas, etc. Also in those expenditures your agency should speak. In one word, I personally believe that Croatia has too many such agencies. I'm not saying we don't need this agency, but I think it would be good if a few agencies joined one agency. We have too many lawyers, we have too many employees, we have too many ministers, we have too many state secretaries, we have too many municipalities, we have too many counties, and it would be enough that 120 as they were in 2000 to 2003, not 153, etc. What is also intriguing is why the number of employees in your agency increased by 19% in 2008. 19%. Or 23 new employees. Someone will say it's not much, but it's the new 19 new employees. On page 78, I quote "The revenues of the state budget consist of revenue from fees for the use of radio frequencies 95%. What is interesting about these fees were planned in 2008 with an amount of 232 million kuna, reached 292 million kuna plus 26% or plus 60 million kuna. You've had to take that money from someone, gentlemen, and I don't think anyone cares how hard it is to make money in this country, let alone save 10, 20, or 30,000 kuna at this point, let alone pay the economy for such figures and so on. All in all, as other clubs have supported clearly this report will be supported by IDS but I stress that T-HT has long privatised, that creams are collected by Germans and that on the other side of the Croatian Post Office are found for years in one serious crisis and from now on, and they are subject to this report, and Croatian Radio-Television if the loss in 2009 is planned with an amount of 140 million kuna. But while they support the government clearly do not need to worry, they will be protected as lyrical bears or wild boars on the cheek. All in all, this report is a useful report, I'm sure this agency is one of the privileged agencies, it needs a ok, but I think that here and the huge money is spinning, and it would be logical to make sure that the spending of that money is accounted for as open as it is for the Assembly speaker.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-23-0.u34010	Thank you. We're moving on to an individual debate. The first is Mr. Attorney Gordan Maras. ... Correction. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Okay. Before that, we have a correction to the incorrect assumption.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-23-0.u34011	Thank you very much. Just for the sake of discussion, the profit from T-com last year was not 2.3 billion but 2.9 billion, what goes even more in favour of your debate that it's huge money and that it amounts to a lot more sometimes when we talk about bank profits, etc. So 2.9 billion kuna.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-23-0.u34012	Thank you. Mr. Gordan Maras, individual debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-23-0.u34013	Thank you very much. Mr. President and Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Secretary of State, President of the Agency. A few sentences about this report. At the beginning to say that I'm going to support it, I think it's very high-quality that gives a very real picture of what's going on in this part of the economy, in this sector, and that can lead us to some conclusions. The first conclusion to me is the fact that it goes in one part of that market to further liberalisation and market development. Unfortunately, I believe that part of the immovable network does not go in this direction because, as we can compare reports from this and last year, there is no such progress. On the other hand, it is evident that the agency works better every year, develops, employs new people, professionals and does a good job, I would say good and systematic work that should be commended here. This market is very important for Croatian citizens, it is about the market size of 15 billion kuna in the area of communication and about 2.5 billion kuna in postal services, meaning around 17 and some billion kunas spent every year by Croatian citizens, businesses and economies, and normally deserves great attention and in some way our attention to see what is happening in this part. We must also point out that every Croatian family on average spends 500, 600 kuna on these services. It is about 10% of the average net salary and this amount is definitely not small and we and the agency have to work harder and harder to end up with our end-users and consumers of these services having a better, more affordable and cheaper service. And that's why I'm not satisfied with how stories develop in part of immovable networks and immovable telephony, and I have to say that the Electronic Communications Act has experienced a complete fiasco in that part of market liberalisation since last year. I'd like someone to correct me but my follow-up to this segment and the comparison at the end of the data from last year and this year because we passed that law about a year and a few days ago, shows that this part of the market is not liberalizing or developing. After all, the data from this report is telling. When we see that the dominant operator on that market has 77% share in the market, that other operators by the number of users have 22% on that market we'll say maybe ok just started to liberalise, these operators may over time take which user over but immediately the second table next to it speaks absolutely worrying data. Even 83% of the revenues are made by dominant operators, saying that the Law on Electronic Communications has led us to this extent in an absurd situation that sometimes alternative operators are more worth selling service to a dominant operator. So they're selling the service as a wholesale T-com and part of the income is doing T-com, not they're doing it so you can't see the real situation. We need to make the situation on the market more suitable for further liberalisation and therefore for cheaper services of Croatian citizens, because that is why the agency, and the laws exist because if two, three companies on the market are very likely to agree that these services are more expensive than they should and that Croatian citizens would pay more than they should. The Agency and the legislator must provide cheaper services to Croatian citizens than they are right now. The point is that we have proposed in the Club of Representatives of the SDP and we are proposing this opportunity, and we will talk about that this solution, which Mr Gacin said in his opening presentation, is not good in the Law on Electronic Communications. In most cases, it is a company that is dominant on the market. Not in the biggest but absolutely almost every case, it's a company that's dominant on the market. That's not good. There should be a company that will be unrelated to market operators, which will be independent, I would say but pairs of transmitters and connections when we talk about television. The company that will give and make the water available... all operators, no matter which one is closer and which one is more interestingly connected. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So there's a big space to take a step forward and we're not happy with the way the government helps the dominant operator stay a monopolist on the market. And that's how it is, and there's just that there's a simple way to get it down, to cut the price in fixed telephony, there's a space in profit, and there's absolutely something that my colleague Cain said about it, almost 3 billion kunas last year, it's absolutely big money. When you look at it, someone might say, perhaps our big company, or company, that's developed, might have a really good management, maybe they're making incomes that are also spending according to their ability to make such a big profit difference. But how can it be explained then that their owner Deute Telekom in Germany, last year, has 11 billion euros in income and 850m euros in pre-tax profits. So about a little less than 8% while on the other hand in Croatia the same company, the same standards, the same procedure, the same way of doing business have about 8.8 billion kunas of income, or 3 billion kunas of profits. So over 30% of the share is to get absolutely in the amount of income. The return on capital is approximately 23.24%. So which business can at this time in Croatia, apart from banks, of course, and telecommunications, which can pay that kind of money back. Not one. So there's space. If in Germany that profit is at 8%, why in Croatia it is over 33%. Because of this or the answer is very simple, because by adopting governments, the legislator benefits T-com from being in a more favourable position than other operators on the market, and we have to change that. I see my time is running out. I would like to say that I also support this part of the explanation and situation in the postal services market and it is truly one chaotic situation in the Croatian Post Offices where mails that generate revenue from a billion-and-a-half kuna achieve a negative result, i.e. a loss of 241 million kuna on the other hand, all other operators who share in income around 35% and 860 million kuna respectively earn a profit of 100 million kuna. So it's really one mastodont who hasn't adapted to the competition, which unfortunately reminds us of another major mastodont from that sector, the same in this area of traffic and connections. It is an HH which exclusively serves to entangle party friends and is by no means a company that can deal with problems on the market and deal with the challenges that the market presents before it. Therefore, here I finally support this report and I believe that the agency should be supported because there is a whole range of situations and a whole series of measures that we can still do in order for our citizens to have better quality, accessible and cheaper services. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-23-0.u34014	Thank you. One correction, Mr. Representative Frano Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-23-0.u34015	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So it's been wrong all along that the government of the Republic of Croatia has favored the biggest operator in order to remain a monopoliest. It's completely incorrect, that market is, and to you it's clear, completely open and the fact that there are a large number of those who participate in it talk enough for themselves. And from what the biggest firm has come from, the fact that it has remained really so strongly represented, that's another question. And it certainly stems from the fact that she used to be a monopoliest, but today she's certainly not anymore.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-23-0.u34016	Secretary of State Drazen Breglec.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-23-0.u34017	I would like to thank Mr. Vice President, the honourable ladies and gentlemen of Parliament. Allow just a few further clarifications regarding the ongoing debate on this report. On several occasions, it has been addressed that there is insufficiently good legislation which is due to some deviations, so there has also been an assessment that there is a monopolist on the market. On this subject, I am obliged to present the fact that the Law on Electronic Communications adopted last year was somewhat less than a year ago, both during its construction and after its adoption, the European Commission has experienced the best possible evaluations. That chapter number 10. Electronic media and, Electronic Communications and Media, I apologize, closed on 18 December, at the end of December of last year, as unfortunately the last closed chapter in negotiations with the European Union which best proves exactly netly, and this is that the legislation in the Republic of Croatia is not only appropriate but I can also say a model and fully consistent with the European acquis as such and in various regional forums has been presented as an example of well-organised legal and well-transmitted European legislation in national legislation. Of course, this report tells us that the application of these good legal solutions that we have received and we receive compliments and which is in line that this application is also, the figures say on an excellent path to finally achieve and in some area, here in the field of electronic communications, those European standards that we love to compare so much with. I don't want to talk about specific numbers because hundreds of pages of very exact data are enough to testify to that thesis on any case. However, I also have to say a few words related to so there is a thesis that there is a certain monopoliest which is not exactly of course, and even less accurate is that the government is helping that monopoliest. The government proposes laws, the Parliament adopts them, and the regulator through its mechanisms, and has very strong mechanisms, and the decisions or mechanisms apply to its individual regulatory decisions, by giving consent, to the suggestions of operators and other mechanisms that exist, so that it certainly cannot stand. The best way of making further progress in the area of fixed-net services is to strengthen competition. Sure that when you have a certain state and 100% of the users in one operator, when you have a monopoly, it was not easy anywhere, it is not easy to achieve effective market competition in Croatia either. However, some information in this report needs to be made available again and perhaps more carefully analyzed what has been said, and we will conclude that they are for example. prices at wholesale level in the Republic of Croatia, which is important, one of the most important entry costs, i.e. the most important prices for efficiency, let's say, conditionally alternative operators or new operators, that these prices in the Republic of Croatia are the lowest compared to all European Union countries. Page 14 reports, Croatia 7.21 euros, other countries significantly, significantly more. Therefore, there was a prerequisite for alternative operators to strengthen, to continue to increase the number of numbers transferred to their own networks, to further strengthen competition which, if sin has a large profit, then also here to change the situation, will reduce profits to a company or to the account of users to improve competition on the market. Also, so-called. RIO or standard offer for interconnection services a few months ago was reduced by the intervention of regulators by 14,29&a and 14 and a half percent, respectively, which is also a major contribution to strengthening business and improving business conditions for all but former monopolies, so for all other operators in the Republic of Croatia. As regards administrative capacities and related high pay debates in the Agency, they are determined to defend the right policy and the only possible policy, which is that wages in the regulator must be on average paid by industry. It's a rule not only here at this agency, it's a rule everywhere because otherwise you lose the battle with powerful payers, conditionally speaking, and those who can pay their employees more, because then of course they attract the best personnel, of course they are then in position and your best staff attract in their own ranks. And for that reason, wages in the regulator, in such a regulator that regulates the market of more than 15 billion kunas of electronic communications and around 2 billion kunas of the postal market must be at a sufficiently high level, at a sufficiently competitive level in the labour market to attract or retain those capable personnel who will be able to analyse individual decisions, which will be able to analyse the market, which will be able to prepare quality decisions for the Board of Regulators which will then be formally made by those decisions. In this regard, of course, it is also good that the agency increased the number of employees in the past year. It has raised its administrative capacities, both by volume, both by number of employees and by their capacity, and therefore by education and by all means to one enviable level and believe that, especially at regional conferences, the Croatian Agency for Electronic Communications and for mail and the state of electronic communications is a model for all countries in the region, and without any pretentiousness, I can say that it is better than in some European Union countries. Thank you for your attention. I hope I have been able to clarify and contribute to the quality of the debate on this report.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-23-0.u34018	Two corrections. First Mr. Representative Arsen Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-23-0.u34019	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I've got two corrections, too. So the first refers to the situation in law making and the commendation he received. So, when law was passed, all the alternative operators in the immovable network were against these provisions, and HT did not declare itself, guess why. Secondly, as far as the agency's action is concerned, it's not a problem at all at the agency because she can only do what the law allows her to do. Among the lines in this report are actually constant weightings of the agency and of the Croatian Telecom around all the prices you have said, which are eventually reduced by 14%. If the law had given the agency better negotiating positions, it might have been more than that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-23-0.u34020	Mr. Attorney Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-23-0.u34021	Thank you very much. I would correct the incorrect assumption that there is no monopoly on the market. One of the criteria is safe and market share. If the monopoly position isn't when someone has a 77% stake in a fixed network, then I don't know what criterion they'd still have to use to be a monopoliest. On the other hand, when we talk about the law, I am absolutely certain that this share would be much less if you hadn't passed the Law on Electronic Communications as you have brought that makes it impossible for small operators to be in a better position on the market. Everyone told you this, they even filed a constitutional suit to put the law out of effect and what the law had received and commendation from the European Commission does not mean that Europe has an example like Croatia, that all citizens of the Republic of Croatia were building the network, and eventually it is managed by one company that is no longer owned by Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-23-0.u34022	Mr. Representative Dragutin Lesar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-23-0.u34023	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues. In this report, one finding is repeated, now if I am not mistaken, for the third year and refers to fixed or fixed telephony. Mr Gaćina notes in his report that the development of fixed telephony in Croatia is in stagnation and as an excuse or something that should calm us down is the conclusion that it is so unfortunately also in the European Union. That's probably right. However, it would be good if a comparison of Croatia and the member states of the European Union was then made, let's say, in the coverage of the mobile phone signal. Or even better, the coverage of Croatia and Europe by broadband. The Croatian map of broadband coverage is more gray than red because on the cards you made a bright red color is where both the number of users and the number of options is far higher. And normally, when most of the territory of a country is covered by a mobile and broadband signal that it is then the consequence of stagnation of the development of fixed telephony, it is not the same as in Croatia, but it is a thing of the past and we know why it happened because those who got fixed telephony built by citizens of this country, by the way in Europe, I'm sure no one had to pay 2000 German marks to get the phone, as people in Croatia paid in due time. But we gave it or sold it to the Germans. There's a dilemma about whether the government favors someone or whether an operator has an advantage. I will believe that there is no monopoly and that the state, or government, does not favor anyone. If someone shows me a public tender in which the state has called and collected fixed mobile phone offers used by all state services, the ministries and this agency, and whose internet services are being used by state services. So, where and when the competition was announced, and whether the state of Croatia has all the state authorities come to the users of fixed, mobile and internet services through a public tender, or whether they all have one and the same operator. And now the most important thing. Page 86, user protection. To understand what I want to say to you, I'm going to quote two or three sentences in the report. It is noted that more than 70% of the objections refer to the invoices and that this type of objection is growing by 65% compared to the previous year and requires a special analysis. Of the total complaints to the account, as many as 60% make objections to the account of the value added service operator. The number of users objecting to these services' accounts increased by 226% last year. While this increase compared to 2006 is up to 7660%, I repeat 7660%. This increase points to an increasingly aggressive and less professional market performance of service operators with additional value. I want to believe by 2006 you didn't have one objection so that now 7660 new complaints caused a percentage of 7660. And it's a good thing you put that in the report. I'd be even more pleased if you'd given how many complaints you've solved successfully in favour of the service user. Which service providers are operators with added value where the maximum number of complaints is? What sanctions have been imposed or applied for this objection? I will, on one example, illustrate to you Mr Gaćina the position of consumer service users and probably this subject is one of these 7660% increases compared to 2006. HT, wireless internet, the user made a contract with HT, got a stick, executed, made settings and established that in that part of the City of Zagreb where she lives there is no signal. It doesn't work. Hello, customer service, setting check, all right. Maybe your stick broke they said. Then the stick took to the service, the technical service of the users. They said everything's right. Then she contacted a council or some complaint body in that HT that said it was writing nonsense, that there was a signal and that she could use it, but surely the computer, in the settings something was wrong. Then, with the management of the customer service, the control of the settings and configurations was carried out, everything was fine. Then she came back to you and you asked HT for a report on the case, they wrote that everything was fine, and the party only wanted one thing, to break the contract. That she paid for a few months, let her go to hell and the money and everything, but to break the contract because you know she's being blackmailed into making a contract for at least a year. They wouldn't let the contract end and she asked for your help to break the contract. No compensation, no damages, not that, or to get a favor. You requested a report from them, they wrote you that it was nonsense and you no longer responded and the subject you put on an ad act. However, the user was persistent and difficult and managed to get to the point that the service of the service provider sent to the field a technical team that found that there was no signal in that part of the City of Zagreb. They don't have a signal. Afterwards, the Commission requested the termination of the contract. Now, listen carefully, she's got the next answer. The fact that T-com or HT in that part of Zagreb has no signal and the fact that you do not receive the service we promised you, is not a valid reason for the termination of the contract and we will not grant you the termination of the contract because you signed the clause in the contract that we are not always obliged to provide the signal anywhere. Always everywhere. So, they told her the following thing, that you don't have our service is one thing, but you signed a contract for a year and you have to pay it, but we admit we didn't give you that service. As proof of this, the printout of the account for 6 months, traffic 0 because the service could not be used. So neither the account print documents using the signal services the user had was sufficient evidence to grant it only one thing, the termination of the contract. You tolerate contractual slavery of Croatian consumers, Internet service providers or with added value as you call it. If you didn't know that by now, here I am now telling you. They put them in contractual slavery, they don't allow a contract to be terminated. If they turn to the court and ask for the court's annulment of the contract, it'll be five years. You know that well. Therefore, in the future, give the number to the service provider the number of complaints solved and tell us how you solve all these more frequent complaints. Are these falsely incorrect or justifiable complaints from the consumer? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-23-0.u34024	Thank you. Replica. Mr. Representative Davor Bernardic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-23-0.u34025	Thank you, Your Honor, Vice President of the Parliament. Dear Representative Lesar, you have well noticed when we talk about consumer protection what is happening and it would be interesting to hear from the agencies that are offering things. things are done to protect consumers. I must point out that it is precisely with consumer protection that the European Union is fighting hard in accordance with all the instruments it has. What the countries of the European Union would want, and the fact is that if the European Union wants to become the most competitive society in the world, then communication within the European Union itself must become the cheapest, i.e. as little as possible to pay, and prices of roaming within the euro area itself and within the European Union itself are disastrously expensive. And that is one of the conclusions with which the European Union is also trying to regulate that market for telecommunications services. However, you have well pointed out another information, which is related to the Consumer Protection Act, i.e. consumer protection. All numbers show that the rise in revenues in mobile networks in the last year was 3% despite lower prices. So, there's room for an increase in income. Now I'm going to give you an example. You mentioned contractual slavery, how it could be earned at lower prices. Zero kuna to mobile networks inside the network. But no one told you that your network would crack three or four times. So the conversation, which normally costs, which should otherwise cost 25 lip minutes of conversation, you paid one kuna. And it's a place to fill the incomes of individual mobile operators. So we'd like to know what the agency is doing in the area?
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-23-0.u34026	Replicate response, Mr. Representative Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-23-0.u34027	You've noticed your colleague's re-... user rights also have direct links to that Consumer Protection Act. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But if the agency as a Parliament warns us of the fact that service providers are increasingly aggressive and are becoming less professional in the service market, and Mr. Secretary of State claims that the laws that Croatia has received have all been praised in Europe, then I don't know what the problem is. The laws are very high-quality, the agency is staff training and soundly paid, and these are increasingly more aggressive and less professional because consumers are difficult to protect. Perhaps one of the medicines would be that instead of using the general names and nouns, Mr Gachina next year, but indeed for all service providers he named operators who are becoming less professional and more aggressive. Let's see who is unprofessional in Croatia, so it may affect that citizens will not decide to use their services, taught by the experiences of others, because they are now in a position to use their own personal negative experiences despite the best laws that even Europe has praised.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-23-0.u34028	Thank you. Mr. Representative Arsen Bauk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-23-0.u34029	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. In 1997, Kevin Costner made a film called "Poster" that talked about restoring the post office of post-apocalyptus America from 2013 so he wrote the script. And it wasn't by chance that the state started to renovate its script by restoring the post office. Today we are in a situation where we have the closure of postal offices, that we have a bad situation in Croatia post office, and I have to mention one example that happens on the island of Brač that the letter travels today from another place, that is to say that it happens only on Fridays the postman carries letters. So it seems to me that we're going back to those diliances, or people are going to get together, so the letter is being sent on the bus, and then someone's waiting elsewhere. Turns out the letter before it comes from London than from Supeter how it can happen. Why are we paying more expensive letters? Why does the post office have a monopoly on those reserved services, so letters seem to me to be up to 100 grams? In order to maintain the same quality and accessible postal system in the entire territory of the Republic of Croatia, and also in those areas where it is not paid to private or private-owned companies, this is the task of the State. So we're all fighting some kind of personal war with telecommunications service operators. In consumer protection programmes, the largest number of cases occur precisely from these telecommunications services. I don't think there's any of us at least once when he got the phone bill he didn't think was damaged, stolen or I don't know or at best there was a mistake. And it turns out that what my colleague Lesar is saying is it's easier to get out of North Korea than out of contractual relations with some of the Croatian telecommunications operators. In some ways, as far as the broadband Internet is concerned, although it is, and I am pleased that it is expanding that it is 35%, that a large number of people who received a broadband internet last year are likely to continue this year, and that in fact the broadband Internet will be a symbol of something that was once water and electricity, even I think that some households will get a broadband internet before it gets water, but that is good, however, the difference is in infrastructure, so maybe it's understandable. Of course, the more the Internet spreads, the more political struggles will be fought on the Internet. Of course, it is no wonder that the spread of the Internet also increases support to the SDP, since the Internet is the most transparent medium. As far as our problems with the Internet are concerned, I wanted to point out a problem that is being solved. So in Split, Brač last year, one user who wanted a broadband internet had to look for ten more people who wanted to, so they collected one team to do it. I am glad that this is no longer the case, that this service has been repaired and, of course, it is certainly better than last year and therefore commendation to the agency. And I hope that these remarks that we fellow SDP representatives have will affect this report for next year will be even better and the situation will be even better.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-23-0.u34030	Buddy, the light's on, but the time's not up. There's been one mistake, worse still. You still have four and a half minutes.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-23-0.u34031	I'm done, let it burn red, no problem.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-23-0.u34032	Okay. Replica Mr. Representative Davor Bernardić.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-23-0.u34033	Dear Representative Bauk, you have well noticed that in certain branches the postal services of the Croatian Post Office have a monopoly. However, what needs to be taken care of is the collection and the recent collection of precisely all postal services, and in this respect the business result of the Croatian Post Offices that have been dealing with the loss of 250 million kuna. It's what you see, it's a loss without creative accounting, without hiding certain problems you probably still have. And then what happens. Prices must be raised for Croatian citizens because there is no competition in that part, the post office is business with loss and is in a difficult state and not only the post office but also many other Croatian companies such as the Croatian Railways, which Mr Maras mentioned in his discussion. And we come to the conclusion that we will have to think about what is a national value, which is a state silver let's say so, let's think about selling it for a kuna like the Croatian Post Office or the Croatian Railways. So how is it possible that in one of the Croatian railways that generates loss, which do not operate with loss, those with a loss of living exist over 400 management contracts and everything at the expense of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. That's inadmissible, that's what we're talking about. There is no real reorganisation, it is not a real reorganisation, it is not a competition of Croatia's mail, the Croatian Railways, public enterprises at least a good part of them are in debt, and it is something that generates problems and indifference of the economy, the state, everyone and ultimately citizens through increased prices of services.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-23-0.u34034	Answer to the replica Mr. Representative Arsen Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-23-0.u34035	Well, all that, Mr. Bernardic, is ultimately paid by the citizens. He told his colleague Cain that the loss would be rescheduled anyway by the owner and that's the state. And it is no wonder, because the data tells us that 100 new people are employed in the Croatian Post Office in six years and that is a 50% increase and the fact is that wages in Croatia are, say, 72% of total expenditure. And it is also a fact that we pay some other services somewhat more expensive precisely because of some legal solutions, and there is no need to abolize any government, each government and every administration had such a position that in negotiations something had to win for the state and that it had to give in to something else for the one with whom negotiations. It is no secret that during the privatisation of HT they have received a monopoly in fixed telephony up to some year, but it is also no secret that what Europe praises for this law can also be a matter of lobbying the owners of Croatian Telekom, so Deutsche Telekom, because of course Germany is influential articles and in any case it can commend such legal solutions if they contribute to it. Therefore, unfortunately nothing is accidental, nothing is secret, and ultimately more is paid by Croatian citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-23-0.u34036	Thank you. I'm closing the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-23-0.u34037	We move to the Annual Report on the work of the Croatian Post and Electronic Communications Agency for 2008, the applicant of the Croatian Post and Electronic Communications Agency. The debate is closed. In line with the proposal from the parliamentary working bodies, I am voting on the following conclusion: "The Annual report on the work of the Croatian Post and Electronic Communications Agency for 2008. a year." Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? This report was accepted by the majority of votes with 95 votes in favour, 3 abstentions and 2 against.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-23-0.u34038	We're moving on to the next point. - Proposal for a law on storage and storage of cereals and industrial plants, with a final bill, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 361 The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You received the proposal by mail. We agreed to discuss this legislative proposal in an emergency procedure. Amendments may be submitted until the end of the debate carried out by the Committee on Law and by the Committee on Agriculture, Fisheries and Rural Development. You received the reports at the session. The amendments were submitted by the Legislative Committee and by Ms. Dragica Zgrebec. State Secretary at the Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries and Rural Development Krešimir Kuterovac will further explain the proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-23-0.u34039	Dear Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament. We propose the adoption of the Law on Storage and Storage of Cereals and Industrial Plants. The adoption of this law creates a framework for a full concept that will allow all participants in the storage of cereals, industrial plants and products to access credits for financing with the warehouse as a guarantee document. The law presupposes the adoption of a security fund regulation, the accompanying sublaws in this area that will regulate the storage authorisation process and the introduction of a warehouse as a property guarantee document. The adoption of this law will achieve several objectives. It is primarily the introduction, use and lending on the basis of stocks and the increase in liquidity in agriculture as solutions for short-term financing of stocks of producers, processors for the use of cereals and industrial plants and as collaterals, and the choice of the most favourable moment of sale of cereals, industrial plants and products, as well as the simplification of the transfer of ownership over goods. The additional objective is to reduce to the minimum possible risk of the transport of agricultural goods by excluding from non-solidated companies. It also wants to show the ability and preparedness of operations at the level of successful companies in cereals quality standards. Business relations, the authorisation of warehousekeepers and goods owners shall be regulated by mutual contracts. In addition to the basic conditions, the warehouse must have a good business reputation, must not be involved in illegal activities, must meet technical standards and provide evidence of stable financial operations. In the event that the authorised warehouse does not deliver the goods or equivalent in cash within three days, there is a security fund from which warehouse holders will settle the value of the goods within a few days. The Security Fund shall be managed by the Ministry which directly oversees implementation in this concept and authorised warehouses shall deposit and irrevocably guarantee as a system security collateral, through this guarantee fund, the funds it has paid off. The application of the system as proposed by the law requires the existence of a number of licensed warehouse companies and the ultimate objective of the law is that all warehouses, interested warehouses... and other agricultural products shall be authorised in accordance with the provisions of this Act and the implementing rules accompanying them. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Getting the authorisation to store a new responsibility for continuous good business and to provide good and technical and financial services to storage users, which will create trust between manufacturers, warehouses and banks and their stored cereals in each, in the appropriate quantity and at any time will be available for collection. This is what warehouses become depositaries, commodity values in the same way as banks, cash-value depositaries. For the first phase of the implementation of this law, 15 million must be provided in the state budget for the security fund. The establishment of the implementation of this law will take place within the framework of the budget work of the Ministry of Agriculture for 2009. It is estimated that, for the efficient operation of the department, these jobs should be redistributed to the department for, within, the Ministry of Agriculture and in the second phase of the implementation of the system, funds for its equipment and, for, and for, the funds for the security fund are needed. These funds will be foreseen in the 2010 state budget. The adoption of this law is proposed by an emergency procedure. And for the reason that there is an agreement with the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, which will finance one part of the establishment of this system of HRK 350 million and whose resources will be made available to banks for the establishment of the storage system. It should also be said that this law, for which we are making it, at this time it was necessary to comply with the Law on Market Rows, which is also passed and this law is in the very high interest of the European Commission, so the consultations we had over the past time were the reason why, since the last proposal of this law to date, it has been so long. From the previous debate, we have observed a very large number of amendments and we believe that this document is one good basis for establishing a storage and storage system and that it will greatly contribute to the development of our agricultural production and allow our farmers to choose the moment of selling their goods through the warehouse system and to give us through this system and a certain part of the financial resources needed to activate through the means of stocking these goods. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-23-0.u34040	Thank you. The Legislative Committee? The Committee on Agriculture, Fisheries and Rural Development? The chairman of the board, Madam Representative Dragica Zgrebec, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-23-0.u34041	Dear Vice President, Secretary of State with associates, colleagues and colleagues. The Committee on Agriculture, Fisheries and Rural Development discussed the Proposal for a Law on the Storage and Storage of Cereals, industrial plants with the Final Proposal of the Law as a home working body. The debate expressed concern that, in the assessment of the situation of the proposal, there has been a trend in reducing total agricultural production in Croatia for a long time. The idea for the introduction and application of the credit system with the warehouse as a guarantee document in Croatia was presented in 2001. That is why complaints were raised about the delay, which took a long time, because it takes a long time for the system to function. In view of this situation, the complaint was raised that the almost identical proposal of the HSS and HDZ Clubs was discussed as early as 2008 and the government which supported this law in the first reading came out only after a year with the Final Bill. The opinion is also given that this legislative proposal is better, since it clearly defines the establishment of a security fund as well as the height and method of calculating mandatory payments, management and use of funds. It has been pointed out that until now there has been the possibility of applying a storage contract governed by the Law on Mandatory Relations and the use of its own time from the primary emission to the warehouse as a guarantee document. It is also suspected that this law will increase the willingness of banks to place financial resources. The importance of inspection by the Ministry of Control of the implementation of this law has been indicated. As a limiting factor and storage capacity, it would be good to legally determine the gauges of storage costs, there is a difference between e.g. The floor and... storage that reflects the quality of the storage and the level of the kala in the storage at the time of exit, entry and manipulation. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It would be good in law to oblige warehouses to publicly publish the price of storage services. In Article 4, point 3 of the authorisation decision is issued for a period of one year, it is estimated that that period should be longer since certain cereals may be kept in storage for several years. It is also pointed out that it is necessary to clarify the definition of Article 15. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The proposer's representative expressed his consent and willingness to consider the opinions presented and possibly react to the text of the law. After the discussion, the Committee unanimously decided to propose to the Croatian Parliament to adopt a law on storage and storage of cereals and industrial plants. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-23-0.u34042	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. The HDZ representative club, Mr. Representative Kreso Filipovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-23-0.u34043	Dear Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Secretary of State, representatives of the ministry, colleagues and fellow MPs. Here today we are finally discussing the final draft law on the storage and storage of cereals and industrial plants which, with the remaining legal infrastructure related to the agricultural sector, should contribute to strengthening the competitiveness and better market position of our agricultural producers in the future. Why do we mention the word at last? So precisely because the idea of introducing and applying the warehouse system as a property guarantee document, therefore, a system that should be based on a specific so-called so-called “supervisory” system. A speciality to the law is almost a decade old, and for the reason that several attempts to implement this system have been unfortunately unsuccessful in the past. I've personally witnessed two attempts. The basic reasons for the failure are found in an insufficiently designed and insufficiently transparent way of defining individual components of the system that should be motivated and contribute to the trust of all its participants and thus guarantee the success of the entire storage system in the Republic of Croatia. It should also be said that, in accordance with the Law on Mandatory Relations, the storage system in the Republic of Croatia could have been used so far. However, as regulated by that law, this system is not sufficiently elaborated and does not contain all the necessary elements for its successful and secure functioning, which ultimately allowed a number of embezzlements and, in practice, because of the complete mistrust in the system by its potential participants, resulted in the absence of expected and necessary effects for Croatian agricultural producers. Due to the above mentioned club of representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community, it supports the adoption of the Law on Storage and Storage of Cereals and Industrial Plants, which will in a completely new way regulate the warehouse system, respecting all the necessary elements for its successful and secure functioning in the time ahead. It should be stressed that agriculture represents an extremely significant branch of the total Croatian economy, which participates in the gross domestic product of the Republic of Croatia with about 10%. In this respect, we must not ignore other economic activities that directly rely on agriculture and thus make agriculture more important. An important segment of the total agricultural production is the primary agricultural production, i.e. the production of cereals and industrial plants under which, in accordance with Article 2 of the proposed law, wheat, wheat, barley, corn, soybeans, sunflower, rape oil and sugar beettails, and their products such as flour, crumbs, malt, sugar, juice, cakes and turnips. It is known that, above all, wartime production, despite the orientation of significant market-price policy measures aimed at raising the competitiveness and profitability of the entire agrarian, there is a chronic lack of craft to finance production. The reasons are insufficient interest of credit institutions due to the lack of quality and acceptable security mechanisms for the collection of their claims. Furthermore, for the aforementioned reason, farmers are often forced to place their products on the market at a time when the conditions for them are most unfavourable. Therefore, we from the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community believe that the introduction and use of the sweetener system provided for by this law with the implementation of existing measures, the systematic measures of agricultural policy will contribute to liquidity in the cereals and industrial plants market, to reducing the pressure on the state as a buyer of agricultural products, and to creating conditions in which natural partners, therefore, traders, processors and producers will have to negotiate with each other. This should be added to add that the issue will be financed by banks that will be more willing to place funds to farmers because of the introduction of the warehouse as a guarantee document or a quality instrument for ensuring the return of their placements. Therefore, the Law on the Storage and Storage of Cereals and Industrial Plants is targeted towards establishing a strong relationship between system actors, i.e. agricultural producers, processor warehouses, financial institutions and the competent ministry. Furthermore, the law defines all components necessary for the successful and quality functioning of systems such as warehouses, authorized warehouses, security funds and registers of authorised warehouses that I have to say something about. The Cereals and Industrial Plants Storage under Article 10 of the Law shall constitute the ownership and guarantee document issued by the warehouse, which shall demonstrate the ownership and existence of deposits on cereals or industrial plants and the obligation of the storekeeper to deliver the goods to the owner. It is important to stress that the warehouse can only be issued by an authorised warehouse which also guarantees the quality and quantity of goods indicated in the warehouse. The proposal for a law on storage and storage of cereals and industrial plants, unlike the provisions of the Law on Mandatory Relations, assumes the warehouse as a single document, so the document consisting of one part, which facilitates the transfer of ownership of goods and increases the safety of creditors who, by possessing only one document, have the possibility of coming into possession of goods. Therefore, the warehouse represents a portable document and for this reason can be subject to trade and can be used as a stock, i.e. it enables the implementation of the short-term lending mechanism by using the goods as collateral. Authorised warehouses are another important component necessary for the successful functioning of the law of the envisaged system, since the establishment of a number of licensed warehouse companies that will be able to bear the responsibility of good business and to provide quality services to the warehouse user will raise the mutual trust of all system participants in the quantitative and qualitative situation of stored goods. Therefore, legal and natural persons established in the Republic of Croatia who are engaged in the activities of the storage, processing and storage of cereals and industrial plants and their products, and in order to obtain the status of authorised warehouse and the possibility of issuing a warehouse under this law, will have to pass the licensing procedure to prove that they have a good business reputation, stable financial business and appropriate technical standards for carrying out those activities. It should also be pointed out that the final objective of the draft law is to interest as many warehouses as possible to integrate into the system of authorised warehouses. Security Fund, whose establishment is provided for in Article 17. The law on storage and storage of cereals and industrial plants certainly constitutes an extremely important component for the successful and secure functioning of the whole system. Namely, the basic purpose of the security fund established by its regulation by the Government of the Republic of Croatia is to protect the material interests of the participant of the warehouse system in the event that the authorised warehouse is not in a position to carry out its obligations to the owner of the warehouse, i.e. the trustee on the basis of the right of publishing. Therefore, in these cases the payment will be made from the funds of the security fund. This fact significantly raises the level of conductivity, but also predictability of the functioning of the proposed system, thereby contributing to the creation of the interest of bankers for participation in the system and their recognition of the warehouse as a quality guarantee document. Finally, we feel it is important to stress that the bill provides for the establishment of a register of authorised warehousers to be held at the Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries and Rural Development and through the Ministry's website will be made available to the public. The Ministry shall also represent a central institution responsible for the exercise of the authorisation procedure for the supervision of the legality of the handling of authorised warehouses and for the keeping of a register of authorised warehouses. For the sake of all the above, but primarily for the sake of believing that the establishment of a storage system in the Republic of Croatia will contribute to increasing the liquidity of Croatian agriculture, creating the option of selecting the most favourable moment of sale of its goods, and simplifying the process of transfer of ownership over stored goods, the Croatian Democratic Community Representatives Club will therefore support the adoption of the Law on the Storage and Storage of Cereals and Industrial Plants. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-23-0.u34044	Thank you. IDS representative club, Mr. Representative Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-23-0.u34045	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Secretary of State, Your Honor, Mr. Representatives. Yes, we have before us this law on storage and storage, and then the principle would look like this. I've got wheat, I've got corn, I've got barley, all this stuff that's prescribed in this article, I'm going with that wheat, the licensed warehouse corn. This guy's giving me a warehouse, and I'm clear with it, so I'm gonna go look for money at the bank. That still doesn't mean the bank will give me the money, it can give, it doesn't have to. Which will be the terms of the bank, that determines the bank itself clearly. But what's good and what needs to be underlined, that wheat can be a supply for a potential loan. It doesn't have to be a house anymore, it doesn't have to be a country anymore, now it can be wheat, corn, clearly, if the bank agrees and I can't repay the loan, then I either demonstrate in Vukovar or I give up or I lose my wheat. If I can repay the loan, then what can I do with the warehouse? Then I can play the stockbroker and sell the wheat when it suits me the most. Now, is this exactly how it's going to work in the Republic of Croatia? Maybe they will. When's that gonna work? I'm sure one day. Banks are still provided today on the principle of 1 kuna, 2, 3 and more kunas in real estate, and in wheat it may be different because this year the state de facto does not know where, with some, what, 300, 400 thousand tonnes of last year's crop paid for 1.5 kuna per kilogram. Before we define that warehouse, I'd like to know if the government agrees to a promise on behalf of the Prime Minister, probably given by the Deputy Prime Minister or Deputy Prime Minister to buy wheat from the peasants, I don't know, for 1.25 kuna, 1.20 kuna and a liter of milk 2.2 kuna. We see that in the aid law that will come on the agenda, in 2010, support for a whole series of cultures, I suppose, and milk, I don't have a law here in front of me, de facto decreases up to 50 percent. Now what's smarter? To fight this year's crop will be paid 1.2, 1.25 kuna per kilogram or, freely, you can say as much as 40 or 50 lips above the stock price, or the price of wheat next year will be at least at the stock price level because without or with 50% reduced incentives it will not be possible to achieve it. Either way, let the farmers make sure that they are not once again translated by the thirsty across the water. And the truth is, living at 2, 3 acres, I don't know under wheat, corn, that's more impossible. There's no such thing in the world. Maybe that was possible for socialism. We said it was wrong and so if we want the Croatian peasant to survive, then we really need to identify him with that peasant in the European Union. The farmer needs to sell the country, not 14 euros each, as the state-owned country sells to farmers in Istria. In Croatia, the average price of one square metre of state country is 0.27 euros. In one Istria, I said, 14 euros. This is more than the sale of the country in the richest European state of Liechtenstein where the average price according to the calculations of the Economic Institute in Zagreb is 11 euros, in one Bavarian, Korusko, Lombardia, between 4 and 6 euros, but what we will do. We are richer than each other and then the Istrians need to pay the country 14 euros per square metre. It's out of my mind, it's an injustice, but who am I supposed to say it to right now? Croatia should also not, in my opinion, produce cultures that it cannot spend, sell. I agree, there is no need to import as much as we import, and clearly, this dispute with Bosnia that has occurred and is in some way importing the embargo on Croatian goods. But let's let it go now. What is the purpose of this law? On page 7, it literally states that the adoption of this law will achieve several objectives, I quote, is the primary objective of introducing and using stock-based lending is to increase liquidity in agriculture, as well as the solution for short-term financing of stocks of producers and processors by using cereals, industrial plants and products as collateral. And then it is said that a well-designed system of warehouses and warehouses as a guarantee document will create in the storage and transport of cereals, industrial plants and products of advantages and allow for the overall development of agriculture as follows. First, by creating a standardised and regulated system of grain storage and industrial plants. Second, the provision of more protection to the owners of cereals and industrial plants and products for stored cereals, industrial plants, etc. and third, introduction into use of warehouses as a guarantee document for short-term loans and as legal evidence of the ownership of cereals, industrial plants and products, etc., etc. It is clear from this law that this law would come to life, two more conditions need to be fulfilled. We need to find the money. The law mentions that this year the ministry will find 15 million kuna. For me, 15 million kuna is for one such project a ridiculous little money. Secondly, Minister Pankretic should at least remain minister for at least some time to revive the law, and practice teaches us that when a new minister comes to any duty, the whole system actually collapses as if the world starts exclusively from him. Why am I saying that Minister Pankretic should stay for a while? Because he openly said or said that if he wasn't found, I don't know, a billion and 500 million kuna, he was leaving at the 9th month. On the other hand, I have the impression that his authority is breaking down. He is obliged to provide 15 million kuna for this law, and now, let's say, Mr. Cobankovic will provide farmers with a billion and 500 million kuna for milk, for wheat, etc. But how will he secure that money? There's no rebalancing, at least not yet. Without rebalancing it is not possible to perform this redistribution, the season will be a bad, gross social product in this country falling 4%, in '99. the year when NATO struck the SR Yugoslavia when we lost one tourist season, when the liquidity exceeded 26 billion kuna, when the banks all fell apart, when Croatia's higher than the recent elections on January 3rd was almost isolated, the gross product fell by 1.5%. This year, gentlemen, the gross product drops to at least 4%. Three times as difficult a situation as it was then, the industry collapses, exports stagnate. So I just can't believe those promises. The VAT has dropped by the first 4 months 19%, and Mr. Cobankovic has to quote it from today's Globe, he says, it is clear that the government will have to provide additional funding for agriculture, there is no dispute. It's the position of the entire government, there's no leverage. Money can be secured by redistribution. Someone needs to be taken, but that's why we need a rebalancing, and I don't know what we're waiting for to adopt it by the break and have some part of the funds taken away or in debt. Great. It's either taking someone or borrowing them. I find it hard to tell which option the Ministry of Finance will recommend to the government et ceter, et sether. At the stand of 8 of this legislative proposal, it is said, among other things, that for the first phase of implementation of this law it is necessary to provide 15 million kuna in the state budget of the Republic of Croatia, and then it is said, "it is estimated that for the efficient work of the department it would be to deploy new jobs within the existing organisational structure of two, agronomists, agroeconomists or economists. In the second phase of implementation of the system, funds are needed for equipment costs in the Department of the Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries and Rural Development through the establishment of a single IT system." And what's most important is to provide funds for the security fund. I'm undermining this security fund. What's certainly good is that people for these jobs will find themselves in the current staff of the current ministry, and for a long time what's key is this security fund. How much money is for that purpose now so that the warehouse can be resuscitated through that security fund? We don't know that. I guess it takes several hundred million kunas to do that, or the whole warehouse system will remain a dead letter on paper. I'd like to be wrong, but I suppose a big system like that could liven up that security fund, which is understandable, if we have property or grain on one side or all of those cultures worth billions of kunas, so it has to be at least 100, 200 million kunas. So let's be serious, gentlemen. No bank will, I'm afraid they won't give credit to wheat or corn, while in reserves we have 300, 400 thousand tons. He's on his way to the house, his country, and we've learned that somehow. We can't even get a loan here anymore, but now the banks are selling corn, so I think it's a little silly. And that is why, gentlemen, it is necessary, before the law somehow starts to apply, to ensure, to define this security fund. And before that, someone from the ministry tells us, what's that, how much is that going to cost, where will those funds come from in that security fund? From the budget, I don't know how. What will it be used for, when will these funds be activated, in what cases? Itd. One word from a warehouse without a security fund can hardly live. All in all that we understand each other. I also want to share my opinion with the vast majority of the MPs here. I believe the law is good. That's one news. Only Croatia is neither America nor Germany. And that's our problem that we're neither America nor Germany. That's where these principles exist. I wouldn't want it to turn into a utopia. I'd like to be wrong, but I'm sure 15 million kunas as far as the ministry is going to provide for the implementation of this law isn't enough. All in all, we will vote for that law. We would like to believe, on the word of Minister Pankretić, that this new one is a quality step for Croatian agriculture. But I repeat, it is necessary for the law to be implemented itself so that not only 15 million and perhaps several hundred million kunas, which are simply not available in the Republic of Croatia's budget today.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-23-0.u34046	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations, Mr. Representative Dragan Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-23-0.u34047	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I would like to correct the incorrect allegations by counterpart Kajin, who said Minister Pankretic would have to provide 15m kuna for the security fund, and that Minister Cobankovic would have to provide a billion and 500m kuna for the implementation of agriculture policy. Neither, neither is true. And it's on the trail of confirmation of your thesis that you've been running through this exhibit all the time. And that is that there is a problem with the authority of Minister Pankretic or some kind of dissonance among ministers in the government. In fact, agricultural policy is in the authority of the Government of the Republic of Croatia and money and for the agreement of this with the peasant associations and for this security fund will be provided by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. So, one of the existing mechanisms, do the redistribution of the budget. But in any case, she is integrally in charge and responsible for it.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-23-0.u34048	HDSSB representative club, Mr Dragutin Bodakoš. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-23-0.u34049	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and fellow MPs. Well, here's a proposal for a law on storage and a storehouse for cereals and industrial plants that we have on the agenda today, which was proposed in a similar form last year under the name of the House of Cereals and Industrial Plants Act, received the support of the SDP Club, certain remarks were made and we thought it would go to another reading. Today, however, we have a new law, and in fact we have assessed it back then, and today there is a need to regulate the relationship between the storage of grains of industrial plants and their turnover, regardless of the fact that this relationship has already been set out in the Law on Mandatory Relations and where it is already legally defined and defined as a warehouse as a financial document. That's why we're in the proposal of the previous law, and this one today, too, to bring it in as soon as possible. And with it, it allows for a greater flow of trade capital in agricultural production, which is as the ministry itself says in this document, by stopping the distribution of loans through the primary mission of the National Bank, drawn from the agriculture of the food industry and trade. Even worth more than 8 billion euros is mentioned, and no new model has been offered in these years afterwards. I think that's exactly why we have this kind of indifference in agricultural production, because we know that these loans went first to primary producers, passed on afterwards to the food industry, and that that money, after all, worked in agricultural production that created a new value. Therefore, the money was secured to cover the new value of the product. Unfortunately, we see a year-long delay in the realisation of this law I think it would have continued if no agreement had been made as visible from this material of the Ministry with the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development on the basis of which this European Bank will provide the craftsmanship that farmers will use to finance the next sowing. However, it is also evident that the prerequisite for ensuring these funds is the signing of a memorandum between the Ministry and the European Bank and that is why it is urgent to adopt this Law on the storage and storage of cereals and industrial plants. I must conclude that unfortunately again someone else must encourage us to solve what we ourselves know we need for better business and for the safety of production in agriculture, which the promoter himself says is the overall trend of reducing that production. That's all I'm saying is what's written in that material. It certainly is not good because we are a traditionally significant food producer, and we were that and I hope that we will continue to be and that we will not depend on imports. Now a few words about these important issues for the functioning of the law. I still have some dilemmas, but my colleague Kresho said it in an ideal form until my colleague Cain suspected everything, including that for grain or industrial herbs there would be credits. However, I think it is a new product and that for new values it will rather be a loan than for what is already pawned like a country, an object, etc. So here we create new production, create new values, and I think these new values have a certain financial coverage. In Article 1, the Proposer spoke of a special law, he spoke of a special law lex specialis because the current Law on Mandatory Relations did not allow the introduction and definition of a warehouse in this form in which it is now spoken, and this particular warehouse today should be much more quality, as this changes today's document, which was from two parts of the receipt that gives the right to the goods and another part of the hostages which gives the right to pledge on the goods without the necessary safeguard measures for all transport participants. There were certainly certain embezzlements and weaker confidence of participants and probably no warehouses or banks wanted to transport these goods through the warehouse and by issuing a warehouse under the Law on Mandatory Relations. I think that this first article resolves the issue and that such a warehouse could be much safer and much more quality working with it. The second issue is the paper in relation to the previous proposal, which is the establishment and purpose of the security fund, which is regulated by Article 17 and for which 15 million kuna initial funds are given by the Ministry of Obligation and Storage to pay into that fund. What's going to be settled here is with this accompanying regulation of the ministry, and I think we need to regulate here safely and the question and payment and execution, and the use of that security fund, but I don't think we can see from this how high the mandatory payments will be for the warehousers. I don't think the question of that should be dimming, too, so it shouldn't be dimming for them to report to the competition and the warehouses that would do the job. I also come up with one of these issues, which is also mentioned on the Committee on Agriculture, and that is the issue of issuing a solution for the authorised warehouse issuing the ministry. Articles 4 and 5 lay down the conditions but also ask some questions and dilemmas. Croatia today has about 1.8 million tonnes of storage space that are conditional or unconditional, which is the question of how conditional and how unconditional. The conditions must be identical and I think in the first order that they must come closer to Europeans. What does that mean? This means that we must have complete monitoring of the entry and exit of goods, the course of travel of these goods into space, location, quality conservation and all of this primarily covered control, means companies or companies engaged in inspection but also inspection by the Ministry of Agriculture. Also, in such warehouses there should be protection against pests, mandatory fumigation and the possibility of rapid delivery and dispatch so that we do not become unusable upon exit. And what is certainly significant and this is also a matter of regularity and in the management of paperwork and security in terms of shortages, a write-off of kala and all of those manipulative actions which each warehouse does otherwise related to the storage of certain goods. However, when we look at that amount of storage that we have and the conditions that they should have, we must also conclude that Croatia has twice the safe production of cereals and industrial plants of these silo capacities. Normally, all these productions do not go at the same time, with the same stores in those warehouses, but often the question is whether there will be enough capacity for all those who want to store their goods in the nearest warehouses. So, the question is that in the warehouse where the production is is is whether it is a storage facility because it is not the same to drive goods from Slavonia to northern Croatia or not to say further in Rijeka or Istria. The example last year, which was extremely good with one million tonnes of wheat and 2.8 million tonnes of corn, soybeans and sunflowers, has led many producers to have difficulties with surrender and even more with storage. I think that within that and that part of those who will want and who we need to enable to store, we need to solve this goods in a good way. A further specific issue referred to in Article 4(3) is also related to the issue of a solution to the authorisation of the warehouse for one year. Whether this is too short and whether the tendering will not lead to uncertainty every year with the manufacturer who will use storage services and trade through the warehouse. I think there's also a colleague of Dragica's who gave the amendment to it, I think the ministry is, we've had opportunities and we've talked about it already on the Committee on Agriculture and they've accepted it, and it's probably going to be the most qualitative way to resolve it. Finally, the central issue of how the implementation of this law can increase liquidity in agriculture by using agricultural products as guarantees. How to achieve the most favourable moment of sale and to simplify the transfer of ownership of goods. I think it's a central question that this law should address. To increase liquidity in the first row, it will be significant that banks will accept the warehouse and service the manufacturer and their lending. I think it might be in that part because what I was saying earlier is one new product, a new value, therefore adequate means can be allocated. The second question is the price of that product. At the same time, the manufacturer must be aware that its product price can eat storage prices, that is, because it will cost them, interest on the loan and the fluctuation in the price of cereals or industrial products in the Croatian or market in the environment. I think in that part, the producers will bear one great responsibility for that part. That's what the manufacturer's assessment and assessment is about when it's the most favourable moment of sale. Which is his biggest risk. All of this with the warehouse should be tied to the formation of a stock exchange where the transfer of ownership of goods is achieved in the simplest way. And finally, in one word, this law does not solve all the problems of our agricultural production, but it should be a step that this agriculture expects and I can therefore say that the SDP Club will support such a law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-23-0.u34050	We are continuing to discuss the final proposal of the Law on Storage and Storage of Cereals and Industrial Plants. National Minority Representatives' Club, Mrs. Zdenka Chuhnil. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-23-0.u34051	Honorable Vice President, Your Honors Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. The National Minority Club certainly supports the adoption of the Law on the Storage and Storage of Cereals and Industrial Plants, if it will contribute to better liquidity in agriculture or if it will provide trade capital to agriculture, but as much as most exhibitors do, we agree and ask why it has to wait so long to pass this law or even more, we have talked very often about agro-bank that does not exist until today, in order to resolve the issue of agriculture in a simpler way. Namely, we always have games without borders in summer or harvest, and this time games without borders directed by many associations must remind us of numerous accumulated problems in agriculture. It's the tractors recently on the street that brought us back to the real state and everyday agriculture. And I'm going to remind myself of some of these problems that we put on the surface just at these moments, of the inadequately formed and defined strategy on the development of agriculture, of the fact that we still do not have the balance of the needs of agricultural products today, i.e. that very rarely we can define which culture or agricultural products we have in self-sufficiency, i.e. when are we going to carry out regionalisation of agricultural production? My colleagues also mentioned that the warehouse is a solution, but without the existence of a high-quality stock market, and this time of great indifference, I'm afraid we might just complicate the situation. We still have far more expensive agricultural production on the one hand, whether we are talking about the product of milk, wheat, meat, at this time we are even talking about raising the prices of certain products, again like milk and wheat, and what we do not want to talk about, we do not talk about, very often and avoid saying what is the actual cost of production, what are real calculations and what we want to do in production, or how we include science and profession that we can finally talk about the productivity of the products given, or agricultural production better, but also about the competitiveness that, whether we want to, the European market, or on the European market, is waiting. We very often, when it comes to games like this, we want to use ourselves, or we want to talk about how to control imports, or how to protect domestic production, it is really time for us to talk more seriously about this and this Parliament because I have already said here in Parliament that in European countries when imports reach between 10% and 15%, everyone gets on their feet, from Parliament, Government, etc. We have imports of agricultural products 40% and I say, only associations and tractors on the streets remind us that there really is a problem. But I will still return to the warehouse, return to that it will become a guarantee document, which will certainly make it easier to work with finished production. However, we will certainly have a few problems. Storage and storage quality. Let us not forget that the serious larger silos involved in the ransom were in the combinations, in the cooperatives. One part that's privatized, we can say that today can work very well, that it might appear here as a warehouse. However, we have areas that today do not have silos in operation and will be very difficult to find in certain areas in general a warehouse that will be able to do services right now. Furthermore, the question is opened, which is the price of storage, but the price of the qualitative takeover of these grains is precisely from the dried-up properties, i.e. from small producers, which are actually the biggest problem because we will not be the Agrokor problem, i.e. Belje or some major producers who have their placement through their processing, i.e. they have a closed cycle. We're about to have a problem with family economies. And banks have already been fenced in advance, and this also suggests that they are not interested in 2 or 10 tonnes of wheat because it is too small for all the paperwork and all the guarantees to be given for these small quantities, and let me remind you. With reference yields, 4 tons per hectare. So that's 2.5 acres. How many of our small producers are currently 2 hectares and less hectares under the wheat because we're talking about total estates of 3, 5 or 10 hectares. Which means that again these small producers won't be able to show up with their warehouse in the bank because they don't represent the interest of the bank. Proposer says merger. We've been talking for a long time about joining small producers in cooperatives, unfortunately why isn't this process going on? How much of the guilt we're carrying, and we who haven't started to collapse in time, by not offering anything new, have created a place to question everything and everything now, we're talking about family small economies again, associations don't start. They're too small to get this kind of guarantee. So I think we're solving the basis, that we should start there, but I say we're opening up really a series of problems, I say from storage, from costs that won't be easy to define, to the very quality, because mostly small producers don't use full technology, so the quality of the offered goods is very often out of all standards, and then the question of various observations opens, is they allowed to refuse, who's going to pay them, who's going to eventually pay for the entry and exit when they take over such analyses, which means we're going to meet this question for a long time? But in any case, at the very beginning, I said that we would surely support this law because it would allow manufacturers to sell goods when they decided that it was the most favourable moment, not as always that they had to decide in the harvest itself. Surely it will provide them with trade capital already for the autumn harvest, and that they can still have grains or goods that are defined here by the law at the warehouse and it is certainly good to open the security fund. However, I'm afraid those funds that are provided for him will be small. Why are we saying that? Knowing from the experience that former warehouses are used to mastering the supply supplies we've had so far, from the experience that very often the goods existed only on paper, and in reality not, I'm afraid if we don't provide enough mechanisms for the goods that are stored there, that the security fund, if it continues to work on the goods supply, will certainly have work to do. So here, support in any case, it has to start somewhere, but I think it requires upgrade, if nothing else might reconsider the existence of an agrarian bank that would follow this problem more seriously. Not only as a bank through profit, but perhaps through the interest of that economic branch, which still makes up 10% of the gross domestic product in our economy, and if we add that to all that accompanying industry, then it deserves more attention and the Ministry of Agriculture and Government, but certainly also Parliament. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-23-0.u34052	Thank you. Before further discussion, one notice. The 21st session of the Committee on Gender Equality of the Croatian Parliament will be held today on 23 June at 13:00 in the hall "Stepan Radić". Thank you. Let's move on to the debate. On behalf of the SDSS Club, the esteemed representative of Mile Horvat. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-23-0.u34053	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and fellow MPs. The SDSS Club will accept this concept of the Storage and Storage Act. They will accept it not because we believe that in its substantive and extreme case in some part of the nomotechnical description it is perfect and irreparable, but because we think that there is a certain category of farmer who needs this kind of guarantee, which is precisely the kind of document that should later become some kind of ownership document that will increase the rating of just one category of agricultural producers in communication with the related banks with which they otherwise communicate. So we welcome this initiative and the project to create, through this text, one instrumentary not only of the warehouses, but of the whole instrumentation that should later contribute to setting this project on the right basis, as it is imagined. We think that there will be more changes and additions to this legislative solution, we think that there will be a need for harmonisation with some of the gains of similar solutions in the European Union. Since I do not see in the opening part where the proposal's intentions are spoken of, there is no comparative experience of other countries that have such solutions. Well, then we couldn't even make a comparison. So when it comes to the content of this text, then it will certainly be necessary to pay attention to some correlation between several laws relating to such a problem, especially ownership issues, public notation duties, executive proposals in effective charging in that second part, which if the committee comes into a situation where the loan is not returned in time. And then it's actually put into motion exactly the purpose of this bill, which is to activate and charge over the debt. In the opening part, I will just briefly look back, in the opening part here, the promoter states that the situation in agriculture is not quite pink, so to notice the trend, there is a trend in reducing agricultural production. It's a little bit like the one who's following it and the one who's in it, etc. It's not a good grade because today we have a largely completed land return process, a land sale process. We formed on the basis of what we heard before 170 thousand OPG, which is not a small potential for agricultural production. At first, we had attractive banking loans, and later they became counterproductive because banks very ruthlessly increased interest rates on these loans that were tempting to agriculture 4, 5 years ago. We have expensive machines in the fields, we have expensive technology, we have advisory services. So we formed a whole machine that needs to design and create a policy of agriculture in a certain direction. And we have what we have, so at the assessment of the proposer's decline in agricultural production. We watch it at the SDSS club on the other side. So we think that in agricultural production there are three structured species by our assessment, three types of agricultural producers. First, they are the great mega-producers that were created in the privatisation process of former combinations. How popular or unpopular the fact is because we remember those times too. These combinations were mostly the main engines of the whole social and economic development in their local environments. I'm from Baranja and it's always been said, Baranja equals "Bell" in all segments of life. And besides the fact that Baranja "Bleek" in the sense that she hired a terrible lot of people, therefore significantly, significantly more than she is now hiring a "Bleeder". The other Whites in Baranja was a cooperative. So what the vital force of the village was were developed cooperative relations which rested precisely on the development of these combinations. So now we've privatized it. We don't have that operation anymore. The number of employees decreased significantly, under some excuse for modernization. I'm free to say that in a certain period that reduction was conditional and there was an opportunity to do it in a way to say that someone was on this side, someone on the other side, so we made employment selection according to that criterion. Now these great mega-producers are the biggest beneficiaries of the capital investment of state incentives, which I also think should be an opportunity once to talk about and simply to re-compose the way these capital contributions and incentives are used. In such a way as to take this relatively large and proportionately from the same amount of money in the budget, it relatively gives more to these smaller ones whose incentives for capital investment also mean the existence of production. Another category of agricultural producers are these medium-sized agricultural producers who were lucky to get hundreds, 200 hectares of land and land return. They bought expensive machinery based on it, entered bank loans. Expensive machinery received large capital investments, and their loans remained. And we're eyewitnesses of it by looking at the media where we're on the streets, which, of course, is their right, I don't comment on it, but I'm commenting on the fact that they went out on the streets with machines that are millions of dollars. So I'm saying that when I come to my place in the last five years, there's been a lot more machines of millions of value that were once almost impossible. The question arises, then, is the position exactly as it is or are we paying the price of unrealized assets that we get on behalf of capital investments by buying expensive machines. And our loans and liabilities remain, even increasing due to the nature of one negative bank policy in the last year. The third category is the most sensitive and these are ordinary peasants who have no opportunity, had no opportunity or means to buy the country, some had no means to pay bail in the ransom process. They stayed at the minimum they had before, stayed on the mechanism they had before. Simply, they cannot participate in any marketing game in which we plan to join the European Union in the segment of agricultural production. The particularly sensitive category that I point out here in that third category of ordinary peasants are people returning to the space of special state care that absolutely did not participate in the country's purchase process or the return of the country. These are people who still have a problem with usurping their own land. When they returned, they found plantations raised in their fields. Of course they're running expensive and long-term disputes now. They will probably be certain but the question is when to enter into the possession of that land. They still have unrenewed houses, economic buildings, no machines and no other existences because before that they were peasants, and now they intend to be peasants but have no way to talk to banks and have no way to raise loans and enter some modern agricultural production. So that's something that reality is ours in agriculture. In our assessment, I allow myself to enter some sphere I may not know very well, but it's one life story, people from the West Slavonia field, like that. where it communicates with people where this problem is a return environment and a problem and people's efforts are individual but also the problem of their bonity and their seriousness in communicating with banks when they come to banks to discuss their future, their plans, the future of agricultural production, the raising of farms, the raising of mines, etc. Let's not talk about it. It's a dream they don't dream of. Therefore, it is one part of Croatia that lives the life it lives and I fear that we do not pay full attention to that part of Croatia. That is why we expect this instrumentation to be introduced through this concept of law, if it is introduced, and hopefully it will and will be done to the extent that it is precisely useful to this category of agricultural producers precisely because of this intensity, we support this law as it is before us. I'll look back briefly only on the formal-legal part of this text. Of course, this text, realistically speaking, has many general legal terms and definitions, has a lot of uncertainty, has a lot of dilemmas. This would be my guess that the proposer planned to settle this by sublegal acts but it would not be bad if some key things were yet to be concrete and thus become equally legal constant because any sublegal act could be amended by regulations. Whoever brought them can and can change them, they practically start fluctuating legally, which is not good again. So, some basic things we had to settle by law and then they would be constant in that whole process. Like Article 16 where it is to be seen in some way, a generally so little illusory definition that says: "The owner of the warehouse to which the warehouse has not delivered the cereal has the right to require the warehouse to pay at the height of the stocked value of cereals within three days." So it's such a good formulation. In life, however, he who did not deliver the warehouse within something that was not his on the request of the owner shows his indifference but at the very beginning. How do you expect him to pay for it within three days and deliver it if he didn't intend it three days ago. There's a question of what to do next. Therefore, it results in one authorisation from the owner of the warehouse to enter the dispute, to sue the warehouse and enter a long-term and expensive and uncertain dispute when it will be charged, how it will be charged. Therefore, they now need lawyers to say how this is to be specified to ensure and provide greater legal certainty to the owner himself or the owner of the warehouse because this is a fundamental issue. I'll hand over my goods, I've got paper on it, there's nothing I can do about it because I can't pull the stuff whenever I want to. Therefore, in order to avoid this situation, there must be some kind of executive title that can be formally legalized before it is in court, in a litigation procedure. Also, that security fund that's been talked about a lot. It is also a dilemma to us whether these are sufficient funds for the function of this fund, how it will work we will see it probably through these sublegal acts but we, we would do well to say here about publicly that there will be a concept of functioning since it is about budget money. If the law comes into force as we say here, the question is whether we already have those budget appropriations in the budget today planned or scheduled for a while, I'm afraid we don't. So it's another dilemma that should be said about. Article 21 refers to the quality of the goods. The point is, in my opinion, that's one of the fundamental issues. Why? Because in order for the bank to accept that goods to be guaranteed, it must be a satisfactory quality for the bank. What does that mean? The warehouse and depositary owner of the goods will agree on who will produce the quality of the goods. But the bank doesn't have to accept it. The bank will have its own criteria, it will have its own safe auditors, its inspectors who, as the bank does otherwise, can in particular assess the value of the property of the house that is constantly in some ownership sense and will not then question the finding that the quality of the wheat today is the same and tomorrow the same. Therefore, the bank will surely have its own criteria for determining the quality of the goods at the moment when it accepts it as a pawn's right. The quality of the goods must also be verified by the bank in order to communicate further with the bank. And I think, in the end, here's the final, criminal provisions I think are pre-bagital, misdemeanor procedures for some of the things that are listed here are exaggerating because it's about the ability to manipulate the goods of great value, and to the one to whom the only slave has deposited it, it's the highest value it's made available to the warehouse. Therefore, someone who will make such regulations on such minimum interest or penalties for responsible persons does nothing to prevent him from precisely at a certain moment and not reaching for manipulation by counting that he is more easily paid for this criminal penalty than some possible benefit from being manipulated by that slave. And finally, let me say that we at the SDSS Club have three dilemmas, which are just banks, and I don't think the relationship with banks here is specifically defined. I think the banks, it's hard to believe that the banks will accept getting into business, that at the second stage when they come to forced payment of their loans they will come to goods and they must market it on the market. So this second phase, which is theoretically well-set, practically what it means, is that I'm giving my goods at the warehouse to the bank, I'm not paying for the loan, I'm giving the bank, the bank has to go out to market, to which it's going to sell to collect its credit. I'm afraid here, I'm afraid we won't be effective in practice here. The other thing is, what I think is also important, this law doesn't put into an equal relationship and manufacturers, here we're talking about a warehouse that refers to cereals and processing, why we're not talking about some other products that also have a lasting value, which can be stored for more than 12 months or up to 12 months. Why can't it be the item of storage made by a cherry maker who has jam and who stores that jam somewhere, I'm talking in my head? Why does it have to be just that sugar maker? Therefore, in this way I think that manufacturers are being placed in an unequal position and I also think that we have not received yet, we have not received a good overview of comparative solutions in countries that have good experience so that we can now be guided by these experiences. All in all, I thank the promoter for this proposal and the SDSS Club will accept it.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-23-0.u34054	On behalf of the HSS Club, distinguished representative Stanko Grcic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-23-0.u34055	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable State Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. The Act on Storage and Storage for Cereals and Industrial Plants, as proposed by the Proposer, stated the aim of establishing a link between farmers, warehouses and financial institutions. As such, it is necessary at this point when in our agricultural sector there are significant difficulties relating to the provision of the necessary cash, especially crafts. In view of the short time available to us for the upcoming harvest and then for the crops, it is necessary after the adoption of the Law on Storage and Storage for Cereals and Industrial Plants that the proposed solutions and all components should be interested and imported through the implementation of market mechanisms. We primarily think of the grain lines, which Croatia is obliged to apply as part of the harmonisation of our system with the gains of the European Union. In order for the warehouse system to act as a guarantee document in the desired way, we believe that all steps should be taken to establish and affirmation to give the expected effect. In doing so, we stress the following. The proposal of the Storage Act and the grain and industrial plant warehouses for the purpose of establishing a security fund gives increased security by guaranteeing the owner of the warehouse a fast and efficient payment of the value of the goods and in cases where the warehouse is not able to deliver the goods or money within a few days, the payment will be made from the security fund and the fund will settle itself in a subsequent period. This fact in a significant part raises the importance of the implementation of such a system, so the interest of the banks will be recognised as a guarantee document and will be significant as a quality colliteral. This model in which deposit insurance is guaranteed by an authorised warehouse, therefore, one that also has the technical quality of the warehouse but also a quality business reputation is an invitation to new relations in the agricultural sector, a call for business cooperation and accountability. The warehouse itself must enable the establishment of a positive business environment, mutual respect and business confidence because it is the only situation that will attract the bank to accept the issue of the warehouse as a valid guarantee that it will charge its goods in commodity lending. Legally speaking, the relations that establish this bill in this respect already exist under the Law on Mandatory Relations,... And today, in fact, he can still issue a document or a warehouse that confirms that there are goods on the owner's behalf. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So far, banks have accepted this, but only from case to case, often only in extreme need, since it has often been forced by banks to engage in the market indirectly and appear as a grains provider. Since the warehouse may be the subject of the sale of the bank must be at any cost in order to settle the debt as soon as possible and to be charged out of stock to sell the goods and thereby distort market relations. In relationships when an authorised warehouse guarantees everything, we are asked another important question which is the interest of the warehouse to be involved. The fact is he carries all the risk of dealing with his assets and business reputation. At this time, Croatia has storage facilities at the level of the needs and will create positive competition among the warehouses. It will create a position for warehouses to compete more seriously and competitively with the price of storage for goods, i.e. to be included in the warehouse system in order to fill their storage facilities. In conclusion, we believe that such a system can and must be used by manufacturers to address the issue of credit insurance, i.e. crafts, necessary for the financing of production, through the basis of the deposit. In order to secure crafts, they are able to choose the moment of sale of their products and this means that the functioning of this system makes it possible to create a regulated market environment. This means that a competitive system is created that gives banks security, enables manufacturers to access the necessary crafts. So, both sides are encouraged to engage in this system. From all of this stated club, Croatia's Peasant Party will support the bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-23-0.u34056	Thank you. On behalf of the HDSSB club, Honorary Representative Boro Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-23-0.u34057	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Here's about half a year ago and more here was the proposal for a warehouse law. Then it was said that it was the first reading and afterwards came to say a certain silence. Although the producers of cereals and industrial plants and business people in Slavonia and Baranja and our Srijem demanded that the Storage Act be adopted as soon as possible to start the grain market and the industrial plant market in the Republic of Croatia, therefore not only in Slavonia and Baranja. In the light of the proposal for this law, which is now defined differently, which is otherwise addressed and which reads the Proposal for a Law on the Storage and Storage of Cereals and Industrial Plants, with the final proposal of the Law. So, in that explanation, chapter IV. it writes that this proposal for a law is proposed by an emergency procedure and that it will sign a Memorandum of Understanding on the basis of which the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development will provide crafts and money to farmers to finance the next sowing under Article 159. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, etc. My parents were well-recognized, so although they all spoke affirmatively about the proposal of this law, as I personally did, this law should be approached affirmably with certain remarks and very practical explanations of certain articles in which a dispute may arise and a dispute between the participants involved in the execution of these acts under this law. It is also true that when there was a talk about the Storage Act, the one half a year ago, we said and talked not only about cereals and industrial plants, but also about some other agricultural cultures that could be stored for a longer period of time. In this bill, I don't see it, so there are no cultures that would also be covered by this bill. Then there was a dispute, and about how much there should be a fund, a security fund, and who will actually finance that security fund. And here we spent the most time in the debate among the representatives clubs in the debate about the level of the security fund, whether it goes from the budget of the Republic of Croatia, who provides it, etc. At the time, the number mentioned was significantly smaller than these 15 million that are now being mentioned, I think it was about 2, 3 million kunas, and it didn't agree to it at the Vesnik Club, I think, but I know from the HDZ ranks. It is good that we are discussing this way today, so it is good that we accept such a law affirmably, and it is indeed a law that will boost the market for agricultural products, that is, grains and industrial plants, so I cannot say agricultural products because not all agricultural products are covered, not a single good part. And it is good that our farmers will therefore, with the functioning of the market and the reduction of price fluctuations which, these days we are able to see this moving and how the proposals for wheat, cereals, from 75 limes to kuna and 25 limes move. I wouldn't want to say that the pressures that were made to say in negotiations or on the street are the reason this law is passed like this, but all in all it's good to do. Now, there was also mention of the agro bank which was also supposed to be one accompanying element, one accompanying factor and I think that soon, since here in this legal framework and debate on this, there is no question about it, but that this will be a very important and important element that we will soon have to discuss in order to have one accompanying institution in connection with the implementation of this law. In addition to the advantages that this law will adopt and which are written on page 8 of the proposal of this law, so where it is said that it is significant that the places of exchange are in place for exports, then the use of future sales, so it is no longer dependent on the time and pressure of farmers when they sell their agricultural or industrial plants, but when it is on the world market or domestic market, the highest price. It is also about the quality of goods to be in line with European Community standards. So with all this, I am of the opinion that this law will contribute to a certain extent both one order and one development and vision of the agricultural production strategy in the Republic of Croatia. I think that given the record, given the warehouses, given what warehouses have to do with this law, they will see and determine exactly what the Republic of Croatia has to do with it, how to make the next year or years ahead. This is what I think is currently missing, one serious strategy for the development of agriculture and agricultural production in the Republic of Croatia. When it comes to small farmers who produce, as it says here and the banks say they have not, they have expressed a reserve in monitoring such yields, so small agricultural producers and their service that says they have 2 to 10 tonnes of cereals. And the solution is seen in the formation of cooperatives. It's true that the word cooperative is a little bit, as I say, hated in our people. We have, that we do not enter into history and what this is about, but it is also true that this House passed the Cooperatives Act exactly in accordance with the experiences of the European Union on the cooperatives of agricultural producers. And it is also true that unfortunately this form of cooperative society, cooperatives are not yet rooted in us or very little is represented, and given this law, I think that cooperatives would also be encouraged and that far more agricultural producers would have this form, so association, we don't have to call it cooperative, we can call it a agricultural association, so that there's no confusion, so that those that would then be covered by this one, to say by a useful law. He may be pioneering and may need regulations and small changes later and to say perhaps cosmetic changes to the law itself, but simply in this proposal for a law on storage and storage of cereals and industrial plants we must move on. And that's why the HDSSB, like the first time it was about the warehouse and when we took and took part in the debate and supported that law, we also support this law that I've just said. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-23-0.u34058	Thank you. So we're done discussing clubs, and we're going to discuss it individually. The first is the distinguished representative Dragica Zgrebec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-23-0.u34059	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Secretary of State with an associate, co-workers and colleagues. So when it comes to agriculture, then it is necessary to take into account its specificities which differ significantly from almost all other economic activities. The first such specificity is that it has a small turnover of funds and other specificity that precisely because it has a low turnover of funds actually needs a high amount of funding. For the first time, with the reason of this law, it is said that we in the 1990s have actually interrupted a kind of financing of agriculture, which was a way of financing through primary emissions, and that we have not compensated with other ways or other types of financing and we have actually let agricultural producers into actual clean market relations, which is hardly a case for agriculture to operate on purely market terms, because all the countries that have agriculture, which have a serious agricultural production, actually intervene in these market mechanisms or other words, consider agriculture as one strategic and security issue for the supply of their population. By passing this law relating to cereals and industrial plants, we are in fact only affecting one segment and we are trying to find sources of funding for only one segment of production, agricultural production and that segment that may not be so cost-effective financially. It is certain that more production of certain other products will give rise to the need to regulate in a similar way, for example. The storage of fruits or the storage of wine because these are also needs, high needs for crafts and those also for several months, or even a few years can end up at the warehouse. How has that ever been funded? So, from the primary show, which didn't mean printing new money because that loan actually, or that money that was placed in agriculture actually covered a real product and it actually had a real value. On the basis of the warehouse, social enterprises at the time received loans under certain more favourable conditions than they were otherwise loans, for crafts, for other purposes, and were paid monthlyly adequately to the extent that the stocks were being reduced, i.e. they had to be realised between the two harvests, so within one calendar year. With this law, we actually have a different kind of stock financing and I think it's certainly the way it was dominant and that today we need to look for new models and types of funding. However, our agriculture as it is today and in today's state is not actually uncompetitive, it accumulates losses and actually creates constant pressure to increase the resources to support current production and to increase prices and such a situation is actually unsustainable in Croatia. We actually need to invest more in infrastructure, primarily in the rounding of properties because the property on which today in Croatia products actually increases the costs of production itself. Adequate warehouses must be built, perhaps not so much for cereals, but for fruits, vegetables, sores and similar warehouses, irrigation, given these changes, climate change affecting Croatia, new technologies, municipal infrastructure in the country, the association of small agricultural producers etc. So something that should be working fast now and we've actually lost a lot of time. Support for current production and their height always depends on how one country has industrial production. If you do not have strong industrial production, you cannot provide in the budget funds that you could place in agriculture and if you place them, then it must be exactly in this sense as I said, therefore in that infrastructure, and not only in the current support because they are actually in our terms to compensate for the inefficient production that we have. Of course, in such open market conditions as Croatia is, in fact, suitable for importing such products. When we speak specifically about this law, then we should answer two questions at the beginning. Who in Croatia has warehouses? In particular, these are companies that are either in agricultural production or processing industries. So those who once built in former social enterprises of the warehouse, very few individual farmers actually have adequate storage spaces that could be licensed and comply with this law. And the other thing is who should finance the supplies. In fact, there has been a lot of disagreements about this for a very long time, and this kind of normal distribution from producers, processors to traders who should actually finance supplies in their segments, in Croatia there is no such thing and most often it comes down to a farmer who, if he can't sell his product, must actually finance that stock or to a processor who bought the product and cannot place his finished product. And speaking of this law, we're all kind of thinking that this law should be passed. However, I have no illusions that he will receive results in a short time and that banks will immediately rush to finance our agricultural producers. Of course, there should also be a certain deadline for the law to be put into effect in the first place, and on the other hand, in these conditions where banks on certain other products, mostly in terms of consumer credits, make the most of the profits, they will hardly fall to more serious lending of agricultural production. And a few concrete remarks to the law itself. Some have already been spoken of. I tried to make certain amendments there. Article 4 refers to how a request is submitted and receives a resolution on storage authorisation. And in point 3. actually, that authorisation comes down to one year. I think it should be said that it is at least one year, and that the ministry should actually be assessed depending on the type of warehouse, depending on the product that is being stored, whether it is one year or several years, that we do not expose the warehouse that each year has to license its warehouse again. The second part refers to the fact that on market terms, storage is actually going to be done, that in some way the prices of storage services should be evened in a way, and that in such a way as to ensure that an adequate, similar warehouse for a similar product actually needs to have the same price, but also that the state through the security fund in some way guarantees that the product that is stored will actually be realised, i.e. that it will indeed remain that way. So I think it would also be necessary to add a new point in a way that obliges an authorised warehouser that, with a decision on authorisation, the pricer must also supply its services and that it must be published in the solution itself as laid down in the law. And in the end, I think that it should reduce the deadline within which the implementing rules will be adopted from 12 months to at least 6 months, because if we are to pass the implementing rules for a year then this law and the first licensing will be possible only at the end of 2010.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-23-0.u34060	Thank you. It's time for the honourable representative of Dragutin Lesar. He's gone. He's losing his right to argue on this wheel. Next, the distinguished representative of Branko Box is on the line. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-23-0.u34061	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. In the Republic of Croatia, there are a number of storage spaces for agricultural products that are not numbered and are not officially monitored in terms of capacity, and are only approximately evaluated. According to the structure of storage facilities that are exclusively used for agricultural products, about 40% and in the food industry about 52, trade 1 to 2 and the rest of 6 to 7%. The volume of storage rooms for cereals and olives is estimated at approximately 2 million tonnes in 65 silos and warehouses. For the past 10 years, smaller silos have been raised on family farms, in fact, additional storage facilities with droughts. It should be pointed out that these existing storage facilities have been spent mainly in eastern Slavonia, and the associated equipment has been technologically outdated. It is also important to mention warehouses for other demanding products such as fruit and vegetables. The system of authorised storage consists of three essential components, which are the authorised warehouse, warehouse and supervision. The proposed law expects better integration of important market operators, farmers of processors, financial institutions and business entities with recognised storage facilities, or authorised warehouses. The functioning of the system shall be ensured through a system of market lines which will provide and lease storage space for selected warehouses, which will be partly used for public interventions and in the second part for commercial storage. Competent institutions that would exercise supervision, rights and obligations and responsibilities of all the entities involved. The purpose of the law is to offer an alternative solution to the short-term financing of all activities carried out by farmers and processors during one season using the collateral as a guarantee of the use and return of credit funds to the bank. Basic questions are raised before this law. Regulation of the single and legal regulation of the cereals and industrial plant storage system, provide depositors with the owners of cereals and industrial plants with the protection of the quality and quantity of deposited grains of industrial plants in depositaries, i.e. warehouses and introduce a warehouse into the public and practical use of the domestic market as a guarantee document of ownership, and in the function of short-term financing collectors. The main objectives of this law are to create conditions for the sustainable development of agriculture and the processing of cereals in all parts of the Republic of Croatia, to ensure effective and favourable financing of agricultural production based on the warehouse and to establish a stable market for cereals and industrial plants in the country. The idea of introducing a warehouse within the system of authorised storage contributes to the achievement of those objectives. Although in our formal legal sense the warehouse could be used as a guarantee document, precisely because of the absence of a stock deposit control institution in the warehouse, its role as the guarantee document was risky. According to this proposal, the warehouse shall be issued by an authorised warehouse which has met the prescribed conditions. The owner of the warehouse, the warehouse, proves its ownership of the goods stored in a regulated manner by the authorised warehouse. By way of a warehouse, the owner may request from the bank credit for the financing of the production, whereby the bank applies the final right to the pawnage of the warehouse. The amount of credit the owner will receive depends on the value of the collateral and the risk the bank is willing to bear. Of course, for the sake of interest, traders will be involved in the system to buy warehouses. Compared to the first reading, the improvement is certainly commendable for accepting the suggestion to predict and so on. the security fund and this is regulated in Article 17. Here I will personally accept this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-23-0.u34062	Thank you. And it's time for the Honorable Representative Daniel Srb. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-23-0.u34063	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President, representatives of the government, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. I would say that this law on storage and storage of cereals and industrial plants is exactly what farmers in Eastern Slavonia expect with impatience. Of course, there is no need to ignore the fact that there will be a certain amount of time before it is brought to life in practice and in this sense I support the proposals made before and in particular by Mrs Zgrebec's colleague that all the elements need to be accelerated, that all the elements in this law that affect the speed of its application should be changed. In particular, what burdens farmers, especially cereals producers, is relatively high debt on the one hand, hence dependence on the financing system and on the other hand relatively small available guarantee space. Namely, all farmers with their relatively modest assets are unable to provide a guarantee for their own modernisation. In this sense, there is also a great responsibility in the Government of the Republic of Croatia in order to prepare farmers for the modernisation processes that are necessary on the one hand, we are talking a lot of things together about the need to increase the land that is being processed, so the soil rounding is more economical, so the level of economicity of the land processing, and in this sense, on the one hand, the need for modernisation, on the other hand, the fact that we have practically every year protests of farmers that occur not from the mere whim but from the fact that farmers themselves are extremely dependent on the incentive system and support in agriculture provided by the Ministry, so the Government. The moment this system is disrupted, it is practically the fact that all agricultural producers in the order of the high-indebted are practically in a position to threaten to rob them of their assets from banks, since they cannot service their obligations. In this respect, the increase in the credit potential of the farmers themselves to be adopted and through this proposal the law looks forward and supports. In this regard, I will also support this bill but with the desire to bring it back to life as soon as possible and to bring all elements related to its implementation as soon as possible. We also need to be aware of this, he will not solve all problems and it will take a lot of time and time for financial institutions to close an interest circle that will lead to benefits for the farmers themselves. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-23-0.u34064	Thank you. On behalf of the promoter of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the esteemed Krešimir Kuterovac State Secretary at the Ministry of Agriculture. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-23-0.u34065	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament. First of all, thank you to all because your presentation shows that we all support this bill, from which we have recognised that this law is of paramount importance to us and that it should be passed as soon as possible. At first, an apology. From the introductory text of the law when we talked about the assessment of the underlying issues to be regulated by the law we talked about the trend of reducing the total agricultural production but only in the context of the trend in the reduction of the production of the goods on the basis of the stock, which means that such one year-on-year lending has been reduced, and that was one of our wishes that by adopting this law we would contribute to lending on the basis of supplies of goods, to increase liquidity in agriculture and to enable farmers to choose the most favourable moment in the sale of cereals, herbs and products. Also, from the debate there must have been quality proposals which through the amendments will be accepted by either you MPs or clubs and thus improve this text of the law. We have also accepted certain nomotechnical corrections in Article 2(6), where we should have marked the current paragraph 7 with the number 8, in Article 9(2), add the word "status" so that this final text of the law would be as high and better as possible. The debate also highlighted the fact that it would interest banks to participate in this entire system and precisely the banks would be interested in the security they have when they receive such a guarantee document because it stems from the entire warehouse system, resulting from a security fund where banks are essentially no longer at risk when they accept the warehouse as one publishing document. And it should also be noted once again that the European Bank for the Reconstruction and Development of 350 million kunas intended for the establishment of this system, therefore it is direct money that comes to our farmers which our business banks will receive but exclusively for this purpose, means lending through a warehouse which will certainly improve the situation and liquidity in our agriculture during these difficult times of agriculture. Once again, on behalf of the Government, I thank all of you for your constructive discussion and support of this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-23-0.u34066	Thank you. I'm concluding a debate on this point. We'll vote when the conditions are met. We will now interrupt and continue at 3pm with the 8th point Final Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Guarantee Treaty between the Republic of Croatia and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development for Gas Storage Projects PLINACRO. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-23-0.u34067	Final draft law on storage and storage of cereals and industrial plants, emergency procedure, P.Z. No. 361, the legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. The amendment was submitted by the Committee for Legislatives, the HDZ Representatives' Club and MP Dragica Zgrebec. I would like to ask the representative of Mr. Josip Kraljičković, Secretary of State, to point out the first amendment of the Legislative Committee to Article 4.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-23-0.u34068	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, honourable parliamentary representatives. On behalf of the Croatian Government's proposal, I declare that the amendment is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-23-0.u34069	It becomes an integral part of the proposal. 2. Amendment by Ms. Dragica Zgrebec to Article 4, 1st of the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-23-0.u34070	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-23-0.u34071	It becomes an integral part of the proposal. 2. Amendment of the same agent to Article 7.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-23-0.u34072	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-23-0.u34073	It becomes an integral part of the proposal. 3. Amendment of the same agent to Article 22.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-23-0.u34074	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-23-0.u34075	Thank you. Everyone becomes an integral part of the proposal. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-23-0.u34076	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-23-0.u34077	It becomes an integral part of the bill. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure relating to officials and temporary staff in the ‘Communication’ policy area.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-23-0.u34078	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-23-0.u34079	It becomes an integral part of the proposal. 2. of the amendment to Article 4
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-23-0.u34080	It was accepted through Amendment 1 of Mrs. Assembly Representative Dragica Zgrebec. He's accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-23-0.u34081	Sustained. It becomes an integral part of the proposal. 3. Amendments to Article 4(6)
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-23-0.u34082	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-23-0.u34083	It becomes an integral part of the proposal. Amendment 4 to Article 4(7)
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-23-0.u34084	It's already accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-23-0.u34085	He's already accepted?
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-23-0.u34086	Yeah.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-23-0.u34087	Okay. Then he was accepted into someone else. Is in the same form.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-23-0.u34088	Same.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-23-0.u34089	Okay. 5th Amendment to Article 5
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-23-0.u34090	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-23-0.u34091	It becomes an integral part of the proposal. Amendment 6 to Article 15
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-23-0.u34092	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-23-0.u34093	It becomes an integral part of the proposal. Amendment 7 to Article 15
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-23-0.u34094	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-23-0.u34095	It becomes an integral part of the proposal. 8th Amendment to Article 16
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-23-0.u34096	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-23-0.u34097	It becomes an integral part of the bill. Amendment 9 to Article 17.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-23-0.u34098	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-23-0.u34099	It becomes an integral part of the proposal. Amendment 10 to Article 17
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-23-0.u34100	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-23-0.u34101	It becomes an integral part of the proposal. Amendment 11 to Article 22
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-23-0.u34102	It was accepted through the amendment of "Dear Zgrebec."
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-23-0.u34103	Consumed? Thank you. Sustained. I Amendment 12 to Article 24.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-23-0.u34104	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-23-0.u34105	It becomes an integral part of the bill. Thank you. I am voting on the final draft law on storage and storage for cereals and industrial plants. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? The law was passed by a majority vote with 98 votes in favour and 2 abstentions along with the amendments adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-23-0.u34106	We continue with the session, as I have announced now is the 8th item of the agenda: - Proposal for a guarantee agreement between the Republic of Croatia and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development for "The Gas Storage Project Plinarro", with the Final Proposal of the Law, an emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 370; Proposer of the Law is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, you received the proposal by mail. On the occasion of the agenda, we accepted the proposal from the Proposer to discuss this legislative proposal in an urgent manner. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the The Registrar's emergency procedure combines the first and second readings. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate, Article 164. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Economy and the Committee on Spatial Planning and Construction. You received the reports at the session. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Dear Miljenko Pavlakovic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-23-0.u34107	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament. Here are a few words on the Law confirming the guarantee agreement between the Republic of Croatia and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development concerning the "Plinarro Gas Storage Project". This is clearly the way in which financial commitments can be settled for the Republic of Croatia as a guarantee for the guarantee agreement and the Government's session of 7 May 2009 has been accepted as such and that the powers of the Finance Minister are to sign such a guarantee agreement. The guarantee agreement and the loan contract for the Plinacro gas storage project would be signed on 13 May 2009. A brief description of the loan itself, clearly the borrower is Plinacro d.o.o. in the 100% ownership of the Republic of Croatia and the lender of the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development. Yamac, clearly what is said, Republic of Croatia, amount of loan 70 million euros and is intended to buy 100% stake in the underground storage of gas... Here, as you have seen in your materials, the payment deadline is six years with a start of 12 months. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The interest rate is a variable rate which today would be slightly less than 3% with the possibility of conversion to a fixed interest rate. The contributions of the annuities themselves are on 15 May and 15 November each year, so they are paid twice each year, with 12 months of what I said grace period. It is required by the Croatian Parliament to confirm such a contract since the Government of the Republic of Croatia would also give its guarantee to it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-23-0.u34108	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? Not that I can see. I'm opening a debate. First it's the clubs. On behalf of the HDZ club, distinguished representative Krešimir Ćosic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-23-0.u34109	Dear Mr. Vice President, Your Honor, Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen. Here are a few words about this important project, which is an integral part of the confirmation of the guarantee agreement between the Republic of Croatia and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development. The increase and security and supply of the domestic natural gas market must be one of the important priorities of the Croatian government. For a number of reasons, we have recently witnessed a serious gas crisis that has had an impact on the Croatian economy but not only on the Croatian economy but almost on the whole of Europe. In order to increase the security of supply of domestic natural gas, several activities have special importance, long-term contracts, transport network, new warehouses. And one of the important activities we're talking about today is the natural tide warehouse... The Republic of Croatia has a storage space, a projected capacity of 550 million cubic metres with a maximum print capacity of 3.8 million cubic metres per day and a maximum draw capacity of 5 million cubic metres per day. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Given the high oscillations and the expected increase in natural gas consumption and high seasonal imbalances in the satirical consumption of natural gas in the general consumption sector and slightly less industry, it is necessary to build additional capacity of natural gas underground storage facilities operating as a filter which in some way irons these consumer turbulences and ensures the necessary amount of gas regardless of variations and restrictions of transport corridors. The Republic of Croatia, as is known today, covers about 70% of domestic production needs. Unfortunately, in the future these percentages will become smaller and smaller given the limited natural gas capacity in the Republic of Croatia and the expected increase in consumption. It is estimated that there is a need for storage capacity at 5% of annual consumption. The existing capacity of 0.5 bisiem represents a very important energy resource available to the Republic of Croatia and, in any event, it is expected that smart policy will know how to commercialise these resources in the future through an appropriate tariff policy and the corresponding amount of tariff items is allowed to the investor i.e. Plinar's return to investment in the construction of the warehouse and this reality and this assessment of the minimum risk is one of the reasons why the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development provided Plinar with the guarantee of the Republic of Croatia, I would say a very favourable loan. A few words about the character of the loan. Borrower of the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, the guarantee of the Republic of Croatia, as said Plinarro, is a 70m-euro loan intended for financing, acquisition of a 100% stake in the company "The underground storage of gas d.o.o. Around." They pay off six years, including a one-year start. The interest rate is very favourable, I would say, 6-month EURIBOR plus 1% margin. A half-year maturity is May 15th and November 15th every year. A one-time loan fee of 1% of the principal amount, it also seems to me that it is also very acceptable. Shelf life 30 April 2010. Keep going. A few words about the guarantee agreement itself. Treaty of 13 May 2009 between the Republic of Croatia and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development. Article 2(2), Section 201 of the Guarantee. I.E., I.E. The Republic of Croatia shall guarantee this unconditionally as a primary debtor, and not only as a guarantee, valid and timely payment of each and all amounts due on the basis of a loan agreement, whether according to established maturity, accelerated maturity or otherwise, and to the timely fulfilment of all other commitments of the borrower and all in accordance with the loan agreement. Furthermore, in Section 202 the implementation of the project stands whenever there is a reasonable basis to believe that the funds are available to the borrower i.e. Plinacrou is insufficient, and we hope that this will not happen, for paying the estimated expenditure needed to implement the project guarantee, i.e. The Republic of Croatia will take all necessary measures without delay, as it writes here satisfactory measures for the bank to provide the borrower with or to determine that the borrower should be provided with the funds necessary to pay all expenditure and liabilities. It's from the loan agreement. The second contract that forms an integral part of this proposal is a loan agreement. The loan contract was also signed between Plinacro d.o.o. on 13 May 2009. and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development. The Bank agreed to grant a 70m-euro loan to the borrower in accordance with the conditions and clauses set out in this Treaty. Several details related to the implementation of this project are also linked to contractual obligations. This means, I would say, point 1 of these contractual commitments is related to the acquisition of the 100 % base capital of the underground warehouse with the aim of, as it stands in the text, the contributions to energy independence and security of the Republic of Croatia and the provision of private sector users, as well as greater transparency, improved quality of service, non-discriminatory access to the warehouse. The component of the liabilities also relates to the capital investment programme. So, part of the Kapex programme refers to the construction of a warehouse, its modernisation, whose amount of 143 million Croatian kunas shows as a whole that the entire basic capital insurance or acquisition project, the acquisition of ownership of the warehouse, the modernisation of the warehouse, environmental protection and relevant studies is somewhere worth 100 million euros. The Capex programme provides for three additional sources of injection, additional compressor cells, main water supply connections and the construction of the auxiliary infrastructure, and all works related to increased speed, injection, gas detachment with the aim of increasing efficiency, guaranteed storage consistency, and borrowed by the borrower. Plinacro is to be implemented by 31 December 2015. The component of these obligations is also environmental protection measures and socially responsible business. The plan of measures to mitigate possible adverse impacts, improve environmental protection and socially responsible business is also a significant financial item, and the usual part or I would say the initial part of such significant financial infrastructure projects relates to the development of a series of feasibility studies. These feasibility studies, whose diagram, dynamics and content are an integral part of the annex 1 include a study on the technical and economic sustainability of the expansion of the warehouse to be developed by independent consultants by 1 July 2010, consultants who are eligible for the bank. The details of the loan agreement do not need to be particularly highlighted. The minimum amount of the tranche 10m euros, the payment dates, we have already pointed out. Therefore, the implementation of the project as a whole that Plinacro undertakes to include acquisition and delivery of the bank satisfactory evidence that the borrower has paid 70m euros of INA, as compensation under the share purchase contract, and that the borrower owns the 100 % base capital of the underground gas storage facility, no later than 60 days from the first payment and in any event no later than 31 December of this year. The contract obligation, the completion of the Kapex programme by 31 December 2015 at the latest, means modernising and increasing the capacity of the pump and gas extraction from this warehouse, as well as the production of appropriate studies. Their completion is expected and plans no later than 1 July 2010. In Appendix 2, the implementation of the Kapex programme dynamics is detailed from 2009 to 2015, and if I've added this together well, then it's about 7 and a half million kuna, i.e. one million euros, which is kind of acceptable, given the character of this project. Keep going. The environmental protection action plan is shown in Annex 3, including NO2 emission controls, a new vibration monitoring system at the compression station, etc. If we were not to discuss the details now, I would say this important infrastructure project for the energy security of the Republic of Croatia for the reliable and predictable supply of natural gas to Croatian consumers. We hope that after the completion of this project Croatia will no longer experience turbulence in its economy and households as it was at the beginning of this year. From everything said, the HDZ Club supports this bill because it provides financial mechanisms for the implementation of the gas storage project around the Republic of Croatia, which needs to significantly increase the security of the supply of Croatian natural gas markets, as I said especially in the conditions of growing disorders and possible turbulence because political tensions between Russia and Ukraine continue. Therefore, full support for this important investment and infrastructure project by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-23-0.u34110	Thank you. On behalf of the SDP club, Honorary Representative Zvonimir Mršić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-23-0.u34111	Dear Vice President, the respected representatives of the ministry. We at the SDP club seem to have too much fog, gas fog around this contract because here, both on behalf of the promoter and on behalf of the HDZ Club, it is said that this contract will ensure and increase the security of gas supply. I've carefully tried to read this contract and then I see that we're buying something we had last winter. If we're buying the same warehouse that we had last winter and we didn't have gas, and it was a lot, then how are we going to make sure with that same full warehouse this winter there's more security of gas delivery? Only if the ruling majority's representatives know in advance that it won't be such a strong winter so it won't take so much gas this year for consumption, so with the same amount of gas from the same warehouse, and now owned by the Republic of Croatia, we will ensure greater security. Because while the warehouse was 50% owned by the Republic of Croatia, then there was great uncertainty, and so it was owned by INA. Now that it will be 100% owned by a company owned by the Republic of Croatia, now we will greatly increase the security of gas supply. So this is about like pouring from hollow to blank. This could be called repairing INA loss. This could still have a whole series of other names, this contract. But what's the problem here is that we're talking about a contract between the EBRD and Plinacro and the government's guarantee of that same contract, and that we as parliamentarians have no insight into the contract between INA and Plinacro. What does Plinacro buy anyway? That's the question. The second question is, why did we sell it to the INA or MOL in the first place? If this really increases the security of delivery, we are now so smart in 2009 that we are doing so and buying the Environment at market price obviously because no one has even given us an overview of what the environments cost in '90, '99. And in 2003, 2007, but obviously we're buying at market price, is, we don't know what's in that package we're buying. We don't even know why we weren't smart enough to extract that tank or that warehouse early enough. When we might have been able to reduce the INA's core capital for the value of the Environment and the Environment could have been something else rather than being the subject of market sales between INA and Plinarro today. Furthermore, at what cost or who has set the price to buy around? Why does around here cost 70 million euros? And why do we even buy the Environment? Why haven't we raised 70 million euros in a favourable loan, as the HDZ colleagues say and made around 2? Because with this contract, that is, with this loan, we don't increase the capacity of the underground gas storage facility by one single cubic cent. With this contract, we don't increase a single millimeter profile of supply direction. We don't find a new supplier with this contract. So we have the gas we had, we have the warehouses we had, we'll have it full or we won't, but all of a sudden we'll increase the security of gas deliveries this and next year. So we buy something expensive, we don't build something new that we need and what we buy, and we have to charge with our own money so we can deliver that gas in the winter. Because today the environment is full of INA, and tomorrow when we're the owners, or Plinacro owner of the Environment, then Plinacro, or we're going to pay for the underground warehouse. So instead of paying for gas when we deliver it, we'll be paying for gas when we buy it. We'll credit the INA or pre-paid the INA charging that warehouse. So, if and when these questions are answered, we'll be able to see if enough of these gas fogs have split over this contract so that we can talk rationally about it. At this point, this contract is a harmful job for the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. Because this money, it's a loan, in overindebted Croatia, in Croatia when it comes to the question of when it will stop the ability to pay off the loan, we raise the loan to buy something that is in the Croatian country. Now, why did I ask you what we were even buying? So, the surrounding underground warehouse, however, are both the gas and oil fields found in the exploitation. Is there an elaborate of the flooring that we know exactly what layer of this environment we're buying or only buying a compressor station that's on the ground and buying vacuum cleaners that print and extract that gas from that underground warehouse? It's a question we don't have at this point. So about 600 million cubic metres of gas per year can be settled in the environment. It's a total capacity that can. We need about 3 billion a year. The production of Croatia is somewhere around 2 billion cubic metres of which some more than a billion are obtained on land, and slightly less than a billion are obtained in the northern Adriatic. And during that year, it accumulates somewhere around 600 million cubic cc's in the environment to increase both our high safety or greater security to have a safer delivery during the winter. But despite all this, Croatia still lacks that billion cubic metres of gas annually. So at least at this point, we have to introduce a billion cc's of gas. And instead of joining the new warehouse, which we could have done or in Okoje which this contract does not foresee, because, as counterpart Ćosic said, this contract only provides for a study of the feasibility of expanding the capacity of the underground warehouse, which will be completed by 1 July 2010, which will be accepted by the bank. Which means that this feasibility study can simply show that the expansion of capacity in the Environment is not cost-effective. Or at least the bank isn't worth it. So what do we do? We have these 70m euros in loans that we can raise here or expand our capacity in the Environment so we have an additional one 400m cubic capacity that we need or we can access the implementation of the project of building an underground warehouse in Benićanci or Boksic. The Benicians themselves should create a storage opportunity somewhere around a billion cubic metres of gas per year, and then Croatia would continue to realise or access, or when it will access the implementation of the Benicans project to ensure that it really has the complete security of gas delivery during the winter, because it will have that billion plus 600 million that will be in the Environment. And not only that, but then the Croatian could rent its warehouses, because it obviously doesn't need Croatia to have a billion and 600 million in storage, because during the winter the daily production provides for the rest of the part. So, not only would we have absolute security in Croatia, but we would have the opportunity to make money at such a gas storage facility. Unfortunately, we are doing a harmful job here, because we are resuscitating INA's loss in irrational business as a reward for the Croatian Parliament and the Government resuscitating INA's business. We have a cutting of directors in INA and in the last few days allegedly and more than 80 directors have been replaced in INA, and we will now clear the balance sheet of a new management that will come from Hungary and have a nice 500 million will receive capital income and start nicely from zero and show all of its luxury management talent, because here they have drawn INA out of losses. They pulled INA out of losses in such a way that the Croatian Parliament will give consent to the government to guarantee that Plinacro raises 70m euros in credit. At least we could sign that contract to keep these people working on those positions in the INA, and not even that we had to sacrifice them for it. So we buy something that exists, we don't create new capacities, we don't open new supply routes, we don't find new suppliers, and we don't do anything in investment. What if we had decided to invest these 70 million euros in investment? Well, someone would work on that investment. Maybe the construction industry, maybe our colleges, maybe our experts. So not only would they create a new additional capacity, but they would create a new additional value. And that money would stay here in Croatia. Where will it end up with 70 million euros that we will raise from the EBRD through Plinacro's account? In the mall. We're solving not only INA's loss, but we're also resuscitating MOL's bad business. What will the Croatian economy have? Nothing. It's going to have a 6-month Euroribor plus 1%, plus 0.5% single cost and plus war. So much less will Plinacro have to invest in the development of pipelines, so much less capacity will be given by the Croatian government to provide a guarantee of borrowing such a favourable loan, such as for the construction of schools, hospitals or the development of entrepreneurial zones or kindergartens. On the one hand, we are reducing the borrowing capacity, and on the other hand we are not increasing the capacity of the underground warehouse. So what are we doing? Could we possibly be able to squeeze more cubic gas into these environments now that we have it? So this is about buying an underground warehouse, but Plinacro doesn't have human resources at the moment to manage that underground warehouse, which means that probably in INA people who have worked in the area so far will have to be fired, and then the same people, maybe or not, will be employed in Plinacro. So, indeed, a whole series of questions being asked here in front of the Croatian Parliament. And we call on the Government to forward these contracts to us in the future between the EBRD and the Government or one of the companies owned by the Republic of Croatia, to deliver the contract in question. Because it's not right for us to give a guarantee of something we don't see. We don't see the contract, we don't see the underground warehouse, we don't see the reason why it's done, we don't see what the government sees as increasing the security of delivery, and we are asked to put 70 million more euros in debt to the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. Because the citizens of the Republic of Croatia will have to repay this loan. Citizens of the Republic of Croatia will repay this loan either from the budget or from what is equally terrible from the rise in gas prices. Because after this happens, there is very likely to be a new collection of gas prices for the citizens of the Republic of Croatia or during this year, during the summer or in the late winter. Of course, this will be explained again by the fact that Plinarro's operating costs are now increased. Well, of course they did when they bought what they didn't need, so of course they did when they bought the gas cube in summer, not in winter, so of course they did when they had to pay back the loan, so of course they did when they had to return the interest on that same loan. Therefore, we call on the government to revise this, to return to what we think is important for the citizens of Croatia, which is to build new capacities and thus increase the security of delivery and not to resuscitate now a company that is no longer largely Croatian-owned and that Croatian citizens have absolutely no use for it.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-23-0.u34112	Thank you. We have one correction to the incorrect allegations of the esteemed representative Krešimir Ćosic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-23-0.u34113	Thank you. Your Honor, Mr. President. In an interesting debate and I would say highly politicized, allow me for a few minor corrections of allegations. We're not doing anything on investment. If you have looked at the loan agreement, the Capex program 143 million kuna is part of an investment in modernization of the environmental warehouse. Investment of 20 million euros. I said 70 million for the takeover plus 20 million Kappex program. That's one thing. The second thing, when we talk about energy security, we must not forget the corridor towards Hungary a very important investment that needs to be provided by almost two PCMs compared to the direction we have towards Slovenia. Second inaccuracy, we'll pay for the INA's stockpiling. That's also incorrect. It should be pointed out that of the 1.7. state-owned company Natural Gas d.o.o. has taken over the supply contracts from the INA. Therefore, we will pay the Croatian state-owned company Natural Gas d.o.o. supplying this warehouse. And now, given the time limit, I have to finish here.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-23-0.u34114	And we're moving on to an individual debate. We have one reported. Dear Representative Slavko Linic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-23-0.u34115	Mr. Vice President, representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues. On page 5 of this document it says very clearly. The problem with the Republic of Croatia is that there is only one gas storage facility in the Republic of Croatia. It also says that in several seasons back that warehouse was insufficient and particularly the problem was seen in the gas year or heating year 2008/2009. And he also says a new location is necessary. These are very clearly written views that say that the wrong move is to buy a warehouse around. The problem of the Republic of Croatia is the second warehouse and the Government of the Republic of Croatia if it wants to solve the problem of the missing amounts of gas and gas security was to enter the new storage facility. That it's the wrong investment talking and the terms of the loan. And these terms of credit we've made the most harmful move for Plinacro. Why the terms of the loan? Well, as you can see, the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development is monitoring most of the projects with over 20 years of lending. What's the credit date here? Six years. You know why six years? So simply because you buy a finished facility and the bank doesn't buy for more than six years, and we need a 20-year loan to build such an extremely important infrastructure facility. If we went to build a warehouse we'd get from that same bank credit for 20 years and we got it for six years. Did either of you go to see Plinar's balance sheet? Do you know what Plinacro means to pay not only 70 million but additional investment of 140 million kuna, so it's somewhere near 90 million euros in six years has to pay off. Do you know what that means for Plinacro? Who's he gonna transfer this investment to? He's got to move on these six years, you know who? Citizens of Croatia who will buy gas, an economy of the Republic of Croatia that must buy gas. 70 or 90 million dollars in six years must be transferred to consumers and we agree that it is a good job. Instead of asking us to have a 20-year loan and then transfer those 20 years to consumers, and that we get it with a new warehouse and of course we have a contract with the INA on delivery and for this warehouse. Who's gonna pay in six years for buying this? Consumers and the economy of Croatia. What are we doing to my people? Where can economics be more competitive? Whatever Croatian economy will now be an exporter when it must pay for such expensive gas. We're going to get too expensive for energy gas precisely because of this loan and then we're wondering who came up with that idea. We are in charge of the security supply of the Croatian market and the basis of the gas market law and the basis of the rules adopted and based on general conditions. And what did he do? Now, by buying this warehouse, he's put the law at risk, implementing the rules, and everything else. He put it at risk. We're going to become too expensive for this kind of credit. But what's further, not only are we going to be expensive now, because we're going to transfer the purchase cost to consumers in six years, but Plinacro is no longer able to look at his balance sheets with these loads to build a new warehouse. Now I'm asking you who's gonna build this new warehouse. We need a new warehouse, so it says in this material. That's how we all know it. Who can build a new warehouse? An over-indebted company with such short repayments? Well, that's impossible to build. So now we're putting ourselves back into addiction to others. There won't be enough gas, we'll need a new warehouse... If anyone can read the balance sheet, it's too huge a burden. [[The speaker is off, you can't hear it.]] And that's why we in the SDP are estimating an incomprehensible move. At the same time, economic growth is problematic, we have a fall. We've got builders who have to go outside to work, we've got equipment that's capable of producing equipment. And instead of $90 million, I apologize to the euro to give for a new investment, hire our construction operation, hire our equipment manufacturers they have nothing to do. Why? Because 90 million we spend on existing installation, the existing infrastructure we already have in the Republic of Croatia. We can't accept that it's a good move and that we're going to solve the problem. No, I don't. You will see what we fear most, new gas prices that will have to come after such a move by the Government of the Republic of Croatia or if there are no new gas prices, by creating new losses to non-marketable business and by not implementing the law on the gas market that we already adopted two years ago. We're always wondering if that's the answer to the still fresh memory of the damage caused by the gas shortage or whether it's the answer to the blurry loss jobs... Some reason must be that the INA is given for a storage facility that is in place in Croatia, which is in operation because it is not decided by the INA. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] This Parliament has defined in the Law of the Gas Market, the Ministry of Rules and General Provisions and under general conditions the INA's behaviour on the storage operations. INA can't do whatever it wants with storage. This is a particularly defined area and legislation and we have regulated it all from this House. Therefore, they can only be in the security function of providing Croatia regardless of whether they are citizens or economies. No matter what. And should not be owned by 100% Plinar in order for the warehouse in the Environment to function as the needs of the Republic of Croatia. We have seen this so far, it has always been in the function of the Republic of Croatia. Whether it could have been more quality in function and that means with far larger volumes filled and that, it's already a problem where we have to talk about Plinar's business. Was Plinarro as the main transporter responsible enough to welcome each season with sufficient amounts of gas in that single warehouse, it was evident that he showed a crisis early this year that he was not responsible for doing these tasks and that he did a number of failures. So the arguments that we have that is simply a good move is impossible to accept. It is a harmful move for the citizens of Croatia and Croatia, especially since it is obvious that gas will no longer be an interesting source of energy in the Republic of Croatia. And it is evident that gas will be very expensive and especially because of this mode of transport.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-23-0.u34116	Thank you. Now we have one correction and we have four replicas. The first is the correction of the incorrect allegations, the esteemed representative Franjo Lucic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-23-0.u34117	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I would correct Mr. Linic's incorrect claim that he said, "And then you will see that after that comes the accumulation of gas and that will be an excuse for all these failures that have been made so far.". Mr. Linic, I know that certain things need to be changed, but that the public needs to be shown how harmful contracts have been made so far, that this government has not kept an account, the public should not be deceived. If we ourselves know that Croatia is a country that still offers its consumers underpriced gas prices today and is not a real price that should really cost, if we know that the price of gas at world level is far different than INA offers today to its consumers. Therefore, we should not deceive the public but be aware that today's price of gas paid by consumers has been greatly reduced and this is exactly what this Croatian Government via INA and those who distributed made sure not to burden its citizens. So let us not be surprised if the price is higher tomorrow, because at the world level today it is the price that is not applicable today in Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-23-0.u34118	Thank you, time. Now we have four replicas. First, he's the esteemed representative of Luke Denon. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-23-0.u34119	Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. You rightly claim that buying this warehouse is a bad job for the Republic of Croatia under this contract and that in fact we will have no more gas or ability to store more gas and thus ensure that we have a safe supply of gas in Croatia in winter when we need it most. The price of gas if all investment is transferred to Plinacro, of course we won't talk, it will certainly be higher no matter how hard some have tried to explain that it won't be. And of course you're wondering, although here in order to pass a law that aims to achieve who, like Plinacro, will certainly not, who will be able to build it, new infrastructure facilities, or new storage facilities for that amount of gas that we need. Well, as things go, there's definitely no more Plinacro, but there's someone out there who's gonna get this money now. MOL may be rebuilding some warehouse in Croatia that another government or this government will buy when conditions are obtained. It's interesting how in this country we're extremely strong when we buy second-hand stuff. So we buy used ships that need to be refurbished, buy second-hand warehouses. And the question is, here, Mr. Cossic, you said it cost 70 million kuna, we're not going to say why it's not 70 million and 200 grand, but it's 70 grand, so 20 million more reconstructions are needed, so I'm not reading now, that's 90. Do we know how much the new warehouse costs? 100. Do we know how much it costs... ? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Could we have built a new warehouse with that loan, so we have two warehouses, and then we can do everything as it says here that the goal that we should achieve is that we have the security of gas supply is really what it is?
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-23-0.u34120	Thank you. Reply to the replica, distinguished representative Slavko Linic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-23-0.u34121	The price is the starting point of a lot of things. When we talk about gas prices, we're not talking about natural gas prices, we're talking about transport because it's a special formula, and it's especially calculating the price of gas transport, and transport and storage, it's a problem that's going to be extremely big because that transport is going to cost a lot. So at the price of natural gas, regardless of whether it's according to the policy of the agreed economy or market economy, it's going to go to the price of transport. This price will have a six-year loan and a six-year return on this money, because simply the competent regulatory authority or the regulator will have to respect such costs. But then that means calling someone else, taking a 20-year loan, and you're gonna have extraordinary profits. Extraordinary profits, because if you make a 20-year contract, you have less expenses, and you'll get more credit, and you'll be able to make a lot more money. It's something that's a problem tomorrow and for the regulator and we don't understand at all what the weight to take care of the cost of transporting energy, because it's an area that the regulator will particularly monitor and it has nothing to do with the price of natural gas and the government's natural gas policy. And of course, there's government policy. Government policy which should have thought about how to increase economic activity, how to enable our societies to build infrastructure facilities for the needs of companies owned by the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-23-0.u34122	Thank you. Now it's the line. Honorable representativeplatimir Mršić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-23-0.u34123	Well, fellow Linic, you have justifiably warned of 143 million Kapex programs. But to be clear enough about what it's going on, so we need to read from the termology in the contract. It is not going to increase capacity, it is going to build three additional sources of injection, one compressor station, a water connection to the main and auxiliary water, etc., etc. So, obviously, as Denona's colleague said, we're buying something that's already very, very useful and we're going to have to do a lot of things with that 143 million kuna to make it environmentally acceptable to be this underground warehouse and, for example, replace a 25 million kuna compression unit. We're buying something that INA itself probably would have to invest in the next few years to function in the new warehouse at all. We're going to have to do this obviously from Plinarro's income, because that 143 million is not part of this contract, and Plinacrou obviously won't be a problem because last year, with the beginning of last year, he increased the transport price by 10%, or by 8 lips per cubic. So, all he'll need is to build on the transport price, including repairs for... and an increase in the safety and betrayal of an existing underground warehouse where no single cubic can be printed inside, the only rate of impression and sucking will be greater. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-23-0.u34124	Thank you. Replica reply, distinguished representative Slavko Linic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-23-0.u34125	I agree with my colleague Mršić that we do not have an increase in the value or ability to store natural gas in the environment for the simple reason that neither 70m euros in credit nor additional investments needed do not go into capacity building. Simply, it's a more quality use of an existing object and it's, I'd say, a requirement of environmental standards. We must also be aware that INA would certainly do the same, because the regulator that exercises the power regulation authority is the one who would also make such demands before the INA. Therefore, these are burdens that will cause Plinacrou to increase prices, and on the other hand the great inability of Plinacro to enter a new investment.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-23-0.u34126	Thank you. And now we have a replica of the distinguished representative of Dragutin Lesar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-23-0.u34127	Thank you very much. Dear fellow Linic, you have well noticed that by buying this warehouse Croatia will not have more gas storage capacity, but if I am not mistaken, there is another problem. The European Energy Policy provides for the Member States of the European Union to have a storage facility for gas that meets at least 20% of annual needs. Probably because Italy has 80% stored reserves of annual consumption, Germany 24, and Croatia is with this one one small and not 600 million capacity but 550 Environments, perhaps 12.13%. This money will be beaten to death that what was yesterday was ours again be ours and nothing more than that. And I hear that our negotiators in Brussels are looking for a transitional period for Croatia to have this 20 % storage condition, the gas storage capacity only achieves in 2020, not in 2012, when we should but in '20. Because this 70 million will be spent on it. Now, this may also fit my eternal dilemma as to why Croatia was no longer interested in the southern flow of the pipeline passing through Croatia. Namely, Slovenians and all neighbours fought with their hands and legs to get the pipeline south, Croatia neither. So I answer to myself, isn't it because maybe it's a coincidence that the owner of the INA, Gazprom, is no longer the INA owner, Gazprom owns the INA, because they own MOL, Russia, no. By chance, he didn't think of opening up a capacity storage facility in the Fericans, how much did his colleague Mršić say, a billion cubic metres? Isn't that maybe, the Fericans and another underground warehouse, the reason why we buy what we have out of only 550 million capacities and don't build any cubic or spatial meters of new capacities? I'm convinced the HDZ colleagues are right.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-23-0.u34128	Time!
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-23-0.u34129	If this contract...
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-23-0.u34130	Time! Thank you. And a reply to the replica, distinguished representative Slavko Linic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-23-0.u34131	Comrade Lesar, it is difficult to open on the energy strategy in the Republic of Croatia, because as you know we seem to have had a proposal in addition today and this is a topic we will probably speed up in the next two days, so I would say in the second reading. Therefore, then we will open a story about what gas roads are, which I would say are energy sources in the Republic of Croatia, which is the terminal in Omislje. Therefore, too many undefined things which are saddened because Europe has been dealing only with energy in the last five years, and as you can see about energy policy, we as a Parliament are going to discuss in a few days, probably hidden at night. Because what to say about the document that should have been discussed three or four years ago for Croatia to be more energy independent because it has sources of energy in the Republic of Croatia as well. In fact, if you remember, the Prime Minister's proposal on the work programme for 4 years was the weakest part just energy and energy sources in the Republic of Croatia. The prime minister has promised to fix it, but as we can see, the second year of office, we will only now discuss energy policy. And when we talk about another gas warehouse, it was supposed to be a priority, another gas storage facility and Plinacro was supposed to only be engaged at another warehouse so it wouldn't be 2020, it would probably be a long time ago.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-23-0.u34132	Thank you. And the 4th replica, the esteemed representative Krešimir Ćosic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-23-0.u34133	So here, allow the replica, and it might be a correction, but here, every debate is welcome to this very important topic. Mr. Linic, you said Plinacro wouldn't be able to repay the loan. This is the income balance, expenditure which clearly shows that Plinacro is able to repay that loan and that Plinacro will be able to repay that loan because ultimately European Bank of Reconstruction and Development experts have assessed the risks of that credit and in view of the balance, given the revenues, they have estimated that the risk of repayment by Plinacroa is minimal. Therefore, let us not exaggerate in some claims because only now through this project, as well as through a number of other projects to build corridors towards Hungary, LNG and many other projects that are on the Croatian Government's agenda give us the right to expect that the energy gas security of the Republic of Croatia will be much more certain and better in the future than it was just months ago. Therefore, the Plinacro balance sheet shows that Plinacro is still a healthy company to service such credit obligations regardless of whether it is a loan for 6 or 10 years. There are certain reasons justifiable why this arrangement has been made between Plinacro and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-23-0.u34134	Replica reply, distinguished representative Slavko Linic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-23-0.u34135	Comrade Cossic, I agree that... He's got great professionals. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And they're convinced they'll be able to repay the loan. You know why? Because the regulatory body will have to admit to repaying the loan in six years. He'll have to confess. That's what we'll pay for in 20 years, in six years. But, you know, they still made sure because they say if the state loops and protects, protects the price and doesn't allow the regulatory body to do its job, then the state will pay by guarantee. Well, you see, with all the confidence that the institutions of market protection and games will work, they've still secured themselves, and that's why we're arguing today because we have to give a guarantee if our government doesn't accidentally release the games and we don't pay this expensive project in just six years. And what I also want to say very clearly, the biggest problem of Plinacro is a new investment, will not be able to enter a new investment because they are over-indebted at 6 years of age. A new investment, and we need a new storage facility for the security of gas supply.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-23-0.u34136	Thank you. Does the proposaler's representative want to take the floor? Yeah. Dear Miljenko Pavlakovic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-23-0.u34137	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the Assembly, here I will try to answer your questions briefly, if I've managed to catch everything, I can see that it's been enough. Firstly, I think it should be noted that by just buying a warehouse by the state-owned company Plinarro we will allow that exactly investments in the future to happen and to build these additional capacities because one of the reasons why it goes into purchase is that the INA precisely because of the long-term return on capital was not interested in investing in the restoration of infrastructure in Okol. The state-owned company Plinacro will also increase the security of supply, address the issues around it, and will first and foremost move towards building around 2. And when we ask why the Government of the Republic of Croatia must today be a guarantee and why it goes into purchase, back 50% or we get 100% property on the Environment. I have to remember that in 2002, the Government of the Republic of Croatia failed to isolate from the INA at the time Plinacro was singled out, she missed out on the Environment. This failure today means that in 2009, we are correcting a mistake in the only possible way to buy back what was supposed to be in Croatian ownership, which was supposed to be singled out of INA at that time in 2002 to have, in accordance with European practice, with most of our neighbouring countries owned, a state-owned company of one such. The price under which it is bought today is lower than the market price and that is more than 50% lower because prices are known in all neighbouring countries of such facilities so that when we talk about the price, it is not that marketable, it is in any case still below. As for the employees themselves who work in the warehouse around here today, everyone at the takeover will be taken over by Plinarro, will become employees or become employees of Plinacro without interruptions in their labour contracts, meaning around the workforce capacity itself, I think that each discussion is too high, given that Plinacro will take over the entire people who are there today and employees in the warehouse around. As for Plinarro's very price and repayment of credit obligations, what is seen is also in the balance sheet that Plinacro can and is able to service this 70m-euro loan according to all risk-free estimates. This is what the Bank itself, their experts have shown, because I am sure that no one should be convinced that the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development or any other bank would certainly not be giving credit funds without being sure of the possibility of returning those within the deadlines provided for there. As for the return and the self-priced prices of gas for our citizens, for our economy. You are all aware that the government of the Republic of Croatia determines the very prices of tariffs, so you will certainly take care of both the competitiveness of our economy and the effect, the potential effect that something like this purchase can have on our households. I note again that by buying the warehouse around is regarding the security of gas supply of the Republic of Croatia in the future period it is necessary and only possible at this time to make sure that we ourselves will be able to secure certain quantities of gas in the safest possible way. This is why additional investment is going automatically, along with the restoration of infrastructure in the Environment. And I repeat de facto correcting the 2002 government mistake that she failed to single out only the gas warehouse around the time Plinacro was singled out. It should also not be forgotten that the moment of the INA extraction of Plinacro was started just then by a strong development of the transport system of gas. And it will certainly result in additional capacity building, the possibility of a secure supply of gas for the Republic of Croatia and the safe supply of gas for each of our economic operators and for each of our households. Here, I hope I tried briefly to answer your questions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-23-0.u34138	Thank you. And now we have four corrections of incorrect allegations again. First is the distinguished representative Slavko Linic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-23-0.u34139	I'm correcting the claim that INA wouldn't invest in the quality work of the Environment. We seem to forget that we have a market law, that we have regulations and that we have general conditions. By yesterday, the law made it clear who runs the gas storage system and under what conditions, both rules and other INA documents are prescribed. And the truth is INA doesn't decide, our regulators decide. But you see, we forget it. INA doesn't have what you don't. Because it's a market regulated by law and it's the responsibility of regulators. ... He keeps looking for an apology in the former coalition government. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Gentlemen of Plinocro's separation wasn't just paper. Tax bonds of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-23-0.u34140	Dear Representative, it's hot, and it's a correction. It's not a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-23-0.u34141	Correction.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-23-0.u34142	No, this is more like a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-23-0.u34143	Correcting. Tax bonds paid for the separation of Plinacro shares... paid. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-23-0.u34144	It's time. Thank you. I'd like to pray that we stick to the weather, because I noticed that you've all started biting a little bit. The second is the honourable representative of the town of Zvonimir Mršić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-23-0.u34145	So I would correct two incorrect allegations. So, in 2002, the government failed to single out the INA environment because it was intended to build new ones, not to single out these old ones. Plinacro was due to build a new gas storage facility to increase gas supply safety in the Republic of Croatia. And the Government of the Republic of Croatia did not miss doing it but Plinacro had failed to do or implement the investment plan that the government had made. And two. You didn't buy this for a price lower than the market, because for these money you could build a new storage facility much higher capacity, not what we bought so raubanically.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-23-0.u34146	Dear Representative Vladimir Ivković, correction of the incorrect allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-23-0.u34147	I am correcting the incorrect allegations that the government has failed to isolate the warehouse in a way that the coalition government has sold the warehouse along with the INA. That's the real truth, and now he's complaining about why we have to re-sell what she sold. We have to buy for it, because in this winter season, the value of stock management was seen. INA didn't bother to secure the supplies. It's all taken over by the state and the state has to have mechanisms. And one of the mechanisms is the warehouse to ensure a warm winter.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-23-0.u34148	And the final correction of the incorrect quote, the esteemed representative Nenad Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-23-0.u34149	You say Plinarro will certainly be able to service a 70m-euro loan. So you wouldn't be giving that kind of money to someone who couldn't get it back. That's what you said. You're being denied the bill. Because in this bill of law, how Plinacro will be able to repay, for which is the government's guarantee, so why does the Parliament confirm that the government will pay back that money?
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-23-0.u34150	What's the correction?
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-23-0.u34151	From the state budget.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-23-0.u34152	Your Honor, what's the correction? You haven't corrected it.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-23-0.u34153	He'll be able to come back. Don't interrupt me, Vice President.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-23-0.u34154	I need you, if you're not correcting an incorrect quote.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-23-0.u34155	I'm correcting the assumption that Plinacro will be able to return. If they can come back, then what's the government's guarantee? So why this law. Well, this law is passed just because the EBRD suspects Plinacro will.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-23-0.u34156	No, Your Honor. It's not a correction to an incorrect quote.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-23-0.u34157	And what is it if it's not a correction? But you obviously don't like the vice president here listening to the corrections that mean the truth, so you interrupt the MPs and don't let him have... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-23-0.u34158	I'm sorry, I don't mind what you're saying, but all you have to do is talk to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-23-0.u34159	I was just talking to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-23-0.u34160	You haven't corrected an incorrect quote. Thank you very much. Your time is up. Let's move on. I'm closing the debate. And we'll vote when the voting conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-23-0.u34161	Final proposal for a law confirming the Guarantee Treaty between the Republic of Croatia and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development for the Gas Storage Project Plinacro, emergency procedure, P.Z. No. 370, the proposer of the law is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. I am voting on the Final Proposal for a Law confirming the Guarantee Treaty between the Republic of Croatia and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development for the Gas Storage Project Plinarro. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? The proposal for a law confirming the contract was adopted by a majority of 72 votes in favour, no abstentions and 28 against.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-23-0.u34162	And we move to the 9th point of the agenda, which is - Proposed law on the confirmation of the guarantee agreement between the Republic of Croatia and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development for the "Renewing of the River Transport Direction" project with the Final Proposal for the Emergency Procedure Act, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 368 The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You received the proposal by mail. On the occasion of the agenda, we accepted the proposal from the Proposer to discuss this legislative proposal in an urgent procedure. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the The Registrar's emergency procedure combines the first and second readings. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate, Article 164. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Maritime Affairs, Transport and Communications. You received the reports at the session. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Dear Branimir Jerneic, State Secretary at the Ministry of the Sea, Transport and Infrastructure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-23-0.u34163	Honorable Vice President of the Parliament, distinguished MPs and MPs. We have before us a law that, in the shortest lines, confirms the loan guarantee between the Rijeka port administration and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, aimed at implementing a project to restore the river transport direction 2 known to the public, in the media as a project Rijeka-Getaway 2. The river road reconstruction project aims to increase the competitiveness of Rijeka as a port city strategically located at the beginning of 5B corridors. The project will modernise strategic port facilities, increase the efficiency of the private sector in the port, improve the financial operations of Luka Rijeka and Rijeka's port administration and manage the quality of the city of Rijeka. It will be freed by moving and building, building existing and building new container terminals and urban part of the life of the city of Rijeka. The project has three components in it. This is the development of port terminals, the improvement of port services and the implementation of the project for the total amount of this investment is 88 million euros, in Croatian currency it is 640 million kuna, of which the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development will co-finance the amount of 610 million kuna, while the component of the Croatian budget is 30 million kuna. The loan agreement between the Rijeka port administration and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development as well as the Treaty on Guarantee between the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development and the Government of the Republic of Croatia was signed on 17 April this year. I will continue to try to give a few short arguments in terms of the amount of traffic and transported containers which are an additional argument for the adoption of this law. The total capacity of North-Adriatic ports Koper, Trieste and Rijeka is somewhere around 770 thousand tonnes, their estimated quantity of cargo units as their total capacity where we total in 2007 in all three ports means traffic of 720 thousand TEUa is achieved. The port of Rijeka itself has registered a good result here where since 2002, with 15 thousand containers traffic in Rijeka's port has increased almost to its nominal capacity of 150 thousand containers since 2007. I must point out that in 2006, transport that was planned as the transport of Rijeka in 2003 was transferred to the port of Rijeka. This is one of the basic arguments why it is necessary to move in this direction and continue with the Rijeka-Getaway project 2. I also have to mention several numbers of Rijeka port work in scattered burdens from 2002 to 2002 increased by 100% from 2.8 to 5.6 million tonnes over a five-year period. Travel in Rijeka's port grew by 44% for 2007. From the load movement described, it is clear that within the shortest time period, the Rijeka-Getaway 2 project will need to be launched, which will increase the capacity of the existing Brajdica terminal for an additional 220 thousand containers by 2011 and fully build and train 100 metres of Zagreb coast from 400 metres of Zagreb coast throughout the project, which will mean a total new capacity of 225 thousand containers by 2014. So, with a total of 150 thousand containers that Rijeka port is ready to accept and dispatch today, we would be able to reach a total capacity of 575 thousand containers in 2014. For the end, just one brief simple illustration. One euro or one dollar worth of goods in a container for the national economy produce 7 euros or 7 dollars of effect. So, if we increase the capacity of Rijeka's port from today's 150 thousand containers that we make to 575 thousand containers here, the financial effects are very clear for preserving jobs in Rijeka's port but also for growth of the economy, for preserving new jobs with road carriers and with railway carriers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-23-0.u34164	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. First, on behalf of the HDZ Club, a respected representative, Vesna Buterin, is on behalf of the HDZ club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-23-0.u34165	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Secretary of State with an associate, fellow Members and fellow MPs. The Croatian Democratic Community's representative club supports the proposal for a law confirming the Treaty on Guarantee between the Republic of Croatia and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development for the River Transport direction 2 Reconstruction Project with the final proposal for the law. The International Bank for Reconstruction and Development is the most important international financial institution for the Republic of Croatia, which continuously supports economic and social development and reforms on the way to the market economy. Financial support and the overall role of the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development shall be adapted to the need for reconstruction, construction of infrastructure, structural adjustment and development of the Republic of Croatia. The significant financial resources of the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development of the Republic of Croatia benefit from investment and structural loans under the most favourable financial conditions that this bank achieves on the international financial market. The Republic of Croatia's cooperation with this bank has a great deal of financial not only but also broader meaning for maintaining macroeconomic stability, achieving sustainable and accelerated economic growth and meeting the conditions for approaching the European Union. The International Bank for Reconstruction and Development approved 44 loans in the Republic of Croatia, of which 30 direct and 14 loans with a state guarantee amounting to $1.87 billion and 51 gifts worth $72m. Rijeka port is the largest port in the Adriatic and the most important port in the Republic of Croatia and the Rijeka traffic route is the most traffic in the whole country. It is a traditional port connecting the Central and Eastern European mainland with the overseas market. The loan for the River Traffic Recovery Project totalling 137.6m euros was signed on 12 July 2003. The project aims to help increase the competitiveness of the Croatian economy by improving the international traffic flow across Rijeka. The funds will finance the modernisation of the port and the revitalisation of that part of the city and the road access to the port. The Rijeka Road Recovery Project covers three loans, which are a loan for Rijeka's port administration worth just over $55m. Furthermore, a 72m-euro loan for Croatian roads is a 15.7m-euro loan for Croatian highways. In addition to modernising the port area, the loan provides for the construction of road roads towards Rijeka Luka and the purchase of the necessary port equipment. The renovation and modernisation of the port area includes the modernisation of the terminal for general cargo, the movement of the wood terminal from Delta and Portobara and the development of the nautical and passenger terminal. In line with the decision of the Government of the Republic of Croatia to initiate the procedure for the conclusion of a guarantee agreement between the Republic of Croatia and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development for a project of reconstruction of the River Transport direction 2 and, in accordance with the decision to grant consent for the conclusion of a loan agreement between the port administration of Rijeka and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, the contracts for the guarantee and the loan for a project to restore the Rijeka Transport Direction 2 have been signed in Rijeka, which are also confirmed by this law that we are discussing. The River Road Recovery Project 2 is a continuation of the 2003 project aimed at increasing the competitiveness of Rijeka as a port city strategically located at the start of the 5b transport corridor which is one of the longest pan-European traffic routes. The programme will modernise strategic port facilities, increase the involvement of the private sector in the port, improve the financial operations of Rijeka's port administration, and improve the quality of life of the port city while better integrate Rijeka into international transport corridors. More specifically, the project will allow further development of the port's capacity by expanding the existing Brajdica container terminal and building a new container of Zagreb terminal so that large modern container ships can be accepted. The project will also further improve the financial business and quality of services in Rijeka Luka. Furthermore, the project will allow the development of the urban part of the city by moving port activities from the Delta and Portobarus area to urban areas. By signing a guarantee agreement with the World Bank, the Croatian government continues to support the economic development of Rijeka, whose port is declared a port of strategic importance for the Republic of Croatia. The reason for the new loan and investment priorities is precisely the increase in the transport of Rijeka port and financial stability. Therefore, the priority components of the project, as I have already pointed out, are building port terminals of Brajdice and Zagreb coast. The priority was therefore given, the capacity to cover the container, primarily the Brajdica container terminal, which includes the extension of the existing container terminal and then the construction of the Zagreb coast in full profile, and most of the loans relate precisely to the construction of these 70m euros terminals. The second component of the project concerns improving the level of supply of port services such as professional services, supporting concessions for selected terminals, integration, information flows, environmental protection and the implementation of master plans, which will be the ultimate level of modernisation in line with the May trends in the market, making Rijeka’s strategic position even stronger on world maritime maps. The third and last component of the project is project implementation. This component includes supervision of construction works, audit services and provision, support in the procurement process and in the management of the project. The project, the Getaway River programme is not exclusively intended for the construction and modernisation of the port but is designed to support the Croatian economy in order to make it more dynamic and competitive. The programme will also increase the attractiveness of Rijeka, the balancing of urban development, connecting with the corridor and the development of ports. The river is strategically positioned in one of the important European transport corridors, both as a port and as a tourist and business centre. Rijeka is the largest international seaport in Croatia and is located in the only container terminal in the country and it is now offering the shortest land road to cities such as Budapest and Belgrade. The total project costs associated with the realisation of these three components, which I have previously cited, are thus the development of port terminals, improvement of port services and implementation of the project including the cost of fees and interest during construction, were estimated at around 88m euros. Of which the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development is financing 84m euros while the share of the Republic of Croatia's budget amounts to 4m euros. The loan is approved for 23 years, where a start of 10 years is included. This project, along with the fact that it is expected to create new 2000 jobs, contributes to the economic and all the development of Rijeka, the Primorje-Gorski County and, of course, the Republic of Croatia. That is why I would like to stress once again that the Croatian Democratic Community Representatives' Club gives full support to this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-23-0.u34166	Thank you. We're moving on to an individual debate. The first is the Honorable representative of Gary Capelli's office.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-23-0.u34167	Dear Vice President, representatives of the ministry. Therefore, this Law confirming the guarantee agreement between the Republic of Croatia and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development for the Rijeka Transport direction 2 Reconstruction Project is in fact a guarantee agreement between the Republic of Croatia and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, therefore, for the Rijeka Transport direction project 2. The way in which financial commitments can therefore be settled for the Republic of Croatia as a guarantee under the guarantee agreement and the power to implement the contract is prescribed. So, we know enough about the Rijeka port and that the largest port on the Adriatic and the most important port of the Republic of Croatia and the Rijeka transport route is the most vital soland-sea traffic direction of the country. The legislation of the Republic of Croatia has just sorted the port of Rijeka into a port of particular economic importance and granted it the status of port open to international public transport and the planning of investment of port development basics for successful development not only of Rijeka port but of its entire hinterland. After 10 years of crisis, caused by the disintegration of the former state of Rijeka d.d. started the process of modernising and revitalising its business. The process was supported by decisions and investments by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the local community, and other than domestic investment played an important role in the process of resuscitating port operations, foreign investments that have a tendency to growth in the past few years. Efforts to implement the restructuring and development plan will finalise the World Bank loan project, and investment in infrastructure and transport systems by the Government of the Republic of Croatia will allow a faster, more favourable and more efficient way of transporting goods. With the aim of creating a competitive advantage, Rijeka Port offers a competitive tariff system, a fast and quality service, a comparative logistics advantage of the river transport route by developing a multimedia transport network and excellent overload capacity. The inclusion of Croatian corridors in the trans-European road network is a prerequisite for further development and expansion of business activities, as it is the shortest and most economical way to connect Europe with the Mediterranean and the whole world. The project to restore the Rijeka transport direction 2 is the continuation of the 2003 river transport direction project aimed at increasing the competitiveness of Rijeka as a port city, strategically located at the start of the 5B transport corridor and one of the most important pan-European traffic routes. The project of modernising the Rijeka port and roads is a very complex project. In addition to modernising and restructureing the port, the project includes the construction of the eastern part of the Rijeka bypass from Orehovica to Križišće, the combined road so Draga-Brajdica, the Chavel-Kristje joint road and rehabilitation if we can say so on the island of Krk bridge. Time Rijeka, but also a wider region, gets a quality connection on the Rijeka-Zagreb-Budapest highway, which is part of European transport corridors. Such a project should solve the biggest problems of the river transport node. This project in the western part of the river basin provides for the construction of a multi-purpose container terminal for wood-general loads. The River Gateway project envisions financing and building so the first 250 meters from a total of 600 metres of new coast. By building an additional 600 metres of coast at the end of the coast, there will be a length of about 1200 meters and will therefore be around 300 thousand square meters of new surfaces. Therefore, in order to adequately connect the newly built coast to the Rijeka bypass, i.e. to the main roads towards Zagreb, Ljubljana and Dalmatia, construction of a new D403 connecting road is planned in the distance of approximately 2 km. By building this new road which is practically now and at the end of D404, through the area of Brajdice, which will directly connect the container terminal and the entire port pool to the Rijeka bypass, i.e. the main road routes, so for Ljubljana, Zagreb and Dalmatia. The total cost of this project, as we can see in the materials, has been estimated at 88m euros with this guarantee agreement at 84m euros, the repayment period is 23 years and 10 years, and the rest of the 4m euros represents the share of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. As the loan will therefore be available for use immediately after the contract and this law, when it enters into force, we consider it justified that this bill is discussed and accepted by an emergency procedure, thus uniting the first and second readings. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-23-0.u34168	Thank you. And distinguished representative Jerko Roshin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-23-0.u34169	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. A colleague from the government, a colleague and a colleague. I have called for a debate with the desire to support the proposal for a law on the confirmation of a guarantee agreement between the Republic of Croatia and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development for the "Renovation of River Transport 2" project on the grounds that I consider it to be a very good contract and that this treaty confirms the government's desire to still suffer from afirmation of an economy that can occur on the coast itself, but also to draw attention to the fact that a certain economy that can already be held today, in some way, escapes or could escape across the borders of Croatia to neighbouring countries of Slovenia and Italy, and that it is a real shame that certain benefits that can be achieved and not be realised. Coming from a large port town, from Split, onion problems and port conditions are very well known to me. Development that we were not prepared for almost surprised us with the amount of traffic that can be achieved in Split as regards personal traffic, transport of passengers in Rijeka with cargo. The importance of ports for the Croatian economy and even strategically is very high. The significance of this project has already been said on several occasions, so I would not stress all those values of the River Gateway restoration, the creation of the new nearly 500 seems to me a total of two locations of the binding space. What I'd like to point out in particular is only two facts. One is the fact that this is a very financially significant project which is mostly financed between the Bank for Reconstruction and Development, so out of the total value of the project 88 million, 84 are financed outwards, 4 are on the burden of the state, but 84 are still guaranteed, therefore such a contract exists in the Croatian state. I hope that the business of these new facilities will justify these investments and that these investments will be economical, that they will be able to bring themselves back. The second motive in all of this together is highlighted and something we're going to face hopefully, God forbid it's in that... The light of great traffic, that perhaps the Rijeka aquarium will not be enough for a transport that will be able to develop in the area and that it will probably need to look for some new locations like Krk, where the excess of that traffic itself that the Rijeka itself will not be able to overcome would need to be solved there. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So at this point in addition to realising this, it's worth considering a wider space to see how he can accept in the future. But at the same time, it proves how justified it is in this sort of thing as a solution to the problems of the river is quite justified. A similar situation is also happening in Split where the maritime traffic of passengers as a third port in the Mediterranean is reflected in the immediate future in the port itself will not be consummated as a whole, so an analysis should also be made to activate the northern side of the Split peninsula, but also the entire Kaštelan Bay and also new berths outside the existing harbor for the reception of cruises, but also for faster traffic with islands. Such a bill should be supported in any case because I think it represents a general good for all of Croatia, not just for Rijeka. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-23-0.u34170	Thank you. I'm closing the debate and we'll vote when we get the necessary conditions.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-23-0.u34171	Sixthly, the Final Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Guarantee Treaty between the Republic of Croatia and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development for a Rehabilitation Project of the River Transport Direction 2, emergency procedure, P.Z. No. 368, the proposer of the law is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. I am voting on the Final Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Treaty on Guarantee between the Republic of Croatia and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development for a Rehabilitation of River Transport 2. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? This final bill was passed by a majority vote with 96 votes in favour, 1 abstention and 1 against.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-23-0.u34172	We're going to the 10th point of the agenda. This is - Proposal for a Law on the Protection of Competition, with the Final Bill, the Emergency Procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 364 Proposer of the Law is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You received the proposal by mail. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Rules of Procedure. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the Rules of Procedure, an emergency procedure unites the first and second readings of the law. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate, Article 164. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on European Integration and the Committee on Economic Affairs. You received the reports at the session. The amendments were submitted by the Legislative Committee. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Dear Tamara Obradović Mazal, State Secretary at the Ministry of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-23-0.u34173	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament. The current Competition Protection Act as we know it in the last decade is indeed one of the crucial, important, important laws governing our market and the conditions under which entrepreneurs operate on the market. Of course, this law is precisely because of the importance and freedom, but of course the rules in which our entrepreneurs operate, is a key backbone and our negotiations for membership in the European Union, in particular Chapter 8 – Market competition and state support and that segment and the legal framework itself, as well as the legal practice of the Agency for the Protection of Competition follow and develop legal gains in this part. So far, we can say that the current system we know has produced quite good results, but a small part of the law violations that has been established in its previous practice by the Competition Protection Agency has only been sanctioned as far as the proceedings are concerned by the infringement courts themselves. In particular, during only one-year period, the agency has found that there are approximately 100 cases of violations of the law, while the penalties imposed, respectively, amounted to only one million kuna, although the law itself stipulates that in the case of serious infringements of the law, when it comes to the conclusion of prohibited agreements in the context of the abuse of the ruling position on the market, the suspended penalty may also amount to up to 10% of the total income of the punisher. Such a result in the application of the law itself, of course, raises the question and justification of the regulator itself, which is established to control the behaviour of entrepreneurs on the market, whose decisions, both in relation to the relationship and number of penalties imposed, can, of course, be proportionate to their height. In this segment and starting from the legal practice of the Member States of the European Union as well as the development of legal gains throughout this year, it is also proposed that, in this draft proposal for a law, the European Commission, which itself has the opportunity to impose fines for infringements of competition rules, obtain one such power from the competition agency and further draw closer to the legal practice of the Member States of the European Union in this institutional segment of the application of the Law on the Protection of Competition. For example, only one regulator with regard to punishments yearly prevents a fine of 2 to 3 billion euros, which is then direct income and a state budget. In this segment, this law proposes extending the Agency's powers and in that part of law enforcement. Also, the current practice and decision-making and of course decision-making of the Agency for the Protection of Competition from the decision on the scale and decision of the level of impediment, we had several paths, legal routes of jurisdiction of different, indeed different, really competent courts which in this case acted from the municipal to the High Criminal Court and the Commercial Court, as well as the Administrative Court of Justice, of course. In most Member States, and for reasons of existence and legal certainty and traceability of the procedure, what we propose by this law is also the jurisdiction of one court to decide on the legality of the decisions of the competition authority, i.e. the decision of the AZTN itself and the height of the penalties imposed in the first degree. This, we hold, will be ensured, as I have also said, the follow-up of the legal procedure, but also the effectiveness of the legal system of decision-making under the AZTN decisions and the level of penalties prevented, as well as the application of the Institute of Liberation, i.e. the reduction of penalties imposed on participants, for example cartel agreements, will allow for the possibility, in exchange for information on the existence of cartels and the supply of evidence, to obtain a full or partial exemption from the fine imposed. In order to ensure the consistency of the Croatian competition protection system with the acquis in further stages, in order to enable further success of the negotiations in Chapter 8 – Market competition, we have approached the creation of a new law focusing on the present circumstances, which we propose to change and in this segment we hope to improve the effectiveness of the existing system, that those entrepreneurs who directly violate freedom of competition and take advantage of their monopoly position on the market will be penalised accordingly, and that they make it impossible to develop competition, the competitiveness of the economy in the Croatian market. By narrowing down all the novels that we're proposing by this bill, they can sort of split into four backbones. On the one hand, the authority of the Agency for the Protection of Competition for the resumption of an administrative penalty is therefore extended, i.e. a fine for law enforcement offenders, according to the entrepreneur, not according to the natural person. Introducing an institute we've never had before, so-called ... the programme, i.e. the repentance programme for those participants... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] an agreement which, in exchange for the release or reduction of the fines, offers evidence of existence, i.e. the organisation of the cartel. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The jurisdiction of the Administrative Court of the Republic of Croatia for the control of decisions has been extended... and also reviewing the levels of prohibited penalties, as well as the introduction of a series of solutions from the existing legal gains of the European Union to ensure effective and effective competition among entrepreneurs, and thus a greater benefit for the Croatian economy as a whole. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The draft law was also agreed with the European Commission in the part where both direct and legal gains were taken over, and in this segment the European Commission welcomed the effort made to draft this bill. I also thank the committees for the discussion and the amendments I believe will improve the quality of the proposed draft. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-23-0.u34174	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. And first it's the clubs. On behalf of the SDP Club, Honorable Representative Gordan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-23-0.u34175	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Madam Secretary of State with co-workers, colleagues and fellow MPs. Let me begin by saying that the SDP Representatives' Club will support the amendments to this law in the sense that protecting competition in Croatia will be more effective. When we look at the situation that is in Croatia today. Today in Croatia you feel like there is no breach of competition or they are undetectable. Great entrepreneurs in Croatia, what we see every day, do not think to violate the rules of competition. They do not use their leading position on the market, there are no horizontal cartel agreements, there are no illicit concentrations. This is what we can draw from when we see daily what is happening in Croatia. What do we conclude? So from the fact that in the last 5 years in Croatia, according to market behaviour and competition violations, the rules of competition have been charged only 1 million kunas of penalties from entrepreneurs in Croatia. Of course, the situation is not such and, of course, in Croatia, entrepreneurs are using their positions and, of course, we do not have adequate legislation in Croatia so far that would allow them to happen in Croatia, such as when, for example, the European Commission punishes Microsoft with 200 million euros. There are no such penalties in Croatia. In Croatia, entrepreneurs can now do as they please. And we hope this law changes that situation. Like I said, so the Competition Protection Agency has only reported about 100 cases in the last 5 years. I'm, we've analyzed these situations and quite often it's about sometimes insignificant violations of competition, although it's about sanctioning, but great players, big fish, are often left with what's being said... Usually in that network, the Competition Protection Agency finds small small entrepreneurs or sometimes they find themselves more serious entrepreneurs, but they pass with a penalty such as a recommendation, a condition, do something in two years and then we no longer know if anything has changed. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And do I say in Croatia big entrepreneurs break the rules of the game and does the Agency in any way try to sanction them in the context of their powers so far? Let us remember the example when one of our large retail chains was thrown out of one dairy industry just because the dairy industry did not inform the retail chain that it had sold to another entrepreneur. So overnight her products from the shelves of those shops disappeared. Is that the use of a ruling position on the market? I think so. Remember the contract of the same retail house, the largest in Croatia, where suppliers were obliged to fill the shelves with their products. Are these contracts that may not be allowed, which are not common on the market and where is the framework of what is market-licensed? I think so. Let's listen to the manufacturer's little complaints about not paying off that leading retail chain and looking, watch this, even extra rebates if you want us to pay you what's already in the currency. Here, we'll pay you, but give us extra rebate. Is this a violation of the leading and ruling position on the market? We think so. And do we have any sanctions and reports of agencies for such biggest entrepreneurs in Croatia who would have to set an example of behaviour? We don't. And then we cannot be satisfied with the situation that is happening in Croatia today as regards the protection of competition, the protection of entrepreneurs and the end of consumers. And that's why we're a little bit skeptical whether these changes and greater powers to the agency will be adequate. Whether they will contribute to the Agency's intervention and to those slightly larger entrepreneurs, including the largest, most powerful, most influential in Croatia and bring them into order and make them behave according to the rules that are normal everywhere in the world. If one Microsoft can pay such penalties, Croatia should also not be untouchable, and unfortunately we see that there are these today. And that's why I'm saying that we're a little skeptical and we're voting for him whether the agency will, within its powers, punish those for whom they should be punished. And will they even process them if they are going to carry out the actions they are supposed to carry out? If we're gonna have a little more concentration, I'm a little sorry, but I have to pick the biggest one. When the agency allows the merger of two retail chains by one of the largest in Croatia, the other by selling the press, I will argue that it is not the same industry. But then go to any store in that retail chain of press and you'll see that out of 200 items or 300 items, 150 is from the shelf of that retail chain. And whether the agency has authority and whether the agency can even be called upon to file 100 applications in the last five years, and only here are a million fines brought by the court. Unfortunately, we in Croatia must have adequate legislation, but we must have an agency that will use its powers to ultimately protect entrepreneurs in Croatia so that they can do normal business and that our economy will ultimately benefit from this legislation and this agency. In the end, I will say that of course it should not be skeptical, it should always be believed that it will be all the way it is imagined and should be believed that the agency and these biggest entrepreneurs in Croatia will be in line. But in criminal terms and penalties, which the State Secretary also mentioned, these provisions are a lot of 'let's say variable. So when you say you can punish someone up to 10%, in some cases it can be 300, 400, 500 million kuna. There will be enormous pressure on the Agency's work because it does not matter to punish someone for such violations as I have said and which we consider to be serious violations of the market rules of conduct. Are you going to punish someone with 5 million kunas, and then consciously continue to do so, or are you going to punish him with 10% of his income, which can be 400,500 million kuna, which is then serious and that no one will ever think of doing such things again. We believe that the agency still has a lot of work to do to bring its authority to the level to which it must have to implement such a law where it can and directly punish the entrepreneur, but it is a story for the Agency's work report and we will discuss it then. Finally, I support this law, and we will hope that Croatia will, in these standards, not only by examples as I have told Europeans, be in these standards, but that the situation will really improve and that certain entrepreneurs will not be able to allow the things they allow themselves today in Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-23-0.u34176	Thank you. Now it's on behalf of the HDZ club, distinguished representative Dragan Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-23-0.u34177	Dear Mr. Vice President, Madam Secretary of State, colleagues and fellow MPs. We have before us the Law on the Protection of Competition, which continues the process of harmonising our legislation with the European Union. The process we have begun with the Stabilisation Association Agreement and it is certain that in other European Union countries it will be continuously and complemented and improved. In fact, capital will always seek new ways to achieve the goal over and over again, which is primarily profit and dominant in the market, which is not always a question of competitiveness, is not only a question of quality but sometimes also of abuse of the ruling position and participation in illicit concentration. Why is this law particularly important for the Croatian economy? The privatisation process has not yet been completed in Croatia. And secondly, our economic system doesn't have enough experience with different and very sophisticated large capital methods that in different ways try to take over the dominant market using both extreme models... and monopoly. In any case, this is one of the laws that very much should be followed by EU legislation and trends, as it is about regulations that regulate the protection of competition in countries with a much larger tradition in the market economy, countries that have already passed certain processes before us, including those of transition and which have significant experience with companies and their attempts to play the rules of a fair competition. And so far, our Competition Protection Agency has done a significant job as an independent body. But here we agree, there is much to be done to strengthen the authority of the agency, to strengthen the agency, to reach out in the future, especially because of the provisions of this law and the powers conferred on the agency to be prepared and able to resist large capital, their pressures, their domination on the market, the domination of the media space. Why is it important that this agency law gives some new mechanisms, powers, instruments? This should primarily improve, facilitate the Agency's work, but also ensure its greater independence and independence. The Croatian Democratic Community Club first and foremost holds the importance of prescribing administrative criminal measures in Chapter 8 of the Law, according to which a body that determines irregularities and infringements of competition will have the right to impose fines and fines. In fact, the agency has so far not had the opportunity to impose administrative criminal measures, and this has often tied hands. But it also slowed the process of sanctioning violations, which often questioned the credibility of the system itself. Prosecution is not only something we have detected in Croatia as a problem, the introduction of this institute is also a commitment and a recommendation we received during negotiations with the European Union. The sentence shall be imposed on the Agency for the Protection of Competition by an effective instrument for sanctioning entrepreneurs who violate the law. But what is even more important, and what is the purpose of this law and the existence of the agency, is more effective deterrence of entrepreneurs, more effective prevention so that law violations do not occur at all. Because it's not about punishing, it's about preventing entrepreneurs from being educated. Because the protection of competition is a very complex and complex category and it is not uncommon for law violations to occur both from ignorance and from the lack of understanding of the system of equal competition. All situations so far such as the conclusion of prohibited agreements and participation in agreements that violate competition, abuse of the ruling position, participation in the implementation of the prohibited concentration of entrepreneurs, all of this will be possible under the new law and directly by the Agency, means in terms of giving administrative criminal measures. As regards the prescribed penalties, it is good that they are structured and we in the Croatian Democratic Community club hold that they are prescribed very correctly, so sanctions go and payment of 30 % of the proceeds but they are coming in the area, or in that segment of business where the offence is committed, so that the total amount of penalties cannot exceed 10% of the total income of that entrepreneur, so that we believe that this way of prescribing penalties is correct and that it is segmented and that it is precisely targeting that segment of business where the offence is committed without in any way challenging other segments in the business of entrepreneurs. Also the procedure, which determines the violation of the law and prescribes punishment is adjusted and largely goes to the hands of entrepreneurs where it is allowed to justifyly support its situations in a multi-stage manner, etc. to defend his positions. However, regardless of what the law is trying to do, it is, above all, to prevent possible infringements of a fair match and its fundamental role, which is to prevent certain market behaviours that put certain entrepreneurs on the market in an unwarranted position compared to their competitors. And as a result, the violation of the rights and the poorer position of consumers, the prevention of the development of competition and the reduction of the competitiveness of the national economy in general. Due to the above mentioned club, the Croatian Democratic Community supports the adoption of this law and we are confident that it will improve the work of the agency, ensure its greater independence and independence, contribute to the development of the market, better consumer protection and generally contribute to the competitiveness of the Croatian economy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-23-0.u34178	Thank you. On behalf of the HNS club, distinguished representative Zlatko Koračević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-23-0.u34179	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President, Madam Secretary of State with associates, colleagues and colleagues. Right at the beginning, we at the Croatian People's Party club support the adoption of this Law on the Protection of Competition, first of all, because in all the debates that were already held three years ago, and two years ago, and a year ago when we discussed the report on the work of the Competition Protection Agency, we were just stressing the need to give the agency the opportunity to impose penalties, that it manages the whole process, because the fact is that in that part it was quite ineffective for the first time, because it was not given the possibility and the other institutions of systems that relied on its work were not doing their job. Only the area of competition for a wide range of reasons is very important and one of them is very important timely preparation of Croatian entrepreneurs on the conditions of business that apply to the single European market. The harmonisation itself and the constant adaptation of Croatian legislation with the acquis of the European Union, especially in this area as important as it is, is not and cannot be a goal in itself. In this respect, it is necessary to ensure the simultaneous legal application of this legislation as a continuous institutional strengthening of the Agency as an institution which is tasked with carrying out these tasks, as well as raising awareness and level of knowledge and the information of all government and other state bodies, entrepreneurs, consumers, justice and other public on the importance and role of the competition policy and the right to further develop the market economy in our country, as well as the role in raising the competitiveness of Croatian entrepreneurs is of equal or even greater importance than the adjustment of the rules in this area with the acquis of the European Union. Ensuring full effectiveness of the implementation of competition protection rules is only possible if two preconditions are met. The first is the effective work of the agency which will continue to be possible only if we allow them, if we allow that body to be institutionally strengthened. And the second prerequisite to be settled by this law, which has so far been completely ineffective, is that the legality of the work of the Competition Agency has been decided by the courts, the Administrative Court of the Republic of Croatia on the legality of the decisions of the Agency and the infringement courts have imposed penalties for infringements of the provisions of the Law on the Protection of Competition by means of a solution of the Agency. In the opening part of this law, it is stated in the assessment of the situation that from 2004 to 2008, the agency established a violation of the law in hundreds of cases, that it also filed so many applications but also states that the misdemeanor courts imposed fines of everything in excess of a million kuna. And here is one of the very important questions that we will certainly not get an answer to today, but we must say it primarily for the reasons that we have warned all these years about the need to give the agency the powers that are currently provided for by this law. Was that an accident? Was it by chance that it was given power to judges for violations to impose penalties on such an important substance, a substance that is definitely one of the generators and corruption, one of the generators of disabling normal development and leverage large and powerful to give their authority both in this way and in charge of both the expense and the damage above all to those minor and powerless. In the current Law on the Protection of Competition, the Agency did not have the power to impose penalties for infringements of the provisions of that law. Therefore, despite the great effort of that body, detailed economic and legal analysis has remained at the level of the declarative nature in each particular case. The fact that, unlike our practice, the practice of the European Union is as foreseen by these amendments to the Competition Protection Act, which is that the Agency has powers to impose penalties and therefore the whole system is more effective. In conclusion, the effective implementation of the rules on the protection of competition can only be achieved with honesty, I will use this word on purpose, with an honest, different treatment of this single parliamentary agency, which is the only parliamentary agency, directly responsible to the Parliament, or its further rapid institutional strengthening and strengthening of its powers and, above all, the right to impose penalties which enables this draft law. And for this very reason, we at the Croatian National Party club support this bill, and I am sure and I am convinced that in the first next debate that we will have on the Report of the Competition Agency that we will have the opportunity to give all together answers to the dilemmas which my colleague Mara said and finally and the practice that has been present so far and that with this law we will make one significant step both in the fight against corruption and in the conduct of a market relationship and I hope and believe that and I believe that you agree with me that this law is one of the very high-quality possible measures, possible anti-recession measures, but provided it is also applicable in the way that this law is foreseen.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-23-0.u34180	Thank you. And we're moving on to an individual debate. He is the first respected representative, Joseph Leko. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-23-0.u34181	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I must say that a very honest sentence in the explanation of the text of this law has asked me to better address the bill. Namely, the promoter is aware of the fact that individual solutions to this bill are said by the novelty promoter and I translate it into a discrepancy with the current legal system of the Republic of Croatia. However, given the need for an effective competition protection system as well as the fact that competition law is a priority area, it is now again a matter whose priority is to bring it into line with the acquis of the European Union. A bill has been drawn up which, at this time, represents an optimum for the Republic of Croatia from the point of view of purpose. What purpose? All these questions should be answered by the Proposer. The purpose in my court is to ensure the protection of European participants in the Croatian market regardless of the non-building of the legal system of the Republic of Croatia. Why do I think so? I won't be long. This law will entrust the law with the powers to impose sanctions for infringements of competition at the Competition Protection Agency. Penalties are fines and there is no dispute, the proposer says. However, according to the current Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, Article 28 says it can be found guilty and a final verdict can only be reached in court proceedings. Our government here uses a term of administrative sanctions. So, double, double, administrative criminal sanctions. And worse still, the government says that the legal protection of such a two-sex decision will be dealt with by the Administrative Court of the Republic of Croatia as the only place where the court will decide to disrupt the market and this court is not full of jurisdiction. That's what the Proposer also knows. It's a court that monitors the legality of the work of the administrative bodies. However, the court will also decide on punishment, the height of punishment. How? How will he decide when there is only legality in his action? I think that by looking for a hybrid solution, we have done a bad service to the Croatian legal system, but I also think of market uncertainty in Croatia in this way. And why do I think it's in the interest of the persons who appear on the Croatian market, so it's... imposed a way to resolve the protection of competition. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It is about the situation, not about, but exactly the situation in the Republic of Croatia. "Croatian" banks, commercially, so-called "Croatian", are taking loans abroad and bringing foreign currency into Croatia. This is how fresh money appears in the Republic of Croatia, and it is looking for goods. Otherwise, the value of the euro would have fallen significantly. When we introduce a billion euros in the Croatian market today, for example, the demand for the euro is not such that it can absorb within a very short period of one billion euros. Then what are they doing? Then to reduce the pressure on the drop in the euro, and such a policy is designed, let's go buy goods abroad. We are going to buy goods abroad, thus reducing the pressure on the drop in the euro and the balance sheet, regulating the value and amount of money on the Croatian market. Now, in order to protect traders from the European Union countries, we're going to go ahead and secure protection on the O.K., we're going to the commission, the agency, but then let's at least make sure that this is done in two courts, in three courts, in four courts, in five courts. So let's end the legal system as predicted by the Constitution. Commercial court in Zagreb, Osijek, Split, Rijeka and over. Not an administrative court that is not full of judication, work, only follows legality and will decide the penalties and very significant. And very significant. Of course I'm into regulation and regulation of the market, that's not controversial. Moreover, I liked it here that the promoter said that the arrangement is for the sake of strengthening the competitive capacity of Croatian economic operators. But is that what we do? Is that what we do if we know that there are pressures from traders on the manufacturer in Croatia? We know that. The only thing we're pretending we don't know. Which one of you hasn't spoken to which manufacturer I'm asking you to, if you want me to sell your goods on my shelves, the price or the margin will be that? We pretend that we do not know it, and such a path is not our security in Europe and is not in the interest of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. Maybe it is in the interest of a very narrow layer. But we did not swear here to guard the narrow layer, but to benefit all citizens of the Republic of Croatia or the greatest extent, as many citizens of the Republic of Croatia as possible. That this is right can be seen from Article 10 of this Act where common exceptions are claimed. Here is, for example, an agreement on the distribution and service of motor vehicles exception. What kind of motor vehicle factory in Croatia? Who manufactures motor vehicles in Croatia? What we keep quiet, we know three, four, five of them. There aren't any. There's not one. Well, of course it's in the interest of those who produce motor vehicles and who will sell them here and by giving us credit, so in two ways they'll make money: by paying the money, by paying the goods. And we've been doing it for 20 years, and that's why we've got 250 grand workers all the time looking for a job and I can't find it. And that's why we have a million-and-a-half people living off 2,000 kuna wages. And we say it's our successful economic policy. So who's it successful for? We need to talk about this sometime in the Parliament. What does that mean, successful? That means successful for ten people or for 4 million and 400,000 people? That policy that builds up security for itself on the basis of severance, whether it be economic or political, does not deserve support in this House. That is why it is very important for those initial three questions that the government answers not to me, but to the Parliament and Croatian citizens. If it responds successfully, of course it is necessary to support the Law on regulation and protection of competition. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-23-0.u34182	Thank you. We have one correction to an incorrect quote. Dear Representative Dragan Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-23-0.u34183	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, I'd like to correct an incorrect quote from my colleague, Lek, for the sake of understanding. This if the trader conditiones the manufacturer to sell and expose on his shelves at the height of the margin, it is not a violation of the competition. The distortion of the competition would be in case we allow such a trade monopoly if the manufacturer had no more trade chains in which he could offer his goods and compete with margins, competition, etc. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-23-0.u34184	Thank you. Replica... did you see it? No one's seen it. All right, we'll take it. Replica, the esteemed representative of Gordan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-23-0.u34185	Thank you very much. Comrade Leko, you have noticed this well in article 10 of the exception that is totally unclear why it is being introduced. It is about agreements for the distribution and service of motor vehicles. If that were the case, it can be seen from one solution to the Competition Protection Agency. So this year, only two months ago there was one case between Tomic who imports BMW and Šimatić d.o.o. from Osijek, which is a BMW distributor for Osijek where the contract between Tomic and that company in Osijek was terminated for no reason. And the agency ordered Tomic to do business again with the company, a distributor in Osijek. Under this bill, it will be possible for all foreign car importers to favour their houses and not give local distributors, repairers, to do business the way they've done it so far. Tens of thousands of jobs have been compromised. And it's totally unclear why that exemption was even in this law and we think that it should somehow be taken out. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-23-0.u34186	Replication response, distinguished representative Joseph Leko. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-23-0.u34187	Comrade Maras, there are many examples that unfortunately discredit good intentions. The example works, the state of Croatia is actually the biggest entrepreneur in Croatia. But, you know, colleagues and colleagues, she is also the biggest debtor on the Croatian market. And to whom she decides to pay in time, she stimulates it. And let's face it, is payment being made in order of business events in the Republic of Croatia or by some other key? When the Competition Protection Agency edits at the Ministry of Finance and checks the order in which it pays, then I will say that the protection has at least succeeded in that part. It's not regrettable.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-23-0.u34188	Thank you. Let's move on with the individual debate. It is up to the honourable representative Goran Maric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-23-0.u34189	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Respected secretary of state with associates. Dear colleagues and colleagues. Rarely, the profession within one scientific branch has so many conflicting thinking, attitudes and approaches to solving professionals as it is in the area of the economy. At the same time, it is interesting that even some economists are very often conflicting with themselves because they often change their minds. And that phenomenon was most vividly described by an American president hundreds of years ago when he demanded that future economic advisers be all of them with only one hand that he didn't have to listen anymore when it came to economic problems that it was in one hand and in the other. However, it is undeniable that the market economy is the only efficient economy. It is undeniable that the market economy is the only economy offering a future that enables economic growth. The only economy that really makes sense. It's the only market economy. Therefore, to ensure market economy conditions, this Competition Protection Act is very important. Because regardless of the diversity of economic considerations, it can only be effective if the conditions for the competition are secured. However, it is undeniable that the market economy does not always lead to justice. Very often there is a high level of income inequality and consumption, and there is an important role and state, and many still argue about the role of the state and the market and demand a balance on how the market works without excluding the full role of the state. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, Article 49 sets out the character of the economic structure, i.e. the market character of Article 49 and says entrepreneurship and market freedom are the cornerstone of the economic structure of the Republic of Croatia. At the same time, the constitutional obligation of all rightholders and their users to contribute to the general good. We are witnessing that in the Croatian economy many do not contribute to the general good. I am pleased by this Law on the Protection of Competition because I hope it will contribute to the development of competition which is a fundamental assumption for the development of the entrepreneurial spirit, and this entrepreneurial spirit is a presumption for the development of the market. Here, market development is a presumption of economic growth and social progress at all. Col. Leko also spoke about the monetary part of the demand for money, the Credit Institutions Act foresees, in addition to this law, as a special law that the regulatory body is designated as the National Bank of Croatia as a regulatory body which controls and controls competition and competition in the banking sector. And it is undeniable that the natural demand for money is not nearly the same as the demand for ice cream. And also, it is undeniable that many act as if it were the same. That's why we're very often in trouble. Only with the effective protection of competition can the cancer of economic activity be avoided, and these are monopolies. Whether or not they are in Croatia. According to many things it turns out to be quite, especially according to the reports of the Competition Protection Agency with these million kunas charged with fines, with the allowed very often concentration, it is also incomprehensible for me today to allow the concentration of two factories... becomes one factory with an explanation that it's not a monopoly concentration, but I guess the agency behaves like that, we have opinions, I guess there'll be some facts that will back that up. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I don't think it's good for the Croatian economy to dominate individuals, dominate the great and blackmail the great others. While there are no business conditions negotiations, market relations are not satisfactory, and very often there are no negotiations in the Croatian economy, but rather take or leave business in principle. This principle of business is not acceptable to the market economy. There is also a great cause of internal indifference in the Republic of Croatia in this part of the behaviour. Because while someone can not pay the supplier within the agreed deadline, the market does not function perfectly. While someone can blackmail not only how much margin they will operate, but also have to participate in building shelves, building buildings and similar things. We must be dissatisfied with the level, with the degree of competition. But I believe that this law will indeed help to develop the entrepreneurial spirit in the Republic of Croatia, to strengthen competition and to avoid market defects, to market failures that disrupt the efficiency of the economy and which, in fact, depreciately affects those real entrepreneurs. The late professor... he often spoke of pseudo entrepreneurship in his lectures. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I believe this law will indeed remove pseudo-entrepreneurship from the Croatian economy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-23-0.u34190	Thank you. And now it's the honourable representative Davor Bernardic's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-23-0.u34191	Dear Vice-President of the Parliament, so here I am when I got the bill's proposal with all the important changes he's wearing, I have to admit that at the first moment I thought that every law is good if at the head of the law and if there are honest and good people at the head of those regulations, good people who can be honest and good at their jobs. And that's how it is here and that's why all clubs support this law and that's why this law will get unanimous support. But I have a few things to mention. People say that the road to hell is filled with the best intentions, and in a country like Croatia, where 49% of GDP makes public spending if local budgets of local self-government units, public companies owned by the state, are added to more than 65% of the total GDP generated from the state. And it doesn't matter who's in charge of the state, it doesn't matter who controls law enforcement, it doesn't matter who the regulator is. Why am I saying that? This is because we have now and this law given what is said in the People's Dictionary in both scissors and skirts to the Competition Protection Agency when the infringements that have so far been the same as those in the competition. So far, the agency could only look at the skirt, and now there are scissors to punish directly those who violate the competition. However, penalties may be up to 10% of total operating income. Who's going to decide if it's 1% or 10%? Will the fine be 5 million or 50 million? I don't want to open the space to the political racket, and right now I'm expressing my own concern that if there are any major tectonic changes and disturbances in the very structure of the Competition Agency, we will definitely have a signal that this law may not be on the verge of everything that's been said here today. I wouldn't want to believe it personally. However, it does not matter if the penalty is 5 million or whether the penalty is 10 million. Since applications from the Competition Protection Agency itself have been coming for a long time to transfer both this possibility and the authority to them, everyone normal and reasonable should support this proposal and we will definitely do so. The other thing that is, I find it extremely important, and it's about the regulator is our experience with regulators. I don't think I'll make a mistake when I say that, apart from the CNB, the Croatian National Bank as the regulator of the financial sector has no gold standard in Croatian regulators. HANFA has made a lot of failures, the results are visible every day. The Croatian Energy Regulatory Agency, we also criticised it because it made a lot of failures, just 2 billion kunas of direct damage in the economy this year, there were some words about it earlier. And a whole series of other regulators that may not be fulfilling their function as they should, and are extremely important in the process of normal and healthy functioning of the economy. And that experience of us with regulators doesn't give me confidence that maybe some good things would happen, i.e. The more positive things could be carried out as continuity, and that's why we need to be careful and trust me that we will be. And the third thing that's tied to this particular law is about the inability to punish natural persons. Well, we had a debate here a few months ago and came into force at the beginning of this year as a personal identification number as a way, as a message to the authorities and citizens, to entrepreneurs, to everyone who pays taxes, but also to anyone who wants to avoid paying taxes that it is no longer there, because by means of a personal identification number, you can track everything. But the accent is on the can. But he doesn't have to. What's the land-book reform? Will it be completed in the following year as announced at the outset? Probably not because it is difficult in the situation and the global economic crisis and the crisis that has shaken our country, which is not necessarily the same thing, to allocate the necessary money for these reforms. And what I'm trying to say is when there's a personal identification number in the game. Behind every company, behind a chain of connected persons, a company always stands a man. There's always someone standing there. And we can't treat that fact as if companies were created as contracts in law offices. That's what apriori is not good at, because behind all the companies there are people and there's no reason for those who control the large part, and I'm going to say a monopoly within the companies themselves, and that's why the monopoly on the market doesn't get too careful, i.e. like those who will be able to answer at a certain time for failures. Because they're people and they're behind these companies. Here, with all the above, I just have to say that I would like this law to function in the best possible way and in accordance with European practices, but I must express my opinion that if there are major changes and if there is any room for any kind of political racket, because it does not matter whether the punishment is as I said 5 million or 100 million, believe me, we will have to react sharply. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-23-0.u34192	Thank you. Now it is the honourable representative Slavko Linic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-23-0.u34193	Mr. Vice President, representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues. Obviously, few of us can object to the text of the law and to the harmonisation of this law with the European acquis. And we believe, in our experience in Europe, that these laws contribute to a more regulated market in certain activities. But, of course, when we pass a law like this, it would always be good to give an assessment of how we have acted so far and whether Croatian practice in this law should also make a slightly different solution. The basis for amending this law is greater power in punishing, but then we ask ourselves a question, if we must already punish whether we have properly applied the existing law and whether we have succeeded in achieving such market relations that satisfy us and start with the biggest. The relationship between traders and producers, I would especially draw on the issue of food and then again the answer whether we as consumers can be satisfied with the regulation of this relationship. What is falling slowly comes out that there is no quality market relationship between traders and consumers. And then here we'll start to argue again whether it's an evaluation job that the monopoly of one who has over 50% market share or a contractual relationship between traders and producers is also a business of the agency. And if they apply European practice, then these contracts are the Agency's business. And those contracts are the agency's business. Not a percentage of the share, but a contractual relationship between the producer and the trader. And what can we conclude? We can conclude that especially Croatian food producers do not have a correct market relationship in the Republic of Croatia, do not have a correct relationship and that traders are protected independently of their share. Then let's expand our interrogation, and then we'll get to the next one. Is food more expensive in Croatia than in our neighbouring countries? We'll get the answer yes. Then let's try to analyze the causes, and you'll see. If there were traders, there's enough competition, but everyone has high margins. Let us compare these margins with our neighbours, and we will see that the causes are more expensive food in the Republic of Croatia traders. What's insinuating? And a certain cartel arrangement. Merchants in Croatia want to survive 16% of the average trade margin and over 16%. Our neighbors at 5.6%. Is it a dangerous merger, is it our agency's job to get into the analysis and try to see why we have 16% if the neighbors have 5%? And whether the job of the Agency for Market Relations and Regulation of that area is to intervene in that part as well. Of course we'll never agree to that. In Europe, agencies deal with it, they take good care. We see here how difficult it is to prove cartel relations, but you're going to allow the agency's job to go into balance sheets, especially because of this kind of relationship. We will not say at all that the national problem of the Republic of Croatia is non-payment, a national problem. The biggest ones don't pay the merchants. What did the agency do about it? Nothing, she's not in charge yet. That's not true. That's not true. There can't be a payment contract for over 200 days. It can't be. And so we can list, list, and see that we don't have a relationship in trade towards production and that essentially production is constantly trying to say there's no regulated market. And the relations on that market are unacceptable for manufacturers. And then let's not be surprised that there is a very clear message in Croatia, don't invest in production, stay away from production. Because simply if we have market mechanisms, we have laws, and now I would say it, and in that part of sanctioning, we will comply with European regulation, but further practice will show that we have unregulated markets and that production is unprotected in this part. But let's leave production, because that's less clear to everyone, everyone sees it, and we all pay out of my own, I'd say consumer baskets for such bad relationships as we have. Let's get some importers. This is where we heard the BMW cases. We can count it for a series of cars. You have a monofilament position that on the Croatian market each type of car has one importer, only one importer. And practice in the Republic of Croatia that shows that retailers in the Republic of Croatia in every major city get competition from companies founded by that importer. And to analyse the situation of the relationship between importers and the sales network in the Republic of Croatia, you will see the continuous destruction of all those not founded by importers. You also have a series of court rulings in which courts protect exactly I would tell entrepreneurs in the Republic of Croatia from this behaviour of importers. Is that what the agency does? No, we don't have any agency solutions to this monopoly behavior, and I'd say no to market behavior. And our bill again speaks for exceptions to the general criteria set out in Article 8 is the general exceptions are cars and service networks of cars again. So we know what is happening on the market, we have knowledge, we can enter into an analysis of all of this and for Croatia do not apply these provisions for a simple reason, because it is shown that we do not have quality relations on the market and that unfortunately Croatian craftsmen, Croatian entrepreneurs are particularly threatened with this kind of behaviour. What do you say about the concentrations? In many ways, in the implementation of this document few of us agree with the work of the agency so far. And apparently, the concentration was supposed to be something we had to do a little bit differently in this bill. Thanks to the government on a Sunday night, we moved the grocery store to the gas stations in the newsstands. So we have a completely different behavior in the store, and at the same time we don't think that the concentration of the fall means anything else. To combine food industry trade with other activities also means concentration. These are the Croatian realities we should also have in this analysis and try to legally disable such behaviour. Disabling this behavior. Unfortunately, we don't do it by law, and we don't actually experience it from regulators to deal with this kind of thing. And that basically we as Parliamentarians get that information from them. So how much food is now sold in the INA, which is fed by traders, whether something about their participations and market shares is changing or not. No, we don't have that data. And then, of course, it's mistrust, fear of how to actually vote and pass laws like this when we see that the results of behavior control and the situation on that market don't exist. And maybe to be as mean as my colleague, Leko, when we talk about the state, we see that the state allows some people not to pay tax obligations. So do you know what that means? Encouragement, and incentives are a special subject of this law. And someone has a fat incentive not to pay these obligations under tax obligations.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-23-0.u34194	Thank you very much. We have one replica of the Honorable Representative Gordan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-23-0.u34195	Thank you very much. Col. Linic, when we talk about the concentrations of none of the company's merger operations in the past period, the agencies have stopped. These were usually, and even when it was about, here was the moment before, and fellow Maric said one example about the merger of two companies that were the only ones in Croatia but were usually some conditional opinions or conditions set in the next year, two, three days, and then it was kind of modified. The example I've given is about Konzum and Tisk. Explanatoryly, the press deals with the distribution of newspapers. Absolutely wrong. Yes, it deals with the distribution of newspapers but the vast majority of the products produced there have nothing to do with the newspapers but are essentially retail. The same thing is with INA and with the current association with MOL, or in this case with Tifon, one cosmetic decision that you have to sell 14mps of Cropestrol and we're talking about a company that's not that important in INA's business or business. It's a Tiffon, it's a much bigger company. So it wasn't about selling Tiffon, it was about one smaller company. So, the agency never once set itself up to ban concentration and to sort of place that market on healthier relationships.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-23-0.u34196	Thank you. Reply to the replica, distinguished representative Slavko Linic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-23-0.u34197	I agree with my colleague who says that the practice in implementation and the existing law is bad and, of course, when we talk about the new law, the worst thing is that we are dealing with the practice that has been so far. For this reason, the SDP club rejected the Report of the Competition Protection Agency last year. So, in these reports, we attach great importance to what is happening in law enforcement. And everything would be different if I thought we too had some parliamentary representatives and the government representatives had similar opinions about the shortcomings in law enforcement and it is evident that we cannot be satisfied with the situation on the market and that we still estimate that the majority of the market shortages have consumers because they pay for insufficiently developed relationships and that this is our problem. We are in a hurry, we have regulation, we will bring it into line with European practice, but unfortunately, the situation in the regulation of such relations will remain far behind Europe. And that we have more than one explanation in the proposal for this act, we believe that then those who are obliged to implement these laws would be put more seriously in implementation and new solutions.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-23-0.u34198	Thank you. On behalf of the promoter of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, esteemed Tamara Obradović, Minister of State at the Ministry of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-23-0.u34199	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleague Maras, Plinacro, Adris, Agrocor, Tisak, INA MOL, PZ Auto, Hrvatski Telekom, these are small fish, these are cases that appeared in front of AZTN, which you rated as small fish. I look forward to big fish if bigger than those in Croatia exist to send them a resume for a job because these are in our market conditions and in our economy quite large representatives of animal origin. As regards penalties, penalties shall be determined through a series of economic categories of Articles 64 to 10%. For example, in terms of economic activity in the European Union markets, regulators rarely exceed 3%. The range to 10% of the total profit for the offenders is really big. He may not be as plastic as that punishment in the Penal Code. One is given up to five years or punished by fines under the law of crime up to 2 thousand kunas or up to 10 or 100 thousand kunas and that's it. Market competition as a legal economic category requires economic thinking, i.e. to seek an economic formula of penalties, and this is indeed an economic formula placed in a legal context where, on these 10% of the basic penalties, it is then rejected or added depending on whether the difficult or easy circumstances are complete business of the presence of an entrepreneur on the market, so that, when giving the penalty, it takes care to see whether there will be some discretionary basis, in fact, is the discretionary possibility of imposing a penalty in this economic formula as an economic category, which all should be placed on paper in order to reach a 10% level. The margin of discretion is really limited. When it comes to punishment, this is one of the few laws where punishment is not in itself a purpose but the purpose of introducing a balance among entrepreneurs on the market. The penalty is more when, and you yourself mentioned Microsoft and a multimillion fine that has been confirmed twice by the European Commission. It's more about the method of one deep intimidation than sanctioning itself. The purpose of this law and the purpose of the existence of an economic category of penalties up to 10% of the revenue and the way in which that account actually goes more towards establishing a balance on the market than sanctioning the perse. And in that part, we too, after 13 years of the existence of regulators on the AZTN market, have to get used to new methodologies and new ways of thinking, which is at all the economic space where we express or assess, for example, the concentration of whether it is allowed or not, economically view the space, the entrepreneurship space where we act when a case occurs before us. Now... It may be easier at this point because it has its AZTN since 1914 or in Germany it may be easier because for the past 60 years there has been a competition regulator. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In the UK, more than half a century of regulators are also present. We have 13 years with all the advantages and disadvantages and also a series of positive assessments that the competition system has in the Republic of Croatia and which we are told through negotiations with the European Union. That we are satisfied with the system as it has worked so far in its economic and legal efficiency, so today we are here with a proposal for new moments, with a proposal for new institutes, with a pyramidal system of decision-making and punishment, and, of course, the possibility that through the Administrative Court intervenes to a scale. And when we talk about the Administrative Court and I will try to answer one of the three questions that has been asked. This law will apply from 1.10.2010. It is now in the phase of administrative trial reform. I base this reform on what is sought by the administrative court to become a court full of jurisdiction. During this transitional period, in the interregnum between the current situation and the situation when this law will apply in 1.10.2010, it will therefore be allowed to prepare and complete the reform of the administrative trial. In that case, the administrative court shall become a court full of jurisdiction, decide on the level of the suspended penalty and on the measure itself, that is to say, the decision taken by the Competition Protection Agency. I'm also obliged to respond to priorities and purpose. The priority is Article 70. A Stabilisation and Association Agreement which directly withdraws the acquis through its standard. We are already based on Article 70, and that is the point of, for example, the publication of decisions by the European Commission on the Agency’s website, as well as the publication of rules on competition and state aid by the Ministry of Finance, that legal gains are directly applied through Article 70 of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement. It's a priority. The purpose is, of course, a market balance, a balance between entrepreneurs. And why was it then a violation based on the question of MP Korajevic, and today it's what you called a double? Because in the meantime after the suspension, I may not remember that moment so well, some members of the golden generation will remember the Law of Economic Crime, an economic offense. Then it's actually that norm, this institute of law may be something that here, 19, 20 years later, could apply to this two-pointer or administrative penalty measure. Because an economic offense then that was abolished and it's not as an institution of law is actually something that describes this administrative, something that could be taken under that administrative-punishment measure. Today we don't have, we can't use the termology of a commercial offense, but let's say that in its description of the norm, it would be ideal for this administrative and criminal measure. At that time, when the first law was carried out, it was only a violation, and by that logic, in a degree above, the Competition Protection Agency, according to the logic of the offence, decided the misdemeanor courts. The reason, then, is perhaps something more plastic and more clear than it may have seemed when the question was being asked. As far as the margins go, as far as we know, as far as we in the government are concerned, No one came with a contract that he would give to AZTN and said here is an illicit agreement between traders who they have summed up in their agreement where all retailers negotiate an identical margin for the same products. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] AZTN would, in that case, be able to, let's call them very, very conditional penitentiary, and that's also what we are doing with this proposal for the first time in the law, that someone came with this contract to AZTN and told you this contract that I am anonymously and secretly giving you and I expect you to release me or to lower my sentence because I was involved in this, we have agreed among ourselves an unauthorized single margin for the whole of Croatia for this product. Then AZTN could do it. To AZTN, as far as we know in the government, such an agreement, on the basis of which AZTN could act when it comes to the margin, has not come. Why didn't he come? Because of course he would have been prosecuted and the one who brought such an agreement to AZTN. Tomorrow, i.e. more precisely from the 1.10th of the following year, according to the penitentiary programme or after amnesty, by linearity, this person will be able to bring an agreement to the AZTN anonymously, and this person will be able, for example, to be freed from administrative and criminal measures, i.e. if he is found to have greater representation than legal responsibility in that agreement, his sentence may be reduced according to the line. When it comes to punishment, the very legal gain that we draw from this law does not punish a natural person, although some Member States decide to punish a natural person, as we have decided to do so in the current and still existing law that has not actually given some effective, concretely effective results. This proposal punishes a legal person with a reminder of Article 282. A criminal law that in these situations continues to open up the possibility of punishing a natural person by the basis of a criminal law. As for the block of exemplification that we have received the amendment, i.e. the common exemption. Block exercise, the common exemption is the standard competition institute. I hope the amendment promoters listen to me. So, block exercise, joint exemption, basic competition institute. If we were to remove it, we would tear down a completely permitted exemption, a common exemption and for your proposed amendment as it is present at an absolute level of the entire European Union. The Block Expotion is as old as the concept of competition itself before 1900. What's the point? The purpose is to protect the consumer from the manufacturer, but also from distributors, where the possibility of simultaneously appearing different, if we talk about vehicles, different types of vehicle, type of vehicle in one salon. And the common exemption which has also been translated into the Regulation on the distribution and service of motor vehicles and which still exists and will exist and will not be changed is prescribed by the provisions of the contracts that must exist, which must be contained in that contract and those provisions which may not exist in that contract. For example, a ban on selling different types of vehicles in one salon must not be in that contract. That's forbidden. But also, no provision shall appear in that contract which will force the distributor to regulate that space in such a way that there must be a brick wall between vehicle type A and vehicle type B, or prohibit an independent repairer for different types of vehicle access to technology within the distribution centre. Speaking of vehicles, then I only note that AZTN had an AZTN in front of it to assess the case of Adria Lada, Tomic, and it is as well known as Hyundai. So car distributors aren't, if you let me put it like that, all those places you can't touch. As far as concentration is concerned, the European Commission's concentration has been estimated since 1989. So far, 4000 concentrations have appeared before the European Commission. Of those 4,000 concentrations, how much do you think is really forbidden? 19. What does that mean? In the concentration assessment process, the regulator calls on the parties to sit down, listen to the regulator's argument, instruct them to continue if their concentration will be banned and most often, so I don't know by heart what is this percentage of 19 out of 4 thousand, most often the parties themselves give up what the regulator would declare to be an illicit concentration. Nota Bene, Croatia banned the concentration of Zagreb Bank and Split Bank, so we had one case of forbidden concentration. Our neighbouring Slovenia has not rated any concentration since entering the European Union or before. So in this segment here, we also have experience in assessing illicit concentrations. What you summed up exactly, and the fact that this law is proposed to take effect from 1.10 next year is the implementation in practice, with due respect and respect for the good work of AZTN and with respect for the fact that this system needs to be revived in practice, give it space, he will assume to look at the Agency's work report in 2011, and of course we will see whether, as you said, it is necessary to release the law and time. We will see how much further we have contributed to the effectiveness of this system, the competition system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-23-0.u34200	Thank you. We have one correction to the incorrect allegations, the esteemed representative of Gordan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-23-0.u34201	Thank you very much, colleague Obradović Mazal. You didn't listen to me very carefully. I didn't say that the big fish didn't find themselves, but the big fish remained unpunished in front of the agency and the criminal court. Usually the fines are reserved for those small fish, and large fish, such as one large tuna Consum ends with solutions conditional on permitted concentration and usually so goes. There was never a concentration prevented when a large company was engaged by another company, so I talked about it, and that's what you wrote in the bill. If it's a million kuna fine, it's up to 10%, 10 million kuna in 5 years, so it's not big fish that have a turnover of 10 million kuna in five years. So there's so much about fish.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-23-0.u34202	Thank you. So much for small fish, big fish. I'm closing the debate and we'll vote when we get the conditions for this bill.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-23-0.u34203	Final draft law on the protection of competition, emergency procedure, P.Z.E. No. 364, the draft law is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. The amendment was submitted by the SPD Representatives' Club. I would like the representative of the motion State Secretary Tamara Obradović Mazal to declare the amendment to Article 10.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-23-0.u34204	Thank you. Mr. President. The government doesn't accept. We presented the reasons in the debate. I remind you, the joint exemption includes the distribution and service of motor vehicles is prescribed that it must be included in the contract, which must not appear in the contract in terms of constraint. Therefore, the Government does not accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-23-0.u34205	Thank you. A club? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-23-0.u34206	Mr. President of the Parliament. So, when it comes to this amendment, I don't know how much everyone knows, but Croatia doesn't have an auto-industry and we don't see any reason why that story is even in the exception. And if you've already decided to have that exception, then it would be good if they were all covered and not just big ones, so not just some. We are therefore against favouring foreign and large ones without favouring small ones, ultimately suffering jobs and therefore asking for a vote on the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-23-0.u34207	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. I am voting on the final proposal for a law on protection against competition. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? This bill was adopted by a majority of votes, 95 votes in favour, 3 abstentions and 1 against.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-23-0.u34208	We move to the 11th item of the agenda - Proposal for a law on technical requirements for products and conformity assessment, first reading, P.Z.E. No. 362 The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. In the case of the adoption of this law, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading of the law shall apply, Articles 144 to 150. You received the materials by mail. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on European Integration and the Committee on Economic Affairs. You received the reports at the session. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Dear Tamara Obradović Mazal, State Secretary at the Ministry of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-23-0.u34209	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament. In two readings, a regular procedure, the Government sent a draft bill on technical requirements for products and a conformity assessment based on our obligations under negotiating Chapter 1 – Freedom of movement of goods, as well as Article 73. Stabilisation and Association Agreements. By living dictionary, this Act on Technical Requirements for Products actually prescribes a set of technical rules, technical criteria that must meet certain products that surround us in everyday life, such as elevators, such as machines, toys, recreational vessels, such as crystal glass, motor vehicles, low voltage equipment, or pressure equipment, etc. So we have one legal basis, a legal basis for taking over a new and general approach, as defined at European Union level, as well as an old approach belonging to textiles, shoes, crystal glass and the like. What we are looking for, what we are asking for by this proposal of the law, is that the heads of the central authorities of the state administration, in accordance with their respective competences and in accordance with the competences of certain products that I have appropriately cited, bring technical regulations laying down technical requirements for these products and prescribe procedures for assessing the conformity of those products earlier to those requirements so that when placing these products on the market, they do not distort the safety of lives and the health of people, the protection of the environment, nature and to protect consumers, in order to have a natural and trust in the whole process of assessing the conformity of these products and of course their property. What we are considering by law are the obligations of economic operators participating in the whole process, meaning the whole chain of producers through importers, authorised representatives, distributors to those competent authorities dealing with market surveillance itself, which are our economic inspectors at the State Inspectorate. We prescribe the detailed obligations of the manufacturer himself who, for example, is obliged to draw up technical documentation for a particular product, an authorised representative who must have a declaration of conformity and technical documentation and is made available as such to the competent inspector on his request, the obligations of the importer who must ensure that the product is accompanied by instructions and safety data in the Croatian language and in the Latin letter, the obligation of the distributor to verify that the product is marked by a sign of conformity followed by the prescribed documents, to ensure the conditions of storage, the conditions of transport of that product and to provide all other necessary documents and data. This law also provides for conditions that must be met by bodies dealing with conformity assessment procedures to have professional training of staff employed in bodies carrying out conformity assessment, necessary equipment, necessary space, impartiality in conformity assessment and liability insurance. In addition, this law requires, in view of our international, membership in international organisations, as well as future membership in the European Union, that conformity assessment tasks are carried out by an authorised body for the assessment of compliance until the authorisation of the same in the Republic of Croatia, that an examination report be recognised, a certificate of conformity and a report, i.e. a certificate of review carried out abroad. If, if this arises as a question, there is no authorised body for a particular product in Croatia itself, a report on the investigation, i.e. a certificate of conformity made abroad, and in accordance with the conditions proposed in this proposal of the law, shall be recognised. Also, as I have mentioned, the important segment in the entire chain from production to placing on the market is supervision. We are extending our powers here and we are setting out in detail the powers of the State Inspector, as well as the costs of the inspection procedure related to the sampling, i.e. testing in specific laboratories, as well as the highlighted cooperation between the national inspectorate, inspection bodies and customs services, which, if suspected when importing, the documentation accompanying the product to be imported into the Republic of Croatia is incorrect, is not correct, we have a period of 3 days within which the customs authority informs the inspection body and the customs authority must receive feedback. If it doesn't come to that, the customs office will let such goods into the market. In the same way, given our future membership in the European Union, we are also creating a legal basis for the adoption of a regulation that will regulate the European Commission's reporting process on all conformity assessment bodies that we will, or have in the Republic of Croatia, and will, of course, apply on the day of entry into the European Union. I also use the opportunity to say that we are under way to negotiate an agreement, an agreement that deals with the movement of industrial products. What we want to achieve is an agreement, i.e. the result of the negotiations will be agreed with the European Commission that individual industrial products, for example, recreational vessels so satisfy the standards of the European Union at the moment, or standards and the entire path of conformity that even before membership in the European Union, these products will be present as EU products on the European market. If we succeed in completing these negotiations here this will also be the basis of this law one big thing for the Republic of Croatia for our products in a series of segments to be full members of the European Union and before us. I thank all the committees at the hearing as well as your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-23-0.u34210	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? Not that I can see. Okay. Then I'm opening a debate. And they're the first clubs. Honorable representative Davor Huška, on behalf of the HDZ Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-23-0.u34211	Dear Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, Madam Secretary of State with associates, colleagues and fellow MPs. Although we have heard almost everything about the Proposal for a Law on Technical Requirements for Products and Assessment of Consistency here are a few things why representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community Club will accept this bill in the first reading. This legislative proposal continues to harmonise the legislation of the Republic of Croatia with the legislation of the European Union. The Stabilisation and Association Agreement between the Republic of Croatia and the European Union in Article 73 relating to technical regulations, normisation, measurement, accreditation and conformity assessment obliges the Republic of Croatia to take the necessary measures to gradually comply with the technical regulations of the European Union. Following changes in the market and the need for further harmonisation of Croatian and European legislation, a new Act on technical requirements for products and conformity assessment was joined. This law constitutes a harmonisation of the law with Regulation 765/2008 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 9 July 2008 and the decision of the same authorities from 9 July 2008 laying down a common framework for the placing of products on the market. The aim of this coordination is to develop and increase the competitiveness of the Croatian economy on the international and European markets, and I would say on our domestic Croatian market. The improvement of product safety, health protection and safety at work, environmental protection, nature and special attention should also be paid to consumer protection. It is also important to develop legislation and technical infrastructure to enable the freedom of movement of goods on the single market of the European Union. This law prescribes several obligations. The first is the obligation of economic operators, meaning the manufacturer of authorised representatives, importers, distributors which place the product on the market or on the market, and the cases in which the manufacturer’s obligations apply to importers and distributors and the identification of economic operators. It is also prescribed by law that technical regulations prescribe specific requirements that must satisfy conformity assessment bodies and conformity control procedures for conformity assessment bodies, and under which conditions in the Republic of Croatia apply conformity assessment documents, conformity codes issued abroad. Furthermore, this law prescribes the powers of the inspector and the costs of the inspection procedure. The application of the new Technical Requirements Act for products and conformity assessment will allow further strengthening of the competitiveness of the Croatian economy in such a way as to place on the market products that will be safe, which will meet the criteria of European normisation, which will allow even better protection of health, life and human beings, as well as domestic animals, plants, environment, nature and property. The law will also reflect positively on the future development of legislation and technical infrastructure, which will also contribute to further development and strengthening the competitiveness of the Croatian economy. We also found out that this law contains certain anti-recession measures. For example, raising the general awareness of entrepreneurs and consumers, further better coordination of competent inspectors and certainly a significant reduction in imports of goods which do not comply with the prescribed standards and quality. You can see that one after another comes to us with extremely important market laws, for the economy, before this was the Law on Competition, further the Act on Technical Requirements for Products, assessment of compliance, which should further make order on the market and economic operators, of course and consumers, that is, products in the Republic of Croatia. Even more high quality preparation of Croatian businessmen, manufacturers, traders, intermediaries in preparations for entry into the European Union and ultimately strengthening the competitiveness of the overall Croatian economy. Based on everything presented and contained in the new Act on Technical Requirements for the product and assessment of conformity of the Croatian Democratic Community club, they will accept the bill in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-23-0.u34212	Thank you. HNS representative's club, Ms. Danica Hursa. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-23-0.u34213	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Honored State Secretary with Associates. So I'm going to try to be very brief, because the very exhaustive reports preceded it. Thus, I will mention that at the end of 2003, the Act on Technical Requirements for Products and the Conformity Assessment was adopted. In 2007, the Law amending and supplementing the same law was adopted, two sublaws of the Regulation and the Regulation were adopted in 2008. In 2009, a new Regulation on notification procedures in the field of norms, technical regulations, and rules on information society services which prescribes the notification procedure in the field of norms, technical regulations and rules on information society services to the European Union was adopted. This law, as mentioned above, constitutes a legal basis for transposition of the Directives of the new and the Directive of the old access to the basic Act on technical requirements for products and conformity assessments, lays down rules in which the Directives of the old approach and the Directive of the new and general approach have been transposed. And now I wouldn't tell you what's going on and supplementing and legalizing the new law, because that's what our secretary of state has very comprehensively reported. In the end, I would say that the application of the new Technical Requirements for Products and Conformity Assessment will allow further strengthening of the competitiveness of the Croatian economy in such a way as to place on the market products that will be safe and meet the criteria of European standardisation, which will allow for better protection of the safety of life and health of people, domestic animals and plants, the environment, nature and property. The law will also reflect positively on the future development of legislation and technical infrastructure, which will also contribute to further development and strengthening the competitiveness of the Croatian economy. That is why representatives of the Croatian People's Party club will support this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-23-0.u34214	Thank you. An individual debate. Mr. Representative Zvonimir Puljic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-23-0.u34215	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. The harmonisation of the legislation of the Republic of Croatia with the legislation of the European Parliament and the legal acts of the Council of Europe also concern technical regulations, normisation, measurement, accreditation and conformity assessment. The law on technical requirements for products and conformity assessment, which is before us, is exactly the law covering that area. By adopting it, apart from the implementation of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, we will allow further strengthening of the competitiveness of the Croatian economy by meeting the technical conditions for the free movement of Croatian products on the single market of the European Union. The application of this law will also strengthen the protection of consumers and users with regard to the safety of life, human health, domestic animals, plants, environmental protection, nature and property. The technical requirements law on conformity assessment products will also reflect positively on the future development of legislation and technical infrastructure. This law regulates the adoption of technical regulations and the application of standards relating to technical regulations, standards relating to technical regulations, rights and obligations of legal and natural persons, which produce, import or place products on the market and into use. This law also regulates conformity assessment procedures and conformity markings as well as the rights and obligations of those involved in the conformity assessment process, as well as the question of the validity of conformity documents issued abroad. The law also lays down provisions on the supervision of the implementation of the rules. This Assembly already adopted the first Technical Requirements Act for products and conformity assessment in 2003, and its amendments and additions in 2007. On the basis of this, two sublaws, a regulation on the form, content and appearance of a conformity mark of the product with the prescribed technical requirements were adopted in 2008. And under two, the Regulation on notification procedures in the field of norms, technical regulations and conformity assessment procedures, as well as rules on information society services. With this second regulation with the new updated content being adopted again in 2009. 22 regulations have been adopted on the basis of the current versions of this 2003 law and of the 2007 amendments. On equipment and protective equipment for areas threatened by an explosive atmosphere, on the safety of elevators, on the safety of machinery, on pressure equipment, on pressure vessels, on gas appliances, on electrical equipment, on energy efficiency requirements, on electromagnetic compatibility, on radiation and telecommunications equipment, etc. Following changes in the market and amendments to the European Parliament and the European Council regulations, e.g. Regulation 765/2008 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 9 July 2008 concerning the fixing of the requirements for accreditation and market surveillance when placing the product on the market or Decision 768/2008 EC of the European Parliament and of the Council relating to the common framework for the placing on the market of the product. This new Act on technical requirements for products and conformity assessment, a proposal which is now before us, together with a statement on its compliance with the acquis of the European Union and with the legal acts of the Council of Europe, has been joined. From what I have said and commented, I think it is clear that this law should be supported, because that is how we will protect our consumers on our market and allow our producers to be present equally on that market by respecting European market standards.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-23-0.u34216	Thank you. I'm closing the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-23-0.u34217	Proposal for a law on technical requirements for products and conformity assessment. This was the first reading, P.Z.E. No. 362. The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. I'm voting on the next conclusion. 1. The proposal for a law on technical requirements for products and conformity assessment shall be adopted. 2. Any comments, proposals and opinions raised in the debate will be addressed to the applicant in order to prepare the final draft law. Please, let's get involved and vote for these conclusions. The result? These conclusions were adopted unanimously with 99 votes.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-23-0.u34218	We will skip point 12, because the proposal for a Law on Medical Insemination has not yet delivered its report. And today we're going to absorb point 13. - Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the Communist Economy, with a final draft law, an emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 359 The Proposer is Government. The debate was conducted by committees on legislation, spatial planning and construction, local and regional (regional) self-government. The amendment was submitted by MP Zvonimir Mršić. You received the reports at the session. State Secretary at the Ministry of Environmental Protection, Spatial Planning and Construction Davor Mrduljas will further explain the proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-23-0.u34219	Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen, MPs and MPs. You have before you an amendment to the Law on the Communist Economy. Very short. It is a technical amendment to the law to comply with the Law on concessions. As you know, on January 1st, I think 2009, the concession law came into force. On 7 May, the Government concluded that all specific rules must comply with the Law on concessions and that there would be no legal gap in the application of the concession institute in the Republic of Croatia and this law as one of the special laws governing the concession you know that, among other things, municipal activities can be carried out on the basis of the concession, it is in line with that law. I don't know what law change is already. Otherwise, it's all for you. The ministry is preparing a new law for autumn because the law will need to be brought into line with the new Water Act. It will be necessary, we are already working to look at the essence of the general and state of the municipal economy and the fact that this law today requires a thorough revision. However, in order not to exist, I said legal void and that the system could continue to function uninterruptedly I propose this brief amendment and addition of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-23-0.u34220	Thank you. The Legislative Committee? The Committee on Local and Regional Self-Government? The Committee on Spatial Planning and Construction? I'm opening a debate. Club of HDZ Representatives Mr. Krešimir Gulic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-23-0.u34221	Dear Vice President, State Secretary, colleagues and fellow MPs. In front of us is the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Communist Economy. The relevant Law on the municipal economy lays down the principles, way of carrying out and financing the municipal economy and other issues relating to the purpose of carrying out municipal activities. The Law on the municipal economy stipulates that certain municipal activities can be carried out on the basis of a concession contract. The entry into force of the concessions Act of 1 January 2009 governing concession procedures, termination of concessions, rights, protection, concession procedures and other concession issues should be brought into line with the Law on the municipal economy and the Law on concessions in a way that regulates the concession procedure and other competition issues. The relevant issues that are in line with the Law on concessions relate to municipal activities for which concessions can be given, the supply of drinking water, the disposal of waste water treatment, the extraction, the disposal and disposal of feces from septic and black pits, the transport of passengers in public transport, the collection and disposal of municipal waste, the disposal of municipal waste, the transport of the deceased and the markets to a small extent, and the terms of the concession of the time limits on which the concession can be granted, the criteria for selecting the most favourable bidder, the content of the decision on... the unfavourable bidder and the content of the concession contract. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The introduction of amendments and additions to this law will comply with the provisions of the Law on concessions, thus ensuring a unique first two concession procedures in all units of local self-government in the territory of the Republic of Croatia. The Law amending and supplementing the Law on the municipal economy, which is in line with the Law on the municipal economy with the Law on concessions, is proposed to be adopted by emergency procedure in order to prevent major disturbances in the economy. The adoption of this law under emergency procedure will ensure their hasty compliance with the concession law, which is particularly important for local self-government units to carry out municipal activity in relation to the award of concessions. Due to the above mentioned club, the Croatian Democratic Community will support the draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Communist Economy.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-23-0.u34222	Thank you. HNS representative club, Ms. Danica Hursa. Here you go. She's gone. The club loses its word. An individual debate. Ms. Representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović. ... You want on behalf of the club? [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Then, on behalf of the SDP club, Mr. Representative Zvonimir Mršić.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-23-0.u34223	Dear Vice President, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. The SDP representative club expresses its dissatisfaction that we have not yet received the full Law on the municipal economy in the debate. He was supposed to come almost two years ago in the parliamentary procedure and what we are more concerned about is what we heard today, so even the Law on the municipal economy as a small constitution of local self-government will be brought into line with the Water and Water Economy Act, which we think is quite the opposite. We therefore believe that the new Law on the Communist Economy should first be adopted and then some other specific laws should be aligned with this rather than a little violence against local self-government with the Water and Water Economy Act as it seems. Secondly, the Law on concessions entered into force on 1.1 this year and some units of local self-government have awarded concessions under the Law on concessions or the Law on the municipal economy and I must say that those local self-governments that did so have been questioned by the Ministry of Economy have they done so in accordance with the Law on concessions? Thus, we already had the practice of awarding concessions during this year as if the Law on the municipal economy were in line. But this is nomotechnical change, but it was a bit of a rush in that nomotechnical change, so I'm a little worried about the HDZ Representatives' Club that says it supports this law because the law says that Article 14 is changing, and in fact, Article 13 should be changed, because Article 14 does not say what should be changed. It would be good, then, if the applicant had applied the amendment that I personally submitted because it is therefore that Article 13 defines what is being said here, which is who makes the concession agreement. That's one thing. And secondly, what is fundamentally, this law completely disregards or this amendment to the law ignores the Law on Local Self-Government and a whole series of other laws that define who is authorized to represent, represent and conclude contracts on behalf of the units of local self-government. Thus, this law provides in the non-existent article, so 14th, in an amendment to the non-existent article 14 that an authorised representative of the representative body does so, which is something that does not exist in local self-government. So, the only person who is authorized to represent and represent local self-government and to contract is the directly elected mayor, mayor and mayor at the moment. Thus, we propose that Article 4 is amended and therefore Article 13 rather than Article 14 is amended, in a way that the concession agreement based on the concession decision with the most favourable bidder is concluded by the executive body of the unit of local self-government. So that would be essential and correct then. If such an amendment is respected and the applicant corrects it in accordance with the existing bill and in accordance with the Law on Local Self-Government, then the Club of Representatives will support it. If not, we cannot therefore support the adoption of a law that amends something that does not exist at this time on the one hand and on the other hand, which introduces into practice that, in this case, according to our interpretation, the president of the representative body, so the president of the municipal, city council or the county assembly, would conclude a contract that has no authority. Therefore, the president of the representative body does not have such authority and has only directly elected mayor, mayor or mayor. Therefore, we ask the Proposer to respect these reasons and ask him to refer the Law on the Communist Economy to the parliamentary procedure as soon as possible. We ask him to do so before the Water and Water Economy Act is passed in order to first regulate the municipal economy, and then to have some other ministries settle some other issues that will not be arranged in such a way. Because I think, therefore, the Law on the Communist Economy should regulate the issue of water supply and the public water supply system in terms of municipal activity, and after that it should be regulated in some special law such as the Water Act. In this case, it is completely the other way around and it will not or won't be good for the development of local self-government, because the Law on the Communist Economy is not the one that should respect some other laws, but some other laws should respect this one basic act with the Law on Local Self-Government and the financing of units of local self-government. So the Law on the municipal economy is something fundamental to the functioning of local self-government units. So, on the condition that the Proposer respects this first nomotechnical matter, which is to change the actual article and the second, that the law defines that contracts will be concluded by the one who is the only authorised and the Club of Representatives will support the adoption of this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-23-0.u34224	Thank you. An individual debate. Mr. Representative Dragutin Lesar. He's gone. He's losing his word. Mr. Representative Jerko Roshin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-23-0.u34225	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Just a minute. In the light of the proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the municipal economy, with the final proposal for a law, it should be concluded that this law is practically adopted in order to comply with the Law on concessions. In this law, there are no important points to point out, other than those which say that the issue of awarding a concession is being arranged differently, that the award of a concession is now taking place more, i.e. exclusively from the position of the representative body, that the executive body is merely carrying out notices of the intention of granting a concession which begins the concession procedure, and that all the rest is brought by a representative body or an authorised person of the representative body. In relation to the rest of the text, there is nothing important that would be particularly pointed out, except for the wish for certain sentences to be better done without a technicality so that the expression of those sentences would be as clear as possible. In any case, I think this law should be supported because it practically regulates something that needs to be resolved as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-23-0.u34226	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. I'm interrupting the session. Continuing tomorrow at 9.30 p.m. with a debate on the final draft of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Measurement, the Final Proposal of the Law on State Lawyery, the Final Proposal of the Law on the Office for the Control of Corruption and Organized Crime and the Final Proposal of the Law on Police Affairs and Powers, the Second Reading. This will most likely be enough for us to absorb somewhere up to half two, two, after which would be a vote on today's points debated and tomorrow for those who would be discussed so that somewhere beyond 15 we would already be MPs free, the day of statehood is the day of statehood, and then we would start working a little early, and I would suggest to the President of the Parliament that we continue the session on 30th. On Tuesday 30, so that 30, 1st, 2nd and 3rd might have enough time for all those points that have entered the agenda and those that will come after the government session to be absorbed by 10th. Thank you very much. Resume tomorrow at 9.30.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-23-0.u34227	Final draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the municipal economy. It was an emergency procedure, P.Z. No. 359. Proposer of the Law Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. The amendment was submitted by MP Zvonimir Mršić. I ask Mr Davor Mrudljaš, Secretary of State to declare the amendment to Article 4.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-23-0.u34228	The amendment shall be accepted in part in a way that amends and states in Article 14(1): "A concession agreement based on a concession decision with the most favourable bidder shall be concluded by the executive body of the unit of local self-government.".
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-23-0.u34229	Thank you. Mr. Lobster? Mr. Lobster doesn't have it. We vote on that part that is unacceptable and what is accepted is accepted You don't have to. [[No, you don't have to!]] Well, then it was accepted in a statement that the secretary of state brought it out here. Thank you very much. I am voting on the final draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the municipal economy. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? This bill was adopted unanimously by 98 votes in favour. Good morning, gentlemen, MPs and counsellors. We continue to work with the announcement of several points of the agenda to be completed today. There'll be a vote. In order to make some laws, four points at least. If there's time, then more, because we have a lot to do, so that those laws can come into force. Seven. I announced it yesterday. So I ask the clubs to secure the quorum for the election of these laws and those laws we discussed yesterday. The vote would be around 1400 hours. And an estimate of how long it might take for these points, but it can't be safe. But anyway, call the clubs to be there at 1:30, say, and then we'll see. We move to - Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Peace, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 371 The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You received the proposal by mail. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Rules of Procedure. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the The Registrar's emergency procedure unites the first and second readings of the law. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on European Integration, the Committee on Justice and the Committee on Labour and Social Partnership. You received the reports at the session. The amendments were submitted by the Justice Committee. Does the proposaler's representative want to further explain? Yeah. State Secretary at the Ministry of Justice Ms Marina Dujmovic Vukovic. Here you go.
