ParlaMint-HR_2009-04-01-0.u31678	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. Although the law in its contents is very short, I'll explain it with a little more details and arguments. The shortest I suggested was to delete from the Mandatory Relations Act a chapter relating to life support contracts. I know that a large number of colleagues and colleagues are particularly lawyers against such an approach and this proposal regardless of party membership, but let me remind you of some facts. First, the Institute of Life Support was introduced into the Law on Mandatory Relations not so long ago for reasons and reasons that such contracts in legal practice existed even though they were not provided for by law. I would say, therefore, from one ordinary law and the courts have begun to respect such contracts, to accept them as legally valid. The government considered that by regulating the way in which the contract was concluded, as well as contractual relations between the two parties would make improvements and bring into order something which existes in legal practice but is not regulated by law, so it is prescribed that these contracts must be drawn up in writing with the court or public notary or as a public notifier. Relations between the signatories of the contract have been arranged and it is possible that the heirs may be involved, it is also possible to record the burden of restraint on the property. With only a few of these provisions, the government felt that it was doing well at the time and probably had a good intention when it introduced these provisions into the law but the practice and life thereafter established or confirmed that something was wrong. The basic difference between life and life support is that the assets were cashed or in real estate for life support immediately after the signing of the contract is transferred to the property of the borrower and, in the case of a life-restraint contract, they become the property of the person who did the maintenance service after the death of that person or the citizen with whom he had the contract concluded. At first glance, the content of the law, the intention and these two institutes seem fine. However, what do we have in practice? Who makes life support contracts? Even when writing that part of the law, it was likely in mind or in mind that it was citizens who took for human reasons abandoned from all forgotten buildings, with the wave of old people who had certain assets, had no family or were abandoned from it, and otherwise simply could not experience age. It's probably both the government and those who wrote the law and when we adopted it, we were thinking that usually a citizen makes one of two of those contracts, so there's one, possibly two people on life support. There's that too, that's right. But there are also that some citizens have a total legal age of five, ten, fifteen, and I know of nineteen lifetime maintenance contracts concluded by one person with 19 citizens of the Republic of Croatia. Who are these citizens, so who are these people who make contracts and take people for life support? I believe you know that there are private home owners among them for older people but not just private homes. I believe that you know that between them and the social workers who made a deal with the people they contacted on official duty by doing their own law, there are life support contracts that even the bodies of local self-government made, part of the government, because the property needed the municipality for something. And finally, those who deal with life support as a business, as a business, who turned the Institute of Life Support into legal old-fashioned poor women. I repeat, the Institute and the intent of life support have turned into totally legal old-fashioned poor people. Opponents of the idea that what or what is not good in practice should not be banned or abolished but are actually allies of my proposal, because the idea when I proposed this law was to cause a debate in Parliament and try to persuade the Government to reconsider once more whether the existing legal provisions are good, what are the experiences of practice and whether there should be a more rigorous change in them? However, it is clear in the government's statement that the government defends the Institute until death, without intending to change anything in the law. Therefore, the Government considers that the existing provisions of this dispute but also the rest of Article 580 which also speak about contractual relations are quite sufficient and that nothing should be changed so far. I could, and perhaps I had to, in addition to eradicating these provisions on the Institute of Mortal Restraint, propose a provision that the life-restraint contracts were legally worthless, not to produce any legal effect. So go towards an absolute ban on such contracts by declaring them legally void. Then it would probably disappear and that question if there was no law, and yet it would appear in practice, which then. Is erasing regulations about them the most appropriate solution? By preparing that law, and I ask you this debate, would it be good to limit the number of such contracts that one family or one citizen or one citizen can conclude with a abstention, are these two, three, four contracts maximum? Maybe. Would it be good for the law to lay down provisions to make sure that anyone has the conditions for maintaining another person, as determined by the social service? I don't know. Would it be good to prescribe that a body of state or social authority has a register of those contracts? One place we know who, what kind of contracts he's with? Maybe that too. But there's no such thing in the law right now. Therefore, there are no restrictions on the number of contracts, no conditions need to be met in order to legally conclude such a contract, nor do you have to register that contract anywhere with the authorities. Is it just the fact that this contract has the character of a public notation, the guarantee that everything is fine? That the person who signed the contract and transferred the ownership of his entire assets to someone else, aware of the legal consequences and the situation in which he would find himself? Is it about citizens who know the laws, who know the possible consequences, whether it's about citizens who know that after a contract they can ask for a breakup, when, where, for what reason, what motives and in what way? I assure you they don't know. And they no longer have the material means or the ability to exercise such rights if even someone told them. Because all of their assets, and most often pensions, even their savings, were transferred to the property of the person with whom they had contracted. If one of you saw at least one such contract, if one of you had a chance to see at least one such case, the fate of those people who entered the life support contract, then you probably understand what I'm talking about. Then you probably understand that my motives for proposing this law are simply to cry out those who have fallen into such a legal system that I can no longer get out of. And the fact that it's witnessed by the media, not once, not twice, but they constantly provide examples of what happens to all people. It is well known to me that the Ministry of Economy, Labour and Social Care, the social care sector, has frequented a thorough correspondence with the Ministry of Justice on the subject, as they have also asked the Ministry of Justice to supplement, clarify or change, and the number of contracts that could be concluded on life support seems to be limited. But the Justice Department refused the social service proposal, they refused and did not propose it. I want to remind you a few months ago, the case of a resident gentleman is not from Bezovica when it was discovered that there were 19 life support contracts, conditions of accommodation and life that were found not to be in line. The media then transmitted three, four days and television and the press and information, and everyone was surprised, and in particular the secretary of state, Mrs. Dorica Nikolic, found that one authority was not in charge of any supervision. So they were thinking if the health authorities could intervene? No, I don't. Social services? No, I don't. The tourist inspection has even been asked if they can intervene because they are trying to host services there? No, I don't. Tax administration? No, I don't. Why? Because the gentleman did not carry out any activity that would require any registration, permission, consent to anything. He had 19 life support contracts, which is no activity whatsoever. It's not crafty, it's not crafty, it's not social, it's not caring. Nothing. Did he pay any taxes? No, I don't. They're no taxpayers. In this case, it was found that no authority had jurisdiction to enter that space and establish any facts. Then someone thought, thank God he'd come up with it, and he was accused if I wasn't mistaken and convicted illegally for the time being... to get him out of those facilities. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] That reminds me of Al Capone, and he was solved by the Americans for tax fraud. If he's engaged in this activity, I don't know anymore, but I do know about a number of other examples like that. If this case wasn't enough for us to realize that something negative was happening in society, that there was a legal possibility of concocted fraud, there was a legal possibility of theft of those people, because another example was to bring out in public where the person who took the citizens' maintenance on his credit card slowed the debts, on a card in his name and possession of his property. And if it wasn't for the intervention of someone on the side, probably never would have happened, they'd have found out about that fact. The mother of the pensioner of Croatia is a body and organisation that by nature of things daily has contact with old people, and they have reported about this proposal, not only gave confirmation but warned that for years they have tried to warn the authorities that there is indeed something that is not good in this area, trying to consult their members and answer them from the conclusion of the contract on. If lawyers who write those contracts and public notebooks did their job knowingly and... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The law. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] There would probably be a lot less reason for this proposal and this debate. But the fact is, there are misses. The fact is, no law can intervene. And the fact that if we don't change anything that's still going to happen. Now the question is, if we know all this, is the solution to being legally outsmart and we claim that nothing needs to be changed, that the right of a citizen who has business ability to dispose of his or her assets however they want and leave the Institute of Life Restraint as it is or indeed that part of the law, or to change it with the possibility of supervision in terms of number, contract register or not know what else. I am saddened by the fact that the government has rejected any conversation and possibility, when examining certain provisions and the possibility of regulation. Therefore, since there is no record of these contracts, we learn about them when the public comes through the media to such cases. When we all testify together about the fact that someone took something, cheated, deceived, but practically no legal remedy. There is a law of the Institute of Life Retention, so those who, for human reasons, take someone for restraint, can apply that institute, but tell me that there are also cases where someone has been supporting someone for five years and then the abstention person breaks the contract and this one has nothing to do with what's been promised. Now I answer the same answer as I do if those who have had life support and the argument of rejection of my proposal are, that they can break the contract and seek, then such legal protection also have possibly deceived or deceived persons who have provided life support. So they're in the same legal position. But we don't talk to people who are always right, who are judicial, who are anymore or better than those who are on the other side to protect their rights than they are about people who are ignorant, who are left without anyone or never have, who have no one to take advice from. And that's why my proposal is to delete the Institute of Life Support from the law and declare that the remark is correct, in my opinion we should make it legally harmless. The second option is to work through the law, fix the model system and make maximum protection for citizens, the part of citizens who enter into such relationships. And any proposal that would come to me in that sense is acceptable. I will support him and accept him because I repeat my only goal was that this institute, which is proven to be risky, is at least a risk to the extent that we no longer have to deal with him as a troubled institute. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-04-01-0.u31679	Thank you. On behalf of the Government, State Secretary, Mr. Drazen Bosnjakovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-04-01-0.u31680	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, the Government of the Republic of Croatia will not support the bill, the honourable representative of Mr. Lesar, the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Mandatory Relations, which would delete the provisions on life support. We do not question the noble and good motives of Mr. Lesar because indeed not only life-long but also life-long restraint is one ground where various abuses can really happen and where, which allow possible and deceitful and similar negative things to happen. However, one of the fundamental principles of our Law on Mandatory Relations is the freedom of participants in property legal relations to regulate these property legal relations. So all the legal traffic participants do is have full freedom to make such deals, to enter into relationships that happen in legal life. Mr. Lesar precisely stated in his presentation the difference between the Life Support and Lifetime Contracts. That life support contract is such a contract where someone who receives restraints, all of his assets or part of that property is transferred to the one he supports, with that transfer being delayed means only after his death. In the case of a life support contract, the transfer of ownership rights or part of property is, at the time of conclusion of the contract. So there's a fundamental difference between those two contracts. We, I mean, made one quite a step in 2005 when we incorporated into the Law on Mandatory Relations provisions governing a life support contract. For what? Because life support contracts were concluded before, however, in one way that did not seek such control as is required today. You had, so before 2005 you had the opportunity to enter into a life-long and life-restraint contract. The only difference was that you had to go to court for life, so before the judge to conclude such a contract, and in that procedure the judge would explain to the parties the content of the contract, he would look at and see if the contract contained all the ingredients required by law and only afterwards would he verify it and the parties could actually sign it. At that time, in the case of a life contract that was also concluded, that was not necessary. So the contract simply came together, the parties went to the public notary. He who receives restraints, who transfers and gives his property, has only confirmed the signature of his contract and the matter has been completed. And in 2005, when we adopted the new Law on Mandatory Relations, we also incorporated provisions on a life-restraint contract where we prescribed that it was as necessary as for this life-long contract to go either to the public notary or to come to a court to discuss the kind of contract, which will verify whether this contract contains all the necessary legal ingredients and only after such procedure has been implemented, it is possible to conclude that contract. Therefore, if we accepted what Agent Lesar suggested today, we would return to what we had before 2005. We wouldn't ban these changes on a life contract, that's one thing. And according to that general principle of the Law on Mandatory Relations, meaning on the freedoms of the parties to legal traffic, that contract could be reassembled again in the future by pro futuro without such control as we have introduced today. What is the protection of parties if abuse occurs? There are institutes, such a contract may be terminated, such a contract may be requested from the court to determine the integrity of such a contract. If there are any elements that are criminal, it can also be reported to the competent state attorney's office, the police, so it is possible to react. I must therefore acknowledge here for these reasons the Government of the Republic of Croatia does not support the adoption of this law, but we do not question Mr Lesar's good and noble intentions and possibly think in future amendments to the law, the Law on Mandatory Relations see in cooperation with the Ministry of Labour on possible further control possibilities in these very, very sensitive contracts. But I have to say, you know, abuses exist for others and for purchase contracts and for construction contracts and in various other mandatory and legal relationships, there's always someone who doesn't actually find that job and that relationship in a fair and fair way. But what's important is that there are institutes to protect against such behavior. I listed here means someone who was injured by such a contract, first of all, shouldn't be because already these institutes means that either a judge or a public notary explains to him the content of the contract, to ask him if it's really what you want in the future relationship. It's already one initial step, one first, which would have been control, which by 2005 was not, but only after 2005 in this kind of contract we have. So that's already one significant protection. And all of this goes on if there are certain deviations in practice, we have institutes, meaning the termination of the contract and the finding that this contract is nothing, and I'm not talking about all those criminal-legal aspects of protection. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-04-01-0.u31681	Thank you. Do the committees want it? Yeah. Mr Emil Tomljanović, on behalf of the Committee on Legislatives. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-04-01-0.u31682	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. So here's a very short one. The Committee on the Law of the Croatian Parliament held at the 51st session held on 12 March 2009 discussed the Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Mandatory Relations submitted to the President of the Croatian Parliament by Dragutin Lesar, a representative in the Croatian Parliament and this act of 20 January 2009. The Legislative Committee does not support the adoption of this law, precisely for the reasons set out in the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, which was delivered by act of 26 February 2009. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-04-01-0.u31683	Thank you. On behalf of the Justice Committee, Ms. Anna Lovrin, Chairman of the Committee. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-04-01-0.u31684	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. On 17 March 2009, the Justice Committee of the Croatian Parliament discussed the proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Mandatory Relations submitted to the President of the Croatian Parliament by Dragutin Lesar, a representative at the Croatian Parliament. The Committee held a hearing in the capacity of the home working body pursuant to Article 73. Rules of Procedure on the work of the Croatian Parliament. The Committee also held the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the draft law. In the debate, committee members supported the reasons set out in the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, which the Government does not support the Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Mandatory Relations, proposed by Dragutin Lesar. The Committee's opinion is that the reply of the Government of the Republic of Croatia is clear, that the life support agreement in practice would exist as an unnamed contract and before the adoption of the 2005 Mandatory Relations Act, and also by accepting such a proposal, it would not achieve a purpose, and that is to delete it from the law to prevent abuse. In order to achieve this objective, it should be explicitly declared by law that such a contract is void. The Committee considers that a life-restraint contract is necessary as a specific contract, that it cannot be equated with other contracts, e.g. a grant contract because a donation contract is free of charge. The Committee points out that abuses of this type of contract referred to by the applicant in the assessment of the situation and issues covered by the proposal can be tempered by the way in which control and control mechanisms for the implementation of these contracts are affirmed, both in relation to public notaries and through the inclusion of social care centres, through the involvement of institutions where criminal offences exist in the implementation of this type of contract. After the debate was held, the Committee on Justice with 6 votes in favour and 1 vote against decided to propose to the Croatian Assembly the conclusion: "The Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Mandatory Relations in the text as proposed by Dragutin Lesar, a representative in the Croatian Parliament, is not accepted." Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-04-01-0.u31685	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the HDZ Club, Mr. Representative Emil Tomljanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-04-01-0.u31686	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Here, I would also like to point out that the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community does not support this bill in the proposed form and for 3 basic reasons. The first of these reasons is, or in the first instance, the removal of the provisions of the Law on Mandatory Relations in which a life-restraint contract is arranged would not prevent the conclusion of a contract with the same content, i.e. a life-restraint contract. We would have the same situation as before the amendments to the Law on Mandatory Relations, which is that the application of the Treaty in practice was very common and it was subject to the general rules of mandatory law, which in concrete situations led to even more abuses, I repeat even more abuses and legal inaccuracies. In this context, it has also joined the arrangement of the contract as a special contract which is, and as such, precisely normised by the provisions of the Law on Mandatory Relations. Secondly, or another reason is also unacceptable to the applicant's view that the life support contract should be replaced by other contracts which achieve a similar purpose. For example, a donation contract without the right handover of things. Thirdly, it is unacceptable to think that non-regulating any contractual relationship, and in particular about a life support contract, would resolve all possible abuses. Therefore, in principle it is unacceptable to delete from the law that provision governing a particular contract and to automatically or only resolve all possible abuses. On the contrary. We would have an effective application of certain contractual relations which would not be regulated by law and thus would allow for even more abuse in those persons who, with such intent, enter into contractual relations and, regardless of whether they were recipients or abstention providers. So, by precisely standardising these contracts, the life- and life-restraint contracts and the concept of their inclusion in the Law on Mandatory Relations, it is indeed a quality step in regulating these relationships that we have in everyday life. Therefore, legal intervention in the proposed form is not only unacceptable but also excessive and would result in additional difficulties that have been avoided or should be avoided by precise normisation and distinction of these two types of legal transactions. Furthermore, the life-restraint contract, by its definition, obliges one party, so as to give the abstention to the other party or to the third recipient, to abstain until his death, and the other party undertakes to transfer to him for life all or part of its assets. The maintenance provider shall acquire the matter or rights which are subject to a life support contract when, on the basis of that contract, such a thing or rights are passed on to him in the legal manner provided for. The law also elaborated those situations relating to the detention of the right of real burden and the impact of death on the grantor on the contract under the legal provision that the provisions of the Law on Mandatory Relations which regulate the life-support contract will be applied accordingly in the life-restraint contract. So the basic, but not the only difference between these two contracts is the time of acquisition of property ownership, of property. In the first version, it's usually the basis of a contract concluded, and in the second case it's the time of death of the abstention recipient. Of course, it's contracts, and every contract is a legal job, so these contracts are actually consensually a sign of will, so I repeat, a consensual display of will aimed at achieving the legal effects allowed, i.e. by law. The second question is the ability of a person, which all persons can access to the conclusion of this contract, especially on the part of the abstention provider. Therefore, the elements of fraud or abuse of the conclusion of this legal deal in terms of obtaining illegal property benefit, of course, are not acceptable. However, they need to combat other, either mandatory or criminal instruments, which should not be directly linked to the possibility of concluding such contracts. It is in this sense to welcome all those thoughts that go in order to provide opportunities. Therefore, to provide opportunities and conditions for the conclusion of such contracts on the one hand and, on the other hand, to re-examine the role of public notaries which verify these contracts in order to eliminate the illegal motives not during the duration of the contractual relationship, but in terms of preventing the conclusion of a specific legal transaction. Accordingly, the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community, I repeat in the proposed form, does not support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-04-01-0.u31687	Thank you. We're moving on to an individual debate. The first is Mr. Mario Zubovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-04-01-0.u31688	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I'll first point out that what's the difference, no matter what's already said here, but once again, what's the difference between life and life support? And I think it's called life support and life support that most people who sign such contracts are not aware of what that means. When life support is signed, the moment such a contract is signed, that person is left without all of his assets, whether mobile, or immobilized. I'm going to illustrate it from one of those contracts. It would be logical for a life-restraint contract to write about restraint in such a contract, however, such a contract in 90% speaks of property and transfer of property to the one with whom such a contract is signed. So it's not the main subject, it's the maintenance weight, it's the property. Here, I have a contract here that says, the parties agree, they assume that the recipient of the maintenance of the property owners is listed one 50 particles of real estate and then says like this, and other properties are possibly abandoned. So if these guys haven't found anything that this old lady has, possibly left out on this list, and they own the maintenance recipients and all the moving things in the house, in the economic facilities, kitchen furniture and dishes, furniture, tools, accessories, economic facilities, and the rest. It says item two: "it is assumed that, as with the recipient, it leaves all the above mentioned properties, as well as all the moving things in the house, both in the economic facilities and all of its owner's share of the maintenance for the whole and it commits itself to supporting the recipient." Here, for the first time, is the word: "support the recipient." However, it immediately goes on to say: "Warning for the benefit of the abstention recipient points out that it leaves an inheritance to the maintenance provider for the whole and all other properties both books and outside the book if its property is not possibly covered by Article 1 of this Treaty as well as all other mobile items of rights and money, i.e. all of its assets." So, the person who signs it, which is the most common person of older age, who doesn't know the difference for life, and most often the notary goes to an institution for the elderly or home to such a person, very rarely comes to the notary. In '95, we made one shift that we said that the notebook had to read that person text to understand what I think is not enough. And he says, "The recipient of the containment in relation to it possibly unlisted properties empowers the maintenance provider to carry out all the necessary procedures to regulate the wrong land-book situation and transfer of the property rights of the same on behalf of the maintenance provider for the whole." He says: "The Restraint Restraint Holder authorises the Restraint Officer to request and achieve, on his behalf, the right of ownership of the property in question for the whole of the Municipal Court, the Land and Book Service as well as other necessary records." Again, it's only about the transfer of real estate. I think the abuses that in practice are more like what Mr. Lesar was saying here and there is no institute of control. When this is signed no institution can go to control, possibly if someone sues, then the court can make an insight. Since this often happens in small places, since it often happens where people know one another very rarely decide to object and go to sue at least suspect that something is wrong, especially if such contracts are signed by owners of institutions for older people, social workers or municipalities. I'd like to, I'd suggest that the name be changed for life, that a different name be found, because it causes confusion for life. Let me say one more thing here. The long-term maintenance contract must be drawn up in writing and certified by the judge of the competent court. Nice. Or confirmed by a public record. So it can be a court and it can only be a public notary. I don't think that's enough to prevent abuses that are in practice very large. I met cases where people signed such a contract, they had property worth several million euros. After they signed such a contract in six months, they died. And I'm going to suggest on behalf of the HDZ Club that the Department of Justice find models to better protect abuses. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-04-01-0.u31689	Thank you. Mr. Representative Ivo Grbić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-04-01-0.u31690	The Honorable President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable State Secretary, respected colleagues and fellow MPs. In the proposed Law amending the Law on Mandatory Relations, MP Lesar proposes that the provisions defined by the so-called so-called Act be laid down. the life-restraint is deleted from the Mandatory Relations Act since the application of these provisions abuses the law at the expense of the largest number of older and powerless resulting from the loss of property most frequently owned. The existing provisions that regulate, for example, a grant contract or a life support contract may offer solutions for certain similar situations. The opinion is that changes in that part of the law can prevent damage from being done to the maintenance provider and without the risk of abuse to the benefit of the maintenance recipient. It considers that the proposed amendments to the law would address many of the problematic situations that arise from the application of existing provisions. The opinion delivered by the Government of the Republic of Croatia does not support the Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Mandatory Relations. However, the removal of the provisions of the Law on Mandatory Relations to which that Treaty is governed would prevent the conclusion of a contract and of a life-restraint, but such contracts could be concluded on the basis of general provisions of mandatory law, so that strict forms such as those in the applicable law would not be prescribed for their validity, primarily in order to protect the recipients of the restraint. In the case of a life-restraint contract, a contract must be drawn up in writing and certified by a judge of the competent court or confirmed by a public notary or drawn up in the form of a public-book act by an authorised person when verifying or drawing up a life-restraint contract, it is necessary for the Contracting Parties to read the contract and to learn about its consequences. It is also not possible to make up for other contracts with a similar purpose. For example, a grant contract is a free job and is not required in return, so if the recipient of maintenance with the maintenance provider concluded a donation contract then he would not have the right to abstain at all. The contract on life support is a payment contract, which means that for what was granted by the recipient on the basis of that contract, the maintenance contract is received by the maintenance provider and in the form of a maintenance fee. If a grant agreement was concluded between the recipient and the abstention provider, and it also contracted maintenance, it would not be a maintenance contract, but rather a life support contract. I believe that abuses highlighted by agent Lesar could be reduced primarily by greater supervision and control of competent institutions and by taking appropriate measures when there are elements of criminal offences. For this reason, and by accepting the reasons presented in the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, I do not support the Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Mandatory Relations, which was submitted by Agent Lesar. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-04-01-0.u31691	Thank you. It's our guest, Anna Lovrin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-04-01-0.u31692	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. There's a lot that's already been said in the debate today. I certainly won't repeat the definitions and differences between a lifetime contract and a lifetime of restraint. I also want to make it clear that I am never a lawyer for people who abuse this kind of contract. I would like to say that I believe in the good intentions of the motionors and MPs who have mentioned abuses in the debate today. But what I'm trying to say is that they're a life-restraint contract throughout the whole time, both under the former OGZ and under the '55 Legacy Act. Or '57. A year. That contract also exists as a contract with a prescribed strict form, but in parallel throughout that time it exists as an unnamed contract but by the content of the contract actually on life support, but with a note that it was not then appointed, since it was not prescribed it had no mandatory form. So, the examples of the abuses we heard today could be not today because it is in force for the 2005 PSO, which defines this life support contract, they could still be before the adoption of the Mandatory Relationship Act, as the Proposer suggests, by abolishing the entire chapter of the Life Restraint Treaty, we would not in practice get rid of such abuses. However, by way of effect of this law in 2005 and by prescribing the form of mandatory form for these contracts, we have somewhat stepped up the conditions for the conclusion of such contracts. Of course, there's a question of abuse, but abuses need to be solved in a different way, not just by removing this head, why? Because by removing that head, I repeat, we would have achieved nothing. In that case, we would have to introduce in the law a provision that contracts of such content are void, and that would prevent them from forming the basis of general rules on freedom of negotiation of the Law on Mandatory Relations, etc. and I note that this freedom of contract also limits the general provisions of the Law on Mandatory Relations which say can be negotiated freely, but not contrary to the Constitution, not contrary to the coercive regulations and not against the morals of society. And also that the abuse of rights is prohibited, it also says the Law on Mandatory Relations in the General Part. Therefore, I do not think that by eliminating this head, we would achieve the purpose that the legislator wants to achieve, which is to prevent abuse. However, I claim that she should remain there and that the terms of the conclusion of this contract should be respected, as should be controlled. Serve in what way? Perhaps we should establish for the contract of this kind that only contracts must be drawn up before the court, that we do not give authority to the public notaries to draw them up. However, since the entry into force of this Mandatory Relations Act, these contracts must have the form of a public record document or must be solidarity by a public notary or drawn up before a court. They didn't need any form until 2005. Another way of controlling would be to say that a contract can only be concluded before a court and that the judge checks the possibilities of a abstention provider if he is actually able to refrain from giving even if cases. Restrictions on the number of contracts concluded by the abstention providers are also possible. Equally, what should be introduced, and this is certainly a stronger control of the institutions entrusted by the state to perform certain tasks. Here I think of social institutions, private legal initiatives in the domain of social care, so which today is possible but also state control is insufficient. I also think of controlling the conduct of public activities to transfer the authority of the state to public notebooks which must be carried out by the Department of Justice's inspection, because I do not think it is good for the Institute of Public Note to discuss this as a source of abuse that contracts on life support or life restraint are transferred to public notaries in jurisdiction other than the court. So let me get this straight. I really support the reasons why the proposer has proposed an amendment to this law, I believe in good intentions, indeed abuse has and should do something to prevent them, but such a bill does not prevent these abuses, but will open the door even wider. So I suggest that we all think together and maybe put together some other proposal, but certainly in the direction of tightening the conditions for the conclusion of these contracts, not by eradicating them from the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-04-01-0.u31693	Thank you. We have one replica of the esteemed representative Emil Tomljanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-04-01-0.u31694	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, here's a very short, distinguished representative I'd like to rephrase in the part where she brought into substance a concrete bill regarding abuses. I think we'll all agree when we talk about abuses, that they should not be reduced to the least possible measure but to all existing instruments, all laws, legislative proposals should be eliminated any possibility of abuse of this legal institute on the one hand. And on the other hand, today we are discussing a concrete legislative proposal, a concrete legislative proposal is that, therefore, it comes down to the fact that a certain legal institute is being deleted from the Law on Mandatory Relations and which we included in the Law on Mandatory Obligations in 2005. Indeed, the fact is that only or exclusively by eradicating this institute would not prevent abuses, should be prevented but also by other instruments and even perhaps even to think about legal changes related to the manner of control, in the first order of conclusion, then the execution of contractual obligations when we talk about this kind of contract, therefore, by a concrete contract on life support. So, I absolutely support all those thoughts, all those proposals that go after abuse not to be reduced to the least possible measure, but to prevent any form of abuse of this legal job of a life support contract, but we really are not going to solve this concrete legislative proposal, and that is why I am against this kind of legal solution.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-04-01-0.u31695	Thank you. The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative Anna Lovrin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-04-01-0.u31696	Thank you very much. Well, of course, Mr. Tomljanovic, that neither the first nor the last time that the observed abuses of rights are going the wrong way. So, I repeat, strong control by state institutions in this case mainly in the domain of social care, so the social services that must be on the ground must know the state of affairs, have to question where people who no one has to worry about, whether they're commercially capable, whether they're using their rights, that's how we're going to reduce abuses in this case, but not certainly in this way, by eradicating this institute and the law because we had a very similar provision in the freedom to negotiate, for example, in the law of law, and then we managed to prevent it because in the executive law, we said that they were zero contracts that citizens, who concluded with the banks, which allowed the exercise of full income. So, while these provisions of nothingness were, with nothing to do with the abuse of banks against citizens, we couldn't prevent it because it was in force as a general rule of freedom of bargaining unless something was explicitly forbidden.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-04-01-0.u31697	Thank you. We're continuing an individual debate. It is up to the honourable representative Boro Grubisic to welcome you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-04-01-0.u31698	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and fellow MPs. Here, Mr. Lesar has actually launched one topic today which is very much to say in the light of the events he has presented and the other representatives in his discussions, and I am very pleased that he encouraged all those who have debated today to think and to say legal experts in this House of Commons. In any case, if nothing else, at least it was achieved to think about the possibilities of change, if not doping, as Mr. Lesar suggested, but the change in that part, in the Law on Mandatory Relations relating to this substance, so-called. life support. Mr Zubovic here spoke of the very words life-long and life-long maintenance and differences arising from these very concepts in terms of entering into the possession of the giver, who gives, who refrains, so immediately after signing a life-restraint contract and in the case of a life-long, therefore, person after the person who abstains dies. The very notion of life support is, in fact, we're all aware that it's not appropriate. She's even a little ugly, since death is mentioned and she's keeping a living person alive. Now, if we're talking about the concept for life, someone here said it should change, I mean Mr. Zubovic into some other term. Well, we have here now the notion of life support, but we may also have the notion of life support. For life. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Here is perhaps one proposal that can be a contribution, therefore, to the legislator that he eventually used such a term for life, so it's exactly the right thing to do for a living, and it's a lifelong restraint. So here's one of mine, here's a small contribution to this matter. When it comes to abuses, then we are all aware of it, not just newspaper articles, but from all of our environments, I am convinced that we all know well here that abuses exist from individuals, hence private persons, but also private persons in our services, social services, and then there is news, whispering, whispering that some employees of these social services have a large number of properties acquired precisely by the abuse of the institution of life support. Now, how to jump to the abuses and those private faces and those I consider and they said it's not true, that it's not true, that it's actually a conflict of interest in some way. If, therefore, a social worker uses his status and not only his status but also what belongs to the maintenance user as something with which he will achieve, therefore, the property benefit and the real estate, then it is, in my opinion, a conflict of interest, and now however you baptize and call it, which is so. There was talk of the law establishing that such contracts would be concluded with a public notary or before a court. And it's one of Mrs. Lovrin's proposals which, it seems to me, tends to be in her statement that these contracts are made exclusively in front of the court. When, therefore, a loud and clear judge, in full consciousness of both parties, shows what belongs to whom and whose obligations are under that contract. Here's the first time I'm going to tell life support, not life support, to use it. So, I think the instance is the court, the municipal court that should be solely authorized to conclude such contracts, not the public notebooks. Furthermore, the implementation of the contract itself is here said in the domain of control of the center of social care, social assistance etc. When a life contract is concluded, European practice should also be applied in any case. Well, we've got European laws, we've adopted those piles, let's say at these sessions of ours. Do we have a chance to apply European practice here as well? In Europe, they say, it is a practice for social services to give an opinion on two issues. One question is the validity and ability of the one who supports, how much he can and can support someone, whether his material abilities and others are such that he can support someone. And the second is actually a need, so an assessment of the need of someone who eventually makes a contract, whether he needs a life support or, as I say, life support. Does anyone need it at all? So there is the possibility that doctors or health care with an assessment of the overall ability of one's life, the general ability to evaluate, and then to see if anyone needs and therefore his material status as a supporter. So then social services assess whether it is necessary for someone to sign a life support contract, so social services must be involved and give consent both to one and the other, and to one and the other. With such agreement would go to a municipal court that would explain the rights, duties and obligations arising from that gambling, I would say, contracts, it's kind of a gambling contract because you never know who's going to live and how they're going to behave in that I say marriage somewhat, out of interest. Therefore, these are my small contributions and proposals in connection with this Law on Mandatory Relations, i.e. amending the Law on Mandatory Relations. Here is the hope that those who listen to this and who are here to say legislators and those who write laws in this country, if it will help them a little, I will be happy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-04-01-0.u31699	Thank you. We have one correction to an incorrect quote. Dear representative Neda Klaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-04-01-0.u31700	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Mr. Representative, it's an incorrect quote when you say that you know a large number of employees who work in social services who have acquired a large number of properties through abuse. That's not true. I worked at the Social Care Centre in Sibenik for 26 years, and on the fingers of one hand, I can count the people who made use of certain properties, based on one contract or another. Another false claim, the social service must also agree in the event of life and life support. You don't have to, Mr. Representative. It doesn't have to be as much as the welfare center comes on stage, conditionally speaking, the moment a certain person needs protection in her first health status, and then further into social economics. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-04-01-0.u31701	Thank you. And now it is the honourable representative Ivo Josipovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-04-01-0.u31702	... that we must be grateful to our colleague, Lesar, that he has opened up one real question that is raised in the matter of humanity itself, in matters of human survival and our relationship with our fellow citizens, who are under their old days, who have found themselves in a difficult situation. [[Specially enabled.]] The fact is that it's probably a very difficult problem for a colleague to point out to, to solve with a legal standard. I, even though I'm a lawyer, don't believe that just by legal norm, no matter what she is, it's possible to solve that problem. In his proposal, Lesar showed one way, but I agree with those who think that he may not be the happiest for reasons because there are so many other directions that abuse can enter the homes of those old people, that perhaps you should see some different intervention. But what I think is important to point out is that this whole story, and what we've met in the media, should have long been recognized by the competent state authorities and had to come up with some concrete proposals by the government long before fellow Lesars. But let this be a reason for the government to consider the solutions that, some of course said are heading towards the conditions for the conclusion of the contract, which go after formalities that might strengthen the position of older people who accept such contracts. However, what should be pointed out is the following. The problem would not arise if from what we have heard, it is not clear from concrete examples that state bodies or social welfare bodies do not always do their job properly. In fact, we've heard this story about how the 19 contract case couldn't possibly intervene. Well, she was taxed, so she was this one, so she was an inspection, and none of them could do anything. Well, it's clear from this story that only a small, not even very creative interpretation of legal norms could show conflict with a specific person with the law. This is so much in examples that the days were simulated that it had to react. She had to react to the tax administration because it's obvious that in the form of a life support contract, that activity is actually hidden. We've had that philosophy for a long time, no taxes are collected from illegal activity. For a long time, even from the former state, it was a philosophy. Well, it's a covert activity and it needs to be taken away from the benefits that have been achieved, and if something is earned by some part of the job that can be said to be legal, tax regulations should be applied. Also, quite certainly, I remember this example from the press, what was there was a particular object of social care, regardless of what he declared as a private house. So how can the authorities not recognize that? Well, it doesn't have to stand on the door and write what it is to recognize the contents. And that is, otherwise, the problem that we have in our entire legal system that law is not interpreted but applied mechanically and that is something that applies to the entire system of our administrative and judicial bodies. It seems to me that we should work here on a certain legal basis, and that, of course, also applies to legal colleges that law must be interpreted. It's real life and its real application is only if we do it, if we make the legal standard a compatible life. So, on the one hand, it is obvious that in cases of abuse, state authorities have failed, especially that inspection, and on the other hand, it is obvious that the social care system in Croatia is being dramatically scheduled. Because if there are so many people who are not negligible, who are willing to give all their property to welcome the end of life in as many normal human terms as possible, so why doesn't the state take care of it? Why does it leave these poor people at the mercy of merciless people, I have to tell the hohstapplers who are taking advantage of their poor situation and the state's unpreparedness to face the problem. So here's why I won't be longer, colleagues and colleagues are that rights are more or less correct said, and I agree with that, and I don't really think it's really possible simply by removing the head to solve the problem, but let's face it, I'd say the humane initiative of fellow Lesar to be a message, to be a motive for state bodies, to competent state bodies, no. The Department of Justice who's here can be the coordinator. Run an action, think of a system that will first enable people to safely and stablely welcome their last days on the one hand, and on the other hand, when abuse occurs to react to it as a normal legal state must react. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-04-01-0.u31703	Thank you. We have a correction of incorrect 2. And that's the first distinguished representative, Neda Klaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-04-01-0.u31704	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Here is the incorrect quote by Mr. Josipovic when he says "a dramatic appointment of the welfare system". Mr. Josipovic, it is not true that the social care system is being dramatically scheduled because the social care centre protects persons who are deprived of their business abilities completely or partially and then protects their rights and interests, not only in terms of health but also property rights and interests, according to the list of property they are obliged to make under the law. On the other hand, what is the fundamental task of the social care centre is to first protect the person with her health, that means by accommodation her in the institution of social care, and under b, the protection of their rights and interest of property nature is at stake. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-04-01-0.u31705	Thank you. The second correction to the incorrect allegations, the esteemed representative Mario Zubovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-04-01-0.u31706	I'd like to correct Mr. Josipovic, and since he's a professor at law school, I'm surprised he talks like that. You said she scheduled social care. I'm just a moment ago, you were probably there, read one life support contract. Do you know how he came to be? He was created so that the person was pulled out of social care. She had social care and she was pulled out and those who signed her life support paid the state 50, 60,000 kuna in compensation. They bought that old lady. So social care worked, but it wasn't because the old lady had social care. But the local self-government was stronger than social care and the local self-government took over so it could come to property.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-04-01-0.u31707	Thank you. Injury of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-04-01-0.u31708	Well, here's a colleague and a colleague who didn't actually correct it, mostly they didn't correct the incorrect allegations, but they gave the replicas. So I would also like to answer, I wonder fellow Zubovic that as a doctor, a member of a human profession thinks it's a good system.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-04-01-0.u31709	What's the breach of the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-HR_2009-04-01-0.u31710	That's the violation of the Rules of Procedure, I've already said it consists of it being not about correcting an incorrect quote, but about a replica. For five minutes, a colleague spoke and corrected.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-04-01-0.u31711	It was exclusively an correction of an incorrect quote and not a word of five minutes, but the exact time specified by the Rules of Procedure. Excuse me. It's not going to work. And we have one replica, so you'll be able to answer, distinguished representative Anna Lovrin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-04-01-0.u31712	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Here, this will be an opportunity for Mr. Representative to say, but here, unlike my party colleagues, I will say that I agree with you on the issue of interpretation of the law, not strictly grammatical, but beyond bringing it into the context of the law raids. So I really think that, in this case, 19 contracts signed for life support were really state bodies able to recognise illegal activity, they could recognise that it was someone who was doing it, regardless of what a private house was and because it was a payment job, so a life support contract was a charge job, and it was obviously an illegal activity. So it could be intervened. But I certainly advocate that the conditions be tightened, that social care obligations be imposed, some kind of consent to such contracts. I advocate that it be a judicial form of contract just as I advocate when we change the Code of Criminal Procedure to predict in such cases of fraud, persecution by official duty, not persecution by private lawsuit because these people who have been cheated are not able to privately prosecute that person. And I have to say in the defense of Dr. Zubovic, something, he just wanted to say that in this case it was the local self-government who concluded a bad contract on life support at the expense of social care where he pulled the protégé. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-04-01-0.u31713	Thank you. Replication response, distinguished representative Ivo Josipovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-04-01-0.u31714	... And I'm actually thinking the same thing. [[The speaker was subsequently turned on.]] And I would especially refer to the possible reflection on how social welfare services reacted correctly in the case we heard. Namely, how someone who is a member of a human profession as a doctor can accept that the social welfare service sees what is happening and does not file criminal charges. Where is humanity and where is this approach and the claim that social services are doing their job well and solidly. If that's humanity, if it's a social service, it's a great honor for one who supports such social care.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-04-01-0.u31715	Thank you. And finally, the honourable representative, Mršić. Here you go, individual debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-04-01-0.u31716	Thank you very much for your offer, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. So, I don't take this amendment to the law as something that's within the law, although it's an amendment to the law. This is more about humanity and the human question. Unfortunately, why is there more or why are our fellow citizens forced to wave? Because this is more about coercion or urgency, let's not talk about coercion, about having to make life support contracts. They're forced, or they're in need to make it because there are more and more of our older citizens who unfortunately have no one to worry about. There are more and more of our fellow citizens who have no one to worry about and they don't make their own incomes so they can arrange for a favor to take care of them. So I can't afford a favor so that someone cleans them up, that someone brings them groceries into their house because I can't possibly move, I can't reach a social care system because the sub-capacitation of our homes for older and powerless people, I can't in any other way negotiate some form of social care that would take care of them without having to give up my property. So, since our fellow citizens are a large number of them obviously involved here because I am convinced that my colleague Lesar would not give such a law to be individual or controversial cases but rather a large number of our fellow citizens, it is a large number of fellow citizens who were in need of it to do so and over whom the abuse of this law was committed because obviously they were neither concerned nor were they under appropriate conditions until their death or were still some of them alive and whoever concluded such a contract was in possession of their property. Here we should discuss more about the social care system of our older citizens or at all about the care of society and the state of our older citizens than how they will enter into a contract to replace what society and the state do not care about them. Of course, the biggest care for their parents should have children, but we have cases where our older citizens do not have children, or have not had at all or have children passed away, or have moved from Croatia. Or, second, we also have, unfortunately, those situations where children do not feel the need to care for their elders, about their parents who are of course older than them. At the same time, I suppose there is a country to take care of its fellow citizens, especially to take care of those of their fellow citizens who cannot care for themselves in any way or cannot adequately care for themselves in a satisfactory way. And this is exactly where the state should jump in to ensure the quality of life of our older fellow third-aged citizens. Unfortunately, the situation is dramatic. Here, I'll tell you on the example of the Koprivnica-Crysing County. We have at this point a home for the elderly and the powerless that works in Koprivnica. The waiting list in that home is 400 people. So, on average, it takes five years to get to a place in an elderly and powerless home. An association that organizes older people has designed a program, a "geronto housewives" project. This project is based on the fact that the geronto housewives come into the households of older people and provide them with a certain amount of services. The project was initially supported by the PHARE Pre-accession Fund with 110,000 euros, after which it developed as a deinstitutionalised form of care for older people and is currently supported by the Ministry of Family and Defence. But also thus complemented by this programme which now, with those who are in the home care of about 200 more people through the Gerontohome, is still far enough for those needs that we currently have in Koprivnica and Križevci County. So, there is a need to build a Home Depadance in the Križevci and Home Depadance for Retired People in Đurđevec. Unfortunately, at the request of Koprivnica and Križevci County to enter the social care system, the Ministry of Health and Social Care said there is no need for this, or that it will not be financed from the state budget, so there is no construction of the two deficits. To fill that space we now in Koprivnica are launching a project to build one apartment building or one bedroom apartments for older people where older people will be able to rent an apartment or apartment and arrange a certain amount or a certain type of service from home for the elderly who are located close to the facility. It will also open space for about 100 to 150 people. However, it remains. So, if we put those 150 here, there are 250 people who are already on the waiting list for the retirement home. It is easy with those who went online to retire so they have good pensions so they can take care of themselves, but unfortunately we have too many who can hardly get out of their apartment or their home to take care of basic needs such as going to a doctor, such as buying the necessary life supplies, such as a day’s warm meal. And that's how we deliver food to their homes through public cuisine. But therefore, these are all projects based on the interest and will of local self-government. Here, at the state level, we should define a system of care for our older citizens that our older citizens really know what they can expect from the Ministry of Social Care, from the Ministry of the Family and under what conditions they will get. So those who can't, who have small pensions or who don't have pensions. Because today you have people who, for example, are in a agricultural pension, who have between 300 or 400, or 500 kuna monthly pensions, who have their own home, who have their own kindergarten, but it is not enough for them to take care of themselves especially if they are alone, especially if they are seriously ill even with what medicines and medical checks have to pay for, so there is almost nothing left for them and they are necessary and forced to simply make these unfavourable contracts for them. Because if a contract like this is concluded, then you have no control over the quality of whether the person who made this contract got anything for what she gave, concluded a life support contract. She can break that contract. But what's the alternative to going back to something that's much worse and much more worthless than it was when that contract was concluded? Therefore, the proposal is for colleagues Josipovic and me, and some other partners to make sure that this is an incentive to talk, to consider and possibly adopt a strategy one and in the Croatian Assembly to care for our older citizens and that we, as a society, too, commit to care for those persons, as our fellow citizens are, at the end of our working life, absolutely certainly both at the end of their working lives or at the end of their lifetime. If they have made a huge contribution to the community and I believe that the vast majority or all of them have made a contribution that was within their capabilities and competences, then I think society has a duty to take care of them to have a decent and quality age, it is also in the age of citizens that they need to live quality. Their needs are different from the needs of people who are working and from the needs of children or I don't know those who go to school. But they also have their own needs and what is most important is the need for quality life. Therefore, let us not allow people to be forced to make unfavourable contracts, and then accept on the other hand that the system is not working, so we defend on the one hand the welfare system but we refuse that the rule of law does not work at that time, because if someone has 19 life support contracts, then it is absolutely certain that he is committing several abuses of these contracts because there is no life support if you have 19 contracts. Therefore, I appeal that we, as a society, commit ourselves to care for our older fellow citizens.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-04-01-0.u31717	Thank you. Two corrections. First Mr. Representative Stjepan Milinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-04-01-0.u31718	Mr. Vice President. Well, counterpart Mršić incorrectly stated that older people can neither buy bread nor exercise any social right without giving away property. Well, in my act, I said it was in this county, for example. there is a system, probably by the housewives that the county has designed and which is shown to be extremely effective and where these older people can thus exercise a lot of their rights. But it is also necessary to say here that there are other forms of social care, for example. assistance for care and care by another person, so it is necessary to remind that the family also has certain obligations regarding these elderly and powerless persons. Because when they die, then many people come to the debate about property and other things. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-04-01-0.u31719	Mr. Representative Frano Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-04-01-0.u31720	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, it's an incorrect quote from colleague Mršić when you said that our senior citizens were forced because there is no one to care about them and sign these contracts. That's incorrect. First, the state, of course, through the social care of this system as a whole, but there are different programmes that the government has designed. I'll tell you one program, let's say in the Dubrovnik example, exactly what you were saying. Which is financed through the departments of power. So the old and the powerless people who are also chopping up wood and having their meals ready. So, it is all available, but the programme must be designed by local self-government units, the second is the county with its programmes. Therefore, they are all competent and mandatory. Third thing, you could've done it in Koprivnica instead of selling that facility I don't know who and I don't know what, spent it on facilities on the coast, talking about a resort. You could reroute that money and build a retirement home or a home for older and powerless people.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-04-01-0.u31721	State Secretary Drazen Bosnjakovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-04-01-0.u31722	Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen. Here, on behalf of the Government, I can finally say once again that as regards the proposal for amendments and the addition of the Law on Mandatory Relations by the Proposer of Mr Lesar, we have indeed recognized the noble, humane intentions in the proposal for this law. Which is why we don't support it, it's just formal reasons, because I said if we were to delete the provisions that are now regulated by the Life Support Act, then we would go back to that system that we had before 2005. In 2005, however, we introduced a stricter system related to the conclusion of a life support contract. This means that it cannot be concluded today that such a contract is not concluded before a judge or a public notary in such a way that both a judge and a public notary are obliged to warn the party of the importance of this contract on the legal consequences resulting from that contract. And you side this is one system that is a step forward compared to what we had before 2005. However, this whole debate has really raised certain questions that, in the next amendments to the Law on Mandatory Relations, we will, of course, take into account and do not run away at all from what my colleague Josipovic said in the debate, which is why we, as the Ministry of Justice, in cooperation with other ministries particularly responsible for social care, are going to analyse solutions related to improving this institute's life support contract, which is why before I would say great ideas here. When prescribing potentially even more stringent conditions, those who actually give restraint throughout this process. Of course, we must keep in mind the fundamental principles of our legal system, and that we all have certain freedom at our disposal with our private property, our private property, that there is freedom to regulate property legal relations and therefore is not in the spirit of a large ban system. In the spirit of the system, it is actually to enable the protection of such relationships that I said existed in the form of a termination of the contract, in the form of a determination of the futility of such contracts. And you're foreign to certain things that are larger to the present system. The issue of the functioning of all of this, of course, is a second question, but we are not running away from the role of using to see and analyse the situation and in the next amendments to the Law on Mandatory Relations to advance this system, which I say in 2005 is significantly different than it was before. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-04-01-0.u31723	Thank you. Final review, draft law, Mr Dragutin Lesar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-04-01-0.u31724	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. Well, look, even though it's April 1st, I'm happy. I believe that no one's debate was in the context of today's day's custom, because most of those who participated in the debate agreed with my assessment that in the institute there is no good in the law, there is something wrong in the Institute of Life Restraint, and that some things should be changed. In the current debate, Mr Secretary of State announced amendments and additions to the Law on Mandatory Relations, which will be prepared by the Government and that, in cooperation with the competent social security resolution, it will see what further changes should be made to remove the causes of my proposal. I accept that, and I am waiting for this proposal from the government because it was clear to me when I also proposed this law that it would not be adopted whatever I wrote in it, because it matters who the promoter is. But I repeat both the Parliament and the Government, with my proposal for a law, I warned that the Institute of Life Support is being abused in Croatia and led to legalised elderly poor women. And I agree that it's not just a legal question, it's a question of humanity. Mr. Bosnjakovic said the government adheres to the principles of freedom of choice and negotiation. That's what I've apostrophysed in my introduction and asked the question, so I repeat it and what about the role of the state in protecting the powerless, ignorant, or the question of humanity. If the media reports and presents examples of such behaviours that are not only at the border but have crossed the line of humanity, then indeed the Government should react and be the first to react. The only reaction I know was the attempt of social services to the justice ministry with a proposal that the law changes which the justice ministry has not accepted. Furthermore, the Institute of Life was introduced in 2005 exactly, which was also said by my colleague Lovrin, but in 2005 we also presented examples in this Assembly, then already known to the public about the abuse of this institute, were amendments to that effect by MP Nikola Vuljanić, who were rejected here in the Parliament. So this is not the first time the Croatian Parliament has received a warning about the abuses of the Institute of Life Support. That was just when the law was passed. And then it is said that this regulation will thus solve almost all problems and prevent the possibility of abuse. But it encourages, I repeat, Mr. Bosnjakovic's statement that they will see what else should be changed with social services. He said he had no doubts about my good intentions and I had no doubt or doubt about the government's good intentions in 2005 when she proposed such a legal solution. I really believe that it was a good intention, and I really know that by then it wasn't in the law. But good intentions sometimes are not enough, if they show that something has been done for four years, some good intention has not been fully implemented, let's fix it, or the institute. Key words that you've all used, surveillance, supervision of contracts concluded, supervision of indeed.. Restraint, control of the conditions. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Second, which is essentially my question. Mr. Bošnjakovic, if these citizens have property, whether in money, whether in real estate and need help to maintain a sick, difficult moving, immobilized, unmovable, anything. Why the state is unable to apply the provisions of the Social Care Act and in this law there is the possibility that the state will take care of every citizen of the Republic of Croatia by moving its property into state ownership after his death and he has a lifetime of use or accommodation in an adequate institution or household. So, what happened back four or five years ago is that citizens don't want to go in or not to worry about the state but to private manipulators. There's not enough room in our homes, but we have a foster home institute. We said we didn't want to put people in institutions but that it was a more human foster home. So what happened in the social care system is that they're closer and better accessible private hostuplers who later cheat on them than the welfare system that they offer here, property, contractual crossings, you're as long as you live, you can use it after your death that's state property. And we will help you in cash or offer accommodation in a home or in a foster home. Which, then, is happening in the field. How come these come to them privately before the welfare system. I also agree with the position of the Croatian Democratic Community, so that only the abolition of these provisions would not prevent the conclusion of the treaty and I said that I had to make another proposal to introduce a provision on the integrity of such contracts into the law, then it would be a whole. I agree, that's what I said in the introduction. You have also made a proposal to tighten the terms and conditions that those who take care of someone should have. It's also acceptable very well for me. However, I am going back to that debate of my colleague Zubovic and I want to actually visit you with the example he set. I have seen 10 of these contracts and my colleague Zubovic is right 99% of the content of the contract refers to the property. I haven't found a single contract in which to write a abstention person has the right to four, eight, or 12 square meters of dormitory. It seems to me that in Croatia there is, Mr. Vice President, it is best to know, probably the only one of us, how much in the prison system is the standard for one prisoner square. I think it's eight squares. I didn't think she had to know for now, but legal regulations know her colleagues, Lovrin, that's what I meant. So we have absurd and it's good that for prisoners in prison we have prescribed how many at least squares and spaces they need to have. How many squares a abstention must have when this enters a life contract. Yeah, find me a contract that says he's entitled to clothes and shoes. Find me a contract that says how many rooms are used and how large the room is. Find me a contract that says he has the right to television. Find me a contract that says how many daily meals, that he has the right to a newspaper, if not a day, then a week. There is almost no provision on what a person receives in restraint, says that he will be held back. And the formal legal agreement is legal. So if we give jurisdiction only in courts and... to realize that everything's okay because it says it's gonna hold him back. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But there's no right, there's no obligation to enter what's under abstention implies. And counterpart Zubovic read a contract not concluded by a natural person, the municipality concluded the contract with its fellow citizen. Her community did that to her, not some kind of hohstappler on the market. Where do these contracts get signed? You mean in the public notebook's office? No, public notebooks go there, under different and suspicious circumstances. My colleague Lovrin said that we should have talked about this not today, but in 2005, I repeat it. We spoke Nikola Vuljanić, a representative of the Croatian Parliament, had amendments. Yeah, well, not for the first time. You suggested tightening the conditions, introducing control, considering the need for us courts to verify these contracts, so that the judge would have the right to check the possibilities and assess how many contracts one could conclude and consider limiting the number of contracts, introduce persecution by official duty. I find this extremely important in the paper that there can be persecution for committing a crime not only by prosecution, but by official duty. And control of social institutions. Some say they're in conflict of interest, some say it's a crime. It's neither. None of our laws are a conflict of interest or a crime, because they are highly educated people who know that if I, as a social worker, make a contract with a party that I was officially in charge of, it could be a criminal offence. But they share the clientele with each other, so they don't make deals with their client but from a colleague or colleague. And there's no crime because it wasn't that social worker in social surveillance who was later contracted. They know how to avoid it. I am now the secretary of state and such, and I warn that a large number of such contracts have been manipulated, and everything is legal and clear. I think this proposal by my colleague Grubisic about changing the name is seriously considered. For life. He said for life. For life it is true that when we have a life contract and a lifetime contract, we have the possibility of a lack of understanding. I'm not a lawyer. ... I know you do, Mr. Vice President. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] I know you do. And when I write bill proposals or other proposals, I have no idea of legal competition with any of you who are lawyers, but to open the topic and help the government to understand that there is a problem in one segment of this society and give it the opportunity to solve it better and smarter than my proposal. But interestingly, when the government wrote an opinion, there was no indication in this written opinion of the willingness of the inventory and the possibility of changing the institute. Today, from the secretary of state, Mr. Bošnjakovic, we heard that this readiness exists and that is what encourages it. I'm really happy about that. And until this proposal, the Government's proposal to amend and supplement comes to me, there's only one thing left to do by using this pay phone, to warn all citizens of the Republic of Croatia not to conclude life support contracts, so don't enter into agreements on life support, and before you decide to enter into any agreement, don't consult with just one person or one service. Talk to as many people as you can, ask around and get information before you put a signature on any contract. Until the law changes, it's the only way to protect your interests. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-04-01-0.u31725	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. There's probably a... I'm sorry, first of all, the correction of an incorrect quote. Mrs. Representative Anna Lovrin. Mea culpa.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-04-01-0.u31726	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, here's colleague Lesar, the promoter, said he knew this law wouldn't be passed no matter what it said, because it doesn't matter what it says, but who the law proposes. It's completely incorrect. This law, believing in Mr. Lesar's good intentions and preventing abuses, and the HDZ's Club of Representatives will not accept it, cannot accept it for a simple reason, because its acceptance would actually open wide the door to greater abuses than it is today, and these abuses should be prevented by other measures, as we have heard here today in the debate, but only abolishing, without explicit ban would lead to worse abuses. I'm not even in favour of explicitly abolishing, but rather of tightening the requirements for the form of a contract and stronger supervision of social services.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-04-01-0.u31727	Okay. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-04-01-0.u31728	And if you'll excuse me... but there's no time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-04-01-0.u31729	I'm closing the debate. We'll vote on this proposal when the time comes and if anyone else comes...
ParlaMint-HR_2009-04-01-0.u31730	When they're perfect, then yes and when they're not...
ParlaMint-HR_2009-04-01-0.u31731	Special proposal.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-04-01-0.u31732	We move to the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Mandatory Relations, First Reading, P.Z. No. 250, Proposer: Representative Dragutin Lesar. The debate is closed. I am giving the vote the conclusion in line with the proposals of the parliamentary working bodies and the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, which reads: "The Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Mandatory Relations is not accepted." Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? The proposal was accepted by a majority vote with 93 votes in favour, 18 abstentions and 20 against. The club of representatives of the HDZ proposes to the Croatian Assembly the following conclusion: "The Croatian Parliament proposes to the Government of the Republic of Croatia that, through the basis of a debate held in the Croatian Parliament on the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Mandatory Relations, P.Z. The number 250, the proposing representative of Dragutin Lesar, conducts a thorough analysis of the abuses of the Institute of Life Support Contracts and proposes appropriate solutions to the Croatian Assembly." Does the proposaler's representative want to further explain? Or give an opinion? No, I don't. I am voting on the proposal for a conclusion of the HDZ representative club. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? This conclusion was accepted by most votes. 125 votes for and 8 abstentions, nothing against.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-04-01-0.u31733	Special proposal. - Proposal for a conclusion on trading societies of special state interest is proposed by the Club of Representatives of the CNS. The government delivered an opinion. The discussion was conducted by the Committee on Economy. Proposer representative, Mr. Representative Zlatko Koračević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-04-01-0.u31734	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues. Let me first explain the reasons behind the club of the Croatian People's Party for submitting a proposal for conclusions that would oblige the Government of the Republic of Croatia to submit the Annual Business Report to the Croatian Parliament for discussion and adoption. In particular, the Government of the Republic of Croatia has found that 210 companies are of particular national interest, and among them public undertakings are pointed out. Groups of companies such as Croatian Electroprivreda, Croatian Post Office, Croatian Railways, Jadrolinija, Croatia Insurance, Croatian Lottery and not to list any further. In total, it is 20 public companies or groups of companies. It is about public enterprises owned or owned by the majority of citizens of the Republic of Croatia. It is about public companies that manage our natural wealth, public enterprises that manage extremely valuable assets or, as we know to call it, family treasures such as Croatian forests, Croatian waters, Croatian highways. This is about public enterprises providing citizens with the necessary services. It is a word for public enterprises that define to a considerable extent the degree of sovereignty of our country. And it is public enterprises that have a key impact on the quality of life of citizens in many segments as well as on the potential for the development of the entire economy. On the business of public enterprises, companies of particular state interest, the government discusses it once a year, as a rule at a closed session. I repeat, as a rule at a closed cabinet session. Therefore, we at the Croatian People's Party club believe that for Croatian citizens, taxpayers, it is unacceptable to discuss business in public enterprises behind closed doors at the meetings of the Government of Croatia because the Croatian public has the right and should have the right to see the business of public enterprises and companies of particular state interest. I would like to point out in particular that the essence of this conclusion is not the debate on the business of public enterprises, i.e. a majority-owned society, but the point is that such an important issue is a matter of interest for the whole society to discuss before the institution and the only institution representing the public and citizens of this country, which is the Croatian Parliament. In fact, in public theory, public enterprises are contained in three points. The first is, the most important business decisions are made by the state as owner. The profits, i.e. the losses of business through the state budget, belong to the entire community. And third, very important, the public enterprise is responsible for its business throughout society, i.e. Parliament as the ultimate guardian of public interest. Of these three conditions, the public element is met only in the first two elements of our practice, and the public interest guardian is the Government, i.e. the Ministry of Finance, according to the opinion of the Government that we have received on this proposal for a conclusion. In a democratic society, which is our common goal, in a parliamentary system which is constitutional value, it is precisely that fact that points to the inadmissible practice of the government, and with great likelihood of damage to the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. On behalf of the promoter, the Croatian People's Party club, I would like to point out a few more facts. In 20 companies the largest of the assets and their total income, which, through the price of services, their services and products, significantly affects the standard of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, employs over 76,000 employees. The total income of these companies is 8.6 total revenue of all companies in the country, approximately slightly above the $56 billion. Furthermore, subsidies and grants to some public enterprises according to the 2007 data were nearly 3 billion kuna. I repeat subsidies and grants or according to the annual budget in 2007 that was 3% of the total state budget. According to a report on the business of 20 public enterprises in 2007, the participation of salaries in the total operating costs of public enterprises was almost 17%. More specifically, 16.57%. And while at the same time according to the State Statistics Institute, participation pays for the total expenditure of all economic operators in this country in 2007, there were 12.1%, in public enterprises 17%, in the economy of the state of Croatia 12.1% with a further tendency to fall, the Croatian Statistics Office said in a commentary report. If, with its salary cost, public companies reduced to the cost of pay or the contribution of the cost of pay in the total cost incurred by the economy of this country, the paid salary cost or better said savings in public enterprises would be 3 billion kuna. In particular, for example, one public company, purely because of its dimension, because I repeat, it is 3 billion kunas that are now paid through salaries in public enterprises and whose participation is one third higher in total costs than in the economy of the Republic of Croatia, and at this very moment the future of our country depends on the economy. Croatian forests have income per employee in 2008 100 thousand kunas smaller than the wood industry, while Croatian forests and the wood industry are connected vessels. In fact, the wood industry is an upgrade of the Croatian forests that have been given the ability to manage our family treasures, which are forests. But at the same time, this same wooden industry has twice as much salary as it has been paid in the Croatian forests. So 100 thousand kuna less income per employee, and twice the salary in this public company called the Croatian Forests, which since 2003 ended in 2007, and yet according to the State Statistics Institute, the growth of wages in the Croatian Forests was 55%, while at the same time in the Wood Industry was only 6%. Furthermore, outstanding public undertakings obligations, i.e. They arrived, and uncompromised according to the data our public had had the opportunity to hear at the end of the second month were 14.7 billion kuna, which once again confirms that public companies are exactly the strongest source of liquidity in our country. The participation of living in the total public company working hours fund is almost 23%. Almost 1/4 of the total labour hours fund is going to be resident in public enterprises or rather recalculated employees, somewhere around 17,000 employees in public enterprises are on sick leave during the year. And that's the cost of the 2.3 billion kuna business. Furthermore, we are witnessing almost daily affairs and scandals in the business of some public enterprises and it is well known that public companies serve as a haven for entrenched party personnel. At this time of recession, crisis, we discussed rebalancing recently, we talk about the crisis every day. We will talk about the rebalancing, tomorrow and the adoption thanks to the ruling majority despite the remarks that we had completely realistic very likely this rebalancing will pass. And we're almost certainly going to have a new rebalance soon, but with this rebalance, there's a government budget deficit, a difference between income and expenditure of about 5 billion. For example, the business of these public companies, when paid, the cost of public wages is reduced to the real economy of the Republic of Croatia, I repeat, is somewhere around 3 billion. If the disease were to be halved and reduced to a percentage of the economy of the Republic of Croatia, it would be a new circus of one billion, one billion and two hundred. If there were more than 3 billion payments in 2007 of subsidies in public enterprises and in some public enterprises, there are more subsidies, some of which are twice as much as their salaries, the reality of the circus is a billion kuna is quite certain and quite concrete only if it is buried in the surface, if things were placed in some reality that I repeat, the Croatian economy remains. 3 billion, a billion 200, a billion, potential, possible potential for the state to put state finances through the budget of this country into one normal, one of the collotencies that we expect and that we need very much at the time of the overall recession, especially the structural crisis that we have in our economy and all the reflections that arise next. Finally, in order to achieve the public interest of this conclusion that we propose to the Croatian Parliament for adoption, the Government of the Republic of Croatia would be obliged to submit to the Croatian Parliament a report once a year on the business of companies of special state interest with a special reference to public and state-owned enterprises. The discussion on the business of these companies would provide and provide a transparent insight into their work and activities and would achieve an element of public supervision. We at the Croatian People's Party club are convinced that a quality and reasoned parliamentary debate could result in more successful and efficient methods of managing public enterprises and companies of particular state interest and thus their better business. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-04-01-0.u31735	Thank you. One correction, Mr. Representative Frano Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-04-01-0.u31736	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, it's incorrect for public companies to hire politically detailed personnel. First of all, public companies are required to employ public tender and the procedure of the public tender is known. Therefore, colleagues may have been your experience while you were in power just as you said and described it, but what is happening now is certainly not and it is incorrect that there is no public oversight. The State audit is auditing public enterprises as well as elsewhere. Therefore, please read the results of the State Audit. No one's stopping anyone from having insight into the business of public companies.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-04-01-0.u31737	State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance Ivica Mladneo. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-04-01-0.u31738	Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished parliamentary representatives and parliamentary representatives. The Government of the Republic of Croatia is proposing to Croatia not to accept the proposal for a conclusion on companies of special national interest by the HNS Representatives' Club. First of all, I would like to point out that monitoring the business of public companies and companies is of particular national interest in the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Finance and on the basis of the Internal Design Regulation of the Ministry of Finance. Moreover, business companies of particular state interest follow-up and resolution ministries depending on the activities of the company allocated by the relevant portfolios. The Ministry of Finance draws up an annual report on the business of public enterprises, which is once a year referred to the Government of the Republic of Croatia for adoption. The report includes an analysis of the business of twenty companies, which are in 100% or most of the ownership of the Republic of Croatia, which are part of the 210 list of companies of special state interest. For 20 public companies, the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Ministry of Finance regularly publish a report on their websites and thus is available to the public. In addition to these business reports, a quarter of the website of the Ministry of Finance is also published, thus trying to achieve an even greater level of transparency and availability of data to the general public. In addition to the stated principle of public and full transparency, a number of other elements are achieved and we are particularly emphasising the following. Eight out of twenty of these largest public companies publishes a regular report on the capital market in accordance with the provisions of the Company Act or the provisions of the relevant regulations governing the business on the stock market and which must be transparent, with a number of very firm provisions binding on each trading company whose shares are listed on the stock market. Also, all these 20 companies publish public data annually, half-yearly public reports and on websites, which also points to respect for all principles of transparency and availability of data to the general public. All those companies are obliged to carry out business audit committees which establish all the facts in business and respect for accounting principles. Also, the State Audit reports for individual companies contain all the necessary information on the business of those companies and as such are the subject of the debate at the meetings of the Croatian Parliament and are available to the general public. These elements indicate that at the highest possible level there is a principle of public and transparency of data from the business of these companies. In addition, it should be pointed out that a large number of companies cover extremely significant services of general economic interest in the national economy and are located in natural monopolies. This feature is not specific to the Republic of Croatia but also to other countries which, through a certain number of societies of particular interest, determine the minimum quality of public services of general economic interest. It is our intention to continue to carry out activities aimed at achieving a satisfactory level of public service for citizens and through the business of these societies. Accordingly, we are constantly implementing measures that will increase the efficiency of the business and the provision of public services covering these societies, especially in situations where we are facing a crisis that has arisen from global disturbances. During this year, due to the market crisis, we intend to carry out the necessary rationalisation of business, so that a package of 10 anti-recession measures also contains measures to rationalise the business of these companies with the expected effect of 2 billion kuna. The activities related to these measures are clearly presented to the public, with a view to achieving the economic recovery measure during the crisis period. All of the above points to the clarity and responsible behaviour of the state as the owner, and we stress that the necessary measures to further increase the efficiency of these companies will also be taken into account in the future, and therefore we do not consider that there is a need for specific reporting on the scope of the business of public undertakings at the meetings. In line with this and the facts presented, we propose to the Croatian Parliament not to accept the proposal for a conclusion on companies of special interest proposed by the Club of Representatives of the HNS.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-04-01-0.u31739	Thank you. The club of the IDS representative, the esteemed representative Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-04-01-0.u31740	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Secretary of State, gentlemen of the Parliament. The IDS Club absolutely accepts this conclusion on companies of particular national interest. In Croatia, according to this conclusion, we see that there are about 210 companies of particular national interest. We are clearly most interested here at this time in public societies in which the Republic of Croatia has 50 or more than 50% of its share capital. So these are those societies that are not yet fully privatized or in which no privatisation has yet begun, but as time goes on, it won't last long, which I am 100%, and some of them will be privatized. Here I am thinking of shipbuilding, ACI and Liburni, but lately even Croatian electricity is mentioned. I'm above all absolutely saying there's no privatization of the Oilman. It is also a society of great public interest in the almost absolute ownership of the Republic of Croatia. If that were to happen, there would be a crime against Pula, according to Istria, towards shipbuilding. In 2008, just to mention this, an "Olinik" was doing business with a profit of 45.2 million kuna. 45.2 million kuna, something above 6 million euros. With a total income of 2 billion 283 million kuna. "Olinik" is a Croatian shipyard that does not benefit from state guarantees, which means that out of these 4.6 billion kunas that will reach or have been charged to the Croatian state because of the guarantees issued to Croatian shipbuilding on "Olinik" does not waste any kuna debt. Just as this is not the time to privatise "The Oilies" is not the time to privatise any "Liburnia", "ACI", etc. And in fact, it wasn't necessary to privatise other companies, let alone now privatize these golden cokes, which the truth has to admit the same, lately they haven't had any, let alone golden eggs. What are public enterprises of particular national interest? In this conclusion, some of them are listed, e.g. Croatian roads, the Croatian highways that some would now give in a concession which I would not advise them because of the experience that the extremities have about Ipilon. In doing so, I remember this price primarily of the tunnel on Učka, or the bridge on Mirna, 28th and 14th kuna, respectively. See on the other hand the price on the stock from Rijeka to Zagreb 160 kilometers. On that section, I don't know 10 kilometers of tunnels, 10 kilometers of bridges, overpasses, etc. and only 60 kuna is paid, for 5 thousand 200 meters through Učka 28 Kuna, which is to be a cynic still well relatively favourable compared to 14 kunas, how many of those who drive that bridge pay the crossing across the Mirna Bridge, about a thousand 500 metres long. Well, that's clearly rude, but what do we do? On the other hand, the people of Krk, Rab and others who use this "Titov Bridge" pay nothing. Then Croatia's forests are listed here, Croatia's television was left out, but I'll just say that last year's revenue from TV overpayments was a billion and 100 million kunas, Croatian mail, Croatian railways on which you currently have 400 managerial contracts. Even 120 unionists on the Croatian Railways have so-called The manager's contract, the average salary of $12,000, and no one can be out of a job until retirement. What to say for one Croatian postal bank, for one Croatian insurance, where the administration shares bonuses and of 500 thousand kuna. When I say management, I like them three. This year they shared their profits entirely with each other, and last year they shared the bonus of 500 thousand kuna in a way that they gave 50% to defend the generals of cash, 50% to keep HEP, etc. There's something else important about HEP. Now the mention of privatisation has begun. I think that if it did happen it would be worse than privatising the Croatian banks themselves. Jadrolini, Rijeka Luka, Croatian Post Office, etc. Set up normally with the right in the same way as Mr. Koračević does anyone oversee the work of these companies? You'll say we have some monitoring committees here. On these monitoring boards are our ministers, perhaps some MPs, we all know that clearly. Or arrival, for example. one Croatian electricity industry is 12 billion kuna. That's what the Parliament is silent about, but on the other hand, you'll see a loud talk about the phone, I don't know, let's say, Minister Bajs, which is the budget of 200 million kuna, or I don't know about the business card of a state secretary or minister, the representatives don't have them, or we don't have official phones, or we don't have a card, so we can be left out there. And not all parties I'll say in this country in the same position some can afford, I don't know, blinded cars as well as some tycoons of protective associations but some clearly can't afford it, however, what I want to say. Which is the most privileged job in this country. So I'm saying that this one in public enterprises is a higher salary, cars, cards, severances, bonuses, living rooms, organised vacations, etc., etc. But it's about something and it's about the state and so on at the local level, it doesn't make any difference, if we're going to be honest. However, the point is that these companies make billions of kunas of income and that literally this parliament does not oversee them. The unions we see silently, because in some ways they are in dealing with administrations, administrations and billions of kunas, I dare say almost without supervision, not billions of kunas, but what is the worst directors of these public companies, are increasingly doing privatisation of these companies, and by privatization, no less than for the new owner continue to do the old job. So almost all the privatisations, great privatisations in this country were made, by THT banks, I don't know, INE etc., etc. And after that, these people, and many of them were ministers, say, well, what do you care about my salary or the price of the service, no one can do anything to me, I have new private owners or I work for a stranger, therefore, everything is clean. However, this immorality should be stopped. Clearly, all those involved in the conversion, etc., and cannot prove that they have reached the first million euros, marks or dollars should not, in my opinion, participate in the privatisation of the remaining national wealth. However, which is Croatia's largest public company, someone could say it is HEP, I say no, someone will say it is these large shipyards, from Pula, Rijeka and Split, I argue not. That these are local waters or I don't know regional no, Liburnia no, the railroad no. The largest Croatian public company normally owned under the allegations of the Croatian Privatisation Fund is the so-called “Privatisation Fund”. tourist land. What's going on with him? Croatian tycoons have been using this land for two decades, mainly in camps, earning tens of millions of kuna annually and paying no one a single kuna fee. If booking hotel this year -20% booking camps is at least in Istria +20% this year. It's easy not to pay anyone, it's to try on the same thing through corrupt courts and book. The season is coming in 2009 it is clear that nothing will be resolved, the Croatian state knowingly or knowingly will be deprived of tens of millions of kunas this year and no one at all. Local elections are waiting to see how the cards will be tabled and I say some tycoons go to the polls to eventually get tourist land. Why should this status be resolved? Well, first of all, I guess it's common sense. Why would the state present to those to whom the hotels were donated, I don't know, tourism land now? But we need to work this out once and for another reason so that perhaps one day we can build on it. And now to mention when someone used to say this land purchase on Peljesac those 300 hectares and 150 hectares in Istria where 600 million kuna was spent, it is clear that it is someone's money laundering, for 600 million kuna plus real estate tax, plus commissions you could buy on today all of Liburnia, Živogosce, Sunčani Hvar, Jadran, Crikvenica, I claim that all privatised societies have not brought 600 million kunas to the Croatian privatisation fund. But let's let it go now. To return to public societies, Croatia leads to the 1st to 10th month income 2.2 billion kuna, HEP, 1st to 9th month 8.4 billion kuna loss of 166 million kuna, Croatia's railway 1st to 10th month income 2 billion 861 million kuna, loss of minus 103 million kuna. The port of Rijeka 1st to 9th month 233 million kuna plus profit means 6.5 billion kuna. In 2008, Croatia's broadcasting of €600 million from the subscription of over a billion kuna and so much since that money is public let them act as public television and let private television get away from these elections, let them stop acting as party television, every other show I will tell them bought, sponsored, almost every show can be bought, bought from a business club to the face of the nation. Yesterday this.. Someone come to Vrsar, Craciste, Vodnjan, Buzet, Novigrad, Brtiniglu, they are public television, and they function as private and party and a lot of it already. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] To go back to these companies, those people I'm talking about run systems that are ten times more powerful, some of them 50 times and from the Croatian ministries. We know to the ministers sometimes, here's the budget rebalance he showed to pull his soul out on a straw and we let these do what he wants. It's important that they pay for commercials, sponsors don't know Dinamo, Hajduk or some club in Istria, everyone will remain normally spared criticism and no one at all. So these public companies only turn the 20 that Mr. Koračević spoke of, turning 56 billion kuna, that is 50% of the Croatian budget. If we go to that 210, that's almost the size of one state budget. Did the Parliament ever ask a question I don't know about the railway fleet, Croatian Post Office in Croatia, insurance in the Croatian shipyards? It's not even gonna happen. And then what happens. So we all know clearly that it's a crisis, we all know that because of the tense budget of the budget, they can't be financed today, what I know about schools, or waterways, or sewers, or the Peljek Bridges, it's being transferred to these extra budget funds that are the easiest to manipulate and through which it's the easiest party to perform. It's the same thing with these public enterprises. I'm going to say once again, there's a budget between almost one budget, almost one budget in these public enterprises. Here we have the most innovative job assignments, that's where the best friends are hired, these institutions finance campaigns, both at the state and local level, and these investments can be obtained locally, so if you want state elections, etc., etc. And therefore, it is real to expect this Assembly to be provided with information on the business of these societies, regardless of what we can get on their pages. Finally, it is possible to save 5 billion kuna according to the modest savings of Mr. Korakevic. Well, that's an entire deficit, and that's why these companies should be discussed in the Parliament. If it's possible to save 5 billion kunas by comparing them to a private economy, then I assure you that in those 5 billion kunas, ma 1/10 of that money is waste and for the jobs below the table. Clearly, Croatia's tragedy, let's at least keep this, is that we sold the most valuable assets on the other hand, which is why it was privatised, what the Croatian state was deprived of the bank, the press, the INA, THT, the tourist companies, the tobacco monopoly further and what the Croatian Privatisation Fund often functioned in a way that something had to fail to then be privatised. I am one of those who believes that everyone states, let's say from "Maestra", in the indictment proposal by Mr. Bajic is correct and I am equally of the opinion that the complete conversion of the '90s is. By 2009, ultimately with the privatisation of INA was one big hell of a plan for Croatia to capture 200 families of which only a hundred remain today. Some of them were first chosen to participate in the transformation, and now they want government at the state level, local government, but I don't think we're going to be watching that song in this country for a while. :
ParlaMint-HR_2009-04-01-0.u31741	Okay, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-04-01-0.u31742	Either play or sing. All in all, I think we should support this conclusion.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-04-01-0.u31743	Correction of an incorrect allegation. Mr. Representative Frano Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-04-01-0.u31744	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. It is incorrect that billions of kunas are in public enterprises without any control, as counterpart Cain said. In fact, it is obvious that the lack of confidence in a state audit that is truly doing a great job, and we always support it when the State Audit report comes in the House. So you don't trust the state audit. Perhaps you'd like to control those funds. When you talk about privatisation and scandals, so you actively participated in the government that privatized most of what you're talking about. You were actively involved. ... Of course that's what you did with your support in the Parliament or where you've been, where you were put by the staff committees that worked for that government you had. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] You had a staff committee. Let me remind you of just one sector. ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2009-04-01-0.u31745	HNS representative club, Mr. Representative Goran Beus Richembergh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-04-01-0.u31746	Your Honor, Mr. Chairman. Representatives of the government. In front of you is a proposal for the conclusion of the CNS which pleads that the level of public control over such large business systems as state-owned or public enterprises in the Republic of Croatia, also enables the body which, by all definitions and by the Constitution, is actually a public representative and the highest instance of the Croatian public. It is business systems that control, exploit huge national resources, water and water, forests, ports, transport infrastructure, production and supply of electricity and energy, etc. Everything that is valid and still state-owned is controlled by a network of business systems that we call enterprises of particular national interest. And to be clear, the HNS is pushing for this kind of approach to be consistently implemented at all instances. So, when we talk about state-owned enterprises, there is the possibility of discussing the Croatian Parliament in their business. Likewise, the county councils in county-owned enterprises, as well as city councils, municipal councils when it comes to local municipal companies. It is not the case now, and we should be aware of this, especially in light of the fact that in many areas the functions of the assembly actually have the city's headships and that since May of this year, these city heads are no longer going to be and it is not a good thing that the model that already works in a whole series of cities, from Zagreb and beyond, which is that the mayoral office makes one person, it is not a good thing to become a standard for all. Because by that logic, the assembly of all state-owned companies would probably be just the Prime Minister. The Ministry of Finance, or the Government, argues that the public of the work of these state-owned enterprises is ensured by direct supervision by the Ministry of Finance, following business reports, publishing instant variations on its websites, i.e. by having access to state audits. It's absolutely no evidence that would testify to the public's insight. And even more so, it's proof that it's actually about insight, a secret insight. Because if they excerpt and convert reports into instant documents that show nothing concrete but merely summed up, then it's hiding business data. Let us remind ourselves that many private companies, banks, investment funds have an obligation to publicly carry out their balance sheets, and that only state-owned companies have virtually no obligation to the public. Furthermore, such a positioning part of the real sector actually represents the gray zone, the gray zone of the economy. Because if the state audit is already regularly overseeing the work of state-owned enterprises, what is the problem and what is the problem with national audit reports coming before the Croatian Parliament? Because we don't get government audit reports on the business of public enterprises. So we are interested to see what the structure of employees, which is the way we operate, are we interested in how we behave, whether we treat a good master's manners towards the national wealth he manages. The data we have from official statistics is alarming because it says that the state business sector does not share the fate of the real sector as a whole. That wages are important, significantly higher even though they are monopolies, that it is far less monitoring of the quality of work, that it is a far higher rate of sickness, that efficiency in these systems is far below what is in the real sector. Some say the state is a bad master. It's only true that the ill-organized state is a bad master. Let's see what management looks like. For supervisory committees we know, the ministers mostly sit, representatives of the state government. However, when a minister has 16 supervisory committees, look at the list of, say, the Deputy Prime Minister, Mr Polancec. 20 and some of the duties of membership in various supervisory committees, administrative bodies and committees. So Superman could not attend all the sessions, let alone actively participate in managing, or overseeing, the operations of such systems. Look at the management structures. Last week we received an official answer to Mršić's representative question. You have all the administrations of the most important companies of the state interest and you will see that there are many former active politicians in this structure, and even parliamentary representatives, one of whom is at this time in the Croatian highways in the midst of a major corruption scandal. It is a public secret that public enterprises, i.e. state-owned companies, are a reservoir from which they are affected by the parapolitical needs, but also a place where political-like associates are employed, for which there is no room in active politics anymore. Let's just look at how much funding is allocated to sports donations and who's doing it? Who does that? They're doing companies that are nominally showing losses. Let's say hep's case. At the same time as the citizens of Velika Gorica must accept a 50% increase in heating prices, at the same time the HEP administration is getting the new rolling stock of the most expensive limos possible. Is this rational behavior and will the Government, when it mentions it in its anti-recession measures, put an end to such behaviour? The Croatian Parliament deserved to know. Croatian forests, I recently visited a hunting ground in Sijakovačka Dubrava, one of the larger forests in the area where I come from, and the hunters took me to see something I couldn't believe with my own eyes. In the middle of Šijakovačka Dubrava, there is almost a month's crust of a huge flood of forests cut down, which the people say under the hair, which has never been done in Croatia. Only when the forests were cramped for malaria. It is known that the economic basis for exploiting forests is the constant renewal of the forest fund. Go and see what the Turopolje Lug looks like, Mracivina Dubrava, Šijakovačka Dubrava. It's a disaster. And on the matter of competent inspections at the Ministry of Forestry and the State Administration, there is no answer. Because the interest of private persons, tycoon, is far ahead of the interest of preserving that national treasure. Croatian lottery. For years, no one from the government has mentioned the situation in Croatia's lottery and the possibility of new grips in one sector where extra profits are made, and this does not only apply to the lottery, but to all gamemakers who are fortunate, this hour at least 20% more resources can be affected, including as an anti-recession measure, i.e. by the location of these funds for job conservation purposes. Croatian mail. I have to testify to what's in my town. For a year now, the Central Post Office in Velika Gorica has been closed and there is nothing... It's about redecorating the premises. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It's a shame he doesn't have. In a year they weren't able to change the floors, shrink the walls. The citizens of Velika Gorica must, especially the older ones, go outside the city centre in a conveniently improvised post office. So is it possible that we are so inefficient, and this is an intervention of three, three, three, five million kunas? The construction site is closed. Croatian highways are a special case. The issue of price collection, an analysis of all cost groups, says that since 2003 there has been no such disturbances in the cost groups as there has been a disturbance in service prices. At that time, the Croatian highway system with 200 employees produced twice as many new values as today with 400 employees. It is a public secret that state-owned companies are the golden coke of ruling parties, regardless of who they were and what level they were at. That means that part of the substance of national wealth is poured out where it shouldn't. And that the public has no insight into it. Why would it be a problem once a year in the Croatian Parliament to discuss how 56 billion public money is spent? Why would that be a problem? Why don't we know what members of the board's salaries are? It's said the Ministry of Finance is enough to monitor the public's performance, and I'm saying that whatever is supervised by the Ministry of Finance doesn't have any public insight. Take a question of concessions. You must not ask the question of how much a concession fee is paid by a certain concessionaire because he will refuse you. They'll say it's classified. So you can get information on who's a concessionist, who gave him the concession and on what deadline. But whether he pays the concession regularly and how much he pays it, you won't find out. It's the same with the fact that you can't find out whether someone pays taxes or not. So you don't ask how many taxes he pays and on what basis, you just ask if he's paid taxes and you won't be told. Here, it's a realisation of the public's insight into how our Ministry of Finance does it. State-owned companies act as untouchable sacred cows in which anything can happen, create loss or profit, without practically knowing how they are rescheduled. Debts from the state budget are being recovered, we know that, but in what way are they being recovered, incompetent business systems? Who ever was responsible for the traditional loss of certain companies and the cost of reporting money where millions are being thrown at the luxury, and on the other hand it takes out of the state budget huge grants? And they're just acting like a state in the state. Is it possible that the public can't have insight into the business of Croatian forests, Croatian waters, Croatian electricity that functions as a large group, and in that group there are a whole series of companies that are of vital interest and I know reliably that one of the companies in that group asked HEP heat industry to access the rationalisation of the heating system in my city and that it was rejected, and it was demonstrated by the fissibility of the study that minimal investment would be made on only one heat in Vidric Street and by connecting with the heat in the water tower would save over a million and 300 thousand kuna per year. It's just one case. And there's probably cases like that all over the country. It is therefore extremely important to allow public insight into the business of these companies as well as the level of their responsibilities according to the means at their disposal and also to the public who pays high public service prices will be much higher. We can't see the problem unless someone's still thinking about holding that area and keeping the gray zone. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-04-01-0.u31747	Thank you. Two corrections. Mr. Representative Franjo Lucic first.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-04-01-0.u31748	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I will correct only one incorrect quote by Mr. Richembergh on the subject of his demagogue presentation which he said that certain ministers are on 20 supervisory committees which is not true. When you know why you didn't appoint those same ministers, you cheat on the public because you know it's not true. Secondly, when you talk about HAC, when you talk about Croatian forests and waters, members of the administration and indeed all of what you are interested in right now is available. But at the same time you forget that when you were your minister in the Croatian highways, you left 4 billion budget deficits, and at the same time today you do not want to talk about it, but you deceive the public with your demagogue statements that absolutely do not stand. You're talking about what was before and it really was when HDZ came to power for us tragic knowledge because you passed the Minister of the Church entered the budget deficit, Mr. Richembergh. And that's what HNS did.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-04-01-0.u31749	Thank you very much. Second Amendment Frano Matušić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-04-01-0.u31750	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. It is incorrect that public work by public companies is not available to the public. We've already said, and the State Audit is working on it every day and publishing everything it finds in the business of these companies. And second of all, their reports are being published on the web site, you know. The public is fully available. Secondly, we understand that you are using this pay phone for the pre-election meeting, but it really has nothing to do with the transparency of the work of public companies.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-04-01-0.u31751	SDP representative club Mr. Zastavnik Zvonimir Mršić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-04-01-0.u31752	Dear Vice President, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. First of all, the SDP advocates club fully understands the government that it cannot satisfy the conclusion of the HNS club. She understands also because the government simply doesn't want to, she can't do it. For, on a representative's question, to provide a representative with an answer as to who the representatives of the State are in the supervisory committees of companies from the list of companies of special state interest, the Government shall provide a reply after 30 days in which it says that the Government cannot provide a full response within 30 days. Therefore, it takes the Government more than 30 days to even draw up a list of who is sitting on its behalf on the supervisory boards of companies of particular national interest. So if it takes more than 30 days for her to put together such a list of how many days it takes to collect reports at all. How many days does it take for these reports to slip into a special report and come before this Croatian Parliament and this Croatian Parliament is told by the gentlemen of the Croatian Government on behalf of Croatian citizens in such a way manages the property of Croatian citizens located in state-owned enterprises because it is not the property of the Government, it is neither the property nor the Croatian Parliament. It is the property of the Republic of Croatia. These companies are founded on behalf of the citizens and should serve for the benefit of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, but they do not know how these companies do not even know who manages them. 2.2. The MP asked that question. It's April 1st. Until today, they haven't found time to do that. So, not that they haven't had enough for 30 days, they haven't had enough 60 days to answer a banal question. Please tell us who's sitting on the HEP Supervisory Board, let us know who's sitting on the JANAF Supervisory Board. Imagine that we were looking for more banal things, to tell us how many members of HEP's management were at the end of 2003 and how many we have today. Imagine that we were looking for information about how many members of the Croatian Forests Administration were in 2003 and how many we have today. Imagine that's what we were looking for for for JANAF. And imagine that we have come to one fact, not us, but the citizens of Croatia, that, for example, a coalition between HDZ and HSS should be concluded, by 40%, increase the management of state-owned enterprises. So in 2003 we had one member of the Croatian Forests Administration, in 2007 three members of the Croatian Forests Administration and today we have five under the coalition contract between HDZ and HSS. So we would see how much the cost of managing Croatian forests was in 2003 and how much today. So we would see how much for example was the cost of Croatian security management in 2003 when he was one member of the administration and how many today there are five in that same administration. And then you have the information yesterday, Croatia's insurance says. The members of the Croatian Administration will reduce their incomes by 10%. It is, in the meantime, almost 100% increase in the incomes of each of them and is that by 500% the number of management members is increased, but they will now give up 10%. So citizens should be clearly told that because the government does not know how to manage public enterprises cannot submit this report, but instead of effectively managing public enterprises, they are cheap in governance, that they produce profits or a low price of service that they will provide to citizens, there has to be a decision to cut salaries to nurses and teachers by 6%. Because if only the number of members of the company management had returned to the number of what was in 2003, there should have been no reduction by 6%, perhaps by less. Only to see how much employment had taken place with the party card during that period could it be reduced by less, if it was necessary to cut salaries to teachers and nurses, police officers and soldiers at all. And while there won't be any money for the cops to buy new uniforms this year for members of the HEP administration there's money to rent cars that cost 16 to 18 thousand kuna a month. He has money for the director of the Croatian Privatisation Fund to rent a car that costs $18,000 a month. There's no money for that, there's no job, there's no teacher, there's no police. There's a very simple question here, what is it and who is hiding it from the public? Because it would be very simple for us not to or should you not give such a conclusion, for example that the Government once a year discusses how public enterprises are doing, so citizens, MPs, interested public, could go to the government's website, look at what the government has been discussing in one place and see what the government's position is. We may think that the government's policy is to create huge losses in some companies and that that's why these companies work, right, and that the government gave that order. Perhaps the government did not give such a warrant, and these companies continue to create losses such as Croatian railways. And there is no sanction for those who manage on behalf of the Government and oversee the work of the Croatian Railways on behalf of the Government and manage on behalf of Croatian citizens the team of Croatian Railways. After numerous affairs in the Croatian Railways, only one of the four directors, one of the five directors was removed. He wasn't removed but was just transferred to another room with the same rights and receipts remains because such a contract was concluded with him. Who was removed from the Supervisory Board of the Croatian Railways because in the Croatian Railways are such huge affairs? Who from the Croatian Railways Assembly has been removed if such affairs are? No one. So is it really possible that again people sitting on behalf of the citizens on the board of the Croatian Railways had no idea that Croatian railways were leaking tens of millions of euros and giving no one anything. Not only will we now move Mr. Kobak from one house to another house, we will plot the whole story but we will not answer the question, what about the transformation of the Croatian Railways, what did we get by making 4 companies I Holding? How much has been saved, how much efficiency has increased, how much has the number of passengers increased, how much has the number of tonnes transported per km increased? No, we don't have an answer for those questions. Unfortunately, we're looking for it today, but we can't get an answer from anyone. Instead, we are referred as agents to go to the company website or to the Ministry of Finance website. So it is not the Ministry of Finance that manages it on behalf of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia with total assets in commercial enterprises and that it economicises what will be with these 57 billion kuna total incomes of companies of special state interest in one year. Well, it's not about 10 million, it's about 57 billion. That's 11 times the deficit this year of the state budget. So imagine just coming to the point that in public enterprises 10% of total income is being spent or 10% of total income is being made in a more economical way or profit. So we wouldn't have a budget deficit this year. We wouldn't have to cut our salaries to teachers, because public companies would have profits that would transfer to the state budget and the state budget would pay the salaries to teachers, cops, soldiers. But we can't even discuss it, because we're being told that we're going to go to some company's website and look at it. So we're told that the state's audit can give us information about it. Where a State audit does not audit all undertakings of particular national interest each year, it does not audit. Where did these companies not publicly publish their commercial audits, but commercial audits determine whether the business was in accordance with the law? But the commercial audit does not determine whether it is in line with state policy? So we need to know whether the state policy is at a higher price for electricity and from this increase in electricity prices let the members of HEP administration buy new cars. Or is politics, state policy government policy, Parliament policy? We will not increase electricity prices, because there is enough space for another year especially this difficult, recession year in Croatia to burn electricity and we will make it easier for people, especially today when we have reduced their salary 6% or those who have not received a salary increase at all, or those who do not get paid at all, we will make it easier for them and we will return the electricity price to where it was before the recession, and let the directors drive in debt. Or is it the government's policy to tell the citizens, citizens, you drive with Croatian railways, and our board members, our 140 managers will be driving cars. Because when it comes from a meeting from one place to another, then it is not logical for the director of Croatian Railways to drive the railways, but it is normal to drive with the new most expensive car. So we give subsidies to Croatian railways to cover the cost of their business, because they do not earn or pay the wages, but we also subsidize car rentals to directors in Croatian Railways. And it's a very beautiful commercial for Croatian railways, and you people drive on railroads. They're not good enough for us. We'll drive in expensive imported cars. Because as far as we know, Croatian cars are not produced in Croatia, unlike wagons that are produced and modernised in Croatia, unlike tow vehicles produced and modernised in Croatia. But we don't know what the government's policy is. If we were in a situation once a year to discuss these 57 billion, then maybe we could ask someone a question, I guess the prime minister would also have some important jobs, somewhere, some note to set up or some pre-election meeting to hold, but maybe one of the ministers would have enough time to come here and answer some questions about why losses are being made in a company, why are there such huge costs in a company and no one would answer that. I also asked the prime minister, the parliamentary question of how many sponsorships from state-owned companies were in 2007. You know what he said to me, that I, as an agent, can't get an answer because you should ask for consent to whoever this sponsorship is assigned to. So as Croatian representatives, we are not citizens, but as Croatian representatives, we cannot answer the question, for example, how many HEPs each year stand out for advertising. How many football clubs HEP sponsors annually. Because if we could get that, then maybe we could tell someone, gentlemen from HEP, so give a little less for football and build electricity where people don't have electricity yet. Either raise the voltage where there is not enough voltage or give the electricity free of charge in entrepreneurship zones and not that when the entrepreneur comes to build a real estate, some manufacturing hall then has to spend 200, 300, 400 thousand euros in order to buy the hired power from HEP. And HEP gets you a nice bill, and where, then, let's go, whoever will, to which football club we'll give the money. It would even be good if HEP then gave according to some criteria. But when you look at the first-class T-shirts, not everyone on their T-shirts is HEP, obviously whoever's closer to HEP gets HEP sponsorship, and whoever's not close to HEP doesn't get HEP sponsorship. Therefore, here is one banal thing, the government does not manage its businesses, someone on behalf of the Government does so, and the government does not know who does it on its behalf, unfortunately it is all done on behalf of and in the interest of the citizens, in this case it is done on behalf of and on behalf of the citizens.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-04-01-0.u31753	Thank you. A few corrections, first Mrs. Bozica Solic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-04-01-0.u31754	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, here's listening to Mršić's representative in his debate. I'll try to fix two. He said government companies employ people with IDs, meaning party cards. Mr. Mršić, that is not true, it is not true, they are being interviewed, people are being hired, competitions are being debated and people are being selected in the state-owned companies are being selected by the competition. But it is true that the city of Zagreb, holding really does receive by party card. You go to any holding office today so you can go in there and ask who's not a member of the SPD. Now you have currently scheduled for holding a driver's bid at the ZET branch, walking your people on the ground and asking you to join the SDP you will get the place of driver in ZET. And as far as I'm concerned... to move it from one house to another, so that's, you want to relocate your work the way you do it. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So you're the one who transferred the pet from one house to another where it could grab even better. And yell at the Croatian people, and that is you, peeling them to the skin.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-04-01-0.u31755	Thank you very much. Second correction, Mr. Frano Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-04-01-0.u31756	I thank you, Mr. Vice President, so I will repeat it once more to the public, it is not true that the public has no insight into the business of the public.. We have also said that the state audit regularly audits these public enterprises, that this is all available to the public both on the Internet and through various other institutions. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It is not true that the Government does not know who manages public enterprises in its name, it is incorrect because the Government appoints, therefore, well knows who manages these companies. And the third time you're talking about cars, all these days you're talking about cars, it's a popular topic for you, then you could see, let's say how much your mayor's board has invested in a new car, so, 100,000 euros, so we're not talking about what kind of equipment he's installed in that car, from the DVD, everything from... Speakers, etc., can envy him various clubs on equipment that was installed in his car. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Well, then, in the SDP, you can agree whether you want to talk about cars and SDP and officials or others.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-04-01-0.u31757	And the third correction, Mr. Representative Franjo Lucic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-04-01-0.u31758	Thank you very much. Here's what I'd like to correct is the inaccuracies of my colleague Mrsic when he talks about waste, irrational spending and asparagus. My colleague, true, it was a long time ago when you were in power but then you bought the most modern trains, so, bending them, 6 of them that you didn't know at the same time that they were one of the most expensive trains, that today about 6 trains three are not in use and that their repairs are more expensive than to buy new trains at the same time today. So I think it's the best indicator of irrational spending because it really wasn't even time to buy such trains at the time because we didn't even reconstruct our tracks, etc., etc.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-04-01-0.u31759	The HDZ representative club, Mr. Representative Kreso Filipovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-04-01-0.u31760	Dear Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Secretary of State, representatives of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, colleagues and fellow MPs. I really need to say something special right now, before I move on to the debate on behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, here today we could really hear a series of flat-rates here. I was personally impressed as if we were already discussing the business of these companies, although the intensity as far as I've seen from the proposal of the promoter is yet to come to a conclusion on the basis that we would be discussing tomorrow on the business of these companies. And I also have to say, as if I'm reading some different data than my colleagues who are here at random, more populistly speaking about some kind of their own thesis, or my own creations, I don't know without having specific data. I claim it, I argue, because I have concrete data in front of me and my data is quite different from my predecessors who brought them here and in my opinion in some way and deceived the Croatian public. I think it is not good, I have repeatedly said that such a way of debate is not good for the Croatian Parliament, we should if we are discussing absolutely justified and based on credible indicators and data. So here we have a proposal from the Club of Representatives of the HNS, which I think is an interesting proposal and which the Club of Representatives of the HDZ will of course not support whether it is. This is a proposal for a conclusion on companies of particular national interest. "The Government of the Republic of Croatia is obliged to submit a report to the Croatian Parliament once a year on the business of trade of special state interest, particularly with regard to public and state societies." The proposal is intended to enable the Croatian public to see the business of companies of particular national interest on the one hand and, on the other hand, to create assumptions for a parliamentary debate on the existence of these companies and thus, as they state, to achieve an alleged element of public oversight. The proposer also states that a high quality and reasoned parliamentary debate could result in more successful and efficient management methods for companies than of particular national interest and thus better business. Before I say anything about this proposal of the Club of Representatives of the HNS, it is necessary to recall certain facts and to recall a little bit what this is really about. The adoption of the proposed conclusion would create an additional obligation, of course, to the Government of the Republic of Croatia, which would allow each year a debate in the Croatian Parliament on the business of companies on the list of companies of special state interest. The above signature established this House on a proposal from the Government of the Republic of Croatia by its decision published in the "National Journal" No. 140, 160 and 174 in 2004. The list includes 211 companies, imagine that you are discussing 211 companies and their business, which are listed in several groups owned by the Republic of Croatia either directly or through the Croatian Privatisation Fund with 25 or up to 100%. Among these societies are those who, by their characteristics, are truly of strategic importance for the Republic of Croatia, such as Croatian Electricity, Croatian Post Office, Railways, INA etc., etc. they fall within the category of public and state companies. I also believe that it is necessary to recall the time when a decision on the list of companies of special state interest and the fact that certain representatives called it scandalous and assured the public that there are no companies of particular state interest or on that list of companies of strategic interest for the Republic of Croatia. At the same time, the insinuations went to that level that it was said that the reason for the decision of the rulings was to install into the supervisory committees their contemporaries and listeners. Of course, neither of them are true. And it was completely wrongly set. We know that power is variable and that after four years another power can come, so the decision remains in force, so that the thesis cannot in any way drink water. It is precisely this proposal that the conclusion of the HNS club today deny and speaks quite the opposite. In addition, such claims completely disregarded the fundamental reason for the adoption of the Census of trade companies of particular State interest contained in Article 11(6) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The law on preventing conflicts of interest in the conduct of public duties, which speaks of exceptional opportunities when a state official may be a member of the Supervisory Board, of course under what conditions. It regulates the obligation to establish a list of companies of special national interest. Therefore, that law regulates the obligation to adopt a list of companies of particular national interest. That law was passed in 2003 and, meanwhile, had several amendments and additions, noting that the provision of Article 11(6), with certain qualitative corrections, was retained until today, which I consider to be fully justified. Therefore, it should be understood that this list applies not only to strategically important companies, i.e. companies which are, by their activity, the number of employees, the character of economic development operators and other similar characteristics of strategic importance for the Republic of Croatia, but also to other companies in which the Republic of Croatia has a significant ownership share, 25% and more capital. I am convinced that no one can say that this capital is not of state interest. On the contrary. The State is obliged to take care of its interests in the spirit of a good master, particularly when it is in accordance with the positive legal regulations in its capacity or when in certain companies it has a control package, regardless of whether the package is available in a society which is of strategic importance to the Republic of Croatia or not. Therefore, we from the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community remind that the intensity of making a decision The list of companies of special state interest was just to enable state officials to be members of supervisory committees, but only in those companies which are of particular interest to the Republic of Croatia. In this way, assumptions were created that the state could influence the business policy of companies in which it has a significant ownership stake and a very efficient control mechanism was created, i.e. a mechanism to protect its assets through state officials whose core task is to protect state interests. For the sake of the Croatian public, I must also say that state officials, here we have heard that they can be in 18 supervisory committees, under the law can no longer be in two supervisory committees and that they have no right to compensation for their work on the Supervisory Board. There is no doubt that it is of great importance to effectively manage these societies, as well as to further raise the quality of their functioning and business as much as possible is the intensity of the applicant. But we believe that it is not meaningful with the already existing mechanisms of participation in the management, control and efficiency of their business, to require additional mechanisms that can ultimately result in reduced efficiency and counter-effects. In addition, despite the positive trends of the last few years in the business of 20 companies that are of the public and strategic interest of the Republic of Croatia, we have opinions and here we can agree with the applicant, how it is necessary to insist on further improving their functioning and raising levels of efficiency, but it is necessary to do so using existing mechanisms and raising the level of responsibility of management structures. Taking into account a number of facts, and in particular the following, it can also be concluded that the business of the public undertakings for which the applicant requires a specific review from the Government is still taking place in a transparent and publicly available way. The State Secretary of the Ministry of Finance also said something about it. In fact, one part of these companies regularly publishes their reports on the capital market and these reports are available. All companies shall make public annual and half-yearly reports available on websites as well. All those companies are obliged to carry out commercial business audits, and also given that there is a state audit, and that some of these companies and state audits control and monitor and publish means what they found in these controls and audits. But there's another mechanism. The Republic of Croatia, as the owner of certain companies, may order if there are certain doubts or doubts in the business of these companies, to order the State audit to carry out the audit and control of the legality of their operations. From the above, it can be concluded that there are indeed quality mechanisms and control of management and business improvements and sufficient levels of transparency and the public of business of companies of particular national interest, particularly those of public strategic interest for the Republic of Croatia. Therefore, and because we are convinced that the parliamentary debate will not achieve the objectives set out in this proposal and the explanation of the Club of Representatives of the Croatian People's Party, the HDZ Representatives Club will not support its adoption. Finally, the Croatian Democratic Community's Club proposes that the government, through the competent state institutions, refresh this list of companies because we know that over the past 4 years, the circumstances have changed significantly and the data on this list has changed significantly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-04-01-0.u31761	Thank you. One correction, Mr. Representative Zeljko Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-04-01-0.u31762	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Therefore, it is incorrect to assume that there are sufficient opportunities to monitor the transparency of the work of these companies for the simple reason that reports on the work of companies are generally discussed at closed meetings of the Government, and recently we have had the opportunity to see that the Law on the right to access information is not implemented in quality and that there is no rare possibility of obtaining information in accordance with this law that has been adopted at sessions closed to the public. For this reason it is an incorrect allegation and the only place to allow real access to information is for the debate to be here in the Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-04-01-0.u31763	Final review, proposer representative, Mr Zlatko Koračević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-04-01-0.u31764	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. It's hard to say that it's a misunderstanding because I just don't want to believe it, I just don't want to believe that this speaker is being debated about something that isn't at all an object. This initiative is not a matter of transparency, it's not a matter of accuracy, and we're not going into whether it's public or not. But I think in this request, it's very simple to write and clearly and only ask for this conclusion the right of each of us, every MP in this House, a representative who has direct responsibility to his electoral body. Only the Croatian Parliament has electoral legitimacy next to the president of the state. We're just asking that we get a chance to get what the government has discussed, although at a closed session, even though at a closed session, that the government has given us this report that it obviously adopted, because we're not looking for Mr. State's Attorney's report, Mr. Bajic, we're not looking for his report on the business of public enterprises. We should probably do that because it's not on the website, and according to certain articles, affairs, it certainly should. We are just looking for the opportunity and opportunity to discuss the work of public companies because the public enterprise is responsible for its business throughout society, i.e. as Parliament's ultimate guardian of public interest. Well, I think that's clear to everyone. I think that's clear to everyone. So, colleagues and colleagues, this isn't about whether or not the State Audit found something, but it's about the State Audit doing its job, working for a certain purpose. The commercial audit is about a second purpose. Published somewhere, great. But have we ever had a chance in the Parliament to discuss this unitedly, I repeat, and we want to discuss ours, the companies that have our national goods, the companies that are largely determining how and how we will live, how much we will pay for the electricity, whether someone will get the possibility of drinking water, how much we will pay for the ticket in the rail transport, the airline and not counting on it. We're just asking to discuss, to get an opportunity to discuss something that makes for traffic almost 10% of the country's overall economic activity. We're asking to discuss something that gets 3 billion kuna per year through the state budget according to the 2007 data. And certainly none of this information that I have provided or is the data of the National Bureau of Statistics or is the data of the Croatian Chamber of Commerce or is the data I personally downloaded, but individually, but individually collecting information from the web to synthesize it, to get a picture of that dimension at all. These materials include your data, a colleague of Filipovic's. Therefore, there is no deception of the Croatian public and here is the deception of the Croatian public if the data are misrepresented, yes. But the fact is that while the real economy has its salaries, those who are on the market, who have pawned their personal property, where the fate of their families depends on the efficiency of the business of that economic operator, the participation of salaries at their costs is 12.1%, and in the public sector, the participation of public enterprises pays almost 17%. So I think it's a minimum of decency to allow us to discuss the possible 3 billion amount of savings if public companies with their salaries were reduced to real economy costs. I think it's a minimum of decency. I think we have the right as representatives of the Croatian Parliament to discuss the business of public enterprises in which 1/4 employees throughout the year are sick. 2 billion and 300 million damage estimates on that basis. At the same time, we give 3 billion from the state budget to the public, in these 20 public companies we give through support. Usual mathematics, very simple mathematics, globally, roughly 3 billion on salaries, billions and 200 on sick leave, billions on savings. So we're settled, we have as many-as-so-recovered imbalances between income and expenditure as you're going to vote on tomorrow. And we know now that we're going to vote on tomorrow that it's not enough and that something new is coming up soon. Therefore, if this is not the time to discuss it, not in order to call someone, but to include them, so that we can all get involved together and see and find opportunities for why and why it happens in public enterprises, what happens on one side. And on the other hand, because of those people who have given us confidence, it is our obligation on the one hand and also our obligation, given the overall economic moment in which we live and the very uncertain future and the near future that lies ahead. Do we have the right to talk, I will not now state the names of public companies, but do we have the right to discuss a public enterprise that, by its annual activity on 100 kuna income, creates 100 kuna of income on 100 kuna of expenditure? Or a public company that makes 3 kunas and 29 liras of income on 100 kunas of expenditure. But at the same time, this same public company has its salaries in total costs of 46%. Both on the market and acting as a market economy operator in negotiations with that industry that is beautiful with its economic activities on it. So I think these are all the elements that we have to say, which we need to discuss. Therefore, I repeat again on behalf of the promoter. We didn't ask, we referred this request to the procedure because we think the reports aren't published, because we think there's some crime, because we think there's something wrong with it. Others are in charge of these things, we're just looking for an opportunity to discuss something that is our responsibility. Furthermore, in a couple of corrections to incorrect allegations, there were no party personnel employed in public enterprises. Comrades and colleagues from the position, your staff are run by public companies based on a crusade you agreed on and negotiated by a coalition agreement. Do your staff run the Croatian forest? Do your staff lead Croatian waters? Croatia's insurance? Should I keep counting? Therefore, I see no reason why and why you avoid the possibility to discuss public companies run by your staff here in the Croatian Parliament, I suppose in a very good way. So why not give the information, the opportunity to give the Croatian public, that your staff, your management that runs public enterprises has the opportunity to present themselves in the Croatian Parliament with their good results? Why not? I don't see any reason. And it's not politicizing. Because of these possible 5 billion savings, and because of a more responsible relationship with the national goods that we have and which they have and manage public companies. In the end, and according to the Government, which did not show itself on our initiative, it gives one general piece of information that we all have, the Government did not say why it is against the Croatian Parliament to refer the report it adopted at its closed session and in the Croatian Parliament to discuss the report. She didn't say why. Because it's somewhere. By the same analogy, the Government may receive such information from a public company website by the same analogy. Therefore, our goal is very clear. I call purely for our personal responsibility all together towards the property of the citizens of this country and the potential that we can safely extract from the sector managed by public enterprises, particularly management in public enterprises, because we believe and believe that I share the opinion of all of us that at this moment, at this economic moment, responsibility is more important to all citizens of this country than to party discipline or party personnel who have charged their price with some kind of function in a public enterprise, benefiting from citizens of all this is another issue. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-04-01-0.u31765	Thank you. One correction, Mr. Zavodnik Zvonimir Mršić.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-04-01-0.u31766	My colleague, you've completely incorrectly said that it's clear to everyone now. It is clear now that it is not clear to some even now that citizens need to know what the results of the business are because the government says you have everything on the Internet, so now we expect here after this appeal that everyone will especially rush those who are at the Employment Office to join the ADSL and will surf the Internet to learn the results of the business. So, business results only for those on the Internet.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-04-01-0.u31767	I'm closing the debate. I'm interrupting the session. It continues at 15 hours with discussion of the final draft law amending the Law on Cultural Councils, and thereafter amending and supplementing the Law on Medicinal Products.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-04-01-0.u31768	We move on to the proposal for a conclusion on companies of particular national interest. Proposer of the Club of Representatives of the CNS. The debate is closed. I am voting in line with the proposal of the Assembly Working Body and the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, which reads: "The proposal for a conclusion on companies of special national interest is not accepted." Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? The proposed conclusion was accepted by most votes. 84 votes for, no abstentions and 51 against.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-04-01-0.u31769	My colleagues and colleagues, we continue our afternoon session. It is next - Final draft law amending the Law on Cultural Councils, second reading, P.Z. No. 278 The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. This law will be discussed in accordance with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to second reading. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate, in accordance with Article 164. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and by the Committee on Education, Science and Culture. You've received reports from a non-session. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? No, no, sorry, I wanted to ask if the representatives of the board wanted to? Okay. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-04-01-0.u31770	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Honorable MPs and MPs. The government is proposing a Law amending the Law on Cultural Councils. Very short. It's about another reading. With only brief notes. It is a matter of harmonising with the Law on Audiovisual Activities which provides for the abolition of the work of the Film and Cinema Council and the harmonisation with the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Local and Regional Self-Government, where Article 3 is the orderly way in which the cultural councils will now be elected. There were no additional instructions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-04-01-0.u31771	Thank you very much. Are the committee's reporters now going to take the floor? There's not one here. Nothing. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the HDZ club, Representative Frano Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-04-01-0.u31772	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Madam Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Well, here's what we heard about the coordination. This law is actually very short and very specific and it is about harmonising with the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Local and Regional Self-Government and, as we have heard from the Law on Audio-Visual Activities. Article 1 is deleted from the Cultural Council for Film and Cinema, which was established by the Cultural Council Act at the Ministry of Culture. However, the Law on Audio-visual Activities already mentioned was established by the Croatian Audio-visual Centre, which took over the tasks carried out in the area of the Ministry of Culture. Article 2 aligns the Law on Cultural Councils with the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Local and Regional Self-Government and the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the City of Zagreb. The amendments to these laws abolish the municipal, city and county headships as already known, as executive bodies, as well as the City of Zagreb. Their powers are passed on to the mayors, mayors, mayors and mayors of the City of Zagreb. Finally, Article 3 of the Regulation regulates the entry into force of this law, which is harmonised in such a way as to bring it into force as the date of entry into force of the decision on the calling of the first, means now the next elections for representative bodies and for leaders in local and regional (regional self-government) units and in the City of Zagreb. The Croatian Democratic Community club will, of course, support this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-04-01-0.u31773	Thank you very much. It was the only application for clubs. The first in line for an individual debate is representative Zeljana Kalash.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-04-01-0.u31774	Thank you very much, Vice President. Representatives of the government, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. Here, I will report today for this debate on amendments to the Law on Cultural Councils, which were actually adopted in the previous meetings in the Assembly, and finally amended, or even adopted a new Law on Cultural Councils in the previous term. And it was de facto a law on a new way of deciding in a culture that actually hundreds of people found themselves in a position to decide for themselves about culture. And what happened next, i.e. how the policy and culture ratio was resolved and at the same time ensured the functioning of the entire cultural system from the protection of the cultural heritage of museums and galleries to the festival and considered. Of course, the establishment of cultural councils is a big newspaper and they're all actually on the verge of creating cultural autonomy, so the direction that culture actually sets out from politics. restores culture to cultural workers in terms of their material and political independence or co-decision. These today's amendments to the Law on Cultural Councils delete the need for the establishment of a council for film and cinematography, and that is because of the provisions of the Law on Audio-visual Activities under which the Croatian Audio-visual Centre was established. A Croatian Audio-Visual Council proposes the Minister of Culture National Programme for Promotion of Audio-Visual Creation. And this very change seems to me to be the result of achieving the objectives of the culture ministry, which is the reform of audio-visual activities and the promotion of cultural industries, as well as the improvement of the system of protection of cultural heritage. In fact, the law prescribes the establishment of cultural councils and in all major Croatian cities, which of course helped democratisation and decentralisation of cultural decision-making. The next amendment is that the new law since the May elections will no longer be held by the mayor or mayor, as said by fellow Matušić, so that the work of the current executive bodies of the local and regional self-government units will be carried out by the mayor or mayor, in accordance with this amendment to Article 8 which will actually ensure that professional, administrative, technical and other tasks are carried out for the needs of the council. But I don't think it's the only task or even an opportunity for the mayor or mayor to actively participate in the creation or to act according to the guidelines of various cultural councils. Some mayors ignore, and some personally promote long - term cultural policies. In the most positive context, I must highlight the example of Split's mayor, Ivan Kurt. In fact, Kuret took the initiative just a few days ago as mayor of Split, for one with prominent public and cultural employees at an official meeting at the Gallery "Meštrović" to run for European cultural capital in 2020 with the conclusion that a special council or special committee will be established to prepare for the candidacy. And I believe that this is exactly the example of achieving a long-term goal within the cultural policy of the City of Split and is also a strong example of positive practices as regards long-term cultural policies at local, in this case city level. For the European Capital of Culture, we know that six years in advance, cities from the member states of the European Union can be run. Of course, we believe that in 2014, if Croatia becomes a member of the European Union by then, and I believe it will, it will decide which Croatian city will run for that title in 2020. Because the candidacy, as you've probably already met, has been announced by some other cities. Because of all my achievements so far, since I am from Split, I can say that Split is not afraid to run for this cultural Olympics. In fact, there is an even greater incentive for further development in cultural policy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-04-01-0.u31775	Thank you very much. It is up to representative Susana Bilić Vardić.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-04-01-0.u31776	Thank you very much, Madam Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, Madam Secretary of State, colleagues and fellow MPs. When we discussed the Law amending the Law on Cultural Councils in the first reading on 12 March of this year because the Government referred it to the ordinary procedure in the Croatian Parliament, I asked Mr. Minister for amendments to the law contained in only 3 articles which were not normally observed, as soon as possible to the second reading for discussion and adoption, so I would like to express the satisfaction that we have at the same session the Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments to the Law on Cultural Councils, which are adopted in April 2004 in accordance with Article 2 of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Local and Regional (regional) Self-Government and in one article with the Law on Audiovisual Activities. As the first reading was merely a reference to the provisions of Article 3 of the amendment where the entry into force of this law should have been brought into line with the Law on Amendments and Supplements of the Law on Local and Regional Self-Government, which reads that the provisions of this Law come into force on the date of entry into force of the decision to call the first subsequent general and regular elections of members of the municipal and city councils, the County Assembly and the City of Zagreb City Assembly and the municipal mayors, mayors, mayors and mayors of the City of Zagreb, and the former municipal, city and county heads of the City of Zagreb continue to work until the entry into office of the municipal mayor, mayor and mayor of the City of Zagreb, elected in the direct elections, since this alignment with the amendments and additions of the law have been carried out, i.e.e. the Final Proposal for the Cultural Law of the Cultural Law of the Republic of Zagreb was adopted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-04-01-0.u31777	And the final speaker under this bill, MP Shimo Djurdjevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-04-01-0.u31778	Thank you very much, Madam Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, Madam Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Well, on behalf of the club and my predecessors, my colleagues and colleagues have said almost everything about the amendment and addition of this law and have also said the reasons why in this amended form the Croatian Parliament is bringing it. I would just perhaps say what my colleagues did not say, which is that the implementation of this law does not need to provide additional resources in the budget of the Republic of Croatia, or in the budget of the units of local or regional i.e.. The regional self-government and to say that this amendment is good in Article 3, which is the entry into force of this law, is in line with the date of entry into force of the decision on the opening of the next municipal regular election of members of the municipal and city councils, the county assemblies and the City of Zagreb Assembly and the municipal mayors, mayors and mayors and mayors of the City of Zagreb, and not as originally proposed in the first proposal to be so on 18 May 2009, and regulated in Article 3. I therefore support the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Cultural Councils. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-04-01-0.u31779	Thank you very much. The promoter doesn't want to take the word anymore. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-04-01-0.u31780	We move on to the Final Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Cultural Councils. It was a second reading P.Z. Number 278. The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. I am voting on the final draft law amending the Law on Cultural Councils. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? The law was passed by most votes. 128 for, 8 abstentions and one against.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-04-01-0.u31781	We are going to the next item of the agenda - Final bill on amendments to the Law on Medicinal Products, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 290 Proposer of the Law is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Rules of Procedure. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the The Registrar's emergency procedure combines the first and second readings. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was held in the Committee on Law, the Committee on European Integration and the Committee on Health and Social Care. You received the reports at the session. We also have amendments submitted by the Legislative Committee. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Dr. Ante Zvonimir Golem, State Secretary.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-04-01-0.u31782	Thank you, Madam Vice President, ladies and gentlemen. You have before you the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Medicinal Products, the proposal for a law because according to the now applicable Law on Medicinal Products of 2007 there is a procedure for testing and placing on the market the production, labelling, classification, transport of pharmacovigilance, advertising and information, supervision of medicinal products and the quality of the medicinal products as well as the conditions and manner of placing on the market and supervision of homeopathic products. The drug law is not fully in line with Directive 2001 and the 2004 Directive in the section relating to the duration of the Data Exclusion Institute. patent protection of the original medicinal product. Therefore, the amendments and additions to the applicable law propose compliance with those provisions of the Directive in a way that, by amending the provisions of Article 15 of the law in force, we comply with the basic Directive 2001 and from the date of entry into force of the Republic of Croatia into the European Union of 10 years of protection for the reference medicinal product registered by a centralised procedure. For the other drugs, it remains a six-year period, as it is now arranged. In order to ensure consistent and full application of Directive 2004/2/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of Europe, it is proposed that, after the expiry of the period of 3 years from the date of accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union, the data exclusion shall be arranged as follows. The applicant for a marketing authorisation will not be required to submit the results of non-clinical studies and the results of clinical trials if it can prove that the medicinal product is the same as the reference medicine and that the reference medicine was given marketing authorisation in the Republic of Croatia or in any of the European Union countries more than 8 years ago. This medicinal product must not be placed on the market for 10 years from the date of first authorisation for placing it on the market with a view to extending this period of 10 years for another year if it is not authorised to place the reference medicine on the market for one or more new indications of the same medicinal product considered to have a significant clinical benefit compared to the existing medicinal product for the first 8 years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-04-01-0.u31783	Thank you very much. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. It's the clubs. In front of the HDZ club, Mr. Stjepan Kundić.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-04-01-0.u31784	Dear Madam Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, Mr Secretary. As Mr Secretary has said before us, the Law or the Harmonisation of the Proposal for a Law against Harmonisation with the European Union under the designation P.Z.E. Number 290. In fact, there is, as Mr. Secretary pointed out, a valid Law on Medicinal Products from the "National Journals" under No. 71/07. means from 2007 which has established the process of testing and placing the medicinal product on the market, production, labelling, classification, marketing of pharmacovigilance, advertising, information, drug surveillance and quality of medicinal products. In addition, this law also lays down the conditions and means of placing on the market and supervision of homeopathic products. This law was drawn up in accordance with the applicable European Union directives, meaning the one referred to in No 2001/83, 2001/20. and the Council of 6 November 2001 amended and completed by Directive 2004/24 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 31 March 2004 concerning traditional herbal medicinal products and Directive 2004/27/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 31 March 2004 concerning the placing of the medicinal product on the market. In particular, taking into account the need to comply with European Union rules on insurance means effective, high-quality and safe medicines as a product of particular importance for human health protection, it is necessary to adopt amendments and additions to the applicable Medicinal Products Act which will allow the adaptation of domestic legal legislation to the European Union. In order to ensure consistent and complete application of Directive 2004/27 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 31 March 2004 it is proposed that, following the end of the three-year period from the date of accession of the Republic of Croatia, the European Union be governed as follows. First, the applicant for a marketing authorisation will not be required to submit the results of non-clinical studies if he can prove that the medicinal product is the same as the reference medicine and that the reference medicine has been given marketing authorisation in the Republic of Croatia or in any of the European Union countries more than eight years ago for any dose, pharmaceutical form, method of administration or packaging. This medicinal product, as mentioned by Mr Secretary, should not be placed on the market for ten years after the first marketing authorisation has been granted, so that this period of ten years may be extended for another year if, in the first eight years of the protection period, the MAH has been authorised for one or more new therapeutic indications of the same medicinal product, which are considered to be of significant clinical benefit compared to the existing use of the medicinal product. And number two, with the new approval of the "Data Exclusivity" Institute in order to fully comply with Directive 2004/27 of the proposed novel of the applicable Drug Act, a ban on advertising of homeopathic products to be entered in the register of homeopathic products is introduced. That solution results from the request set out in Article 100 of that Directive. The Croatian Democratic Union will support this proposal. I'll point one more out. The implementation of the law does not require the provision of additional resources in the state budget. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-04-01-0.u31785	Thank you very much. The following is SDP club debated by SDP representative Zeljko Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-04-01-0.u31786	Thank you. Madam Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. The SDP club will support this law. It is good that we are harmonising the Drug Act with European standards because it is a prerequisite that we have the best medicines in Croatia and that means that they are safe, effective and economically justified. This law refers to patent protection of the original drug, so it is impossible to talk about this law and not to refer to Pliva in its own and memory for everything that happened with Pliva. Pliva has fallen from 6,000 employees to 2,000, and in the fifth speed of the regional star, it has become a small dwarf, a generic house that has as many as you want and not in Croatian property. We could see today that Pliva ended up losing 255 million kuna, that it ended with 18% less income than in 2007 when the revenues were 6 billion and this year 5. Thus ended the glorious history of Pliva and began the age of Tevina Pliva. Croatia paid the most expensive price in privatisation that destroyed 400,000 jobs and Pliva is no exception to poor conversion and privatisation, it is its worst example. It's no problem to make a mistake. The problem is when you're wrong about getting personal wealth, and that's exactly what Pliva was. Pliva, because of its inability to manage with Mr. Ćovic in Verona, supported by the prime minister, has created a religious lesson that is being studied at management schools today as an example of how an incompetent manager with the support of the prime minister can ruin a successful company. Pliva has been resold twice, individuals have ended up full of pockets, a state with no taxes, a thousand workers on the road, 255 million losses. It's a brief summary of the religious instruction. And of course, the entire branch business is being abolished, such as biotechnology peaked today's modern sciences that laboratory is being shut down in Pliva. And while new drugs are being created in the world, so we saw yesterday the news is that a megapillule 5 in 1 was created that solves the problems of heart and strokes. Unfortunately, there will be no more innovation in Pliva. So exactly the provision we're changing protected the domestic pharmaceutical industry, which is why it doesn't matter to us anymore. Today, Belupo remains, remains the Adriatic Galenski laboratory, and in the past, this provision that we are changing protected the most domestic Krka and Pliva. The protection of patent rights everywhere is important and in the pharmaceutical industry in particular. Why? Well, it's a long way from finding a cure to a patient. Of the 7,000 molecules that even enter the research process, only 35 come into the market, and out of those 35, only 75% return billions of dollars worth of investments per drug. And that's why the drugs are expensive. The next step is to come to the doctor, then to go to the pharmacy and the medicinal product should be on the shelf and preferably on the list of the Croatian Health Insurance Institute. It is not a straight road in Croatia, it is very windy. There are a number of obstacles for a pharmacy patient to come out with a pack of drugs to help him treat his illness. About 900 specialists, 300 interns and so many more surgeons are currently missing in Croatia. The Minister of Health doesn't talk to half the doctors of family medicine. In some parts of the country, the number of doctors is so low that they question proper health care, Croatian Medical Chamber President Minigo warned recently. The number of doctors in the Croatian Employment Service records is constantly decreasing, currently there are only 58. About 40% of doctors in Croatia are over 50 years old and a serious lack of doctors is already present in a range of regions from Slavonia, via Dalmatia Zagora to Ličko-Senj County. But let's say you're lucky that your doctor is available, that you can pay for the participation, a 15 kuna hack, you get a prescription, and you still have 15 kunas for an additional prescription hack in the pharmacy, you're lucky that this medicine is on the list, so you can hope that you will get it, but in the pharmacy, the Croatian Institute owes more than 200 days. The payment deadline long ago and the magistrate unfortunately doesn't have that medicine. In addition, pharmacy also tortures the lack of pharmacists in pharmacies, which is why 25 to 30% of pharmacies do not meet the prescribed human code. About 2,000 800 pharmacists have been deployed into just over a thousand pharmacies, the number of which has been numbered since the '90s. when there were 400 pharmacies in Croatia, the president of the Croatian Medical Chamber of the Matre Portolan noted, and concluded that the poor distribution of the pharmacy was due to the failure of the rule of law. On the other hand, Minister Milinovic, State Secretary Jurkovic argues that the private indicators of health system reform say that for the first time in 20 years since the beginning of the year there is no increase in debt in this system, and that it has been reduced by a billion kuna. They point out that since the start of the reform, a million people have entered the system of supplementary health insurance, bringing 800 million kunas more into the system. In fact, they prove and confirm the SDP's claim that health reform has come down to a financial harrassor. I wonder and ask all of us, has the availability and quality of health care increased with this increase in income? I'm not responsible. And there is a number of evidence that can confirm that if necessary in an individual debate, I will do so. I'll just name a few here at the pay phone. The HZZO decisions continue to confirm a sad statement from August 2008 that some patients must die in the Expensive Medicines Fund to save non-approval of therapy, and when it comes to state-of-the-art medicines, it is difficult to introduce them on the list. It's a waste of our drug law if the drugs aren't available to patients. Let's just mention biological therapy for rheumatol atrtitis to treat kidney cancer or Terce to treat lung cancer. I don't know who the Croatian Health Insurance Service is joking with when it says only 30 patients will be able to get a kidney treatment medicine, and there are 200 of them, for example. a medicine for the treatment of lung disease 60 while the rest will be borne by the costs of manufacturers who, of course, refused to do so. Is this an increase in the availability of medicines based on new funds that have entered the health care system? Imagine the decision of the Croatian Institute of Health Insurance who did not include on the supplemental list a single combination of a new drug, I will not mention the names or the manufacturer, not to say that I am advertising someone. So one of the most recent medicines for osteoporosis even though the price is the same as the existing drug on the list, so the Croatian Society for Osteoporosis and the Professional Society of the Croatian Medical Assembly had to send an open letter to the Minister of Health, asking that this decision be reconsidered why the medicine was not included in the supplemental list of medicines? This medicine also contains vitamin D and calcium that patients with osteoporosis should take separately on a prescription and buy at their expense. This medicine is only 20 lipa more expensive than the medicine that has been on the list for three years. and this price increase would not have burdened the Croatian Health Insurance Institute anyway, as it would have been paid by patients with an extra charge because it is a supplemental list of 57.22 kuna. At the same time, patients would no longer have to buy calcium, which is 100 kuna per month, and the Croatian Health Insurance Office would save about 100,000 kunas per month on vitamin D alone. It's another proof that the system is run by people who have no idea what a pharmaco-economy is. Do we even need medication? Do we need new drugs? Many say we don't need new drugs. That's usually what those who are healthy say. I'll tell you that in 1900, the average life expectancy of a man in developed countries was 47 years. Today, the average life expectancy is 76 years. Just thanks to new medicines, there has been such a great extension of life span, and the mortality rate has been reduced by more than 45% in the last 30 years thanks to new medicines. Seven dollars is saved on every dollar invested in new drugs in the health care system. Therefore, once again, I stress the SDP club-supports an amendment to this law that is technical. But this technical amendment of the law will not ensure the availability of medicines to patients unless it saves especially on patients suffering from the most severe diseases, and where I repeat the Croatian Institute says that 30 patients suffering from severe kidney disease can be resolved, and the other 200, I wonder what will happen to them. And who will be that God who will decide which 30 have the right to treat and the others do not.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-04-01-0.u31787	We have several corrections of incorrect allegations. The first is representative Ivan Bagric.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-04-01-0.u31788	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Well, my colleague's excuse is, indeed, my dear colleague has spoken a lot, a lot of incorrect allegations. I'd fix two or three. It is incorrect that Mr. Prime Minister had anything to do with Pliva management or any deal in Verona. And the real infidelity for Pliva came when the government of the late Ivica Racan sold most of the packages, which is very important. Wait a minute, but she didn't have to. To pay off the debt, she could take out a loan and pay off the loan and make a living on it. But just because of the bad management, we lost Pliva. Another thing that's completely incorrect, when you were talking about the Fund of Especially Expensive Medicines. So this government has allocated far more funds than last year for the fund, and when it comes to the basics and the supplemental list then it is known that only in this reform is Mr Milinovic involved from this allowance to the basic 15 medicines. So you said a few inaccuracies.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-04-01-0.u31789	The next is representative Frano Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-04-01-0.u31790	Thank you, Madam Vice President. So I'm going to correct the same incorrect assumption that the Prime Minister with Pliva management has arranged some sort of sale of Pliva stock in Verona. It's an incorrect allegation. So a colleague key to what he said to his colleague. You gave the stock control package in exchange for the debt. You didn't go to a public competition or try to settle it through a public tender. The moment you gave that stock control package, you left the government with a small number, a small percentage of shares that couldn't affect Pliva's policy. She couldn't have any more influence. After your intransparent and illegal conduct.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-04-01-0.u31791	Representative Bozica Šolić.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-04-01-0.u31792	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Representative Jovanovic said, he said, it is known to all that an agreement was being made in Verona between Prime Minister and Plive Ćovic's director. Representative Jovanovic, remember now you are told three times, that Pliva was sold during the coalition government and that 50 plus one share. So the management rights are lost. And you should know that, I don't know you used to talk about it like you fell off Mars. And you need to know that, I don't know, you were talking here like you fell off a march, so remember that and it couldn't affect the sale anymore and it couldn't have been affected because we didn't have control rights. All the management rights, all the companies, you just sold your authority. And all the state-owned companies and you've been paying back your debts and buying ships that you and Victor Lance had management between you. You didn't remember that.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-04-01-0.u31793	And the last representative of Carmela Caparin.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-04-01-0.u31794	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, your colleague is obviously in your first term, so you don't know that the thing with Pliva, in the second, forgive me, but then you must remember that the thing with Pliva started with Mr. Racan and not from Prime Minister Sanader and Verona who really has nothing to do with it. Secondly, it's incorrect that the reform was taken by a crowbar. By no means, she didn't take anyone's belt, or maybe a little bit to you because now you're paying 80, 130 kuna for your receipts nothing. And it's incorrect that the rich can have health care and the poor can't. I'm an infectologist, whoever's poor comes to my department, I can tell about infectious diseases and doesn't have to pay for it, so, even though the poor has health care. And as for drugs, as if you live in a country, you keep saying that we don't have any drugs, that we can't give medication, that every patient who needs the medicine gets it. And he doesn't get it for a reason.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-04-01-0.u31795	I wonder what the patients say about this discussion. But the word was requested by the Secretary of State Dr. I'm huge.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-04-01-0.u31796	Madam Vice President, I thank you, I'd give just... patients one explanation. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] By placing medicines on the list according to the law but also according to two regulations, one is a rule on the criteria for determining the price of the medicinal product, the other is a rule on standards, putting the finished product on the list, determining exactly how the medicinal products are placed on the list and how they come on the list. As for the recent arrival on the list of Sucent and Tarceva, first of all, it should be made clear that it will not help every Tarceva patient to be only 20% of patients, therefore no one will play God and determine whether someone should get or not already determine whether the patient can or will not. .. By economic analysis, when making a list of materials, the pharmaceutical industry that produced Tarceva believes that, in all their experiences, around 60 patients in Croatia will be able to respond positively to Tarceva and accept the system of payment back to what system, therefore, if that number is greater, these patients will also receive the drug at the expense of the pharmaceutical industry. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Therefore, it should be made clear that no one will be in a position to have to decide or that this is not the way in which the impression, little one, little one, little one or one will be given, we will not, but there are clear indicators in relation to Sutent and Tarceva. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-04-01-0.u31797	And here we have one correction by Agent Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-04-01-0.u31798	Thank you. Well it is incorrect in the statement by Mr. Secretary of State that someone like God will not decide which patient will receive Sutent which Tarceva for the simple reason that no agreement has been reached with the pharmaceutical industry that she pays this excess patient and we have an exact example of the doctor from Zagreb who has been punished with 3 thousand kunas because she dared to instruct the patient to have the right to travel expenses and travel expenses based on the treatment of Sutento which he could not get in Zagreb and was given in Rijeka. And yesterday, we were able to read in the paper that there are patients who have to collect money from families to get this expensive therapy because this expensive therapy is being denied so that at the end of the year the fund of expensive medicines, so to speak, is not completely exhausted. Therefore, let us not sell demagogy, in Croatia expensive medicines are not equally available to all patients.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-04-01-0.u31799	Thank you very much. We have another final debate on behalf of the HSS Club and representative Marijana Petir.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-04-01-0.u31800	Your Honor, Madam Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, MPs and MPs. The club of the representatives of the HSS will support the adoption of amendments and additions to the Medicinal Products Act, this is about agreeing with the acquis of the European Union, the amendments are proposed in order to meet the conditions for the closure of the negotiating chapter 1. Freedom of movement of goods, although this may not have been understood from the previous debate. Because it's bad when they try to show things to the untrue and the things they're not, because we all know very well who we are sitting here in the Croatian Assembly, and the public knows who lobbys for whom, whose wives have private pharmacies, who are representatives of expensive medicines and why such discussions and plantings are going on. It is bad if it is sent from the Croatian Parliament messages to the public that there are fewer and more equal citizens because it is not true. Through the reform that this Croatian Parliament has also supported, an important increase in the fund for expensive medicines is that I believe there is not a single representative and representative in the Croatian Parliament who would advocate that these medicines be available to the only ones and not available to others, I would personally and the HSS would be the first against it. Because of that, I think we need to avoid politics, we need to tell the truth. But also if it is to be discussed then it is necessary to be honest and to say who protects whose interests and who lives from selling these expensive medicines here in Croatia. But I would still return to what is the subject of this debate, it is the Act of Medicinal Products that is in force, it was made in accordance with Directives 21, 27. 83 of 2003 and 2004. These Directives relate to good clinical practice in conducting clinical studies of medicinal products, to procedures with traditional herbal medicines and procedures carried out when placing a finished medicinal product on the market. A large part of the work has been done in the discussion carried out on the final proposal for a drug law, i.e. all applicable European Union directives have been implemented in domestic legislation. The most significant change in these amendments and additions is in Article 15 concerning the procedure for placing on the market a new medicinal product. According to the current law, this article states that the applicant is not obliged to submit the results of non-clinical and clinical studies for the proposed medicinal product when making a request for a finished medicinal product in the Republic of Croatia or of one of the countries of the European Union with the authorisation back 6 years. The proposed amendment extends that period by two years, and for medicinal products that are registered by mutual recognition procedure, it will take 8 years and for medicinal products that are registered centralised for 10 years or more if new indication areas are proven for the same medicinal product. In other words, medicines that have been registered in one of the Member States of the European Union for 8 and 10 years, respectively, are not subject to the process of proving non-clinical and clinical trial results, but are placed on the market in the Republic of Croatia as such almost automatism. So that's the theme of these amendments and the addition of the law. In order to protect health in the Republic of Croatia and to supply the market for medicinal products, the availability of medicinal products and potential protection of domestic producers, it is necessary to ensure that it enters into force three years after the accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union during the preparation for the implementation of this amended law. And within that time frame, we at the Club of Representatives of the HSS believe that it is necessary to prepare the domestic market for medicinal products for the application of this Article, Article 4 of this Act. This law also further prohibits the advertising of homeopathic products entered in the register of the Agency for Medicinal Products and Medical Devices. However, despite the ban on advertising medicines that exist today, the practice is that advertising drugs are in different ways and therefore considered in the HSS club, control mechanisms should be improved in this area. As I have already said, the HSS Representatives' Club will support the adoption of amendments and additions to the Drug Act, with an emphasis on the need for adequate preparation for its application in the future, so three years after Croatia's accession to the European Union, which means that we have enough time to protect domestic producers and our own market for medicines. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-04-01-0.u31801	Thank you very much. One rectification of an incorrect allegation. Representative Gordana Sobol.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-04-01-0.u31802	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Comrade Petyr, we discussed budget rebalancing two days ago. True, no one discussed the document on behalf of the HSS club, but you should know that by rebalance the budget of the Fund of Expensive Medicines has been reduced by a total of 60 million kuna. You said it wasn't cut.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-04-01-0.u31803	Thank you very much. We start with individual debates. The first is MP Miranda Mrsic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-04-01-0.u31804	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Well, here we are being accused of constantly criticizing, and there's always something here that we're talking about not being a subject. However, the Law on Medicinal Products is the Law on Medicinal Products, whatever this is, compliance with the European Union. And I'd like to start my discussion with a quote. He says the health minister at a meeting with Vela drugstore representatives has pledged to provide funds to cover drug debts. Otherwise, suppliers say, there will be a major supply problem, and they have been waiting 273 days or 150 days above the agreed deadline, a record deadline in the history of the Croatian Health Insurance Institute. When compared to European countries, then we will not talk at all about payment deadlines because in European countries there is no payment of more than 180 days and there is a payment within 30 days, within 60 days. But what's also frantic, that in our environment, in Slovenia is paying 60 days, in Serbia is paying 60 days, in Macedonia is paying within 60 days. Obviously, we can't reach that magic number. However, another thing that characterizes Croatia is the increase in consumption for medicines that are about 15 per cent each year, while at the same time in the Czech Republic or Sweden, they have the lowest cost growth. Slovenians have very little cost growth, and let's say in one year, the Austrians spent less than 2% on drug costs. Why is that? And that's probably because they care about how many drugs there are on the list, and they worry about getting as many generic drugs on the list as possible. At the same time, Croatia is also, one characteristic is that we have large supplies of domestic pharmacies, so let's say two years ago in Zagreb an action was carried out, I hope that we will not be criticized again by Mrs Šolić, that we re-populate Bandić and Zagreb's headship, but they are doing the same thing well. So, say, two years ago, they ran an action to collect old drugs, so they collected 11 containers of 700 liters of volume from somewhere over 15,000 packs of drugs. These are prescription medicines and moss medicines for cardiovascular diseases and the central nervous system. Therefore, we have a lot of work to do in the politics of medicines in Croatia. Obviously, we haven't done much in this area, and what's characteristic is that, as one of the biggest reform shifts, we're using the data that now we're going to save some 330 million kunas with a new list of drugs because we've made a better list and we've got better drugs. Well, it doesn't seem like it's the case if you apply the waist and you don't do the oatmeal grades. Namely, our list of medicines for the Croatian Health Insurance Institute was about two years ago numbered 1818 preparations, in 2007 2040, and in 2009, 2298, means 2300 preparations and 30% more than in 2006. It's more like a shopping list than a drug list, especially when it comes to generic drugs. The ministry, as well as the secretary of state, is there, so we'll probably argue a lot about it, he announced that a generic list was made and that the generic list had saved 330 million kuna. However, what is the main objective of the generic list is to set unique and standard prices for the daily defined dose. And what does that mean? This means that the state pays one 5 mg tablet, for example one price no matter who the manufacturer is, and not that as in Croatia today is that we have different prices for the same generic medicine in the list of medicines. A generic list that would be defined in such a way with a daily defined dose and with the price of one tablet paid by the state would also allow the additional insurance that we talk about to a large extent to become a genuine supplementary insurance, not a hack of patients and the way in which the budget hole is filled because the supplementary insurance would then cover the price of the medicinal product above the price of the generic daily defined dose. And when you ask someone today who provides you with extra insurance, then none of the patients know except that they have to give to the state and pay for a certain hack. If we analyze only some medicines from the list of medicines that were published in March 2009, so let's say we take Bisoprolol, colleagues from HDZ know what that means, then in the list of medicines published, one tablet of 1.25 milligrams costs 0.67 kuna, but see the devil, the same tablet from one other manufacturer costs 1.17 kuna, means on the list of medicines and each other. The difference is 74%. Amlodipine 5 milligrams 0.80, other producer 1.10 kuna, 37%. Lovsant 50 milligrams, one manufacturer offers 1.01 and another 1.24. All these drugs are on the list of medications. Why didn't you go on the generic list? Did anyone get a chance, did they make a deal with someone? But the fact is that there is no generic list in Croatia. The minimum deviation from that minimum price has a medicine that is rarely used, which is a septalin which is the difference between the minimum price of 0.37%, but sees the devil, the most expensive, the biggest difference between the lowest and the lowest price is in atorvastatin, means the fat lowering medicine that we in Croatia spend on kilos, instead of making promotional actions, preventive actions to make people healthy food, we spend enormous amounts of kuna on medicines and there is a difference of over 50%. Just one quick analysis, provided we define the lowest prices, the potential savings could be 145 million kuna on the annual sale, and for example, if the generic parallels were sold at minimum prices, the total value of the sale would be 300 million, if sold at this higher value, then the total sale of 600 million kuna, and yet the difference of 300 million kuna, whether the health ministry might have talked about saving, talked about how much medicine would be sold at a lower price. What is absolutely certain is that it is impossible to estimate sales because it depends heavily on the habits of the doctor, on marketing activities, and from that it results in these 330 million kunas saving one sound data from a call for reform that is not based on real data, and when it is said that a new list of medicines allows saving, minimum prices are calculated, the real situation is not known, and what is quite certain is that things are right, the savings in medicines will not be. It'll be good if we cover our current expenses. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-04-01-0.u31805	Thank you very much. It is up to Representative Stjepan Milinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-04-01-0.u31806	Madam Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Each substance or mixture of substances is intended for the treatment or prevention of human disease and any substance or mixture of substances that can be applied to humans for the purpose of restoring, correcting or adapting physiological functions to pharmacological, immunological or metabolic activity or diagnosis. The ordered substance or medicine can therefore be of human origin, it's... various extracts, toxins, etc., of plant origin we know all and chemical elements. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So it's a very wide area that needs to be under legal supervision, and in this sense, the law on medicines from 2007, which has therefore established the process of testing and placing on the market, production and labelling of classifications, pharmacovigilance, advertising, information, etc. This law therefore experiences a third amendment and, of course, respects the 2001 Directive. 2001/83 and through 20. Therefore, in any case where medicinal products are mentioned for human use and therefore good clinical practice. However, it has been warned that this Directive 2001/83 concerning that Data ExclusiveSivity has certain problems to be addressed by Mr Secretary of State, and in that part and colleague Petir is also good at this transitional provision which states that Article 4 therefore applies 3 years after Croatia's entry into the European Union and that there would be no disturbance on the domestic market i.e. to the defect in that part. But the most important thing of all medicines is one thought that is being passed, which is the placing on the market and this Directive 2004, that part defines and that is the essence of all of these changes, so putting the medicinal product on the market, and in that part it is most important to state first that the applicant for the marketing authorisation will not need to contribute the results of non-clinical studies and the results of clinical trials, if he can prove that the medicinal product is the same as the reference medicine and that the reference medicine is authorised for marketing in the Republic of Croatia or any of the countries of the European Union more than 8 years ago for any dose, pharmaceutical form, method of administration or packaging. This medicinal product must not be placed on the market for 10 years from the date of first authorisation for its placing on the market, so that this period of 10 years may be extended for another year. So that's the main moment of putting the drug on the market. And the second important moment is homeopathic preparations. So far, it has been possible for advertising to go everyone, and now, according to the new amendment, it comes to the fact that it is forbidden, to introduce a ban on advertising of homeopathic products that are entered into the homeopathic product register of the Medicines Agency and these are the two most important things, in addition to all that the predecessors have said, of course should be supported and that this will be a further improvement in medicines. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-04-01-0.u31807	Thank you, too. It's Tatjana Šimac-Bonačić's turn.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-04-01-0.u31808	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, Mr Secretary of State. I'll focus on one problem in my discussion. In particular, Article 16 of this proposal of the Law mentions the Agency for Medicinal Products and Management of Pharmaceutical Waste as a legal person established by the Law on Medicinal Products and Medical Devices, and in part business relates to the field of medicinal products and homeopathic products, which is determined by this law. Now that we are looking at the activity of this Agency for Medicinal Products and Medical Devices, it gives approval, then expert evaluation of the quality and efficacy and safety of the medicinal product, conducts a pharmaceutical examination, gives a production license to the manufacturers of the medicinal product, monitors the side effects, etc., proposes the minister of surveillance measures, the urgent procedure of withdrawing the medicinal product from transport, conducts the process of classifying the medicinal product and performs the tasks by waste management, but writes for his own needs. It, through its obligations, has the meaning of performing waste management operations, however, since it is a legal person founded by the Law on Medicinal Products and Medical Devices, as it oversees all traffic, production, registration of medicinal products, etc. Wouldn't it make sense that, in fact, it also takes care of pharmaceutical household waste in one indirect way because we know that the risk is said to be related to the use of the product, that essentially includes any risk of unwanted effects on the medicine and the environment. That is why I believe that, through the post-registration of the medicinal product or, for example, the marketing authorisation of medicinal products to large or small, it may be necessary to allocate funds for the disposal of such potential pharmaceutical waste from the final consumer, or call it home waste and today the medicinal product concerned. For example, such allocated funds could be in a special fund from which at the level of the local community, the need for waste management could be serviced and not put all the burden on the pharmacy. Because we have conscientious mayors who will do it, so for action with Pliva, which is now being done by Rijeka, Zagreb did. But they don't do it all. I know that according to the law pharmacies are obliged to take over, in fact under the regulation to take old medicines and similar pharmaceutical waste independent of origin and in the intended container, etc., however, it is not quite as simple as the colleagues in the pharmacy say, it is not quite as simple as this law provides. According to the law on minimum spatial conditions in pharmacies, that is not foreseen. In addition, it can permanently endanger the health of employees who stay there because it is, of course, impossible to guarantee the content of any of the returned drugs or its contents, then it is impossible to take care of the daily when we know that this waste is mainly going either quarterly or annually, and of course all about the cost of the pharmacy. Perhaps it would be enough to organise a collection of actions at the level of the local community that I have already mentioned examples of where it is done, or at that time, pharmacyes to be one expert supervision. I would like to mention here that our pharmacy has become traffickers who charge tax marks anyway because the money our citizens pay for participation goes directly to the state budget. And another thing about gallenical preparations, about their making. It was stated that they were made in the Galen laboratory and for the second time in the Galenska Laboratory of Pharmacy. Why am I saying this? Just because today is the intensity of making these gallenical products, for example different cosmetic creams like ours in Dubrovnik at the pharmacy... Only galenical laboratories, which are written in the law or in the proposal to do so exclusively in laboratory, galenical laboratories with all the equipment of 50 square metres. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So, we are shutting down manufacturing from the pharmacy we are already centralizing in a couple of centres in Croatia. However, why not leave places for tradition and offer tomorrow as our model even in the European Union. Without this "Dobriar Little Brothers" it will not be possible to survive and every historical review of the health care of our areas inevitably emphasizes the curiosity of the continuity of the Little Brothers of the 14th century. And there's something else I'd like to say about the medical condition. They say their colleagues have been complicated by their lives with repeated recipes. They write according to therapy the next download which must not be skipped, so if there are more recipes with different packings and treatments, of course and different terms of publication, it all accumulates work and it does more chaos in our pharmacies. And on the other hand, there's something else going on. We were also talking about drug lists. Then, if the drug falls into the defect next time, as it has already begun to repeat defects probably with these reduced prices in foreign producers, and this actually leads to loss, these are the minuses in pharmacies and on the other hand HZZO offers an increase in the score of 7 lip. Here's my colleague and my colleagues, and I'm going to finish this discussion with the fact that drugs are dangerous waste, although they save lives, but we need to understand that the issue of the disposal of this waste is, after all, a health and public interest and that it needs to be respected. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-04-01-0.u31809	Thank you, too. Representative Carmela Caparin is up for individual debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-04-01-0.u31810	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. In fact, everything has already been said about this law and compliance with the European Community Directive 2004/27. However, I would briefly like to look back at the placing on the market and the supervision of homeopathic products. We know that this directive prohibits the advertising of homeopathic products registered in the homeopathic product register, but what the agency does for homeopathic products is that it gives approval for the placing on the market of homeopathic products, to run this eyewitness, to give a professional assessment of quality, efficiency, safety of the use of homeopathic product and to conduct a study of the medicinal product and homeopathic product. According to the World Health Organization, homeopathy is considered by the number of users to be the second method of choice of treatment immediately after Chinese traditional medicine ahead of phytotherapy and alopathy medicine, which is in 4th place. Some countries, for example, Germany, France, the United Kingdom, and the United States have a homeopathic pharmacopoeia. In these countries, some homeopathic medicines can be obtained under health insurance. They don't do clinical tests, and the people themselves tell us that homeopathic drugs are on a plant-based basis that sometimes they don't. Scientific research on homeopathic treatment results is really small and I have to admit that as a health care professional, I know very little about it because in college almost a little, I won't say anything but we're very little learning. For example, the French pharmacopoeia has 312 homeopathic sources for homeopathic products, 235 plant origin, 70 chemical and 7 animal origins. So we say it's purely herbal and obviously not. Homeopathy is a method of treatment, say homeopaths based on the knowledge that the things that make us sick can also cure us. It is often stressed that these preparations can be effective, an example of herpes, migraine, dizziness, sclerosis, are used in fatigue, stress, anxiety. They are advertised in different ways, so recently it is said that if you take that preparation of your intestines will remain healthy. They say cold or rash after taking the preparations are a good sign of a well-selected preparation and a reaction should be enjoyed by homeopaths and patients. Obviously, we our people, and neither do we doctors ourselves, think at certain times of not responding enough to such writings, to these reactions. Because if someone got a rash after homeopathic preparation, I wouldn't be happy. But she'd be like a doctor worried, because that rash could sometimes cost him his life. In Belgium, Spain, France, Italy and Greece, homeopathy is recognised legally, but the treatment method is only recognised if a doctor graduates from medical school. What's with us? When you look at the websites, then you'll see that homeopath is a graduate homeopath. I want to know where these people graduate, what colleges, where they're educated? And recently in the media, it's been shown that one doesn't know if it's a homeopath or what, he shares diplomas with those who passed that course. So, these graduate homeopaths either passed a course of two weeks or a month or a day, but they get a degree and they declare themselves graduates. The only thing I've found, I don't know how much it's appreciated, but there's an International Homeopath Academy in England that lasts four years. You probably get a lot of knowledge and on the medical side of what we get in our country. Perhaps this law will also encourage us to have certain thoughts, who buys these homeopathic preparations, who can prescribe them, and who declares himself a graduate homeopath in this country. Did they graduate elsewhere? Who has more real ones, but I think there are more homeopaths under quotes, but they're real doormen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-04-01-0.u31811	Thank you very much. It's Dragutin Bodakosh's representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-04-01-0.u31812	Respected Croatian Vice-Presidents, respected state secretary, distinguished fellow MPs and fellow MPs. And even today's topic of amending and supplementing the Drug Act certainly has its meaning, because this amendment of the law also refers to the possibility of first placing on the market medicines that have already been used and for which no tests are required. In particular, this applies to generic drugs whose original has already been used as such and probably because of all of this, is it already known that they do not seem necessary and we agree exactly with our law. That's probably good, but I think that you should also take care of the safety of those medicines that don't have to go to a certain trial, because we read and we've seen a lot of things, that many medicines, many things that we talk about are used to make side effects that may or may not have been noticed. However, whether this will make producers of generic drugs of which it seems today our Pliva, which was once also known as the manufacturer, here's a concrete Sumammed, which will probably be tomorrow, don't I think it's running out of time that this Sumamed can be used as a generic medicine, today or tomorrow it will appear as some generic medicine and some others will earn probably on the knowledge of those scientists who did it, who did this medicine and who was really and who today is quality and as well as it is celebrated not to tell Pliva. However, Pliva is still today what Dr. Jovanovic Zeljko was saying, today Pliva is what it is. So, it's all in the past today. However, what will such changes mean for our patients today? So the appearance of certain generic drugs that we won't need to examine will be on our lists, etc. What's that gonna mean for our patients? That's what I'm asking. However, a list of medicines has recently been changed. A lot of the drugs that were on list A, they're on list B today. What does that mean? That these drugs that were on list A, that they came on list B today and they weren't today, they're being paid and they're not as free as they are? So we see that it's probably going to have certain reflections, because these generic drugs are cheaper so they're going to come up on list A, and they might be more original on list B, and what's going to happen next? Let's say for sure, I'll tell you in particular. Pressure medications Concorde, Lacipil they used to be on list A, today they pour B. And what does that mean? That means that by transferring the drugs to list B, you have to buy them. Why do we have to buy them now? Because the ministry said that this drug is going to the B list. And why did it say it was going to list B? I'd love to hear it from the secretary of state, but what I heard was that those drug manufacturers didn't lower the price. Therefore, it is now a more expensive drug and it is on B list and should be paid as such. However, what does changing the medicine mean? Changing the pressure medicine doesn't know many of us are using the medicine, and it's very difficult to get to the one that benefits you best. Therefore, it will never be seen what is the real price of the manufacturer, but what the patient is using and the patient will come and buy that medicine. Now let's move on. Then what happens after that? Afterwards this patient, he paid extra insurance, the minister said, how much was that secretary of state, I don't know exactly, but there was talk that very much raised this extra insurance and now those people who were to pay off these three months of supplementary insurance they came to their family doctor and said, see, again we were cheated. Someone cheated on us. Who tricked us? Minister, his team or who, who is the one who said if we pay extra insurance that we're going to be able to get that Lacipil or I don't know Concord again like we used to get before we changed this list. But you can't get it, and it's like it's normal on which it's out, it's drained primarily on the family doctor because he prescribed that prescription, he told him to pay for that extra insurance that he wouldn't have to pay for those drugs, etc. And the thing is, it's normal for that patient to say and think that someone cheated on him and that with the participation he paid for him to be deceived. I think that often we in this House here and we talk about this law as some technical changes, however, for patients it is not exactly a technical change, especially if it comes to the part where the participation that has been paid with the belief that it will receive both a cheaper drug and a medicine, not only a cheaper medicine, but a medicine that is needed as such. If that were the case with patients it turns out to be some kind of fraud, and we say it's just some technical change. However, what MP Caparin said is that there are medications, that everyone will always get medications, thinks that it's not a big truth, because drugs cost, drugs are getting more expensive, we have to pay the drugs as such, but let's not hide behind the delusions of patients that when they pay for the participation that they will have everything, to get all the drugs so I don't say anything worse than the word of deception. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-04-01-0.u31813	Thank you very much. It is up to individual debates, MP Zeljko Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-04-01-0.u31814	Thank you, Madam Vice President, here's what I've decided to do in an individual debate for several reasons. I'm a doctor.. therapy at the Faculty of Medicine in Rijeka and mastered ethical marketing in the pharmaceutical industry at the Faculty of Economics. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Therefore, if there is any topic in which I can talk metrically in this assembly, it is the area of medicines. About everything I talked about in the discussion on behalf of the club I used data that came out and in medical papers or were published in professional literature, and here, it says well that the coalition of health associations that makes up 50 associations of patients think that innovative medicines should be placed on the list to a greater extent, in the interest of all patients in the Republic of Croatia. They say that in Croatia, 600 people are sick of kidney cancer and, according to medical statistics and literature, 200 of them should receive Sutent. How HZZO came up with the data of 30 patients representing 15% of those to whom this medicine can help. Therefore, this is the information published in the expert literature. Second. I was talking about rheumatoid arthritis. In October 2007 a round table of the Croatian Rheumatological Society took place and the role of biological therapy in the treatment of rheumatoid arthritis where as one of the participants was also the Minister of Health Dr. Ljubicic and the conclusion after being presented.. The analysis of the treatment of rheumatoid diseases in Croatia was that since 1 January 2008 all patients in Croatia who suffer from rheumatoid diseases, rheumatoid arthritis will be able to use biological therapy that will become a fund of expensive medicines. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Today, on 1 April 2009, patients with rheumatoid arthritis are still not enabled therapy, biological therapy. On 30 October 2008, I addressed Dr. Milinovic, I reiterated February 18th, I still have no answer to that question, therefore, black on white, evidence that the Ministry of Health is not fulfilling what it has just promised to fulfill. Therefore, we cannot say at all that all patients in Croatia at this time are equally available best therapy. And no matter how annoying it may be for HDZ counterparts, Plivu destroyed Ćovic with the support of Prime Minister Ivo Sanader in Verona.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-04-01-0.u31815	It is up to representative Ivan Bagarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-04-01-0.u31816	I thank Madam Vice-President, I will actually take my debate on this law to a short answer from my colleague Jovanovic. With certainly an emphasis on how I support this bill because everything the Government of the Republic of Croatia does when it comes to health care so far has done well, and when I see our dear fellow State Secretary, Mr. Golem then I have no doubt that he is there, that it is a good job. Therefore, I congratulate my fellow secretary of state on a successful reform so far, and I was one of those who listened and saw what has been done so far in the short time since it actually started in the right sense of all these efforts and all the work that the minister and his team are leading when it comes to reform, then we can be truly, truly satisfied. But it's not that we can be content with ourselves who know little about health care and health care system but can be satisfied first of all, first of all, by our patients. So, I understand, I understand that the time here is really soon here of choice and that there is a certain way of campaigning but I don't understand it being run, I don't understand it, but it's also unacceptable to be led in a assembly and at a time when there is no television transmission and when in fact each other in a certain way, when we persuade and convince each other of what we don't believe ourselves. So I can't understand, if possible, if you can believe it, and you also know that Mr. Prime Minister can have a relationship with Pliva. So, especially from the position, and it's quite familiar when, I remember that because I read it in the press and it was true, I checked it out later, when it's known it was long, I think it was long I don't know pension or health care, I don't know, someone's fund was long and then got rid of that debt at the time, we won't even talk about which way to sell Plive control package. The moment that golden coke or its product was given to you and rolled into someone else's nest, of course no one could, of course no one could control further flows, and especially the prime minister of the Republic of Croatia, because it was no longer an institution that the government had any influence over. That's one thing. Another thing that's completely unnecessary and really unnecessary, and when it comes to this fund, especially expensive medicines, and when it comes to certain medicines, I think that every word said here has special meaning and special meaning, especially if it's spoken by doctors. So if you're saying that some patients are going to lose their medication, it's almost God's gift if someone comes to a cure, so we all know exactly how much cytostatics can contribute to improvement and how much to the extent, etc. And now what does that mean? Does this mean that when we mention specific medicines here and we say that some patients can't come to them, forgive the people who listen and who hear these discussions then they can think that such a drug is some kind of panic that heals every kind of disease. So, I don't believe it, I honestly don't believe it. There is a colleague Mrsic here who is certainly far, far away, I would not say he knows more than I do, but I accept that I know absolutely nothing about him when it comes to this matter, but I do not believe that it happened in the Republic of Croatia, here with us, therefore in his patients, in your patients or in any of the patients that someone really died due to a lack of medicine. And it's particularly dangerous to say, what we've heard here, that someone is going to play God who's going to give someone the cure, is not going to give someone the cure. I would actually conclude my presentation with a single call, one by asking that we really be sensitive about this sensitive matter and act. So I understand that the role of the opposition is to attack the government and be critical of the government's actions and that's good, but it's not good that every debate always responds in this way, especially when it really doesn't make any sense. Here are just a few more basic data relating to this reform that has been implemented so far and carried out by this team of Minister Milinovic as proof of the accuracy of what I'm talking about. When it comes to rationalising the use of medicines, it has been reported so far that about 200 million kunas have been saved, but not on the expense of patients, because their medicine has been denied, but simply because this medicine has been used rationally or has not been used where it should not be used. So, since these new reference prices have actually been saved on the recipe of another 370 million kuna. Especially when we're talking about this fund of particularly expensive medicines, then you know that compared to 2005, that this fund almost got better in this 2009. It now stands at $400 million. I understand that the needs of people are enormous, that people have the right to want more and their patients and their doctors, however, of course there are both limits and limits, especially when it comes to separation in the health system as one that always requires more and more. It is also known that from the supplemental list on the basic list, since this reform began, it is included if I am not mistaken, Mr. Secretary of State, 15 medicines. On the other hand, there were three medications. But then here we are, if we can say so, we are good at 15:3. The information of primary health care under the motto or slogan "No Paper" is carried out which saves doctors and time and saves patients patient patience and time, etc. Not to mention this methodology in terms of paying hospitals versus diagnosis in terms of so-called. The DTS system according to which, for the first time in Croatia, an objective assessment of the cost of a service was carried out in a certain way. Here's an example of one birth, of course it doesn't have to be true this assessment, but it was passed, but people at the Ministry of Health made it, so in Croatia the birth costs 4 and a half thousand kuna and no matter where it happened it costs so much. If that price turns out to be a little bit, then we'll adjust it. So the reform and reform process, especially in health care, is certainly not something that is a given process, but is a process to be monitored, changed, etc. A whole series of good things happened in the standardisation of orthopedic aids, not to mention this once very much I would tell the thinking and good move of the ministry when it comes to a six-month recipe that is actually being saved, I repeat again, both patients and doctors. According to the health ministry records, the press of 10 out of 15 million is saved. I mean the recipe. Then, of course, it affects user satisfaction, etc. We have here a whole list of what has happened so far in the health system. I support this opportunity here not only this law, I repeat, but everything that appears within the health system in terms of its improvement and its effectiveness. And of course I invite both colleagues and those who are not, I mean in terms of doctors and people who are not doctors who are sitting in this House of Commons, to support the Minister of Health, to support the ministry, to do really the most in the health care segment because health is above all, and really health is something that must not be traded, especially not politically and especially in collecting really cheap political points. Here's a thank you, Madam Vice President.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-04-01-0.u31817	I thank you too, colleague. We have a correction to your hearing. Representative Miranda Mrsic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-04-01-0.u31818	A colleague, Bagaric, said 330 million kuna was saved, may be saved. It's according to that Montenegrin "jacket didn't die, and when we don't know", so that 330 million is on a long stick too. When we talk about DTS and the cost of delivery, obviously the minister is a gynecologist, and then we talk about childbirth all the time, and we've forgotten other diagnosiss like that. Patients with acute leukemia who cannot be treated with what DTS provides. ...the intruder can't be heard.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-04-01-0.u31819	Here, you're looking for help. A final debate on behalf of the SDP club may help, 5 minutes, representative Zeljko Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-04-01-0.u31820	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. So we're talking about the drug law. Medicinal products make sense if they start taking on time, if they are taken long enough and at an adequate dose, and this is also the basis of our approach to SDP solidarity, comprehensive and all equally available healthcare. At this point, health care in Croatia is neither solid, nor comprehensive, nor is everyone available, and the concept of giving drugs is not realised in time enough and at an adequate dose. The reason for this is that the hacker has reduced the departure of doctors to primary health care, thus reducing the entry into the system, which is nowhere in the world. I said everything I was talking about was backed up here, the medical paper. Kolega Bagaric, therefore, said there is no TV transmission, therefore everything the SDP club said in this debate is not due to local elections but because of the desire for patients in Croatia to have a solid, comprehensive and equally accessible health care, which is not due to the reform implemented in a cowboy way. So, while you are already praising the minister, I will say that during February and March, on several occasions, the SDP club received a number of requests from patients, doctors, professional societies, associations, offices, health homes, pharmacy, hospitals complaining about the lack of communication with the Ministry of Health, especially with the Minister, the Croatian Health Insurance Office, due to the inaccessibility of expensive medicines, due to poor solutions provided for new distribution on the basic supplementary list due to payment and non-payment of participation in primary health care, due to the announcement of a change in the minimum number of insurances in the family medicine team, due to the failure to pay 6% increase of the nurses' salary in the family medicine office, because of the failure to sign contract annexes due to the lack of a new regulation on the issue of orthopadic aid, due to the unpreparation for changes in the changes to changes in the medical services in the number of the care system, the care of the care of the patients in the care of the care system, the care of the patients in the care of the care of the care of the patients, the care of the care of the patients, the care of the care of the patients, the care of the care of the care of the patients, the patients, the care of the care of the care of the care of the care of the care of the care of the patients of the care of the patients, the patients of the patients. So this is only part of the remarks resulting from the cowboy reform of health care that did not increase the quality of healthcare to patients in Croatia by a millimeter. So when we talk about Pliva, in Verona, the Prime Minister together with Covic with the sound of opera and with the whispering of Zuzul decided to sell it to Bar and thus destroyed Pliva and led to the collapse where he now works three times less employees in Pliva, and the availability of medicines that Pliva spent in Croatia is getting smaller. Here, the other day, the production of Amoxil, Sulfasola, Voltaren stopped. Who's to blame? Dr Ivo Sanader, Zeljko Covic, Miomir Zuzul and Sanader's government as a whole.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-04-01-0.u31821	Thank you very much. Correction of incorrect performance, representative Ivan Bagarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-04-01-0.u31822	I would correct the incorrect appearance of my colleague Jovanovic, but I will choose two wrong allegations. So, I repeat, that you wouldn't be really boring, and I don't doubt it, because I already am because when something clears up, it can get even more blurry. But I have no doubt, it wasn't the Pliva that destroyed Veronica Sanader, it was Racan's infidelity. God gave him rest forever, but that was the way it was. The other thing is, when you talk about cowboy reform, it's completely incorrect to carry out cowboy reform. The reform, you know, reform is painful, difficult, so it's an incorrect assumption that cowboy reform is being implemented. Reforms are being carried out as the sea is being carried out, which is to be driven from the final outcomes which are still in Croatia against the lack of funds, the lack of money in the health system and savings are good. The Minister's doing everything he can to make it better. After all, why should cowboy reform be a bad thing? Because the cowboys started and realized the greatest force in the world. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-04-01-0.u31823	Looks like the cowboys are very popular. Correction of the incorrect allegations, MP Berislav Roncevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-04-01-0.u31824	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Although the alleged esteemed counterpart Jovanovic has already been corrected, it has been re-produced, so I am correcting it again. Dr. Sanader wasn't selling Pliva. This has been declared by all Croatian measuring institutions, and as for the opera and affection towards the opera from our prime minister and party president, our colleague Jovanovic, we are proud of it, at least he never sings from Vardar to Triglav as your president.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-04-01-0.u31825	On behalf of the promoter, the word was requested by State Secretary Golem.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-04-01-0.u31826	Madam Vice President, ladies and gentlemen. During today's debate, several questions were raised, and the RET issue may need to be answered. First, I would like to state, in the Republic of Croatia, that is, according to the Health Protection Act, health care is implemented, and the Mandatory Health Insurance Act therefore exists for the purposes of health insurance there is a Croatian Health Insurance Institute and the list of medicinal products is brought to the Croatian Health Insurance Institute that implements regulations in the field of insurance. Why do I say that? Because, in some ways, during the debate, it is imputable and may be misrepresented that the minister brings this medicine to the list, the drug on the list, that the minister did not give this medicine to the list, that medicine to the list. The procedure for the arrival of the medicinal product on the list in accordance with the Regulation on the criteria for the placing of medicinal products on the list is the procedure carried out by the Health Insurance Office after the opinion of the Committee for Medicinal Products for the Croatian Health Insurance Authority for the arrival of the medicinal product on the list or the refusal of the medicinal product from the list is decided by the Administrative Board, which is therefore appointed under the same Legal Health Insurance Act. That should be said on one side. On the other hand, here we are, closely following the whole debate of some things now a little bit unclear. In the previous term in this House of Commons, the Law on compulsory health insurance was presented in 2006, when the list and the list b were presented, as they like to call it, and when it is said that the list of medicines is therefore free of charge, list b is a list of medicines with surcharge. The phonograms, or stenograms of this Assembly, show that it was then all the time and that this would create a generic list of medicines, that it would not allow our citizens innovative medicines, that citizens would have to pay for it. Then we defended, so the Minister of Health then and I personally that it was a list of medicines that would be available for all diseases without an extra charge to which means they are not generic medicines but there are also original and not a small number and that the additional list of medicines is she, which has her parallel on the basic list of medicines. For this reason, it's a little unclear that now, so one such list is first sought and now a list of generic medicines is required, that it should be a list of generic medicines. On the other hand, if a list of generic drugs were made as it is here today in the debate, then it would just be said that a small number of medicines would be free of charge and a large number of supplements. And it does not decide which medicine will be extra, which medicine will not be extra. There is also a regulation on the basis of which the medicinal product is to be classified according to the manufacturer on the basic or supplemental list of medicinal products. It's called the Regulation on the criteria for determining the price of medicinal products. Why is that so important? It's important next. I absolutely appreciate Agent Jovanovic's expertise and absolutely have absolutely no intention of contesting that I, as a surgeon, know about medicines extremely little about him. However, I cannot accept that, as a scientific data, a statement from the coalition of health associations with which the ministry has worked very well together, which has also been working together on this reform project and which has also given its opinion and that this is said as if it were scientificly as is possible from the phonogram. Innovative medicines in the Republic of Croatia are also experiencing certain protection by amending and supplementing the law, it is being extended. So six years ago, he had patent rights, protection, that he didn't have his own copy, so let's call it for clarification, now it's extended to ten years. It is clear that this will be a difficult step but it must be done in accordance with all European directives for the very reasons of protection in researching new medicines that can be better quality. More than you should say. When it comes to generic drugs on one side, it was constantly thought that cheap medicines are medicines of less quality. Today we hear in the debate that generic drugs could actually be saved, that if all generic drugs were to be reduced to one price so that they could get the same availability looks that brings us back to what we've been saying all along. It is not a relationship between the price of the medicinal product and its effectiveness. Our patient, a Croatian citizen, needs to get the medicine that is most optimal for him. That there was a place of rationalization here was said here in the debate. It was just well emphasized that there are extra medicines in the pharmacy, so medicines that have not been taken, medicines that have been prescribed, which the patients have not taken. Obviously, there's still a lot of room for rationalization. And in any case, what would further just answer about the waste and the role of the Agency for Medicinal Products and Medical Devices. In fact, medicines as waste should not belong under the Agency for Medicinal Products and Medical Devices but fall under the Strategy for the use of hazardous waste for which concessions have already been held in the Republic of Croatia, as the Strategy for the Management of Dangerous Waste will be carried out and the medicines are only one small part. There is much broader medical waste and much larger where this issue will be quality solved, so that everything the Agency for Medicinal Products and Medical Devices has received in power has been modelled by all European agencies that actually exercise control over the entry of the medicinal product into one country, the use of this medicine, the withdrawal and all other jobs to preserve the quality of the medicinal product so that the quality of healthcare can be prevented and the negative part that medicines can bring. I hope I managed to get through this somehow because the discussion about this law went a little too far, so I believe I may not have answered everything, but most of it did. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-04-01-0.u31827	Thank you. One correction, Mr. Representative Miranda Mrsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-04-01-0.u31828	The Honorable Secretary of State spoke of a list of generics. There is no list of generic medicines, there is a list of the Croatian Institute of Health Insurance where there are innovative medicines and generic medicines, and if we talk about generics as a generic, then we talk about the price for one tablet and everywhere in the world, look at Austria, look at all the countries around us, they have a daily defined dose and the price of the medicine for a daily defined dose. And when we talk about the success of reform reform will be successful when the costs and revenues are side by side, until then the reform has failed.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-04-01-0.u31829	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-04-01-0.u31830	We move on to the Final Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Drug Act. It was an emergency procedure for P.Z.E. Number 290. Proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. The amendments were submitted by the Legislative Committee. I would like to ask the proposer's representative to be made aware of the amendments made by the Committee. First Amendment 1 to Article 4.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-04-01-0.u31831	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-04-01-0.u31832	It becomes an integral part of the bill. 2nd of Article 19th of the Treaty on the
ParlaMint-HR_2009-04-01-0.u31833	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-04-01-0.u31834	It becomes an integral part of the bill. 3. the following article is added after Article 19, etc.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-04-01-0.u31835	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-04-01-0.u31836	Acceptable, becoming an integral part of the proposal. Article 20 is replaced by the following:
ParlaMint-HR_2009-04-01-0.u31837	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-04-01-0.u31838	It becomes an integral part of the proposal. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? This final bill was adopted by most votes. 118 votes for, 2 abstentions and one against, along with accepted amendments.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-04-01-0.u31839	We're going to another point tonight. - Proposal for a law amending the Law on districts, towns and municipalities in the Republic of Croatia, first reading, P.Z. No. 266, Proposer: Representativeplatimir Mršić Proposer Mr. zastavnik Zvonimir Mršić. The government delivered an opinion. The debate was conducted by committees on legislation, local and regional self-government. Proposer Mr. Ponnimir Mršić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-04-01-0.u31840	Your Honor, Vice President, Deputy Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. I will begin with one quote from the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia or two quotations from the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. The first says Article 4 that in the Republic of Croatia, state authority is set up on the principle of the division of power into legislative, executive and judicial and is limited by the Constitution of guaranteed law to local and regional (regional) self-government. So the state government that has a trio of authorities is limited to the right to local self-government. And secondly, to guarantee citizens the right, that is Article 132. The constitution guarantees citizens the right to local and regional (regional) self-government. After the citizens of the three local committees from the vicinity of the town of Koprivnica launched an initiative to separate them from their municipalities and to join the town of Koprivnica and following a huge silence from the administration because, within no time limit, the deadline was very long and the government or office did not respond to their initiative until today, they asked me as an advocate that, as an authorised legislator, the legislator could also be the legislator, the club of representatives or the Government of the Republic of Croatia, so that as one of the three approved legislators of the law, I refer such a law to the parliamentary procedure. So it's about three settlements. One is Subotica Podravska where citizens are 31. Three. In 2008, 563 of 779 voters or 72.5% signed a petition or demanded that the municipality of Rasinj be singled out and attached to the municipality of Koprivnica. Secondly, the towns of Glogovac are 17. 02. In 2008, 65% or 345 out of 528 signed demands to separate them from Koprivnički Bregi municipality and join the town of Koprivnica. And thirdly, the local settlements of Kamenica are 8. 04. In 2008, such an initiative was launched, with as many as 83% or 20 voters of 24 voters signing a request, or petitioning the municipality of Sokolovac to single out and join the town of Koprivnica. So, this is an entirely atypical law that has been in the past two terms or three mandates in this House because we mainly had laws that spoke of disolutions, so where certain parts of individual municipalities or cities had the need to separate themselves from each municipality or city and stand alone, become an independent municipality, or an independent city. So here we have one of the few situations, we had a recent situation and in the vicinity of the town of Čakovec where a local board wanted to separate from the municipality and join the town of Čakovec. But this is all about three such settlements that here would separate from their municipalities and join the town of Koprivnica. If we go back to this beginning where I was talking about where local self-government can be restricted and that citizens have a constitutional right to local self-government, then the question is who can make it impossible for citizens to achieve these two constitutional categories, and the organisation of local self-government, namely the desire to live in one or the right local self-government unit is one of the fundamental rights. So if we have the right to local self-government and we have the right to organise ourselves in this local self-government, then there must be a way for citizens who are largely expressing themselves, and here it is a percentage of 75, 65, 83% of the citizens or residents living in these areas of the local committee to have the right to do so and achieve their right. Unfortunately, the Government of the Republic of Croatia has largely ignored and has so far ignored the citizens' initiative, which is very strange. It may not be strange, but it's really worrying that if three local committees or three settlements are instructed to do this, and it's a few hundred signatures, that the government doesn't even need to answer, not to tell them O.K. We received papers, right, let alone comply with the law. The government also ignores the Constitution of authorised promoters because when a representative, and this is about not being a representative personally, it has referred the law to an emergency procedure, which means it was supported by 26 and 27 representatives of this Croatian Parliament, and the Government ignores it. Because the government does not comply with the Law on City Areas and Countys, which says that if some preconditions are met, the Government must bring its own court, or establish the justification for separation from a particular settlement. So, the County Law says that a change in the area of the settlement, and we are talking about it, can be launched by the representative body of the local self-government units, or one third of the residents of the village. We are here talking about that it has run practically three-quarters of the citizens have launched this initiative, so three times as much, or twice as much as the legal minimum. And then it is said that the government will betray or deny the previous consent. Depending on the assessment of the justification of each individual proposal, and depending on the consistency of the regional change with the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. So, he says, literally says, the government will betray or deny consent to that. Now, what does the government say in its opinion about the bill I've referred to in the parliamentary procedure? The government says, not entering a previous assessment of the justification of each individual request. So whoever gives the government the right to say, we will not obey the law and we will not betray or deny consent, but the government says, now is not the time to debate at all in this law. So who gives the government the right to tell a representative or a representative club a time when it's appropriate to discuss a law? So the government is there to act and implement the laws adopted by the Croatian Parliament. If the Croatian Parliament also adopted the Constitution, if the Croatian Parliament adopted the Law on Local Self-Government Areas and Units, then the Government is not here to consider whether the law can be applied in the morning or in the afternoon. It is the government that, when the law comes, act in accordance with Article 32 of the existing law or to betray or deny consent. And the government said no, we won't even consider it. We are not interested in what the citizens have submitted, we are not interested in what 82% of the people of Kamenica said, we are not interested in what 65% of the people of Podravska Subotica said, we are not interested in what 72% of the Glogovec from Koprivniki Bregi said. We don't care about that at all. Because here we think it's not the time when we should be interested. So the law did not say that time was determined, but the conditions when the government must manifest itself and when the government must say yes or say no. And if he says no, then he must say that it is not in line with the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, that is, the territorial structure of local self-government units. So here the government is put above the law and above the Constitution. And she says no, we won't follow the law and the Constitution. We will fully ignore the constitutional right of citizens to have the right to local self-government. We will completely ignore it so that they can say where they want to live and we will completely ignore the law that says we must betray or deny consent, betray or deny consent. So, if these conditions are met, and the conditions are met because we have citizens' demands, a qualified requirement, so more than one-third. We have the opinion of the unit of local self-government from which these settlements stand out, meaning the municipalities of Koprivnik bank and the municipality of Sokolovac and the municipality of Rasinj. We have the opinion of the unit of local self-government where these three settlements want to come, so the town of Koprivnica and we have the opinion of the county. Because the law doesn't say they have to be positive, the law says we have to have an opinion. We have the county's opinion on these three cases. If we're going to go after that that should always be a positive opinion then there may be some doubt about Glogovec and Kamenica because that's where the municipality said it was opposed and the county has no position, just said it was passing it on, so we have an opinion. However, at Podravska Saturday, everything is clear. We have 65% of the citizens' signatures. The voters. We have a positive opinion of the municipality. He says go. We have a positive town of Koprivnica, says come. We have a positive opinion of the Koprivnica-Crysing County that says if the municipality thinks they should leave and the city that they should come, we agree with that. Where does it come from right now, and especially to the government to tell right now is not the time. Well, they had plenty of time, so time, I said when the initiative was launched, 31. 3. In 2008. Well, there's been plenty of time. From that time until today, or to the moment when this didn't come, the government had an initiative from Chakovec. That's when the government said not that it's not the time, but that's where we're going to gather all the initiatives, so we're going to propose a law, where the government gets involved in the Constitution again. Because he says what you MPs are going to propose laws, so we're here to propose laws. You give us the initiative so when we think it's the right time, then we'll write it down and we'll refer it to the procedure. If that's what they think, then at least the law needs to do if not the Constitution to sign the time and say that the laws are proposed only on Wednesdays before noon, for example, or that they are proposed I don't know only the first month after the local elections, so we'll know. Or it should be entered that a representative can propose a law on anything other than the areas of units of local self-government, areas, cities, counties in the Republic and municipalities in the Republic of Croatia. Because other laws are being told why the government is against it. She has her own opinion, mostly when she comes out of the opposition is mostly against, so she has some opinion, but her opinion can't be that now is not the time or can't be her opinion that this won't go away because the government will. Except for then, constitutional changes are going on now, so I suggest here is the head of the Constitutional Change Commission, to install that into the Constitution, is that, other than this change can be done and it has to be done only on Wednesday mornings, perhaps in sunny weather. Is it? So, I ask you as advocates that especially you MPs from the ruling majority that you have your own opinion, because there is no government opinion here, so I warn you, therefore, there is no government opinion here, the government here said that it does not want to think about it at all because it does not think that this is a suitable time for her to think about, probably has much more important jobs to do. So, I urge you to support this law, even more so, unfortunately, although the bill was sent by emergency procedure, did the ruling size take down an emergency procedure, which means that this law can't even go into effect before the local elections. Therefore, there is no reason not to adopt it in the first reading and not to refer it to the procedure after the local elections in the second reading. Because I guess after the local elections, it'll be the right time to discuss it, so maybe the government will have time to think it's the right time to discuss it. Is it? But I also ask you to protect the dignity of parliamentary representatives and the Constitution and support this law because if we accept the thesis that it is not the right time and that we should wait for the government to gather all initiatives, so the government will send it to the parliamentary procedure then we really agree to what the government is doing now, which is to say as far as local, regional and regional self-governments are concerned, not and should not be representatives and club representatives, but only the government. So here we now have the violence of the executive government as part of the state government over something the Constitution said could only be limited by local self-government. And instead of local self-government being able to influence the government, we now have here a complete suppression of initiatives and opportunities for citizens to organize to say, we want in that unit of local self-government.. Imagine they wanted something else, something bigger, let's say they wanted decentralisation, that they wanted more money, that they wanted more power which is the same as all constitutional categories. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] No, they just said we want from the municipality of Rasinj which, for example, is bigger than the town of Koprivnica and when Podravska sbotica is separated from the municipality of Rasinj and joins the town of Koprivnica, the municipality of Rasinj will still remain a territorially larger unit of local self-government than the town of Koprivnica. Rasinja municipality has 27 settlements. Thus, the municipality of Rasinj will not lose anything by having 26 settlements. In the end Podravska sbotica is completely connected to the town of Koprivnica because you do not know where the city stops or the town begins, is it, that is, where Kunovec borg stops and Subotica begins, the only board warns you very clearly because it is a continuous, very populated, very populated, very populated road whether. In Glogovac, the situation is equally, because Glogovac is located completely separated from the rest of the municipality of Koprivnički breg, so across the railway and the sub-level highway and is also communal infrastructure connected to the settlements of Staglinjec and Bakovice and of course it has the need and desire to join the town of Koprivnica because to reach its municipality of the sea it passes through the town of Koprivnica, so, sea, sea. So to get through this must cross the road that is part of the town of Koprivnica. Therefore, it must cross the territory of the town of Koprivnica. A village of Kamenica, a small village of 24 adults who are also naturally bound and directed to the town of Koprivnica, children from Kamenica go to the primary school in Koprivnica, children from Kamenica to the secondary school in Koprivnica. In order to reach their municipality they need more than 30 km, across the hills they need to cross where the roads are mostly unfalted, and here they only descend 3 or 4 km and are already in Koprivnica. So there's a whole series of reasons why these people want it. What I'm also asking you to have in mind, this is not a political initiative. So there is no political party behind these three initiatives. This is indeed a citizens' initiative where in the village of Kamenica I don't think there's even a branch of any political party. In the town of Glogovac, I also think there is no branch of any political party. And in Podravska Subotica, all branches of all political parties, or activists, are collecting signatures for this. And in Subotica therefore in which, for example, the authorities at the moment HSS is the municipality of Rasinja supported this proposal. The Koprivnica-Crysing County supported this proposal. So there are absolutely no obstacles to allowing the locals of Podravska Subotica to exercise their constitutional right, if there is anything we can talk about. Because they are also destined to go to the town of Koprivnica. They are closer to the centre of Koprivnica than their municipal building in the settlement of Rasinja. To Koprivnica they have a walking-cycling trail, they do not have a walking-cycling trail or a roadside lighting to their municipalities. So that's a whole series of reasons, for example, it's the same thing with the Globe. To Koprivnica they have a walking-cycling trail, to their municipality they do not have a walking-cycling trail. To connect to the sewerage system will be connected to the sewerage system of the town of Koprivnica, not to the sewer system of the Municipality of Koprivnički Bregi. Subtice is already connected to the sewer. It is connected to the sewer system in the town of Koprivnica, not the municipality of Rasinj. So the water network is also from the town of Koprivnica system, not from the municipality of Rasinje. So the umbilical cord is all connected. Here they only show their desire, their interest to simply be here now and mutilated. I expected, believed it would happen before the local elections because the government in its opinion thinks it's not the time to create a territorial reconstruction. Then by adopting the law in the first reading, it will also be possible because the law will not be passed anyway, so there will be no final proposal before the local elections, but let's leave it in the process and after the local elections we will put the final draft of the law and adopt it after the local elections. Maybe that's when the government thinks it's a good time for that to happen. Let us not wait for the government to write everything or collect and then copy all these initiatives. I also think that MPs representing the interest of citizens must be able to propose and have an argumential refusal. I wouldn't mind, then, if the government had explained to me here why it wasn't good for Subotica, for Glogovac, for Rasinja, for Brege, for Sokolovac, for Kamenica. But the government didn't explain it. The government didn't even want to discuss it. She didn't even want to think about it, she just said okay, we don't talk about it right now, we're gonna do it for a while. Maybe if the government said the time would be then so maybe I could accept it, but the government said no before the local elections. After the local elections, the government says we'll collect everything and we'll refer it to the law procedure. And then we come back before the next local elections, then the government says no to the local elections again. So we're spinning into an entirely imaginary circle that the government wants to involve us in. Here I appeal to you, therefore, to respect the constitutional right of citizens to local self-government and organisation, to protect the dignity of MPs, in this case 26, 27 MPs, and to support the adoption of such a law and in such a way as to tell citizens that indeed the citizens' initiative can result in the achievement of their wishes and aspirations, especially in what is vital to them, and this is a question of local self-government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-04-01-0.u31841	Thank you. There's still five minutes of discussion. Is that the Zrinski Falconer? ... Topolovac is what it is, yes. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Legislative Committee, chairman of the board, Mr. Representative Emil Tomljanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-04-01-0.u31842	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. So here's a very short one. The Committee on the Law of the Croatian Parliament held at the 53rd session on 24 March 2009 discussed the Proposal for a Law amending the Law on County, City and Municipality in the Republic of Croatia, which was submitted to the President of the Croatian Parliament by Zvonimir Mršić, a representative in the Croatian Parliament, acting on 11 February 2009. The Legislative Committee does not support the adoption of this law for the reasons set out in the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, contained in the act of 18 March 2009. However, the debate pointed out, although there is no constitutional and legal obstacle to the adoption of this law, the fundamental doubt in opening the possibility to change their territory directly before the regular elections for members of the representative bodies and bodies of the executive body of the units of local and regional (regional) self-government and thus to cover the electoral body by amending the number of residents, which depends on the number of members of the representative bodies, as well as other powers, rights and duties laid down by specific laws. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-04-01-0.u31843	Thank you. The Committee on Local and Regional Self-Government? ... As Linic says, it's not zero, but zero and zero is two, four and four is eight. ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Deputy Secretary of State of the Central State Administration, Mr. Pavle Maticic. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-04-01-0.u31844	Mr. Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Croatian Parliament. I'm just going to say a few words about this subject firsthand. Since the period of adoption of the Law on districts, cities and municipalities in 2006, the Government and we in the Central State Administration Office have adopted 16 initiatives for the establishment of new municipalities and 25 requests for regional changes of units of local and regional self-government. We received these initiatives until the end of 2008 even in January 2009, and some documents later than that deadline. In the context of a general debate on the financial crisis and recession in various places and entities regarding public spending, the objection that we already have too many units of local and regional self-government that would further increase these initiatives. We now have 429 municipalities, 126 cities and 20 counties and the City of Zagreb. Secondly, the Law on the Direct Elections of Mayors, Mayors, Mayors and Mayors of the City of Zagreb stipulates, among other things, that candidates for these main functions must have a place of residence in the area and a unit at least 6 months before the decision to call the elections, which the deadlines have already passed since the 9th month and 10th of last year respectively. As a result, the Government has not proposed amendments and additions to the Law on County, Municipal and City Areas, but has remained to make appropriate decisions within the framework of its powers, i.e. to propose amendments and amendments to the laws following local elections. In line with this, the government's opinion on the draft law tabled by MP Mršić. Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-04-01-0.u31845	Thank you. So it's to protect Mrsic's representative for his candidacy for the mayor of Koprivnica. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the SDP Representatives Club, Mr. Representative Nenad Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-04-01-0.u31846	Respect, thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. Two things are important here. We usually have too many units of local self-government in Croatia by general court. Too many municipalities. Here and usually the demands come such that residents, citizens want another one of their special municipalities, they want another one to be established. Often it's political reasons, sometimes it's parapolitical, but here we have a situation the other way around. Here citizens are actually trying to round up local self-government units. In itself, it should be sufficient reason for the government to welcome, support such an initiative and to have it followed by an emergency procedure until someone has changed their mind. That's the first important fact. Another important fact is that we have a proposal from this legislative proposal, a colleague of Mršić's, but he's actually just a mediator. Only the middleman, that's important, is that he is the mediator between the will of the citizens in three places and this House. If we had citizens, those locals had legislative and legislative initiatives, then they would ask the Parliament to do so directly. Since they may not be able to find representatives of the parliamentary majority, representatives representing their interests, then they found a colleague of Mrsic. And Col. Mršić here through this legal proposal represents them, not himself, not SDP, but those locals. All we're talking about right now is this bill of law, we're telling these locals. These are the locals of 3 settlements, Subotica, Glogovca and Kamenica. Those in a huge percentage, 72.5%, 65% and 83% in Kamenica express the same desire for their settlements to be attached to Koprivnica. Why? And I guess they think they're gonna be better off in Koprivnica than they are in their communities. You don't have to be surprised about that request. Koprivnica has an excellent mayor who manages the city in a quality way, which has strong support in the local elections of citizens, the citizens of Koprivnica themselves, and now it is obvious that the locals of the surrounding settlements also want Mršić to be their local leader. They count that if they join their seats they'll advance and they'll be better off in the commune. That's their wish, that's what they say through this request. Now, what is the government's relationship to the locals' demands? He's, I'd say strange, he's inexplicable and he's incomprehensible. The Government, under the Constitution, must determine the eligibility of the request. Is that what the government did in this case? It's not. What does the government say? The Government of the Republic of Croatia does not agree by assessing the justification of each individual request. What does the government care about citizens' opinions? She didn't even consider justification, but she knows she's not agreeable. What does it mean that each of these citizens, of these locals, ask the Prime Minister, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Sanader, are you interested in me being a resident of Subotica, Glogoveca, Kamenice, and will you respect my opinion? And the Prime Minister answers not to disrespect him, but I don't care what you think and I refuse in advance what you want. I won't even read it. It's such an irrelevant fact to me that the locals think I'm not going to do it. And that's what the government has written literally not even entering into an appraisal of the justification of the demands, the government refuses. Such a boastful attitude towards the demands of the locals.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-04-01-0.u31847	Don't laugh at a representative when he's talking, please, colleagues.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-04-01-0.u31848	Such a boastful attitude toward the desire of the locals is why I called it strange, inexplicable and incomprehensible. I didn't ask my colleague Mrsic how the roads in these settlements are, if they're wide enough to pass this new BMW blinded, maybe that's the reason. If the Prime Minister can't make it through there, then he doesn't care what the locals want. But the government could write down at least that reason, so it would have some reason to reject the citizens. And this is how those citizens refuse without reason not even considering what they want. The government says it's not time yet. How long does it take the government to consider such proposals? About six months ago, a request came from Međimurje for a territorial reconstruction. My colleague, Dragica Zgrebec, was then a mediator between the wishes of the locals and this parliament. The government then said that it would consider all the proposals together and that it would then come with its own attitude. When? She didn't give her time, she didn't answer at all, she kept her mouth shut about it. Citizens, I guess now the locals should wait for the government to finally look at their demands, finally take them into consideration, and then after that merciful act, decide something. So that's the government's attitude towards the citizens, to the locals. That's how the government treats its locals. There's nothing strange about this government. I'm not surprised. But I wonder what kind of relationship the Parliament will have with that request. What will be the attitude of the parliamentary majority who are always making fun of this local proposal?
ParlaMint-HR_2009-04-01-0.u31849	The laughter is equally distributed.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-04-01-0.u31850	They even find it convenient that the government told the locals I don't care what you asked for, and I won't consider it, it's convenient for them. This proposal did not go through the government, he went through one MP and came to parliament. And now it will depend on the will of parliament to deal with it, what it will do with it, whether or not it will be rejected even with some consideration, at least with debate because the government has rejected it without consideration. Will he let him go into another reading, or will he refuse? I would suggest that the government's opinion be respected and that, for reasons, the reasons set out in the Government's opinion be respected because the government says that it is not time to choose to pass this law. The session ends this week, followed by time to the election, will be next after the election most likely. Therefore, this law cannot be passed, theoretically it cannot be passed to the elections. And the government doesn't think it's necessary to bring him to the election. I suggest that this opinion of the Government be respected and respected by the government's view of acting logically, that the law be released into another reading because it will come to a second reading after the local elections and that is exactly what the Government proposes. Nothing else. Therefore, if the parliamentary majority wants to respect the government's opinion and stance, then this law will allow for a second reading. If they won't and then they won't respect the government's opinion, the reasons that are mentioned here. Therefore, I propose nothing more logical than that, nothing more logical to respect and respect the government's opinion but certainly more important than respecting the opinion of the locals of these three places and to refer this law to a further parliamentary procedure. It's also the position of the SDP club. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-04-01-0.u31851	Thank you. Club of HDZ Representatives Mr. Stjepan Milinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-04-01-0.u31852	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Deputy Secretary of State at the Central Office of State Administration, colleagues and colleagues. Well, I could end my debate very quickly because there's a lot of it said. The government said it did not agree, therefore, with the Legislative Committee, the fellow promoter elaborated the legal side of this part. counterpart Stazic said the government's decision should be accepted. So, about everything's said. But let me be a little bit familiar with the local opportunities of local self-government in our county and where these three municipalities come from, let me say a little bit, which is why there's no need for this separation. So, this legal side of it I wouldn't get into anymore, which is why there's no need. And here I am based on the fact that here I am also the head of a unit of the municipality since the names of the municipality of Gola are mentioned in the third term. I had some informal honor that I was also a spokesman for the municipal chiefs. Well, I'm almost out of the middle and community for the last 12 years, all three of these municipalities where I didn't attend the day of the community where everything that's been done in these municipalities and what's going to be done was heard. That's what I've been involved in anyway. It's opportunities and opportunities for such things to be heard and seen. In any case, I am well directed and I would like to say that in our Koprivnica-Kristevci County on good foundations here is what our honorary Vice-President of the Parliament, while he was mayor, has also set out that the equal development of the county and the municipalities is developing, of course, with the maximum support of Croatian waters, so the Ministry of Agriculture, Rural Development, Regional Development, that in each municipality there has been much to do with the needs of these, and this is that the purpose of local self-government is to achieve the interests of citizens to make their quality of life better. And so in every community in which it was, I always said in my actions, I always said one thing that was very important. The home players have the best view of the field. And home players bite best. That's the point of the story. And in these circumstances in every municipality of these three, in every municipality regardless of the budgetary possibilities has been done a lot. I'm coming here for the Koprivnick Bregi municipality that I know extremely well. Here is our honorary colleague from that municipality, but I do know that in that municipality along the way, be told that the municipal council is not in agreement with this proposal, so as a representative body was manifested against, they stated that their obvious, it would be too long for me to elaborate now, but in any case they listed some things that need to be mentioned here which things were done for the area of Glogovac. For the area of Glogovac, please nice here's just to say. So, a gas network was built covering the entire settlement, a water network was built covering most of the settlement, covered by over 90%, paved part of the road... paved road that connects the street, etc. The second layer of asphalt was placed. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So, all those functions of others that were needed for one unit of local self-government, by firefighters, by women's associations, by football clubs, all that Koprivnički Bregi municipality performed. So it doesn't seem that nothing was done in that community. It is said that within the municipality of Koprivnički Bregi, the village of Glogovac could accomplish a lot of things. What would she accomplish in the town of Koprivnica, please? Go ahead. Here's Mr. Proposer said that the town of Koprivnica will have major financial problems. I've read in one of the newspapers now a short time ago. Please, in these circumstances, I would say that really the municipality of Koprivnički Bregi can meet all those needs of the people of Glogovec and with that more they also have a common parish, they also have a health clinic that belongs in the middle. It's not that far away, I know it very well, and I think in that situation, with this opinion of the municipal council that there's no special need unless someone is thinking about getting more than 100 kunas of Santa Claus. It was like some kind of variant. But okay, let's let it go eventually. The second thing, the village of Kamenica, and I was just thinking before I came here about Sokolovac municipality. What I'm saying is that it's not true that there are no political active people in the Kamenica settlement. A councilman from Kamenica village is a councilman of HSS in Sokolovac municipality. Right, that's right. And that village has a dozen houses. What it would be like in this or that community, but one thing is for me. In this village of Kamenica, the municipality has two oil pumps. They're extracting oil. And in that municipality of Sokolovac, one income, and the municipality, too, and let them do it. Let's be like that, let's let the Sokolman go, so that's one of our municipalities that needs some money. Here, let's go. That's one thing, that's how it's one of my visions. As for Subotica Podravska, I don't know much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-04-01-0.u31853	There's a rabbit in that pump.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-04-01-0.u31854	But as far as Subotica Podravska is concerned, I don't know much. It is indeed one middle that is half, half, both to Koprivnica and to Rasinja are about halfway there. It is traffic-bound perfectly, it says is connected by our fellow promoter, it is tied to the water management system, so the water supply system is not, it is not from the town of Koprivnica. Well, in our county, we can say with pride that the water supply system is such, 200 million kuna is invested. This is what I said to Croatian Waters, Ministry of Agriculture, etc. to create a ring for the whole county. The water supply of the last few years has grown enormously, and this is how it is done and created in our county, you understand. So, I believe that there is a Subotica Podravska I don't know much, so in that part, you wouldn't be getting involved except to say that in this Subotica Podravska, our Vice President of the Parliament, Mr Frišcic, who doesn't support this initiative. So, what I'm saying is that within these municipalities, these settlements can meet their needs. I'd like to say, travel them to meet their needs. And we in Podravina have a nice expression so I'd end up not really burdening you, because I'm fast. I don't have this show, I'm fast. I want to say very briefly that this one let them work, let them develop in those environments. And in Podravina, we have a nice expression, "Just get us some help." Thank you very much. ... [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2009-04-01-0.u31855	Quick Gonzales. Mr. Representative Boris Sprem. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-04-01-0.u31856	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues and fellow Deputy Secretary of State. I also don't know whether to laugh with you guys or try to say something seriously, so now I don't know if this makes any sense. So, Mr. Vice President, I'm not going to repeat myself, I'm just going to say a few sentences. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia is good to read and to hear something not only paragraph 1 and paragraph 2. Believe it many forget. In the Republic of Croatia, state authority is set up at the head of the division of government, legislative, executive and judicial, and is limited by the Constitution-guaranteed law to local and regional self-government. It's limited. That means there's some kind of so-called. The fourth authority can now interpret it as a constitutional category that is not to be taken into account here. And that's what's worrying. And he's even more worried. I'm sorry Mr. Palaric isn't here, but there are colleagues from the Committee on Legislatives who said on behalf of the Government one sentence that I was startled by, but I'm actually not when I think about it. He said this would be the first local election without any territorial change. You see how he knew that well. He therefore knows better how to pass the legislative proposal of one parliamentary representative than Parliament and all others. So I have to say high-ranking state official, so he's appointed by the government. He knows better. That's what bothers me. That's what it says about Parliament's dignity, forgive your colleagues and colleagues. That's what it says about Parliament's dignity, and that's not good. So that concerns, such sentences, such relations between the government and parliament representatives. But also in the rooms of the Croatian Parliament. If you think that's a good thing, then back it up. I won't support it. So how these three authorities will be limited to this, conditionally said on the fourth, if we do not allow neither what the citizens have said as a key factor in this process, to want to form, to separate from one unit territorially and to enter another. On another side. So we're making it impossible for them. Therefore, we are going directly against Article 4. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. And by this, I don't go into detail too much right now, I'm just going to say that I was really born in this municipality of Koprivnički Bregi and one of the settlements is called Glogovac who wants to join the town of Koprivnica. You see, I'm sorry, I'm in these Koprivnica Bregs right now, and it seems to me that, I'm sorry that the citizens of Glogovci, of this village say that they want to go to the town of Koprivnica, I'm sorry. But look if they want it, if they want it, Mr. Milinkovic, if they want it, then everyone else has less right to say they won't let it, not that they won't, but that they won't let it, that's power, is it? Everyone else has less right. Both the county and, the good city is not controversial because the city wants both the Government and the Croatian Parliament, all others need less to want and wish for because there are no arguments. You know when the only way power can react differently to me, that's already a theory. And that is if one settlement from one territorial unit in the Republic of Croatia wanted to, say, move to a settlement of another territorial unit but in another country. Only then, but when citizens want in most, therefore, it is a legal provision to move to another territorial unit should enable them to do so. And it's not a good government policy for any government, no matter what government would run it, it's not a good policy. And this is all that's said, that I'm not repeating right now that it's one ignoring actually the government on this matter, I don't think it's going to repeat those arguments because I'm not the man who repeats what the others said, because it doesn't make any sense, it's a waste of time. So, I can only conclude and say that this is another proof in this House as they say in the High House, I do not know which is the highest home, therefore, to the highest home of the legislative authority, so in Croatia the principle of constitutionality and legality would melt and not go in the right direction. And I'm warning you once more about this opportunity, so that's not good. Just as it is not good that in these divided roles we all represent, you all represent, you in the majority coalition, therefore, the government's position is right. I'm going to have to say here, I can't accept Mr. Vice President, I can't accept the position of the Legislative Committee that I also said there that not only with this bill but with any other legislative proposal from anyone else he came from. I voted in favour of some legislative proposals my party did not vote for, but on the Legislative Committee when the role of the Legislative Committee is that it examines whether any legislative proposal is in accordance with the Constitution and whether it is in the legal system. So everything else, the Legislative Committee should not enter because it is not a measuring body Centralism won't do it. That's a lot of talking. [[/Invasion: Democratic centralism, what about it?]] I'm saying, you know how you work in there, but if it's me, I'll tell you here now, you can take it. If it's me tomorrow, you never know if it is, the chairman of the Committee on Legislatives, then I will surely lead the board so that I will say that this committee is working on the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. So from whomever suggestion I come from. And that's what we ask of you, therefore, everyone to do their part but in a constitutional and legal way. And this fellow Tomljanovic, I wouldn't say that you didn't.../The speaker shut down, and then he turned it on./... I thought you weren't going to read the report of the Legislative Committee, but when you read it, then I had to react. Thank you very much. As for centralism, Mr. Vice President, I think you know how centralism in our country works, that you know it better than I do, so I won't talk about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-04-01-0.u31857	I know how democratically democratic centralism really works with us. ... You were still young at the time. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Correction of an incorrect quote, Mr. Representative Emil Tomljanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-04-01-0.u31858	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, so I must react because it is indeed an incorrect assumption that the Committee on the Law of the Croatian Parliament is not working in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. And I am sorry that this incorrect allegation was made by a respected colleague, Šprem, who is regular at the sittings, who participates in the debate knows that the debate has been under way under this bill as well. Both absolutely and this situation, the Committee on Law and Members and External Members and Professional Services absolutely made decisions and acted in this situation in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. And one more thing. I read the report about this bill, precisely because the two key sentences they said in terms of the bill's proposal were respected professors, law doctors as external members and who insisted that the sentence be placed in this report and in the debate to be read. So, I must correct once again the Committee on the Law of the Croatian Parliament absolutely works in accordance with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-04-01-0.u31859	Mr. Agent Ivan Hanzek. Absent. Mr. Agent Denesh Shaw. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-04-01-0.u31860	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Prime Minister. Very briefly, I would just like to say two, three words, my brief comment, that's what I said and the committee on this issue is next. If it is to believe these arguments and there is no reason not to believe what Mr. Mrsic was talking about, then the only question I can ask is '93. Or, in 94, when I said they were tailoring the borders of the municipalities of those people who were doing it then, why didn't they already do some things if those reasons were really like that, especially in this one place. It's not clear to me, it's obvious that that's when we had to correct it, we heard other arguments, I don't know much about opportunities in that area, so I couldn't talk about it any more. However, I would give only one such remark or suggestion to those responsible, or above all, and to the Government. In my opinion, a very, very good move would also be consistent with these difficulties that arise to seriously review the organisation of local self-government in the region of the Republic. Do we, even now, already approach half of the mandate or immediately after the next parliamentary elections, because I have to tell you the following. The municipalities, I've already talked about it here once, and not even close by the content of the work is not the ones that were in pre-war years. For me, the municipality is one now actually 80% harshly said, perhaps 70 or 80% of the content of the work of that municipality is some kind of administration of a municipal firm because it is concerned with the footing, the water, the gas and everything else, while those classic functions that were once from the catastrophe, the tax administration and everything else, it's the state administration, it has nothing to do with the municipality anymore. On the other hand, I must also point out that of the 439 municipalities of the Republic of Croatia, if I remember these data well, some 30 or 40% did not know or could bring spatial plans. And that was bound by law, it should be disbanded to the municipal council. Of course, that didn't happen because these are objective moments. On the other hand, the same large percentage of municipalities were not at all able to bring a programme of agricultural land. It's objective. Maybe they didn't know. They didn't make those programs. And there was a certain legal deadline. And knowing the opportunities in our county, especially when I'm talking about Baranja, I assure you that a very large number of municipalities whose administration, this unique body or administrative department, is one more serious public procurement is not currently in a position to implement. And it could still be found arguments and listed that indeed part of municipalities, simple and humane and with other potentials, cannot meet the needs of citizens. Here, that's my observational short. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-04-01-0.u31861	Thank you. Final review. Mr. Representative Zvonimir Mršić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-04-01-0.u31862	So, first of all, thank all those who participated in the debate. Unfortunately, I am saddened that my colleague Milinkovic, on behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, even tried to mock this proposal. I think it's a very serious situation because this is about a flagrant violation of the Constitution. We're pushing our heads into the sand again. It's about breaking the Constitution. It's about ignoring the law by the government. It's about ignoring parliamentary deputies. We are prepared to accept all this, not us, those who will vote against this proposal are willing to accept it. Keyly, what he said finally and colleague Stazic and what was ultimately on the Committee on Legislatives. The Legislative Committee said it is not the time before the elections to change borders. But the adoption of this law in first reading will not change the limits before the election. No, I don't. They may change even if the final bill is adopted which we cannot possibly get into the process before the local elections. So, by adopting this law, we're just letting this law into the procedure that in the second reading somewhere there in three, six, nine months, it doesn't matter now when it's here at the Parliament and then maybe we can get the government to discuss and answer whether it's justified or not. Maybe it would be more correct than the government if she said that some demands are justified, and some demands are not justified. Either they're all justified or they're not all justified, so all combinations. So let's tell people okay, don't ever hope or these ruling majority will change the limits. But the government says no, now is not the time, we will consider it after the election. So what's a carrot on a long stick? A carrot on a long stick. We will only consider your proposals after the local elections. And how long do citizens have to wait for their proposals to be considered? Be careful when you do not respond within 15 days to the law on access to information by the Central State Office. When you do not respond within 60 days in a administrative procedure, you get by your fingers. The same Central Office for the State Administration which oversees the legality of all local self-government acts allows itself not to respond to the citizens' initiative for months. How can someone who oversees the legality of the work of local self-government ignore the situation in this way? So I repeat, this came to the Central Office of State Administration. The citizens didn't even get a letter, we got a seal, thank you. We'll consider it. This isn't the time. And why didn't the citizens of the central office write off and say it's not now, we'll consider it after this? But here he ignores and says no, no, MPs can't propose a change in the territorial structure of local self-government, only the government can. We'll get it together when we get it together, and when we do, then we'll send it to the Parliament procedure. Everything else will be a negative opinion. That's what we're talking about today. That's what we're talking about today. That's the first part. Part two, this is what Col. Milinkovic was talking about. I'm sorry that a colleague who, as is true, knows the situation in the field seriously, makes fun of the situation. Because you'll forgive me, I don't know, say I'm much closer to Glogovec than my colleague Milinkovic, who's 35 km from Glogovec. But I don't allow myself to say that I know better what the citizens of Glogovec want, because 563 out of 779 voters said they wanted to go to Koprivnica. And now a representative of the HDZ Club comes and says you have no idea what you want. You who put your ID number and your signature on request, and you have no idea what you want. You 65, 65% have no idea what he wants. I know what you want, I know what's best for you. Because if they were okay, they wouldn't want to change. Well, it doesn't have to be just because they're getting better. He may have other interests as to why they want to move from Brega to Koprivnica. And there's the council of municipalities really said we don't think that's good. I'll tell you why they said it. So because the municipal register is being filled from the village of Glogovac, because in Glogovec are workers and working families, it was a mining settlement. The second part of the municipality is agricultural. Farmers don't fill the municipal budget. I'll get the oil. Don't worry. I'll get the oil. But I would never give myself the right to say that I know what's good for the locals of the settlement where 65% of the citizens say they want something. Podravska Subotica, look out, in Subotica, everyone said they wanted to go, including a colleague of Fristic, who was born there, from Subotica, whether and who gave de facto, supported as a member of the county assembly who unanimously brought consent to the change of borders. Citizens said, 72% of them, the municipal council said, the city council said, the county assembly said, and counterpart Milinkovic said no, that's not good. The HDZ rep club says no, you don't know what you want. We know what's good for you. So I'm asking now that after today's assembly debate you all who know what's better for those 800, 915 residents and explain to them there that they're meant to be, they have no idea. And I repeat, I was not in Subotica, nor in Glogovec, nor in Kamenica when the petition was signed. People came to me after they made the papers. They came in with the papers. It's really a civil initiative. Kamenica, imagine counterpart Milinkovic, they have 20, 10 houses and 2 oil sites. Is it? But he forgot to say they don't have water, that they have low voltage, that they don't have gas, that they don't have sewers, that we're taking their kids to school in Koprivnica. That's what he forgot to say because he doesn't care how citizens live. He doesn't care how the citizens live. He's looking at everything in an oil rental. So what if the Sokolovac Municipality didn't build them at least a public lighting fair in those ten houses? You need three pillars and three serious lamps, not to have plates on the lamps. Yeah, they got plates. Now, let's say some rational reasons why people want to move from Glogovec to Koprivnica. Because it's not the first time you've singled out some places from nearby municipalities and connected with Koprivnica. '98. The village of Staglinec from the Municipality of Koprivnički Bregi changed to the town of Koprivnica. The village Statglinec is a neighbor from the village of Glogovac, so already one part of Bregi has moved to Koprivnica. Since they moved to Koprivnica, they have received a free, very cheap water connection, gas and free sewage connection. They got a hiking-cycling trail, new public lighting, firehouse, all the streets are paved, we built their playgrounds and drive their kids to school five times a day, we have five lines of buses. The Glober doesn't have that. There's water and gas, but unlike those living in Staglinc, that water and gas pay 6,000 kuna per connection. And look, look, these in Staglinc are paying it 2.5 thousand kuna. Well, come on, we're going where we're going to pay 2.5 thousand kuna. The sewers aren't even in sight yet. So let's go to Koprivnica because in Bakovčica now the City of Koprivnica on 300 souls builds a sewer worth 2 million kunas and paves the roads. The road was financed by the City of Koprivnica and ŽUC because the bus that drives the children from Bakovčić to the school in Koprivnica passes through Glogovac, with the city bus passing 5 times through Glogovac, and the bus that takes the children from Glogovac to the school in Brege three times, so the children from Glogovac and Brega walk home. They see it. So they want to have a bus five times a day that their children will drive, not that they have to pick up their children and bring their children back to school in winter. These are the rational reasons these people in Glogovec are thinking about. And my colleague Milinkovic knows a lot better than they do, you know. He's driving their kids to school and returning them from school when they're going to Brege. Children who go to school in Koprivnica have a gym. Kids who go to school in Brege don't have a gym. It's the guilty state that didn't build sports halls evenly in Croatia, you know? Evenly in Croatia, the halls were made with state money, somewhere we have to do everything on our own. And what my colleague Milinkovic says just don't help us, is it? I could say that for Croatian waters because big money comes from Croatian waters to our county. The historic project 200 million kuna for water supply in what, 20 years, is it? It is still Koprivnica-križevci County with the lowest availability of a water supply system for accession. Less than 40% of the population in our county is connected to this. So what if 200 million kunas came? But Col. Milinkovic forgets that Croatia's waters are harvesting 60 million kunas annually in that county and they don't even pay us back our money. So I'd say just don't help us. Leave us our money. We in Podravina boomed with our money made everything, but the problem is that too deep in Podravina is constantly being grabbed, and Podravini is mostly thrown into the eyes of sand. These people are full of sand. These people want to have a better life. These people want to have a better life. The people in Podravska Subotica have nothing to do with... It's on the other side, all the way to the other side. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And now that you're going to Koprivnica, you see exactly where Koprivnica is near, where the walking-cycling trail ends apart from the curbs, with public lighting, with sewerage and with the rest ends Koprivnica, what's not in Koprivnica begins. And the Betoment project is just as catastrophic as in other parts of Podravska highway where it was drawn only a line and expanded the Podravska highway and remained the road of death instead of what we did in Koprivnica that we put the curb and removed pedestrians and cyclists from it and physically separated them and increased the safety of the movement by Podravska highway. You know, from Sokolovac Municipality in '98. The year was singled out by the river settlement. Today, the village of Kamenica wants to be singled out. And instead of the municipal chiefs imagining what's going on here already in every 4.5 years, there's a settlement that wants to be singled out. Now it's said, colleague Milinkovic says so we know better what's there in Kamenica than they do. But the river has also received a walking-cycling trail and sewerage and water and gas and lighting and all other things since it came to Koprivnica. Unfortunately, the Great Pain, the Sokolovak Breg, the Beauty is not, they are not. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Therefore, there are rational reasons why citizens want it. But I invite you not to be so illogical about this local requirement these three settlements as your representative of the club because none of us have the right to know what's better for the citizens and the locals than those three settlements themselves. If it was one-third of the signatures I might have had, but this is 65, 72, 83%. Now I ask you who can ignore 83% of the signatures. It wasn't a public assembly, so we clapped, signed. So someone went from man to man and collected signatures. And on those signatures, it says exactly the number of IDs and this one, so it's completely identified. And now that someone comes and says no, you have no idea, we'll get it right, we'll get rid of it. There was plenty of time to get rid of it, that's one thing. And finally, I want to point that out with it. So, this is an initiative that goes towards trying without political coercion to affect the change in the structure of local self-government units instead of the Office of State Administration doing its legal work and overseeing the work of local self-government units and for example establishing that today we have a third unit of local self-government in Croatia that operates against the law because it is precisely determined from which incomes can be paid, for example, by the salaries of Commissioners and employees in the local self-government unit. And only if the office had done so would it have determined that a third of the municipalities had no income to finance the cold drive. Only if you did. However, he does not have time to consider the citizens' request but there is time to watch the marks in some of the general acts of some cities. So let's motivate citizens to self-initiate the change in the structure of local self-government in a way that local self-government begins to round up. We won't be able to go this long with this. It won't be possible from the transfer of state or from the rent, or I don't know what to pay for the salaries of the commissioners and employees of the local self-government. It's impossible for a municipality of 200 residents to have four employees in local self-government in the municipality and in a legal way, it's impossible, but we're silently allowing it and then when we have an initiative to re-establish it then we ignore it in this way. I appeal indeed to you, everything will be fine, it will not come into effect before the local elections, let the law go into another reading and let us respect, let's show indeed that citizens have power in this country. No Government, not parliamentary representatives, but citizens, that citizens can initiate something and that we are willing to recognize it and that we are willing to support it. Here, in the end, I really do appeal. Nothing will happen which is contrary to the government's opinion because the government gave an opinion on the final text of the law, so before we removed the emergency procedure, the government gave an opinion rather than a first reading. ... Yes, the government gave the final draft law opinion because it meant that the law would be passed at this session or that it would not be... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Since we took off the emergency procedure and went in the first reading, there is no reason not to support this and not go into the second reading. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-04-01-0.u31863	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. I'm interrupting the session. Continuing tomorrow at 10 a.m. even though it is really too soon but at 10 o'clock still with the debate on the final proposal for a law on quality assurance in science and higher education, the Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the National Foundation for Science, Higher Education and Technology Development and on the Proposal for a Decision on the selection of three Judges of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia, so that tomorrow they would hold discussions on these three points and on Friday at 10 o'clock voting on all remaining points including the rebalancing of the state budget.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-04-01-0.u31864	We move to the Proposal for a Law amending the Law of County, Cities and Municipalities in the Republic of Croatia, the first reading was P.Z. number 266. Proposer of MP Zvonimir Mršić. The debate is closed. I am voting in line with the proposal of the Committee on Legislatives and the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, which reads: "The Proposal for a Law on Amendments to the Law of Countys, Cities and Municipalities in the Republic of Croatia is not accepted." Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? This conclusion was accepted by most votes. 85 votes in favour, 2 abstentions and 48 against. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs and counsellors. We continue our work and move on to - Final proposal of the Law on quality assurance in science and higher education, second reading, P.Z.E. Number 277 The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. And we will discuss in accordance with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the second reading. Amendments may be made by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on European Integration and the Committee on Education, Science and Culture. You received the reports at the session. The amendments were submitted by the Committee on Legislatives, MP Zdenko Franjić, the Committee on Education, Science and Culture and Joint Representatives Marija Lugarić and agent Gvosden Srecko Flego. Does the proposaler's representative want to further explain? Yeah. On behalf of the promoter Draž Vikić Topic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports. Here you go.
