ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-08-0.u31967	Honorable ladies and gentlemen of the council. I am opening the 10th session of the Croatian Assembly. I warmly welcome you all. I welcome the Prime Minister, Dr Ivo Sanader, Deputy Prime Minister and present members of the government. The President of the Assembly convened this session pursuant to Article 199(2). Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. As indicated in the call for this session, the next item of the agenda was proposed – Proposal for a Decision on the adoption of a draft agreement on the settlement of the dispute between the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. Does anyone have any objections to this draft agenda? There isn't. I find the agenda accepted. - Proposal for a decision on the adoption of the Agreement and a joint statement on the settlement of the dispute between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia at the Presidency of the Assembly with representatives of parliamentary party club representatives has reached one principle agreement that, following the opening presentation of the Prime Minister and foreign minister, representatives of the clubs of parliamentary parties. I'm asking the Prime Minister of Doctor Ivo Sanader to give an opening statement. Here you go, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-08-0.u31968	Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of the Croatian Parliament. I welcome you all very much. And I also welcome the fact that the Croatian Parliament is discussing this problem or solving a problem that should not have become a problem at all. On the one hand, the fact is that Croatia and Slovenia, after the disintegration of the former Yugoslavia, have remained several open issues between us. One question is the border in the Savudrian Valley and several points on land. The second, however, was also the issue of saving the Ljubljanska Banka. The third question was also in the nuke Krško, etc., that I am now not doing an inventory of our bilateral relations. But it's something that's normal and I don't see anything special or anything tragic about it. After the disintegration of several national states, it is a logical sequence and the countries are bilaterally resolving it. The problem arose at the moment when our friends in Slovenia decided to exploit their situation as a member of the European Union, at one point and as members of the NATO Alliance, and to try to condition their consent to Croatia's entry into NATO and the European Union with territorial requirements. And there was a blockade of our negotiations with the European Union in December last year, before it meant four and a half, five months. And I personally believe that it is not too late for that blockade to be lifted regardless of the course of these negotiations and prepare how to resolve the issue. So, what I would like to say as president of the Croatian government and as president of the Croatian Democratic Community, I would like to say and send a message from this House, from the Croatian Parliament of our friends in Slovenia that we should separate the issue of the border between Croatia and Slovenia from the issue of Croatian negotiations with the European Union. We believe that Europe is based on principles that should apply to all equally. These are the principles of solidarity, cooperation, good neighbourly relations, principles of international law, and then from such an approach if they apply principles for all equal and should apply because the European Union is founded precisely on the fact that there are no double standards and that there are no countries of the first, second and third leagues in Europe then this blockade is quite excessive. No one denies the existence of an open question and we want to solve this issue together with Slovenians but on the basis of international law, not on the basis of access you have most of the Adriatic coast so give us some. That principle does not exist in the International Community. And that is why my proposal is before I start talking about what is today and the subject itself, which is the proposal of the European Trio, so the European Union and the European Commission. I am speaking to the European Union because, after the trio, the representatives of France, the Czech Republic and Sweden, together with Enlargement Commissioner Olli Rehn, proposed this new proposal to us and the Slovenian Foreign Minister, followed by the GAERC session. The foreign ministers who accepted it are still gone. Therefore, this is now an official proposal from the European Union and the European Commission and there is no debate on this. The proposal was submitted on principle, take it or leave it. But I'm saying, before I get on that one more time, I have to say that it would be best if Slovenia said that there was an open question, let's continue to solve it. We've been solving it for 18 years, there's been various initiatives on the solution to this issue, they've failed. Therefore, the issue does not have to be resolved before Croatia enters the European Union. Because if Slovenia has entered with the same open question into the European Union and if it has entered NATO then Croatia can. And we showed that we could. We have entered NATO alliance without a solution to this issue with Slovenia, and when I say so, I am not reducing its importance, I'm just saying that it needs to be separated. One more thing. When Slovenia entered the European Union in 2004 with an open border issue, these were the external borders of the European Union. When Croatia enters, it will be internal borders. Therefore, it will be much less sensitive, much less important in terms of protecting the European Union because it will be internal and will be European and European law when it comes to the sea and sea regime of the European Union's internal waters. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, I believe that this has all gone unnecessarily to this stage to see even the Croatian Parliament at the station debate. I welcome this debate and I think it is good but unnecessary it has come to this and we think there is still time for our friends because we want to develop and believe deeply in the rooting of our mutual friendship between Croatia and Slovenia and our good neighbourhood. So, it would be best if the issue were definitely separated from the issues of Croatian negotiations, that Slovenia as a good neighbour supported Croatia and helped with the negotiations, that we could finish negotiations because it is still possible to complete negotiations with the enormous efforts of all of us, end negotiations by the end of the year, so it should be a few months more, but that is possible if Slovenia had such an approach to separate this issue from the issue of demarcation, but what is there? If Slovenia doesn't do it, then we have to see how it goes. We have this proposal, which will be discussed in more detail by the foreign minister who was in a meeting with the Slovenian minister, with the European trio and with the Commissioner for the European Union, for the enlargement of the European Union. What I'm saying is that we all shared and shared the same position here, which is that Croatia will not buy membership in the European Union as it did not buy in NATO with territorial concessions. This is not a principle that is acceptable to us, but it is neither the principle of the European Union nor European integration. I personally believe that European integration is the biggest peace project in Europe's history. They brought together the NATO alliance of 60 years of peace to Europe, if we talk about NATO and 60 years of peace to North America. Therefore, unless we want a European history that was bloody, difficult, marked by genocides, world wars to be repeated in the future, then we must insist on these principles of solidarity, cooperation, international law and that is what Croatia is fighting for. In the efforts that followed the Slovenian blockade in December, the European Commission took part and we welcomed it with certain proposals. One of the proposals was for political mediation to draw the line of demarcation. It wasn't acceptable for us. When I speak for us, I mean all of us who are therefore organized in political parties. And there was practically this compromise proposal. Why do I say compromise? Because we insisted at the International Court of Justice that should solve it, which solves it in a whole series of other situations between countries, neighbouring countries, and the latest proposal that was, the latest problem that was solved two, three months ago, somewhere in February, it shows most clearly. A multi-year problem has been solved between Romania and Ukraine, right at the International Court of Justice in Den Hague. That court solved a whole series of cases, that's one side of the medal. The other side of the medal is that there are today members of the European Union who have not resolved, who still have open issues with each other. When I was at Chancellor Merkel just a month ago in a preparation interview there her associates told me and there's a problem open between the Netherlands and Germany, there's a border issue that's open, which hasn't been solved for decades, but living as good neighbors, life goes on. When that question will be resolved is open. We'd both like to get rid of each other as soon as possible, but if it doesn't work out, everything goes further. Therefore, there is no reason for this issue to be dealt with now. We would like that, but on the principle of international law, but if Croatia cannot be resolved, it will be easier for everyone to enter the Union. So, we have, we have, we have a political mediation that wasn't good because whenever a political draw draw brings new problems, and it doesn't solve the old ones. And now we have a motion for an arbitration court in which each of these two countries, so Croatia and Slovenia, would give one international legal expert to this arbitration court that would be an ad hoc arbitration court of five members and three judges who would appoint the President of the International Court of Justice. And he would name the president of that arbitration court. The arbitration court's task would be to withdraw the border line on the basis of international law. And there is no debate about it, we think that this is the only possible way, and that the issue of the regime of the waters concerned, which, as I said, once we enter the Union, will be all together both Italian and Slovenian and Croatian, the internal waters of the European Union to be resolved by the principle of international justice and good neighbourly relations, so the navigation regime etc. And so, in order to be able to make the right decision in preparing this meeting of the presidents of parliamentary parties and representatives of national minorities, we have also asked for the opinion of international and legal experts, leading our international and legal experts and we have received their opinions which are positive. Because our fundamental dilemma, whether or not to accept this proposal from the European Union, was this the last proposal, whether the point that says that the border will withdraw under international law, that it will be determined by international experts, one at a time by one from Croatia and Slovenia, and judges of the International Court of Justice, can this decision be derivated to the next, or put at greater risk, the next one that speaks about the regime. When we got the answer that we couldn't, then it was clear that this agreement was such that although we're not most satisfied with it, it would be best to go to the International Court of Justice because it's an institution that settles such disputes, to accept it. And that's why, I'm holding, we had a good argument there. It is an informal body, but it is good for parliamentary party presidents to find and discuss all major issues. And I welcome in the end and the fact that all of this debate together, and this meeting in the high and this debate in the Croatian Parliament, we are running the most intense campaign for local elections right now. Here we all show our maturity together, meaning that there is indeed a real sense and necessity for certain issues of national character, national importance, national interests to be discussed beyond all day-to-day political disputes. Here's how much I wanted intro. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-08-0.u31969	Thank you, Prime Minister. I'm asking Foreign Minister Gordan Jandrokovic for an additional explanation. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-08-0.u31970	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Croatian Prime Minister, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. I will quickly refer to the Prime Minister, reminding that, unfortunately, Croatia has been blocked for six months, directly blocked by Slovenia in our negotiating process. The blockade, as we know, is not justified, but it exists and needs to be resolved. For this reason, the European Commission itself has been involved in this process because it is important not only because of the Republic of Croatia, not only because of the European Union, but also because of the stabilisation of the area of Southeast Europe. This blockade is a bad signal, it is a bad sign for all other Southeast European countries and I know from my talks with my fellow ministers how interested they are to resolve this problem as soon as possible so that Croatia as the most advanced country of this area as soon as possible and as successfully as possible through the negotiations. Our success is important for other countries in the southeast of Europe, and this gives one additional dimension and additional importance in solving this problem. I'd like to inform you that we have held six rounds of triratheral negotiations, triratheral talks. In the process, there were various proposals, different ideas that ranged from political mediation, political arbitration. Both sides made their proposals. The European Commission has listened, respected, made certain suggestions and after those 6 rounds of negotiations, after several months of negotiations, this proposal that you have before you is a compromise proposal. That's what's important to emphasize. The proposal stemmed from a months-long debate, from several, as I said six rounds of negotiations. He is not a proposal that meets the interests of only one party, but, by our deep conviction, a proposal that has respected the fundamental requirements of both the Croatian and Slovenian sides. As far as Croatia is concerned, our three fundamental principles are met, which is the separation of negotiations and the resolution of the border issue, the issue of deblocking of Croatian negotiations has been resolved and a solution has been offered to resolve the border issue in accordance with international law before the international judicial authority. We have consulted, of course, as the Prime Minister said and with our most prominent international lawyers who have confirmed to us that this proposal truly meets these three fundamental principles and that the border line, which was important for us from the first moment on, is in line with international law. If so, someone will ask, if the basic principles of the Croatian side are satisfied, so where is the compromise? The compromise is that the Croatian side preferred the International Court of Justice in The Hague, in accordance with the agreement between the two prime ministers in August 2007, so we wanted and we consider it the most appropriate and there is also a high consensus within the European Union itself. If the two countries cannot resolve the border issue by bilateral means, then there is a legal doctrine on how to resolve the issue, it is resolved in accordance with international law before the international judicial authority, and this international judicial body is the most appropriate International Court of Justice in The Hague. However, this requires both sides' readiness and will, and therefore Croatia has agreed to the arbitration court as a compromise solution. The border line would be drawn in accordance with international law, but we also respected some special views, special interests of Slovenia and therefore that article b. which discusses the regime for the use of relevant sea spaces and contact of Slovenia with the open sea. It is also the satisfaction of what Slovenia asked for, to guarantee in a certain way the free passage of their ships, planes, that they have the guarantee that these issues will never be compromised and that they can, of course, count on the peaceful, economic development and development of their port of Koper. So in this proposal we also have these elements that should satisfy the Slovenian side. Short on the agreement itself. Therefore, the agreement should be seen together with a joint statement, as there is a provision in that joint statement that is extremely important for Croatia, which says that after the signing of the agreement comes the moment of the deblocking of Croatian negotiations. Therefore, by signing this agreement and before ratification would occur in the parliaments of the Croatian and Slovenian countries, there would be a deblockation of negotiations. That's what the statement says. What does the agreement itself say? The agreement establishes an arbitration court, the composition of an arbitration court is such that it consists of 5 members, three come, should come by agreement between the Croatian and Slovenian sides. They'd come from the ranks of recognised experts of international law. In the event that Croatia and Slovenia cannot agree on those three names, the agreement stipulates that the International Court of Justice in The Hague would then appoint those three members, and one of those three members would also be president. The other two members would give one Croatia and one Slovenia. The tasks of the arbitration tribunal are defined in Article 3 which is also directly linked to Article 4 concerning applicable law. There is a provision that is extremely important for Croatia, which is that the border line is determined in accordance with the rules and principles of international law, while the regime for the use of relations between the maritime areas and the contact of Slovenia with the open sea is resolved on the basis of international law, justice and the principles of good neighbourly relations. The relevant date, Article 5, speaks of the date on which the decision on where the border line is going to take place and how the regime issue will be resolved. The starting date would be June 25, 1991, so the date when the two countries became sovereign and when they also declared existing borders. The procedure would be conducted in a court of arbitration so that each party submits its arguments within two months of the entry into force of this Agreement. After that, each party has the right to comment on the submission of the other party within the time limit set by the arbitration court. The arbitration court shall carry out the procedure under the college rules of a permanent arbitration court, so that is one procedure which is very similar or almost identical to the judicial procedure. The process would be conducted in English, and decisions would be made by majority vote. It is also important that the final decision be taken by the arbitration court within a year. Therefore, given the shortness of time limits and in the text itself, the proposer has set himself for the formulation, as it is possible for this decision to be taken even after a year. In Article 8 on negotiation documentation, Slovenia is again given a strong argument because it is said that no document presented in the accession negotiations of the European Union has a prejudged influence on the arbitration court in the performance of its tasks, nor commits any party to the dispute. So this is what Slovenia has been looking for since November and December of last year, when it was actually prejudged borders and used as an argument for the blockade. Therefore, this text of this Agreement guarantees that there is no prejudge of the border and that no document submitted in the negotiation process prejudges the border. Article 9 refers to the continuation of Croatian negotiations. He's as I've already mentioned and directly related to the statement. He says the signing of this agreement, that the Republic of Slovenia will remove all its reserves regarding the opening and closure of the negotiating chapters where the obstacle is linked to this dispute. It is important for us to make a statement, because the statement says that immediately after the signing of the agreement, and not only after ratification of the negotiations, the negotiations will be unblocked and Article 10 to Article 12 are final provisions that are classic as in all similar agreements. And finally, here I would like to say that I believe that this agreement is good, acceptable to both sides, that it satisfies the fundamental interests and views of both sides, that it is a good basis for resolving the border issue, but also what is particularly important, to allow for the continuation of Croatian negotiations, the reasons for the blockade was not, but when it happened, this is one good way for both sides to come out of this situation and for Croatia to continue its negotiations so that it could end them by the end of 2009. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-08-0.u31971	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. HDSSB representative club, Mr. Representative Boro Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-08-0.u31972	Mr. Vice-President of the Government, Vice-President of the Parliament, Prime Minister and Vice-Presidents and Ministers, colleagues and fellow MPs. So here is the prime minister and Minister Jandrokovic, in their short presentations, presented a draft agreement. Although I would personally like to have these points spoken of by Minister Jandrokovic at least an hour earlier, rather than hearing from his mouth what it is. So we came to this session of the Parliament, in fact, unprepared and uninformed, uninformed, what it's really about. That's why today on the Croatian television teletext pages, so public television, it literally writes like this. Today, on 8 May, the Parliament will discuss and adopt an agreement on a settlement of the border dispute with Slovenia. How does teletext and Croatian television know that the Croatian Parliament will also accept the agreement? Is there a trio in this country? Or is that some kind of information someone already knows about in advance? If that's the case, and if the government's trio is not respected, why are we wasting time before the local elections and in this campaign, that we're actually just handlifters, for something that's already decided somewhere else? Today is the day of Europe on 8 May, the day marking the end of World War II. There are fundamental principles of Europe spoken of by Mr. Prime Minister, there are standards of Europe, and here you can see when someone is talking about the principle of justice, justice and respect for the International Law of the Sea and the International Court of Justice in The Hague, then I wonder, and these institutions already exist, if there is a law of the sea. Isn't that just? Doesn't that make fair decisions? What exactly is hidden under the words of righteousness? If Slovenia has used it for 50 years and had the right to access the open sea and fishermen, and ships and how some aircraft say, and if it wants to extend that right, is it not the same right and did not we Croatians have the same right to come to Italy and Austria through Slovenia? So they want to exercise their right to pass, which I personally think should have access to the open sea. But we Croats should have, in that case, to say free access to Italy and Austria through Slovenian territory. When someone negotiates and deals, then there are two sides. This time and three sides. And there's always something going on in these negotiations and talks and something's getting lost. I think, I'm sure Croatia won nothing this time. In the third point discussed by the minister, the International Law of the Sea is therefore mentioned in which Croatia would have some kind of border line in terms of the International Law of the Sea. But the corridor that is spoken of here actually invalidates any authority and jurisdiction of Croatia over that part. Sometimes I remember that parade of the unfortunate late prime minister, and it actually seems to me that it's kind of a very close or almost the same solution as that. Did these talks and did these agreements discuss that such a Croatian concession that would give an open approach, so the approach to the open sea for Slovenia, was also discussed with that St. Gera who still holds the Slovenian army, and we are two friendly countries? It's not. What does Croatia get if they say both sides are getting and losing? I'd like to see Croatian winnings, I'd like to hear about them. It seems to me that we are actually giving here as usual in all negotiations so far, giving ours for ours. And when we talk about opening and opening chapters quickly in negotiations with the European Union, then that speed should not go to the expense of the quality of negotiations and our platforms. I'm also talking about chapter 11 of agriculture that we still don't have, and we don't know what it's really about. And not only that chapter, but also other chapters. In the paper that we just received, which is called the Decision on the adoption of a draft agreement on dispute settlement and a joint statement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, it is mentioned or left as said by the Prime Minister. What does that mean, take it or leave it? Well, it's actually a dictatorship. In other words, it's a dictatorship and nothing else. And as another thing mentioned here, it is important to resolve the border dispute between the Republic of Croatia and the Republic of Slovenia on the basis of international law. But why doesn't it continue with justice because I listen? ... Wait a minute, Mr. Capricorn. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Because you have reports of this, you have news in which Mr. Prime Minister Pahor speaks in point 3 and point 4. that it will also come true. And you just laugh. History is not happening, Mr. Jarnjak. ... You're laughing. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] History does not happen, it is created as history was created and on October 24th 18th. It was just a speech then by Mr. Stjepan Radic but he left great clues. That is why I and the HDSSB club will not take part either in the vote or in the debate because we consider such a draft agreement inadmissible for Croatians and the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-08-0.u31973	Thank you. Prime Minister Dr. Ivo Sanader. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-08-0.u31974	Ladies and gentlemen, it is not true what Representative Grubisic said and I want to speak to the Croatian public because I see that the media is following it very clearly. Mr. Grubisic, you and your party president were invited on Tuesday to share this with all parties. You didn't get it. You got it this morning because you didn't come to that meeting and that's the only truth and Croatia needs to know. The other lie you brought here is very dangerous. Croatia does not give any territory. That is why we said this is acceptable for us because the border line between Croatia and Slovenia will be determined by international law. And you mention the former or this prime minister, or this one or that proposal. There is no territorial concession, Mr. Grubisic. The fact that you are politicizing this important and important topic for Croatian national interests is not good. This is probably what you do for some other reasons but it is absolutely inadmissible and is not worthy here in the Croatian Parliament to present such untruths. It's just not exactly what you said. And thirdly, when the foreign minister said that our fundamental national interest was satisfied, it was because we insist that the border line withdraws from international law. In order for her to withdraw, I will now explain it a little bit, the Croatian side will make its arguments, the Slovenian side will make its arguments and prepare it for this arbitration court. And when you mention the principle of justice why we don't accept it. That's why we're looking for international law because the principle of justice would be exactly what I said in the opening speech that you have a large majority of the Adriatic coast, give us some. That would be the principle of justice, but that's out of the question. And you're asking us to agree to that. I think there is no one here in the Croatian Parliament or in the Croatian state who would agree to what you and the HDSSB are proposing. Is that true? So who would agree to the principle of justice here, I don't know that except you. Therefore, if he spoke to the foreign minister that the Slovenian interest was also satisfied, he is pleased to get out of this situation, from this trap that was introduced by the respected Mr. MP.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-08-0.u31975	Correction Mr. Representative Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-08-0.u31976	Mr. Prime Minister, you're trying to twist the thesis entirely about what I was saying. It is clear, in point 3., that there is a written international right to the line of demarcation at sea. However, I am talking about the fact that in points 4 and 5 of that trilateral agreement, agreements and talks there is also an element that is embedded there in justice, so the principle of justice on which Slovenia insists. So that's why in this piece of paper we got, we only have points 2, 3 of which we talked about international law, but we don't have the other part. You know what this is about. So, I would. And there's one more thing to tell you. Mr. Slovenian Prime Minister said on television yesterday that Slovenia will have additional remarks, and only then will it go to the signing.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-08-0.u31977	All right, buddy, those are other kinds of comments. Mr. Prime Minister, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-08-0.u31978	I still want to believe that you care about our national interests and I want to believe that you want to understand well what it says and what I said in the opening speech, obviously you didn't listen well. I said that for us everything was together at that meeting and for the state summit and for the representatives or presidents of the parliamentary parties who were not present on Tuesday and you should have been, that for us the fundamental question was whether point 4 could compromise point 3. Point 3 says the border line will withdraw under international law, almost, amen. Point 4 refers to the navigation regime, etc. which will be governed by international law, by the principle of justice and good neighbourly relations. So, the navigation regime in which the Slovenians will be able to come, the Slovenian fleet as far as I don't know, can reach the open sea, etc. So it's not about territory. The territory will be settled according to international law in which we will have our arguments, and believe that they are very strong, very strong and very convincing. So there's no saying that this is any discount and don't go any further politicizing. We got not what we wanted, the International Court of Justice, so it is a compromise that we agree to an ad hoc arbitration court, but we have always spoken in all our documents, and that was the common position of all parties and yours, to ask that the issue be resolved by the international judicial body. Now this is an international judicial body, and we will come with strong arguments and the border will be withdrawn under international law.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-08-0.u31979	Club HSLS and HSU Mr. Representative Antun Korushec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-08-0.u31980	Dear Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Government and members of the government. My colleagues and fellow MPs. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Social Liberal Party and the Croatian Party of Pensioners, I welcome the call of this session of the Parliament on this extremely important issue. Full membership in the European Union has been confirmed by consensus as Croatia's main foreign policy goal after we have achieved full membership in NATO. The dispute over the alleged prejudge of the border with the Republic of Slovenia, which has therefore blocked the accession negotiations of the Republic of Croatia with the European Union, indeed requires both full seriousness and full responsibility. In doing so, we must admit that Croatia is now in a blockade or we can say it in an unfavourable blockade, but it is happy and encouraging that in such a situation and the executive power and opposition are thinking responsibly, thinking with common attitude and common messages. This right now gives a strong picture of Croatia as a serious and responsible state and as an actor who accepts the principles of multilateral relations in the European Union as a community of rights. Right now, Croatia needs to show its European orientation in this situation, unlike Slovenian Euroscepticism, which is clearly an integral part of the politics of the Pablo administration. It is clear that Slovenia is in fact misusing its membership in the European Union and NATO and that it is blackmailing the Republic of Croatia. The HSLS and HSU representatives club supports the adoption of a proposal for a border dispute settlement agreement with Slovenia. The agreement involves resolving a dispute before an arbitration court which is an international court, and this is not based on the rules and principles of international law. We consider this the only acceptable solution because it is a common practice that the issue of the border is always solved on the basis of rights and professions, not according to political criteria. Croatia and Slovenia must not and should not be an exception to this practice and this provision of the agreement shall not be changed at any cost. It is also good that the agreement assumes that, quote: "The Republic of Slovenia will remove its reserves on opening and closing negotiating chapters where the obstacle is linked to this dispute." In other words, the signing of this agreement implies the abolition of the blockade that Slovenia has put on Croatia's negotiations with the European Union. We have recently shown, when the Republic of Croatia became a full member of NATO, how negotiations and processes are successfully completed when the achievements of a country are objectively valued. It is clear that the biggest responsibility for the successful course of negotiations and its dynamics was on us, in Croatia and in the Croatian government. This agreement is good and acceptable for the Republic of Croatia and should be clearly said. If we remember the original proposal offering a political solution to the dispute, we can be pleased and congratulate the Government on the successful work that has resulted in a major shift in attitude and in seeing things in the European Commission. We should certainly start immediately with the most serious preparations that will result in Croatia's benefit in order for Croatia to take advantage of all the opportunities that the agreement opens. We must also make it clear once again, the agreement is good for Croatia, but the agreement is a compromise. There are no winners in the compromise, and there are no winners in the compromise. And for this reason, the HSLS Club will absolutely support this agreement, vote in favour of the agreement, and we expect the Republic of Slovenia to remove the blockade from Croatia's negotiations as soon as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-08-0.u31981	Thank you very much. HDZ Representatives' Club, Mr. Representative Andrija Hebrang. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-08-0.u31982	Dear Mr. Vice President, representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues. So here's when there were these little misunderstandings, I'll start immediately with the position of the Croatian Democratic Community club. So our position is that we should accept this proposal and our view is that we should reach an inter-party consensus, so unanimously accept this agreement because it is an agreement that is one of the important decisions of the Croatian Parliament. It is not true that the prejudged decision of this House, as a colleague from the HDSSB said. So far, there has been a consensus of parliamentary party leadership, but that is one thing, and the other is the parliament's decision. Therefore, we are discussing here without a signature on the parliament's conclusion, and that is what the Croatian public needs to say. We are not in front of a big decision for the first time and we are not in a position to call for an inter-party consensus when it comes to parliamentary parties. And we can say with pleasure that over the past 20 years we have had a series of important decisions and that the vast majority of them have been successful precisely because a consensus has been reached at interparty level. And that is why Croatia, in the 20 years it was created, has done business and has gained one international status for which other countries must fight much longer. So, we're used to big decisions. Let's remember, in the war, we had them every day. After the war we also had in front of this House of Great Decisions and we managed to achieve that minimum agreement. Let us only remember a number of decisions in the pre-accession negotiations for the European Union, on a number of decisions to meet NATO's requirements. Let's remember a number of difficult decisions regarding the International Court of Justice in The Hague. All this was done because we managed to assume national interests in particular interests when it came to important decisions. And this debate today falls at the most awkward times, during the pre-election promotion. And that is why we are calling for all of our party interests to be put back on track when we are discussing today accepting the proposal that is ahead of us. We believe that this proposal should be accepted because it is a proposal that decides nothing, but leaves the possibility of arbitration. Are we satisfied? We are pleased that we have achieved that the border between Croatia and Slovenia will be debated on the basis of international law. In this regard, therefore, Croatia has also shown its consistency and its political maturity because it has been demanding that this key part be separated from the EU accession negotiations. Interstate disputes are always settled before international courts, according to international laws. If they would accept the political resolution of the border, it means they would accept one temporary measure, because the political decision is worth so long as it is in force as long as the force it has gained. We do not want temporary decisions, we do not want political decisions on the border, because these decisions are not permanent, these decisions are not firm, simply because they would not be based on international law. With this agreement, Croatia managed to achieve that the solution is happening on the basis of international law. We failed in that part to be before the international court, and in this sense this proposal is a proposal that meets both requirements, both Croatia and Slovenia, and on the other hand it leaves certain fences and brackets on both sides. And that's good, because if this proposal were to solve only unilateral interests, then it would not be a proposal from the European Union, it would not be good. Croatia has shown a high degree of political maturity in previous decisions on these disputes, as it insisted on two things. First, as I said, the distinction is based on international law and international laws and agreements. And secondly, Croatia has always protected its territorial national interests, repeatedly repeating the saying of the prime minister, which is that Croatia will not buy membership in the European Union by selling its territories. There is no territorial concession that could achieve any political objective. Territorial concession Croatia must not do. But Croatia must commit itself as a country that recognises international law and international order to respect those arbitration decisions based on that international law. I think it should be pointed out here that our maturity, our national maturity, is also manifested in today's decision to support a proposal that is marked on our part as a compromise, but, of course, in international decisions, it is a compromise that leads to a solution. Moving borders, not with politics but with laws, consistency in the application of existing agreements, remember the conclusions of the Barniter Commission that set the limits between the former republics of the former Yugoslavia. And at the end of the United Nations International Convention on the Law of the Sea, which accurately and precisely marks who has the right to the border at sea in relation to the land border. These are the things arranged for international contracts and international regulations. We insist on their application. Not being in court but in arbitration, that's our concession. It should also be said here that this proposal does not prejudge the border, so this proposal does not go in favour of any of the stakeholders. That is why we consider it compromiseable from the European Union's point of view, and acceptable from Croatia's point of view. I believe that Slovenia will also find its reasons to accept it in order to finally get out of this blockade called the blockade of Croatia's negotiations with the European Union, which is certainly going to harm the European Union if these negotiations do not end according to the planned dynamics set out in advance. So, the final club of the Croatian Democratic Community proposes to support this proposal, suggests we show high political and national awareness when it comes to national interests and to support such a proposal unanimously, so by consenting all parties in this House. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-08-0.u31983	Thank you. SDSS representative club, Mr. Representative Milorad Pupovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-08-0.u31984	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Prime Minister, colleagues and colleagues. The SDSS representatives' club, as well as at an inter-party meeting a few days ago led by the Prime Minister and the President of the Republic, supports this proposed draft agreement for a solution, i.e. to establish an arbitration court that would then resolve the issue, the issue of the dispute between Croatia and Slovenia regarding the border both on land and at sea, and the particular issue of the deblockation of the continuation of the negotiations of the Republic of Croatia with the European Commission and the continuation of the policy and enlargement of the European Union towards the countries of south-east Europe, starting from Croatia and beyond. This draft agreement, as some have already said, either after this speaker or before, is actually the positions of both sides. In particular, Articles 3 and 4 shall state the positions and our positions in order of the first and the Slovenians in order in order of the second. And that's only possible if you want to allow someone who's authorized to have an arbitration job to play a credible role and can be accepted by both sides. We believe that the decision to establish an arbitration court by the International Court of Justice is a good, compromised position between what our initial position was, and that is the International Court of Justice and, on the other hand, to reach an agreement on the interests that need to be reconciled in this regard. What will be the final solution of the arbitration court if it is formed, so if the states agree to bring me this moment, of course, we do not know, because after this agreement, if the other party accepts it, and in this form, and in this form, and for us, it is presented that it can only be accepted in this form and in any other way and in any other way, and in any other way, variable. So, after that, there will be a number of important issues about the establishment of an arbitration court, both in terms of first and foremost its composition, and in terms of what we and the arbitration court can and should ensure, and this is our submission which has been discussed and which will certainly be among those who will be empowered by the Government to do this job and present our overall position and our views. It will actually be two key and perhaps just as critical points as this one is today, i.e. for the Slovenian side, probably one that will happen in the next few days. And in that sense, I'd just like to say the following. A lot of time has been lost about this thing. A lot of political damage has been done in this matter. Today's call to consensus on this subject has its basis. However, it should be reminded of a time when there was no consensus. When individuals equally with equal conviction and with equal patriotic sense and political responsibility sought a solution with the other side, they called out entirely inappropriate names and qualified far from what should be the long-term basis of consensus. I hope it's time for us to have that time far behind us. And I hope that we will make our public aware that the lost nine years in connection with this matter, which has been lost partly for internal political reasons. Lost and because of different views of things, lost and because there was at least no verbal willingness to compromise and deal. That this is something that in the politics that is ahead of us, as the premiums said, as other colleagues have said, will not be repeated. Because participating in a form of creating the common position of this Parliament and supporting the government in this regard is certainly a key thing for the success of what we want. But it should also be remembered, that perhaps ultimately this solution should the arbitration court be established. And it won't matter any differently than there were other solutions. It may be different in technical terms of the word, but in terms of the content of what needs to be agreed on, there probably isn't much room for a significantly different solution. Of course, when we say technically, it doesn't matter what kind of an impression that technical moment makes in public. Does it leave the impression that we have given something that we do not need or have simply agreed on common responsibility, shared availability, or use, or access? And that's what I think our public knows. And it seems equally important to me, that our public and our policy of course cannot be recommended to others, because especially not from this pay phone. And that's that it's very good that thing goes to the arbitration court. It is very good to sort of get this out of our hands to the extent that this could be a day-to-day political issue. We in Croatia, I don't know what it's like for Slovenia, but we in Croatia have other important topics for our society, for our nation and for our country. And blocking these topics, by means of this topic, is not something that we as representatives of the people can allow ourselves. And therefore, no matter what the other party does, it is of utmost importance. Will he agree and accept as we are likely to accept this? It is very important that we make it clear that we are willing to leave this to those in whom we can trust, who can make the right solution on the basis of this agreement, and that we can focus on how reform affairs related to the Union, negotiations, and even more on those issues that are increasingly raised by the citizens of this country every day, whether they are employees, whether they are students, whether they are representatives of local self-government. And for that reason, I appreciate the fact that we met here today. But if we don't have this kind of raid in the conclusion, which is that the purpose of our next gathering can be if the other side accepts and we ratify, and if we don't focus on what our priority is. And our priority is our society, our nation and our country. And this question, as the prime minister said, can indeed wait. And these things we all know, we all see them, we all hear them, we all feel them when it comes to our citizens, these things can't wait, they can't wait and as far as we're concerned in the SDS, we'll do everything we can to make sure that people don't wait for answers to those questions that start asking more and more publicly, using those mechanisms that have the Constitution and the law allows. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-08-0.u31985	Thank you. Prime Minister, Dr. Ivo Sanader. Here you go, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-08-0.u31986	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. I'll try as little as possible, but when it's necessary and when I feel the need, I'll have to, like in this case. Your Honor, Mr. Representative, I absolutely understand your need and your desire to calm the situation, to try to unite everything, to be an integral factor. However, something needs to be said that it is not true what you have said. You said first intro, that nine years were lost on this issue. Who's it lost for? Should we accept some solutions that would go to the heart of Croatia's territorial integrity, and then it would not be lost for 9 years? In the end, you took advantage of yourself, so you said and quoted me, that this question could wait. Then we need to know if we lost those nine years or if that question can really wait. I hold that it can wait and that nothing is lost. Because if we had accepted different solutions, then it would have been lost. That's one thing. Secondly, you said that this solution, which the arbitration court will make, you assume that it may not be, I say, "may not be different from some of the solutions that have already been there." We know what you're alluding to. It's gonna be different. That's my belief. If it's international law, then it's going to be different. Because the previous solutions were not based on international law, but on political, political decisions. And in order to avoid confusion in the Croatian public, I support everything you said except these two things. That nine years were lost. And I will also remind you that it is not lost because, yes, I said, I have quoted that there are more countries even members of the European Union that have not resolved their open border issue and they do not mind functioning. So we didn't lose anything. We would have lost if we had accepted some solutions that went to the heart of Croatia's territorial integrity. And secondly, I am convinced that this issue will be absolutely different from some previous proposals.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-08-0.u31987	Thank you. HNS representative club Mrs. Vesna Pusic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-08-0.u31988	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Prime Minister and members of the government, colleagues and colleagues. We found ourselves in a situation where we weren't really supposed to meet. We've met. ... So we found ourselves in a situation where we were not supposed to find ourselves, which is that there has been a blockade of our negotiations on Croatia's accession to the European Union on the basis of the border problem, a bilateral problem between Croatia and Slovenia and the problem with which Slovenia entered the European Union at exactly the same points with the same problem. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] The blockade at this point in my opinion is no longer just a matter of blocking Croatia's accession to the European Union, it has become a matter of blocking one of the fundamental policies of the European Union, which is an enlargement policy. Just a few days ago, the European Union celebrated the 5th anniversary of the big bang in enlargement or major progress in enlargement from 2004 when the first transition or Eastern European and Central European countries became members of the European Union and was universally assessed to be positive for both these countries and for the Union and for one of the fundamental principles of the European Union, which is the issue of democracy, democratisation and the spread of democracy. At this point, the de facto blockade of Croatia is clear that before and before this problem is solved, no other country will enter and become a member of the European Union. Therefore, the blockade of Croatia at the moment means a blockade of the enlargement policy and, in my opinion, a blockade of democracy by the European Union, which is one of the three fundamental and fundamental principles of the European Union. So, I think it's taken a much bigger scale than the blocking of Croatia itself. As far as Croatia is concerned, it is eight months in which we have not practically moved in our progress towards the European Union and as regards communication with the Commission and the opening and closing of the chapters and this whole business. It is up to us to take advantage of that time using unfavourable circumstances for good results and a good outcome which should be the art of politics. So it is up to us to try to use that time for those reforms that, as a result of the entire spectrum of European reforms, will improve the quality of life in our own country. However, with the long-term stalemate of this species, it is simply inevitable that our progress in both technical and substantive terms suffers. We have found ourselves in a strange and absurd situation, that the proposals that arise to address this problem, which, of course, would have been much better if we had managed to solve bilaterally, in which the resolution has now been included, and the European Commission has suggested that the proposals are considered to be acceptable to the Croatian side, that they become unacceptable to the Slovenian side and vice versa. Of course, the situation is quite the opposite. So it is that we have to come up with a proposal that is acceptable for both sides because it is the meaning of compromise and it is also the only solution. So, the interest is to come up with a proposal not that is unacceptable to the other side but that is acceptable both to us and to the other side. The proposal that is before us and which has been proposed or made by the European Commission in the form of Commissioner Rehn and this chairing troika composed of French, Czech and Swedish representatives is a proposal which takes into account, and in this respect, in a way different from all the previous ones, taking into account what is a minimum under which Croatia cannot objectively go and what is a minimum under which Slovenia cannot objectively go. Since these situations have occurred that this minimum is now less important but it is obvious that any proposal that can theoretically have a chance to pass must take into account the minimum of both sides. As far as Croatia is concerned, our minimum is clear that the border is resolved on the basis of international law, and secondly that at the moment of agreement on how the issue of the border will be resolved, our negotiations and our progress towards membership in the European Union are unblocked, so at those points where the blockade is based on the border. The Slovenian minimum is obvious to apply the principle of justice in resolving the relationship between Croatia and Slovenia. These are the points below which both sides cannot go. This proposal shall take into account both. In some public discussions, it has been said, not here in parliament but in the Croatian and Slovenian public, that what is said in the agreement, in the proposal for an agreement, is either English words or justice that is not the principle of justice. However, in this agreement, what is proposed is to use international law as a basis for resolving borders, and to apply the principle of fairness and good neighbourly relations in resolving Slovenia's open sea contact and sea surface usage regimes which are the subject of dispute or debate. Therefore, international law is also used to address one part of the problem and the principle of justice because the principle, as the Slovenian side says ex aequo et bono, includes justice and well-meaning, or in this case translated as good neighbourly relations. At this point, the situation is such that no one, either Slovenian or Croatian, has reached their maximum. But the meaning of the compromise is not that one or the other side achieves its maximum because the basis of it can be likened in the short term, but I cannot solve the problem because the meaning of this win-win solution is, therefore, a positive result for both of them, not maximum positive, but tolerable. This is a proposal which, in the opinion of the HNS club, allows, let's say, the ability to live with it both for the Croatian and Slovenian sides. It is not maximumist and absolutely does not provide a basis for triumphalism on either side, but allows the problem to be solved in one way that is acceptable, in our opinion, both to the Croatian and Slovenian sides. The HNS Club therefore supports the position of authority, and this is the case, it may be important to stress that we are not ratifying this agreement today and that agreement will come to ratification in Parliament. It's represented as an agreement that cannot be changed. I must say that after our talks in the government, I spoke to Commissioner Rehn who confirmed this by saying that only what Slovenia and Croatia agree on can be changed 100%. Since there has been no such thing so far, then the agreement stands as it is. So at this point, we're not ratifying him. At this point, we are only giving authority or approval to the Government to accept on our behalf the draft of this dispute settlement agreement, as well as a joint statement. And when the process is over, then we will, of course, get an agreement on ratification in Parliament, as it says in the very proposal for an agreement. Of course, all this assumes that this draft and this joint statement will also be accepted by the Slovenian side because if this does not happen, then of course this whole process is actually just a formal and a kind of public demonstration, but it is not a solution to the problem. We hope that the Slovenian side will look closely enough at the draft agreement and recognise in it what it is, which is meeting minimums and one and other requirements, so both Croatian and Slovenian requirements, because further than that neither we nor they can expect. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-08-0.u31989	SDP representative club, Mr. Representative Zoran Milanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-08-0.u31990	Dear colleagues and colleagues, MPs and MPs. It is good to hold a assembly session on this subject today. That's what the SDP asked for, and I'm glad it's accepted. Why the assembly session on such an important subject? Today we are witnessing a whole range of constructiveness and state-of-the-art consciousness, responsibility for the state, and that's also very good. But why Parliament? A few months ago, we had a series of meetings, so-called. The state summit with representatives and presidents of parties and national minorities in High Street, where I asked or warned for the second time, drew attention to the fact that such discussions and such decisions should be maintained and made in the Croatian Parliament. And that is why it is good that we are here today to discuss a proposal which came out of the European Commission on 23 April, and therefore it is not good that we, or our representatives, were in High, only a few days ago and we tried to absorb the agreement within two hours, so the draft agreement proposed by Commissioner Rehn and the Troika and about him is manifested and accepted within the shortest possible time. This is not a solution that we consider to be good because it derogates or even abrogates an institution such as the Croatian Parliament, and there is no reason here in a calm and constructive state-owned and responsible tone, we do not say what we think about this proposal and what is in the interest of the Republic of Croatia and the Prime Minister, or the authorised person, to give our principled consent through this decision, whose proposal we have seen and who we support, to accept it. Of course, the prerequisite for the whole thing to come to life and that agreement as proposed and as we would accept it today, to live in this House is to be accepted by the Slovenian side. From what we know, and we live in a real world, real time, it probably won't be because the number of objections and suggestions to amend this arrangement, this text of this agreement, which we hear comes from Ljubljana, is big. And since he's suggested by principle take it or leave it, only one change knocks it down. We are talking here today about a proposal that we all obviously think is a good compromise, but which is probably not final and we will probably have to meet again here and give our consent or support for the solution that will come after this. It's the real world we live in. Slovenia has clearly decided to protect its interests in the way it sees them and to use the resources available to it for the time being. My impression, our impression is that such behaviour comes, not only comes across sympathy in the European Union, but also not real support, because, as Mr. HDZ and Prime Minister Ivo Sanader said, there are many examples that several-year-old members have disputes that have not yet been resolved in Europe. He cited some, and there are examples such as Olivensa in Estramadura, Spain, which has existed since the Napoleonic War, where Portugal has denied Spain’s sovereignty over a rather large piece of territory that is even enclave in Spain. So it's not territorial or related to Portugal. And that's not the only example. Gibraltar, let's not get any further. Therefore, no one in their right mind, politically at this time, is in the interest of disputes, i.e. open issues such as Croatia and Slovenia, being resolved by political means. The legal path is a better way. The legal path is a better way for a small country that can only defend its stability of independence, reputation and attitude in the international community. Of course, a strong and competitive economy. And that's why this solution is one I'd say a reasonable compromise that doesn't deprive us of all the dilemmas we can have. For example. The proposal for this Agreement clearly separates the demarcation of land and sea according to the rules and principles of international law. That's acceptable. In point (b) of paragraph 1 of Article 3 of this Article, the arrangements for the use of relevant maritime areas and of Slovenian contact with the open sea shall be discussed. This concept of open sea contact does not exist in international law. It is mentioned here and it would be good if this were not done, because it practically inaugurates a new term, a term with a technique it does not have, but since it is clearly said that the border on land and sea will be determined, or drawn by the rules and principles of international law, that makes this other provision something more acceptable. In the first, therefore, international law clearly and loudly its rules and principles, in the second international law, so this regime says here in the English text, which is righteousness, we can also interpret as we will, in dictionaries it literally translates as an English version of ex equod bono, and good neighbourly relations. The interpretation of justice as someone here has interpreted it today that if justice were applied then the logic of Croatia has an entire Adriatic, so give a little more and very extreme interpretation, the problem with fairness in the last 90 years is that we don't really know what it means. Neither the courts, nor the international court, nor the arbitration courts know this because in the last 90 years since justice was for the first time foreseen as the possibility of resolving the dispute by the statutes of the permanent International Court of Justice of the League of Nations and after '45. When taken over by the UN International Court, so far no one has ever been willing to judge by justice. There are probably deep political and interesting reasons for that. So we're going into a completely vague area here, and that's why it's better to have a solution like this. The good thing about this agreement is the separation of the dispute, i.e. the subject matter of the negotiations, i.e. the provision provided for by both the agreement and the joint declaration which is practically an integral part of some type of annex of this Agreement, that it will practically automatically unblock itself in the negotiations on the accession of Croatia to the European Union all those chapters directly related to the subject of the dispute. That's good. It is only right and just in my view, because Slovenia has been abused for some time and it is time to stop it. But of course this does not remove all the objections and obstacles that the European Union, all its members, including Slovenia, may have with regard to our failed reforms, lagging behind or failures in all other areas concerning negotiations, and they are colleagues and colleagues, as you know very much. So today, the Parliament will obviously make this decision, because there is a mood for the Government to support itself in negotiations with the European Union to accept the text, but literally as it is now, without a change of point and a score, without changing any material or formal aspect of such a decision. In the real world, and we see it today and through the media, we should not have any special direct contacts with our neighbours, it is evident that some of these points do not match, and I cannot and will not interpret Slovenian state reasons, legal reasons, motives why they want something, and why they do not want something. We'll know soon enough. What I'm appealing to here and what I want to do again is next. Thus, such important decisions will ultimately, formally and politically, be adopted and signed by the Government, or by the law of authorised people and representatives. We should make these decisions in the Croatian Parliament before, as we see today, it seems to me that experience is good. Informal meetings, such as meetings in the High are something to which I must express a mild reserve, the more so at the end of the day very numerous meetings, more or less with the exception of fellow MPs, there are all party presidents, a lot of people from the Office of the President of the Republic including the President of the Republic and we are discussing more or less, perhaps slightly less formally about the same things as here. If, as in Slovenia, an information meeting was called in such a format immediately after the arrival of this document from Brussels, this happened in Ljubljana, then we would have more time to show in the proposal for an agreement. This way, we had to gather information, some of us informal channels, and most Croatian citizens, most of the MPs in the Parliament, by reading the newspaper in which someone was releasing this information. So, you were supposed to meet earlier and talk about it at least a week ago. Anyway, I'm glad there was a constructive, responsible tone here today. We have a very serious business ahead of us, we have a proposal for an agreement that is a rational political compromise, because in the end, regardless of what the law and rules and principles of international law will apply, in order to get to that point, we must agree politically first. And I appeal to this level of responsibility and sobriety and in a campaign that is briefly interrupted today to refrain from difficult words and to show the same level, if not state and social responsibilities for the things we talk about and that we focus on in the small towns of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-08-0.u31991	Thank you. The Prime Minister Dr. Ivo Sanader. Here you go, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-08-0.u31992	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, Mr. Representative. I just want to react to the part relating to meetings of parliamentary party presidents or representatives of parliamentary parties and representatives of national minorities. I do, I've introduced this institute and I consider myself directly apostrophe, so I think it's okay to answer and say my opinion. I introduced this institute immediately after taking office as President of the Croatian Government, because we consider that there are some issues that need to be asked, and especially if it is about negotiations and the process that can and should be resolved, not for the Republic, but in the process and in the course of such meetings, and then finally in the Croatian Parliament. So, about where these decisions should be made, I absolutely agree, it is the Croatian Parliament. But that's a good instrument for meetings of presidents and representatives of parliamentary parties with not-so-called. State leadership, as you said, rather than state leadership, which is the president of state, government and parliament. I think it's good and it's shown very good results so far. Remember that we had such meetings before my meeting with Jansa at Bled, where we had previously reached agreement and agreed that on behalf of everyone, I could represent her to go to the International Court of Justice. Did we bring that? So I understand yours and we can talk about it, your remark that maybe the meeting and the composition of the people is too wide. We can talk about that. But I think it's a good thing that this instrument and that form to continue, because it's not good that every time, and it's not a good time to bring everything out here in the negotiation phase. First of all, it's not good because of those we're negotiating with, because they don't do it either. Even Slovenians don't keep up, you quoted them, did not hold public meetings of the Foreign and Political Committee, but closed, to which party presidents come, or I don't already know what the composition is. But it's closed. It can be introduced and in the Croatian Parliament I do not mind. But I support the idea of thinking about the composition, but I also insist, but that is why it is always necessary of course to agree and all of you representatives of the parties, to continue with this practice. She's good, we exchange opinions in her. It is an institution, i.e. an informal instrument that may be attended by the President of the Republic, the President of the Parliament, etc. I think that's good, that it has shown in practice that in some particular questions we could have what views the government will represent, represent the views of the parliamentary majority, rather than of all of us, because there are obvious issues that we agree on and agreed on. So, I will continue with this practice, invite you, you will decide if you will come. And I think it would be good if you came. And the composition of whether it can be smaller, I think it's a fine and absolutely legitimate question, we can talk about it.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-08-0.u31993	Thank you. IDS representative club Mr. Representative Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-08-0.u31994	Mr. Vice President, Mr. President, Mr. Minister, MPs. According to Mr Milanovic, the campaign was cut short. It's not. I have three stands today. Buzet... - No, no, no, no, no, no, no, [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So I invite people to come to those stands. I'm kidding. When it comes to this Rehn Agreement on arbitration, neither Croatia in my court has an excessive reason for satisfaction, nor does Slovenia have an excessive reason for dissatisfaction. Why? Well, because Slovenia's got the impression anyway, it won't lose anything. For her at worst, she can go in the middle of the Piran Bay. And I want to believe that in the end, that's how it's gonna be. So in my opinion, Slovenia brings nothing into this dispute, and it can come out of the dispute with something that neither by human nor by God's laws should belong to it. So, who's bringing this dispute? It's Croatia. What? Territorial sea. I'm almost sure the border won't go exactly in the middle of the Piran Bay. That's what our academician Vladimir Djuro Degan wrote about, but I'm equally sure if there is a God, and there is, that the matter won't. Yeah, here's the third time I've said it. That thing won't go back to the condition... but I am also convinced that the matter will not return to the conditions of Racan-Drnovsek's parade, which in the meantime gave almost Slovenia 110 square kilometers of the territorial sea. [[Applause.]] The agreement was certainly harmful to Croatia at the time, and it is good that the government gave it up already. We have clearly one worse agreement, even worse than that. It's the one Granic signed about Veli and Mali Škoy. If the initialized agreements don't produce legal effects, which is with this signed, we'll see. Why am I going to vote for this proposal of Rehn, and yet I will say, I know that the dispute is being held over the Croatian sea, not the Slovenian sea, or territory, because Croatia does not really require anything from 25.6.1991 just to respect the other side. First, Slovenia did not control the entire Piran Bay on 25.6.1991. It's not. There's no shore, and it's also clear to everyone that you don't have nightmares. I signed my own concessions for growers, as they say, for our boys from Savudrija there in '96, '97. A year. I will vote for, because this agreement, first and foremost, point 5, I read in a way that the Racan-Drnovšek agreement, so we no longer return, is definitely an ad act, although in point 5 there are unilateral documents. But it's not a document. The initial agreement does not produce any effects. Secondly, because it is for this agreement or for this agreement I will vote because behind this stood the state summit, by President Mesic, the parties etc. Third, and that might be the most important thing to me. Because living along the border, believe me, is becoming unbearable because of politics, I would say people of Zagreb and Ljubljana who do not know Istria, nor understand the Istrians, nor are unfortunately without a third able to solve such a banal problem. I only had the impression for a moment that Kosovo and Serbia would be able to resolve their borders rather than with Slovenia. Unfortunately, whether someone wanted to admit it or not, political elites can only argue with us, whether from Croatia, or from Slovenia, but they have proved unable to resolve the dispute that I believe is artificial and that to listen to the Istrians living next to that bay would never arise. Of course, now the milk is spilled and what we're going to do, we can't bring that milk back. Therefore, what is lacking in this agreement, one, is not whether it will be resolved by the court or arbitration, but that the lives of people from the Croatian and Slovenian parts of Istria will take place in and around the Piran Bay, but also Buja, Buzet, etc. That's the point. What I would almost say in front of the citizens of Istria, I can insist that this agreement on small-border or cross-border cooperation remains in force and that the future border line does not put people in a worse position than this one today. This means that the villagers of Mlina, Škrila, Buzina, Škudelina still have a smooth tax-free touch, say when things are being bought in Slovenia or in Slovenia's part of Istria, as defined and that the Slovenian police stop disturbing fishermen in the Croatian aquarium for a start. I think that's where we should go from, that people should not be burdened with the limits of this life. Unfortunately, that agreement does not speak of it. The other thing I'm saying is that your relations with the Istrians aren't bad. They're the ones I claim to be between us until we were 90. Who's fighting us? Well, we're being fought by the elite. Who negotiated the incidents before the 2004 Slovenian elections with this St. Odorik, Plovania or Dragonja? So Croatian and Slovenian ruling politicians, while Istrians always clearly called for reason on the other hand. The problem is that no voice of reason was actually able to get to the public either through television or through any other media. A month ago, in Umag, all Slovenian representatives of the Slovenian part of Istria, from Istria, had a meeting with the mayors, the mayors. Unfortunately, the gathering did not win the right of citizenship. Fourth or third, why are they voting for an agreement that I'm a little bit afraid of because we can't just fight with everyone else in the world anymore. And that is why it is good for Croatia to accept this agreement and even let Slovenia reject it. Finally, and perhaps most importantly, I want to believe that both this Rehn and this European Commission will not name for the Arbitraries how to express themselves as a corrupt judge but as individuals who are normally well-known to the rights and who will not go below the height of the profession, who will not go against their moral, human, professional, or not know of their dignity. That's the point. If these people were to stand up against any party in advance or put aside any of the things I know, Croatia Europe would not need any such corrupt bargaining fake Europe. I also want to believe if it decides on Croatian no matter what someone tells me, then the ex Yugoslavia border at sea has not been drawn among the socialist republics, so someone will say that you know whose is what. But I answer them if we didn't have any problems in those areas until 91, we shouldn't have had a problem after 91. In the IDS, we proposed 91st of all sovereignty over the entire bay, but in the way that we are "ready" to give to Slovenia so much and it should be clearly given to Croatia, but clearly, then the Slovenians would not agree to it, nor would they hear of it. What I'm asking you to do, and for that we kind of need political will, but also the media, I think we should also point out good examples in these areas. I assure you that life along the border depends not so much on this arbitration but on other economic, touristic ways that I know of all the non-neighbourly relationships. Why, for example, do we not highlight good examples? For example, here is the CEO of the "Cimos" group Mr. Krasovec otherwise Slovenian from Kopra, Maribor moved to Buzet two production lines at this time of recession so that the Buzecians would have a job. Buzetski Cimos exported more than 5m euros a month in 2008, monthly. 60m euros at the annual level. In the second month of 2009, their exports dropped to a million and 600 thousand euros, in the third month it rose to 2.5m euros, saying that the car exports to the industry not only fell to their own industry, but to Croatia as a whole by 50 per cent. That's what bothers people, not arbitration. Although I will normally tell my Slovenian friends I will give you blood but I will not give the country. Why is there one rapid, today I downloaded that data, importing Croatian products in Slovenia, as much as 24.2% in the first three months compared to the same period last year? And that's the same problem. We also export less than them but not in such numbers. Why can't we solve all of this time one state of the Buzet brewery? 93. Come on, we went in there as we walked in, but that brewery with 100 and some people doing all this time. I'm not going to say it's a solution for a Split brewer, but we need to send a message to the other side clearly so they don't just play. Slovenian guests on the other hand for four months in Istria are the only ones in the thick plus, plus 16% of overnight stays compared to the same period last year, etc. What is also important for this agreement is that it is as it is suggested to us take or leave and I would be almost the happiest to be rejected by the Slovenian side but they are also playing their game so they, too, will have the impression of it, unlike some others, agree. Who would I trust most in this dispute to draw the line of demarcation? I would personally trust Badinter the most. Well, he kind of dissipated ex Yugoslavia. If I didn't know, maybe he'd still be at war, he suggested the only fair approach to those avionic borders, so I guess he would have cleared one bay of breadth one and a half miles down to the mainland, three miles up north which every other bad, average swimmer could swim in one breath and swim. Let us agree on this agreement in Article 1. We probably won't be able to, so it'll be done by the President of the International Court. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The arbitration court shall decide on the border on the sea and Why is that mentioned on the mainland? I remember Mr. Fattyuh and I, it doesn't matter that we're on the other side now, we replied in 2001 that the former prime minister would not play with those 1 acres around Joras' house. He listened, unfortunately we didn't see the cards at sea then. Otherwise, let me also say that this Yosko Joras, until he got into a nationalist car, also recognised the Bujam court, went to the construction permits in Bujam, and I want to believe that he will once again be a loyal citizen of the Republic of Croatia, or let him show him the place where he came from. When Slovenian nationalists demonstrated downstairs, for example in Plovdiv, none of them were Slovenians from Slovenia's part of Istria. It shows that the locals are living together, not fighting. Article 3(2), if that is the point now, it is necessary to agree on the subject matter and the scope of the dispute. And Article 4(a), the arbitration court applies the rules of international law, which is probably in favour of the Republic of Croatia, we all agree. Point (b) of Article 4 also says international law, justice, the principle of good neighbourly relations for making a fair and fair decision means if point (a) goes in some way in favour of the Republic of Croatia, point (b) perhaps, here is the compromise, it goes on the hand of Slovenia. Therefore, I say that neither Croatia has reason for any excessive satisfaction nor should Slovenia have reason for any excessive dissatisfaction, unless their official politicians in a political masochism enjoyed blocking Croatian pre-accession negotiations on the European Union. All in all, I think we should take a step. This situation, I said, has become schizophrenic in the field, so absurd that people along the border for inaction, I'd say, one and the other governments can't defend themselves or, here, make a joke out of wild pigs. That looks like a joke, but that's, if they eat all your summers, it's a big problem. We call Slovenians, they call us etc., etc. But what is certainly clear to all of us, we will also be one side of each other in the future, we will be neighbours and so much, believing the hour of honesty in the fairness of the Arbitarians, should take a step towards that agreement. But I am afraid, again, that Slovenia does not bring anything into this dispute, and Croatia should also make it clear, but I want to believe that Croatia will come out of this dispute with everything it owned on the day of 25.6.1991.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-08-0.u31995	Thank you. The HSS Club, Mr. Representative, Vice President of the House, Josip Friscic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-08-0.u31996	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Prime Minister, Vice President, members of the government. My colleagues and fellow MPs. Surely this debate that we've been having here today, we've been listening to, which we've been attending, tells us that the topic, this agreement, is that something that, here, for more than a decade, has enjoyed our attention, both politicians and the public. Because no matter how we advocated the creation and establishment of a state in all its premises, territories, it also strengthened the interest in solving and issues of the borders of each part, every inch we talked about not once, where different solutions were offered and where I want to say in advance. Unlike what we've had so far, and we've had several times or more political solutions, we at HSS have always advocated, we want them to be legal solutions. Not only for our sakes, but also for those who will live behind us tomorrow in these areas, lead politics because history teaches us that many political agreements and agreements were subsequently annulled because they were as a product and the consequences of these or those compromises, agreements, relationships. Who's in this or who's winning? So we didn't actually, in fact, draw, draw, draw, ask as uncut, so that we should discuss whether or not we're losing something. Our neighbors did, they wrote a white book, and they made it clear what they wanted, and so they said, if that happens, it'll be on the principle of justice, a little bit of us, you'll still have more. Then a clear request was made for some judges to resolve, but not just any one because the day before yesterday from Norway was called a judge, but now everyone says Chelsea is drastically damaged. And that is why we have asked that these be the honorable judges of the International Court of Justice in The Hague, and therefore this proposal respects the terms of the agreement, the President of the Court will appoint members of just such qualifications if the parties do not agree. And that's why this is an arbitration court, but we can say the arbitration court that is above itself the International Court of The Hague. This agreement will resolve, I'm convinced, this particular question that has been met so many times, as we've come to a solution, but then it's gone again because it's suddenly tried to solve two things. And I think that the European Commission, but also our representatives, first of all, the minister who attended all of this, has struck extremely well, that one question of borders and another question of the regime of use of space. Because it's always been mixed up so far because when the division was said in that way, it was immediately said where our ships, planes, flyovers, fishermen, landings, etc. and immediately raised the question to us, or they wouldn't give it to me because we used it. And if under a) the issue of borders is resolved by the basis of international and legal regulation, then we have always been ready to agree, but to know that according to ours or through ours and today it is also sailing and flying, but it is known exactly who is flying, when, in whose regime and through whose. And if they are such solutions, and I think this is the first step for such solutions, then the HSS Club gives support and authority to sign the agreement, and of course what's already been said here, what the second one is thinking about is whether they're going to think about, different changes, suggestions, additions, about that later. I am convinced that what our representatives are told is serious and that this is actually the proposal based on which seriousness will be sought and evaluated from all others. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-08-0.u31997	Thank you. Independent representative, Mr. Dragutin Lesar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-08-0.u31998	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. First of all, I want to thank you for letting me get the text of the agreement and that I can read it, because I guess I'm the only representative who hasn't had a chance to see what we're deciding today. In fact, I am also sort of correcting Prime Minister Sanader's statement that all MPs had the opportunity to see the agreement. I got it 15 minutes after the debate opened today. But good. No one. Mr. Prime Minister, one answer is very important, so please make it clear that after my debate... Date. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] You have today presented this draft agreement by the European Commission, the European Union, that Croatia has been offered and Slovenia has, in principle, been taken or left, but your colleague, Pablo, was late last night for the third time, reiterated that Slovenia treats this agreement as a proposal for reconciliation. These are two important approaches or reading what was said in the statement. In order for the Croatian public, but we in the Assembly, too, to know what we are actually pleading on, I ask you, therefore, to remove each dilemma with your statement or to tell me who is in... The meeting was sitting on my ears. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Our minister... business or his Slovenian counterpart, because it is impossible for such different information to come from the same meeting. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Just don't tell me that because of the internal political relations they interpret as a draft agreement for the debate. Secondly, this example proved to be good that Croatia did not agree to political solutions, political arbitration, no matter how many years it has been slow because with the duration of international law, and this draft agreement proves this, however, the argument that Croatia was right all along. Who does this deal or if it comes to it? Slovenia will gain more than lose, because it actually has nothing at the moment. It can be given the privilege to negotiate, i.e. to establish regimes in Croatian territorial waters. Croatia is receiving a disblock of negotiations, but only the Slovenian deblock, which does not mean that the process of continuing negotiations, regardless of the Slovenian deblockation, can go further, as I remind you that we also have a problem with the area of justice with some other members of the European Union. But at the same time, we lose the right to self-organize the navigation regime in our territorial waters. For two years, the Croatian government, but also the Croatian opposition to the Slovenian threat of negotiations, interpreted exclusively as an inter-party, inter-party dispute in Slovenia. All Slovenian politicians and no matter who committed power in Slovenia and all Slovenian parliamentary parties for two years announced a blockade of Croatian negotiations. Neither Croatian diplomacy nor this Assembly nor government took these warnings seriously. There were always excuses and let them go it's electoral, pre-election, post-election. It has now shown whoever is prime minister in Slovenia, whoever acts as the ruling coalition on the issue of Croatian blockade and pretentiousness in Croatian territory has a unique opinion. I am now asking Mr. Prime Minister whether you are developing or preparing a strategy for a new possibility of Slovenian policy to use your second Constitutional Law after the conclusion of the negotiations and the signing of Croatia's accession treaty with the European Union, which is a referendum. So, I believe that this scenario is also possible, very possible and that Croatia must now think about the strategy of welcoming such a set of things, because it is very certain if Slovenia decides a referendum on the ratification of this contract... This referendum in Slovenia will be if there is an inter-party conference of all Slovenian parties to do everything to keep Croatia from entering the European Union. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I wouldn't want it to come to this and then our diplomats to say that Croatia is very surprised and... [[A speaker away from the microphone, you don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-08-0.u31999	Thank you. He'll still get the word Mr. Agent Daniel Srb. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-08-0.u32000	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen. First of all, I want to thank Mr. Vice President for letting me address this opportunity. However, when it comes to the very content of this agreement on resolving the border dispute with the Republic of Slovenia, I want to look at two things. One issue is the content of this document, and the other is the question of the terms and possibilities of resolving the dispute. When it comes to the content of this document, I would like to stress that it is evident that although there are certain reserves that the Croatian arguments in it are important and the question is which on the other hand can be asked whether, in some other way, Croatia can come into a situation that has the opportunity to make its arguments more powerful on resolving the dispute. We considered this to be an international court, but this arbitration court obviously accepts, to the greatest extent possible, a solution which will be the basis, the basis of the way in which decisions are taken in the international court, from the appointment of members of the court, the President of the Court, to the model of the work of this arbitration court itself. But the second question, however, is a matter of term. In Croatia, we are burdened with this problem practically from making a decision on independence and from year to year on, on the Slovenian side of the proposals that came and the requests that were being made for Croatia were increasingly unfavourable and more unacceptable. And we were practically moving away as time came from the solution. We now find ourselves at one point that we have the opportunity to sort out this problem in a certain way. I don't think that opportunity should be missed, either. And therefore, the Croatian Party of Rights as a responsible political party, which will in no way, at any time at any time in its decision, make something that can harm Croatian national interests. I estimate that at this point, it is much wiser to accept this proposal for an agreement than to seek the reasons for delaying it because of possibly some imperfections. Because this is the moment after many years in which this problem can be solved. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-08-0.u32001	Prime Minister, Dr. Ivo Sanader. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-08-0.u32002	I didn't mean to answer, but since I was asked directly by Agent Lesar, I'll say so. Yes, it is true what Minister Jandrokovic said at the meeting and what I confirmed here. The Presidency of the European Union of the Czech Republic, the former Presidency of the French Republic and the future Sweden, together with Commissioner Rehn, have said this is take it or leave it. Now that someone's going to interpret, that's their business. But that's how it was. And the other thing, you asked us, are we preparing to do that in case this is accepted, etc. Slovenians have the right to veto. Every country has the right to veto which is a member, which is inside. That's why we want to come in. Of course they do, I hope they don't use it, and if they use it, we have it, and that's why we're preparing a diplomatic action, because that's the only way we can get to it. I hope, however, and deeply believe that what Agent Cain said, and we all know that there is one truly true friendship between the Croatian and Slovenian people. And we hope that Slovenian politics will follow the voice of its citizens and will not veto Croatia. This would be contrary to all the principles of European integration, from the fathers of the European Union who began or 50 and a few years ago, to this great project to this day. I hope so, and I believe it won't. If they do, we'll be able to answer that.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-08-0.u32003	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. I ask the Minister of Foreign Affairs and European Integration, Gordan Jandrokovic, to read the text of the draft decision.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-08-0.u32004	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. Here's the text of the Decision. "On the basis of the debate held on the draft dispute settlement agreement and a joint statement between the Republic of Croatia and the Republic of Slovenia, officially delivered to the Republic of Croatia on 23 April 2009, by the European Commission and the three European Union, the French Republic, the Czech Republic and the Kingdom of Sweden, taking into account that the proposed text of the Agreement on Dispute Resolution and Common Declaration has been offered to the Republic of Croatia and the Republic of Slovenia as a matter of principle take or leave it. Emphasising the importance of resolving the border dispute between the Republic of Croatia and the Republic of Slovenia on the basis of international law, the Croatian Parliament decided at a session held on 8 May 2009 on the adoption of the draft dispute settlement agreement and a joint statement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. First. The European Commission's initiative to unblock Croatian accession negotiations is being held, to join the European Union by the Republic of Slovenia and to resolve the border dispute as set out in the proposal of EU Enlargement Commissioner Olli Rehn and supported by the three European Union. Second. The draft agreement on dispute settlement and joint statements delivered to the Republic of Croatia and the Republic of Slovenia on 23 April 2009 is hereby adopted, and it is agreed that the Government of the Republic of Croatia shall, in this respect, send a reply to the European Commission and, therefore, in its proposed content, sign the same. Third. This Decision shall enter into force on the day of its adoption."
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-08-0.u32005	Thank you. I am voting on a proposal for a decision to adopt a draft agreement on dispute settlement and a joint statement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. Please, let's get on with it. First we determine the quorum. 117 MPs and MPs are present. We have a quorum. I am voting on a proposal for this decision. Please, let's get on with it. Please vote. I'm asking for a result. I note that 118 votes for and one abstentions have been made to decide on the adoption of the draft dispute settlement agreement and a joint statement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. Thank you. I'm closing the session.
