ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-03-0.u35016	Dear Mr. President, distinguished ladies and gentlemen representing the Croatian Parliament. I'll try as usual in the introduction to be very brief. So the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development in 2008 ended successfully. The total balance sheet amounted to 18 billion and 800 million kuna, which is an increase of 8% compared to the previous year 2007. Our own capital was 6 billion and 300 million kuna, and the approved loans in 2008 amounted to 6 billion and 500 million kuna. What I particularly want to point out is that we have approved these 6 billion 500 million kunas on 1163 projects, so an extremely large dispersion, especially in areas of special state care, islands and less developed areas. If we look at the very structure of approved loans to the economy, therefore large but also medium-sized entrepreneurship was around 21%, about 60% of total loans were granted to exporters, which I consider to be extremely significant, so also the direction of the HBOR towards exporters and the promotion of exporters, but also the life of exporters and the demand for credit in the promotion of exports. The infrastructure was 6% and small and medium-sized enterprises and crafts around 14%. The guarantees were issued in the amount of about half a billion kuna, and the mandates relating exclusively to export insurance from commercial and political risks are 2 billion and 100 million kuna. 11 compensations totalling around 2 million kuna were also paid, and I must say that despite these compensations paid, no guarantee fund funds were used as well as in previous years. So the total activity of the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development in 2008 was 9 billion and 100 million kuna. I will also indicate that the total activity since the draft bank was in '92. By 2008, it was more than 71 billion kuna. Total revenues amounted to 965 million kuna, total expenditures of 790 million kuna and a profit of 175 million kuna, which is above the expected or planned profit, which was estimated to be around 230 million kuna. I must also specify the fact that the 2008 business audit was carried out by Ernst & Young’s audit company and expressed a positive opinion. We have introduced two new programmes to encourage the use of pre-accession funds, so this is the lending of those entrepreneurs running for SAPARD and PHARE programme, here we wanted to make our contribution to making the best use of these pre-accession funds, although I can say that even without these specific programmes for pre-accession funds of 31 programmes approved in SAPARD, 15 is credited with HBOR funds, so without these specific programmes. In January, we joined the EAPB association, a association of public banks in Europe, which is mainly public, or state-owned banks from member states of the European Union. We also signed an agreement on co-operation with the Croatian Chamber of crafts and held the 7th International Conference on the Promotion of Exports. In June 2008, we introduced new conditions for lending. The reason was too much demand for our funds and the beginning, i.e. the first indications of the financial global, financial and economic crisis that began to feel and maintain on Croatian entrepreneurship. I will, as usual, present some information on HBOR's business during the first 6 months, so in the first half of 2009. Therefore, over 5 months 2009 about 2 billion and 600 million loans were granted and more than 700 million kuna of export transactions were secured. Although we predicted and here we expected that this year there would be about 30% less approved loans than the previous 2008 record, we managed in the first 4 months to maintain the credit activity that was in the last year. So we may not keep such high credit activity by the end of the year, but we hope that this credit reduction to entrepreneurship will not exceed 10% to 15%. In April, HBOR hosted the annual assembly of the European Association of Public Banks. On the incentive of HBOR AZTN, therefore, the Competition Agency, established a new methodology for temporary calculation of the provisional reduction of the basic reference rate resulting in a reduction of annual interest rates according to the export preparation programme, so we wanted to help our exporters get as favourable credits as possible so that, according to the new methodology, the basic reference interest rate was reduced from 7.63 to 4.46 effective interest rates. Therefore, as a consequence, we have that in these export-preparation loans, therefore, the incentive of exporters, the most frequent interest rate for exporters is 5 or 5.5%, which in today's circumstances is extremely favourable and low. In March, we signed a 250m-euro loan agreement with the European Investment Bank intended primarily to encourage small and medium-sized enterprises and their investments, and in April we signed 30m euros with KFE to finance agriculture. In early June, a union loan agreement of up to 150m euros was signed, and we will use the funds provided to finance all HBOR credit programmes. We are now in negotiations with the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, a further loan, i.e. an agreement with KFE and the promotion of agriculture and tourism, then the European Investment Bank, the Central Bank of the Council of Europe and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development. We also signed an agreement with the Croatian Chamber of Commerce, so we practically covered all large associations of entrepreneurs with agreements, so from the Croatian Chamber of Commerce, the Croatian Chamber of crafts to the Croatian Chamber of Commerce to the Croatian Chamber of Commerce. What I think is most important is that we adapted some of the existing credit programmes that we thought needed new circumstances. These are the Programmes of preparation of the tourist season, Agricultural programmes for the promotion of pig farming, livestock and the development of tourism in the country, but we have introduced two completely new programmes. It's a program of crediting production and lending of permanent crafts. It is therefore unquestionable that the basic problem and the underlying difficulties in today's circumstances in Croatian entrepreneurship are indifference. So we first introduced a production lending programme, so crediting crafts for producers, and then we introduced a financing programme for permanent crafts that we practically didn't have, but no business bank, so it's a credit programme for permanent crafts where the payment of the loan is from 2 to 5 years with our favourable interest. And I have to thank my colleagues from the European Investment Bank who are part of the loans that we signed at the beginning of the year, for allowing them to re-use instead of investment to finance permanent crafts, because we know that there is a reduction and production and exports, that there is no great demand for funds for investment, but there is a much greater demand for lending, or for crafts. Here I am in the introduction I don't want to be long. I am available to you for any questions or further clarifications. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-03-0.u35017	Thank you. Does the committee's rapporteurs want to take a word for it? Yeah. Mr Kovacevic was first president of the Committee on Economy and then Mr Maric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-03-0.u35018	Dear Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, Your Honor, Mr. Kovac. The Committee for the Economy of the Croatian Parliament at the 25th session held on 19 June 2009 discussed the Annual Financial Report of the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development for 2008. The Committee shall be within the meaning of Article 67. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament discussed these reports also as a parent working body. In the opening statement, the applicant's representative explained the advantage of an unfavourable macroeconomic environment conditioned by the expansion of the global financial crisis, making the market funds either difficult to reach or at significant costs. In these circumstances, HBOR made significant efforts during 2008, especially in the second part of the business year to provide additional funding for the needs of the Croatian economy. On such occasions, investments in projects of small and medium-sized enterprises, exports, agriculture, tourism, infrastructure, environmental protection and energy efficiency are made possible through 25 credit programmes. The strongest support in 2008 was given by HBOR to Croatian exporters and approved for their needs about 60% of the total appropriations, and the largest number of loans relate to the needs of small and medium-sized enterprises. By the end of 2008, a thousand 163 loans amounting to 6 billion and 484 million kuna were granted, of which 92 loans amounting to one billion and 356 million kunas, 480 loans of 3 billion and 889 million kuna are intended for export and 25 loans amounting to 300 million and 670 million for infrastructure, and also 566 loans of 936 million were granted for the needs of small and medium-sized enterprises. In the debate, the Committee also held the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Croatia as of 8 June 2009 that the Government has no objections to the reports submitted. All participants in the debate rated the Croatian Bank's highly positive work on reconstruction and development during this reporting period because it was one of the key logistics economies during this crisis period. Following the discussion, the Committee unanimously proposed to the Croatian Parliament the following decision. "The annual financial reports of the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development for 2008 are confirmed. a year." Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-03-0.u35019	Thank you. Mr Goran Maric, on behalf of the Committee on Finance and the State Budget. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-03-0.u35020	Thank you very much. Mr. President, dear Mr. Kovacevic with an associate, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. At the 33rd session held on 17 June 2009, the Croatian Bank's Annual Financial Reports for Reconstruction and Development for 2008 was discussed by the Finance and State Budget Committee. In the discussion on the board, the question was whether the Croatian Bank has the possibility to further lower interest rates in view of the positive financial result achieved in 2008 amounting to 174.9 million kuna. The president of the Administration of the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development reported to the board members that HBOR in 2008 alone did not increase interest rates unlike commercial banks in the Republic of Croatia and that especially for loans intended for export programme support. Given the increasingly difficult conditions of business in the financial market, HBOR must try to maintain the real value of its capital and in 2009 it will serve to maintain the current interest rates in the range of 2 to 6%. After the discussion was held, the Committee on Finance and the State Budget unanimously decided to propose to the Croatian Assembly a decision to confirm the Annual Financial Reports of the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development for 2008. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-03-0.u35021	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the SDP club, Madam Representative Dragica Zgrebec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-03-0.u35022	Mr. President, the president of the administration with a co-worker, co-workers and colleagues. In Croatia, there are not many institutions that gain a positive view of their work and positions and opposition. However, HBOR is just one of such institutions. The reports presented to us are transparent and give a good insight into the year-long work of this institution. HBOR is defined by the law on the development bank as the development and export bank of the Republic of Croatia with the aim of encouraging the development of the Croatian economy. The underlying capital is set out in the 7 billion kuna law and should be paid out of the state budget. The aim of HBOR's business is not to gain but to ensure through the state budget both the funds for the subsidy of interest and the share of the loans. The HBOR through credit programmes aimed at restoring and developing economic operators, infrastructure, promoting exports and lending to small and medium-sized enterprises and lately also for operational programmes in agriculture systematically encourages sustainable and more balanced economic development in Croatia, which is very important given the major differences in regional development. Specially important programmes focus on strengthening the competitive capacity of small and medium-sized entrepreneurs and craftsmen to equal regional development, job creation and start-ups and programmes for beginners and innovators. The HBOR also supports municipal, social infrastructure and programmes that mean more balanced and sustainable development of the environment. In 2008, loans amounted to over 6.5 billion kuna, the largest amount of which is about 60% in support of export insurance. At the time of the outbreak of the global financial crisis and the increasingly difficult conditions for HBOR finances for the domestic economy, it becomes an increasingly significant financial source. This also prompted us in the SDP to propose that the state budget in 2009 participate significantly in HBOR's programmes in a way that ensures by the end of 2008, the estimated amount of fixed capital of 7 billion kuna, which was paid 4 billion and 723 million and an additional 500 million kuna for interest subsidies and loans. In this way, we would strengthen the HBOR at times of worsening financial conditions, the decline in credit rating and the state and the HBOR and the worsening financial and economic situation in the country. Given that the HBOR has become an important factor in the development of the Croatian economy, in particular, export expenditure from the state budget brings multiple benefits. The rejection of this proposal is assessed by the adverse sightings at this very time when, after a record government debt that will serve to patch up HBOR budget gaps, it cannot be more favourablely charged with funding programmes that mean raising the quality of the domestic economy. In 2008. HBOR has been credited with projects related to environmental protection, small and medium-sized entrepreneurship, the foundation of entrepreneurship, tourism and agriculture, exports, innovation and new technologies, and regional development, which actually says it has been included in all economic pores. We estimate that one of the most significant projects is just supporting exporters to prepare and secure exports. These are also programmes that mean increasing competitiveness of quality because only economic operators with a competitive and quality product can on the foreign market. The amount of credit allocated to exporters increased by 56% in that year and the number of loans granted also with a high percentage of 44%. That this policy yields concrete results not only in exports but also in the business of these entities suggests that users of these loans increased their revenues in 2007 by 15% compared to the previous year. In recent years, HBOR has also been involved in programmes intended for agriculture specifically following government operational programmes in the last two years relating to the restoration and modernisation of the fishing fleet, long-term plantation, pigmeat and cattle production, vegetables, flora and indigenous products programmes. For these purposes, more than 400 million kuna has been provided in those two years. In 2008, we changed the rules regarding state support applicable now and to the HABOR programmes and related to the reference interest rate, which is the limit for the monitoring of state aid. Given that in Croatia the reference rate is very high compared to e.g. Reference interest rates in the euro zone and moving multiple, are multiple, ranging between 6% and 7%. A good HABOR initiative is aimed at the European Commission to reduce the reference interest rate and increase the limit for the identification of small-value state support in Croatia. HABOR also connects with pre-accession European Union funds through projects of candidates for SAPARD and PHARE in 2006 at this time. What is important from the point of view of the use of these sources of funding so far, because we think they are not used enough. We also believe that new projects from IPA, IPARD and others that will come into the future should be included in a similar way. Assessing the significant activities of HABOR especially during the current crisis period, the high decline of the gross social product and the growth of unemployment require greater participation of the state budget in HABOR programmes, especially since the possibility of more favourable HABOR credit debt is becoming more unfavourable. In front of us is a new rebalancing of the state budget that would have to cut consumption and postpone some major state-owned infrastructure investments but should not reduce the funds intended for the economy, especially by export and especially by those projects that go through HABOR. HABOR as a state development bank, depends largely on state resources. Under difficult financing and economic crisis, the government has not taken the necessary measures to facilitate the functioning of the HABOR and is responsible for its more difficult functioning in 2009. Evaluating the operations and activities of HABOR in 2008, the good SDP Club will accept annual financial reports for 2008.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-03-0.u35023	Thank you. On behalf of the National Minority Representatives Club, Mr. Shemso Tankovic, whom I do not see. He's losing his right. On behalf of the HNS club, Mr. Representative Zlatko Koračević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-03-0.u35024	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, the president of the HBOR administration with an associate, colleagues and colleagues. Today we have a chance to discuss a single report and I have to start by saying a very high-quality report, a quality report that we have learned over all these years because it is a banking institution, an institution that has a basic function and a fundamental role to be a lever of development primarily of the Croatian economy, at the end of the year, and this institution has been founded yet, in fact defined as the development and export bank of the Republic of Croatia since 1992. An institution that, in its development, absolutely certainly and almost certainly needs strong support and a state budget and simply an institution that, in real contexts that it cannot influence, I mean the general economic conditions it tries, is trying to give that necessary and necessary logistical support to our economy through financial services and often not with its own guilt often and literally, I will not say prevented but disabled to carry out its function in a more powerful scale, above all to those who need it, those who create a new value, are almost the only ones who create a new value and it is known that we can exclusively plan our future and that our new value, ultimately, is one of the basic functions of doing entrepreneurship, creating a new value, but we are now coming to the key topics as well as how it is possible. On a very specific example, I will try to give an image, give an assessment and give information on what conditions, conditions to which the Government of the Republic of Croatia is solely responsible, exclusively the Government of the Republic of Croatia. We must not forget the Croatian National Bank. Because it is a well-known thing that conditions, conditions for the economy definitely dictate fiscal policy on the one hand, the Government of the Republic of Croatia, on the other hand monetary government, the Croatian National Bank and the third as controller it is HANFA. For example, the possibility that in the course of the bank's loans, based on their business decisions, they change interest rates for the credit user is completely uncertain, says that both the other part and the third part of their business have not been done and that they do not work in quality. In fact, we all remember together that a month ago and at a meeting of the government and the public it was very strong to announce the success of the government's economic fiscal policy I am talking about a successful, under quotes "successful" sale of the euro of the bonds of 750m euros, as we have been told quite a solid interest of 6.5%, a month and a half earlier, Slovenia achieved this by 4.5%. And that international investors have shown that they trust the Croatian economy for proudly saying today by the former prime minister. The whole story, rather euphoric, was joined by Minister Shuker with his observation, information that there is a strong interest in entering Croatian bonds. It was reportedly possible to sell a billion and 200 million, and that Croatian bonds are at a price and that they will be able to achieve an even higher price. This task will certainly enter Croatia's history because it is presented as a very successful action by the government of economic and fiscal policy. We borrowed 750m euros to pay back old debts, creating a commitment in 2015 that will ultimately cost us almost a billion euros. The fact is that with the action, the head remained above the water, the fact is that most of that money, 550m euros went to the state treasury, but at the same time it left the Treasury immediately. 200 million were promised or 200 million were announced to go towards the economy. How much of this benefits, out of these 200m euros, the best entrepreneurs, those operating with the INA, who are operating with HEP, who are operating with the HAC. And then we were told and then the government said that the money for the economy would be taken care of by HBOR, who was also preparing for the issue of the 300m-euro bond. Since HBOR is a state-owned bank whose bonds are guaranteed by the state, a completely logical and successful edition was expected, with perhaps even slightly less interest. However, HBOR bonds arrangements simply did not find anyone in the world who would buy at interest less than 8.5%. The bids were between 8.5 and 8.7, and I'm not getting into it right now, but less than 8.5%. I think it would be correct if, with that euphoria of about 750 million government bonds, we had the opportunity to hear from the same ones who declared it, when we talk about government bonds, as a great success of the government's economic and fiscal policy. And it would be correct if we heard that after the established value of the HBOR bond that it was the collapse of the government's economic and fiscal policy. That international investors have shown that they do not trust the Croatian economy and that Minister Shuker, recalling his words that he said after government bonds, says that Croatian bonds are not at the price and that we will probably get an even worse price. And what happened that month between the issue of one and the other bonds? The European banks have been rehabilitated, and recently Croatia's central bank of the state carried out 4 billion euros at 1% interest. The question now arises whether in the meantime the Croatian government has done something that makes investors no longer trust and demand greater interest. However, the fact is that the government has done nothing and the government is doing nothing and that is exactly the problem. And this 8.5% bond value that foreign investors are willing to pay should be seen as a message of a very rough warning that something that is not even inside is all known, which is that we spend, that more and more is being spent, while at the same time making less and less money. Budget revenue fell to 2007 level, expenditure at 2010 level. The fact is that the Ministry of Finance is on the domestic market monthly with 200, 300 million to cover pension payments, salaries, short-term bonds. And the fact is, with internal debt, we're close to 18 billion. That's a fact. The forecasts and warnings of the World Bank, which in spite of optimistic statements, are also recorded eight months ago, are not so long ago, Deputy Prime Minister Polancec, who then said he understood the figures, that they expect economic growth between 2% and 4%. What economic growth is known to us is that we have been criticised by both the World Bank and the International Monetary Fund critics for failing to implement reforms in the overrun state apparatus. Following this, it is normal not to blame the people in HBOR who are leading the very quality of the institution, the financial institution, that the HBOR credit rating has fallen as well. The fact is that we have a rise in the risk premium, a growth in interest, something where banks earn extra profits again, once again bank leadership will be able to pay itself huge premiums. And the conclusion of the whole story comes down to the fact that HBOR and the economy at this point ran out of 300m euros, absolutely necessary. However, only the economy that has been experiencing indifference for many years, the economy and the countries in which both state and state businesses are the largest non-payments. An economy that is simply afraid to seek VAT returns, as it is very likely that bureaucrats from the tax administration are coming, very likely. So we have an economy that helps the state, not that the state helps the economy. I am convinced and we at the Croatian People's Party club are convinced that this economy will survive the 300m euros. But what follows us all later, now in the fall? The budget is down 610 billion, the finance ministry has not since November provided any monthly report on the budget filling. And where are we today? With this, conditionally speaking, the failure of the HBOR, this is not the failure of the HBOR in the bond arrangement, a very clear message is being sent to the Government of the Republic of Croatia. And I think if we don't start trusting public spending ourselves, that we're getting more and more likely to have a more rapid and drastic procedure in our salaries, pensions, subsidies and that, either under the pressure of the IMF or under the pressure of an empty state register. I'm not going to mention what we discussed yesterday, which is being discussed in public today by the Prime Minister's resignation. Why? For what? At what point? And speaking of this subject, we all know it's extremely dramatic. The budget rebalance is absolutely necessary. When? We don't know. We have no information. The commitments that the state has and which state will have to make to foreign investors are here. Therefore, we at the Croatian People's Party club think, and with no intention of saying that we have an exclusive opinion, it is common opinion on both the right and the left and all of us that, practically immediately in this area is expected from the Government of the Republic of Croatia, I hope that this party's matter will be stabilised by the ruling party that we must take very concrete steps, and that these steps and management of the Croatian National Bank for Reconstruction and Development would allow it to work out its legal option what this Croatian economy needs in vain. And therefore again, with congratulations from the management of the Croatian National Bank, which runs this bank in the context of real opportunities that cannot be affected, real conditions that cannot be affected by the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development. Excuse me, thank you, colleagues. The Croatian People's Party will support this report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-03-0.u35025	Thank you. On behalf of the HDZ Club, Mr. Representative Goran Maric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-03-0.u35026	Dear Mr. President, Mr. Kovacevic, with an associate, an esteemed colleague and colleague. Not a single economic phenomenon, not a single economic problem, not a single report of any economic operator can be observed or analysed without taking into account both the economic environment and the economic indicators in macroeconomic statistics. And that is why these reports of the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development should also be seen in the context of the most recent and widest global economic crisis in history. The consequences of that crisis are terrifying. The collapse of investment and commercial banks around the world, thousands of billions of dollars of decommissioning from the state budget or from central banks for the purpose of the recovery of failed businesses, banks and recovery of the economy. Almost the whole world is in recession. Many giants have fallen. He's fallen even an example of the economic power of giant General Motors. The U.S. government has injected into the banking system the incredible and frightening $12.8 billion. But all this is no wonder when only one man with speculation, malfeasance, abuse on the financial market was able to embezzle $65 billion famous Bernard Madoff. But they are able to condemn him to the famous 150 years in prison. In Croatia, too, there is malfeasance on the financial market. Even 29 criminal charges have been filed. Unfortunately, none of them have been prosecuted so far. The European governments have singled out $5.3 billion for the rescue of banks. Most of all, Great Britain and Denmark, and the World Bank estimates that in 2009, it will further impoverish and live on the edge of the existence of 150 million people and that even more than 400,000 newborns will die because of this economic crisis. That's why it makes sense when a famous economist says welcome to all the economies, everyone we live in, the world of imperfect economy. Welcome to the world of the excessive government of banks, the excessive government of investment funds, insurance companies and welcome to the world of failed financial paper fiction. In part, the Croatian economy has been affected by the global financial crisis, and in part by the difficulties which have, above all, a national omen. There was an unexplainable reduction in the credit ratings of commercial banks to the Croatian economy. Unexplainable but unacceptable growth of passive interest rates, worrying about growth, galloping the growth of passive interest rates. Explanatory or unacceptable increase in effective interest rates. The inexplicable introduction of even 13 types of bank fees. Unexplainable financial discipline, expressed indifference, but also business immorality that tries to root out as normal business behavior. The situation in which Croatian companies classified as large, medium and small best show data from the FINA on the degree of self-financing as one of the most important economic indicators. How large companies have 46% self-financing rates, only 44 and 60% small. That means 44% in their business use their own funds, and 56% need additional funds. It is known that up to 75% if the level of funding is in danger for companies, and even between 75% and 100%, there is a risk of business. These data suggest that without extreme sources of funding, no category of Croatian entrepreneurship can function normally. Therefore, in the circumstances and consequences of the economic crisis, but also in the circumstances of the estrangement of commercial banks in the Republic of Croatia from the real world and the real economic sector, and their neglect of the fact that the economic system is one large system consisting of a number of smaller systems operating on the principle of laws merged everywhere. The role of HBOR in these conditions has become more crucial and dominant in promoting the economy and entrepreneurial activity. Ignoring the underpriced and blackmailing relationship of business banks to... led to increasing pressure on HABO and on the average interest in loans. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It is not surprising, therefore, that in 2008, HABOR granted as much as 1163 loans totalling 6.5 billion kuna. This bank situation is used exclusively for their individual interests. They were seconded by individual interests of social interest, and how could they not, if here's the latest data, achieve 2 billion kunas in the first 5 months, so the only crisis on them doesn't work? Such behaviour is not on the line of social responsibility by business banks. The report shows that HABOR provided the most important support to Croatian exporters, up to 60% of the approved funds and 3.9 billion kuna were used for export purposes. Small and medium-sized enterprises were granted a maximum number of loans of nearly half 566 out of 1163 approved loans. Introduced, as we've heard from Mr... two new programmes aimed at making more effective use of the pre-accession European Union funds. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In promoting agriculture, 204 loans, i.e. 160 million kuna, have been granted in order to reduce dependence on imports and promote rural development, rural areas of the Republic of Croatia. So, uh... The large economic operators separated 117... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It's worth a billion and 700 million kuna. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And HABOR's most-wanted programme was an export preparation programme. 3.3 billion kuna has been approved and it was well confirmed by data that these companies increased exports by 15.6% compared to 2007. Despite the problems in the world financial market, HABOR managed to obtain more than 450m euros in co-operation with large financial institutions. And as we have already heard, the primary job of HABOR is not to achieve profits, but in 2008 a positive financial result of 174.9 million kuna was achieved. It seriously worries that interest revenues in 2008 are only 6% higher than in 2007 while interest expenditures are 22% higher than in the same period last year. But at this time of the economic crisis and the need for non-consumption encourages the fact that the operational cost of the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development was 5% lower than in 2007. But what I would take advantage of and should point out is a special job of HABOR to encourage the economy, to encourage entrepreneurial activities, but to always keep in mind the balanced development of entrepreneurship and economic activity in all areas of the Republic of Croatia, I believe that this is what HABOR is doing and will do in the future. But it should also be noted that since HABOR is a great incentive given to small and medium-sized enterprises should always be kept in mind what entrepreneurship is, who is an entrepreneur. An entrepreneur is the only person who takes the risk of losing his own capital, one who has not invested in part and cannot be considered an entrepreneur by his definition. As well as refinancing by its definition is not an incentive for entrepreneurial activity. We are convinced that this HABOR has and that in its future work it will always keep in mind. The HDZ Club will vote to confirm the annual financial reports of the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-03-0.u35027	Thank you very much. And on behalf of the IDS Club, colleague representative Damir Cain, here's a colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-03-0.u35028	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Kovacchev, the Honorable Mr. MPs. I think we should get an answer, President Mesic could entrust Mrs. Jadranki Kosor with a mandate about 20 hours tonight, he might, probably will. If after that we will have a debate here in the Parliament of Trusts, I don't know, a new prime minister, a government election and so on. Or perhaps the Parliament's presidency is going to surprise us with some flash of scream that the opposition wouldn't participate in all this without the matter being resolved before your convention tomorrow. Or maybe we'll hold a night session modeling the night 14th. Congress of the Communist Union. I think we need to be told. Here, just tell us.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-03-0.u35029	A fellow Kai's report! HABOR's report.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-03-0.u35030	Whether we have it tonight or not to discuss the trust of the new prime minister. This report, I dare say, has come at the right time. So the day after Sanader's acceptance of resignations so that citizens can really see that we are doing useful things here in Parliament. I will repeat once again that citizens have no reason to panic, have reason to be worried but have no reason to panic, it is difficult, the exit certainly exists. For the first time, we will begin to give up but there is still no reason to panic, because institutions are stable from the president of the state, the CNB, the local self-government that has just been formed, the HABOR, our banks, etc., etc. We are in the middle of the tourist season, there will be work, this job needs to be done, it needs to be stimulated by consumption, help the economy, and the HABOR sees that it is doing that, or to a large extent, it participates in this. HABOR next to the Croatian Post Office is the only relevant Croatian bank, in our possession I mean it. Of course HABOR is not a classic bank. On the other hand, the Croatian Post Bank is in a lot of trouble. It is necessary to capitalise urgently, not to make it an easy prey of some other banks. On page 8, it is pointed out, what should I call it, that HABOR credit activity of 6.4 billion kuna in 2008. So HABOR gave the economy a billion 356 million kuna, for the infrastructure 300 million kuna, for the small and medium economy 936 million kuna, and for the exporters 3 billion 889 million kuna. So somewhere around 60% of HBOR's credit potential last year went to export. That's certainly commendable. True, exporting us these 2,000 I'm afraid won't exceed $10 billion. It's a serious moment, it's extremely small, but without HBOR funds, that export would certainly be even smaller. According to the population, the largest exports have Istria and the City of Zagreb. They say sailors, you don't have to live, you have to sail. I'll say exporting must because it depends on the life of this country. It is clear that it is also necessary to stimulate how exports to Europe, but also in our neighbouring countries. At this point, what is certainly necessary, to overcome this political dispute with Bosnia and Herzegovina that has prevented or I do not know, which introduces some new customs duties, more customs duties for imports of agricultural products from the Republic of Croatia. I read this morning that the government agreed yesterday to the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development, HBOR, to be in charge of 100m euros at the World Bank, and to lend small and medium-sized enterprises. Finance Minister Ivan Shuker explained that negotiations and another such loan are in the final phase, so with previously secured loans, the bank will have 500m euros to help economies in these difficult times. And what kind of time are these? Let me just say that the drop in exports from last year is 24%. What is equally worrying about VAT revenues, etc., imports decreased 29.4%, meaning at the 5th month compared to the 5th month of last year. How are these contents financed now? So we saw, so in a way that the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development is in debt in international money markets, so in 2008, it took a loan of 450 million kuna. Unfortunately, with the irresponsible behaviour of the former prime minister, the credit rating of the Republic of Croatia falls, and loans to the HBOR are collected, which will say that our employers will also find it harder to repay the loans they have received. What are the risks of paying off HBOR's loan? It's getting bigger, but something later. However, these HBOR loans are convincingly still the most favourable on the money market. On the other hand, what my predecessor in the HDZ was talking about, our banks in 2008 make a profit of 4 billion 690 million kuna or 15.2% more than they earned in 2007. The total assets of Croatian banks are 370 billion kuna, a growth of 16.7% last year, and foreign-owned banks participate with 90.8%. The sector, which brought more than 20 billion kunas of net profits to foreign banks in 7 years, after taxing clearly, was sold for 7.5 billion kuna. And another piece of information. Last year, Zagreb's net profits amounted to a billion and 394 million kuna, plus 25.7%. The economic bank Zagreb billion and 100 million kuna, plus 18%, Reifiesen 600 million kuna, plus 23.3%, Erste 788 million kuna, plus 31.6%, while the mothers of our banks, for example, have a profit of 4 billion kuna, which is minus 38% compared to the previous year, are the owners of Zagreb banks. The same intensity had a profit of 2.5 billion euros last year, but 65% less than the previous year, the mother bank is the Bank of Commerce. Erste had a profit of 860m euros, minus 26.8%, the Landes Bank even lost 5 billion euros, etc., etc. Now, our banks are doing a great job, but our bankers, the best sons of our people, claim that the bank's profitability is on the critical border and that this may be an obstacle to foreign capital entering the Republic of Croatia. Secondly, I also think it should be said that the Croatian National Bank has managed to preserve the intact banking system of the Republic of Croatia. We see that we have huge problems, imports, exports, industrial production, a decline in gross social product, which will say that with the rebalancing hope in the 7th month, at the latest half of the 9th month, we will have to cut our revenues by at least 10 billion kuna. I'm afraid that also incomes in the 2nd and 3rd pillar of retirement from day to day are falling drastically and I'm not counting any further. On page 12 and 13 of this report, the structure of export lending is given, and of these 3 billion 889 million kuna, we see that 23% goes to the chemical industry, the metal industry goes 21%, the wood industry in those nearly 4 billion goes 12%, the paper industry 9%, the construction industry 8%, the pharmaceuticals 7%, and it's all clearly more than praiseworthy. Without investment, it's clear there are no jobs. There are no employees of Croatian companies, no budgeting, and everyone needs to understand today, and those who declare themselves do not know, like, green, simply without attracting the relevant capital we will find it difficult to launch the Republic of Croatia. It is also necessary to show how the times are and what the predecessors have spoken of. The 2007 emerging markets have withdrawn, meaning from Croatia, Serbia to China 929 billion US dollars. 2008 466 billion US dollars, 2009 is yet to be planned somewhere around 165 billion U.S. dollars. So, apart from the retained profits of Croatian banks, in Croatia in 2009 de facto, no one will invest at all. In 2009, we can say we're not going to build any new hotels, not one factory. We want shopping centers, that's what we want, except it's also going to affect the negative stock balance, that ratio between imports and exports. Another information, in 2006 the world market contracted the construction of 3 thousand 874 ships, the gold 2007. 4000 873 ships, 2008, 2000 287 ships, 2009 in the first quarter of only 67 ships, and a thousand orders have been cancelled. And in these circumstances, the only successful Croatian shipyard "Olinik" that received 45 million kunas last year should be privatised, and this year it will be 120, 130 million kunas. Two more key reports. And 40 billion euros in debt, the industry knows where I won't say it in collapse, they're problems. The lowest drop in gross domestic product since '99, indifference, etc. I personally want to believe, I'm sure the HBOR is doing its job. That is good, and it would be good if some others were more responsible in this country, rather than wanting to shock Croatia and the European Union with their statements. And they really shocked her. And the stock market, and the credit rating, and the tourism, and the consumption, and I don't want to count all of this any further. Will the European Union start a shock afterwards? You can fall for it, you can imagine. The move did not shock but stopped Croatia. First you will need to start to the European Union, then the new government in Europe will record the situation in Croatia and make a decision in peace with Croatia. And by that shock, we have actually lost at least a year in approaching the European Union. And I fear that today before 2014 Croatia will not be in the association. Here's what the Prime Minister left us and it left us with his shock.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-03-0.u35031	Thank you very much. For the correction of the quote, the esteemed representative Frano Matušić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-03-0.u35032	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, it's incorrect, colleague Cain, that because of your irresponsible behavior as you said by the former prime minister, that the credit rating of Croatia was dropping. At the time of Mr. Sanader's term, the credit rating grew to be a colleague of Cain's and did not fall. And today it's at the highest level. Look, the foreign credit rating is at the highest level. Therefore, do not speak falsely.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-03-0.u35033	We're moving on to an individual debate. Dear colleague Davor Bernardic has applied for the debate. Here's my colleague Bernardić.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-03-0.u35034	Dear Vice President of the Parliament. Here's to correcting some delusions. Credit rating's down and down. It's not news, and it's been happening for the past year, because of the credit risk premium. But what I must also say is that the safe move of this abandoning ship at these moments will not help repair the credit rating. It's the same thing we all need to know. When we talk about the HBOR report, then it should be said that the report is correctly written in times and given what is happening and given what has been funded in 2008, but we must not forget or interfere with certain things. HBOR is a non-depositary financial institution, therefore it cannot be financed cheaply through deposits, and that is the main reason why it is seeking its funding in foreign financial markets through trade unioned loans from foreign and domestic banks, through the placement of debtors, and here is now the attempt of this latest circulation of euro bonds on the world market. There is no more cheap capital especially for countries such as Croatia, and I am talking about it at the beginning of which credit rating, i.e. credit risk premium has increased, and also because of the state's move and this can best show one example. Here is when you tried to place 300m euros in bonds a few days ago after what was said and speculated in the professional public, the Ministry of Finance prevented the payment of 300m euros in bonds at an interest rate, i.e. at a bond transfer rate of 8.75 to 9%. Because it's going to be a future reference to government borrowing. Therefore, HBOR and HBOR's borrowing is a reference to which the state is in charge, which also owes public companies, and therefore also the HBOR by its borrowing, regardless of what it should also want to help Croatian entrepreneurs, Croatian exports bear the premium of the risk of the state itself. You wear that cross, and that is something that you can't afford, and it's something that makes the signals from international circles, those who give money, so that Croatia, especially after this prime minister's move, will have to go into rebalance by summer if we want to get the basic money for the economy. Because 60% of all approved loans in support of exports and the most concluded loans as support to small and medium-sized enterprises are the vessels of the Croatian economy, especially at a time when exports are at never lower levels, when they fell by more than 20%. And that's what some MPs said and apostropheed. And this is the situation Croatia faces with which other countries meet. However, other countries, unlike Croatia, have an automotive economy, especially large countries that can be drawn from one another by mutual claims, i.e. by selling products to one another. So they're more capable of closing themselves in. What's the situation with us, enough says one piece of information that I once mentioned, and you mentioned on that trail that new program that the HBOR will be doing during this year, which is short-term liquidity loans. Well, that's absurd. It is absurd that HBOR must finance short-term liquidity loans, give entrepreneurs who cannot collect their claims in order to be able to pay their salaries. That's absurd, embarrassing and inadmissible. Why? Because there's been so much indifference in the system that it's more than 17 billion that no one pays anyone anymore. And not only that, there's no business trust, and it's created and primarily by not billing the claim from the state itself. Why am I saying that? Because the state doesn't pay more than 180 days in certain moments. The big ones who are so big on paper because they have a business result, they have a payout problem with their workers, let alone with the payoff of the cooperatives, the small ones who work for them. And that is the basic problem of the Croatian economy. We are precisely why we have sent the law into the procedure that this indifference is currently being reduced or that the state is undermining its obligations and also our club, our neighbouring club of the HNS has also sent a similar proposal that the state is not ordering unless it is able to fulfil its obligations from before. And that's the elemental sense because until we do, we won't be able to move forward. It is too much debt in all sectors to recover the economy from itself. Take an example of Croatian farmers only, take an example of Croatian milk farmers who were encouraged by the state to take on a loan from the laufstals and now have to pay them from the ransom price of the milk that fell. However, I am now hearing from Minister Polancec's announcements that the purchase price of milk will still be defended at that level, but what is a general problem in Croatia's agriculture is the high exposure of Croatian agriculture, Croatian peasants and, in general, the Croatian economy to state support, to all forms of state support. To this extent, it is great that we have a situation that a large part of the Croatian economy is practically in debt state slavery from the claim to the state. I must say that over 50% of all public revenues, over 50% of GDP are public expenditures spent by the state and the state generates over 50% of GDP. And imagine our entrepreneurs, our businessmen who are in big trouble, who cannot collect their claims and have to pay VAT to the state. They have no money because they have failed to collect their claims, but they have to pay the VAT to the state in advance and it generates great indifference, great uncertainty and therefore, in the last six months, one Dubrovnik has lost its job. What I must finally say is that without serious rebalance and incursion of state finances, perhaps even before summer as a message after this shocking message to Europe, credit rating, credit risk and everything that carries the risk premium and adds value to the interest rate, and for the economy, everything that makes it a more expensive cost of the economy, and it mentioned something to fellow Maric when he said that interest expenditures grew by 20%. So normally they grew by 20% when the credit risk was increased and the HBOR also not only credited but also guaranteed certain loans. And this is something without a serious cut in state finances, without a serious cut by summer, will not be for Croatian farmers, will not be able to welcome income in Croatia next year on their feet. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-03-0.u35035	Thank you very much, fellow Bernardic. We have three reported replicas. First respected representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-03-0.u35036	Thank you. Your Honor, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Bernardić, you rightly point out that non-payment is a cancer wound, erosion not only of the economy but also of the business and I would say of the civil one as well. We are so close to the gallop in '99 when no one ever paid anyone else and you rightly point out that the source and generator of this non-payment is the state itself. She doesn't pay herself, and she wants to get paid. And such a country is not taken seriously, nor do they feel that it can satisfy that fundamental justice and justice. But it's also dangerous from a point of view and it's one of the great hubs of corruption that the state then in such conditions some pay, some don't pay. And he appeared again as a state racket in the 1990s, that the state simply asked those people who put up accounts to threaten the financial police if they insist, to cut bills, etc. Thus, such conduct is not worthy of government officials and all those who work and who simply order officials to behave in this manner. It's a simple extortion, it's ultimately behavior that's sanctioned amongst citizens as a felony. The state should not behave this way and should take such behaviour seriously, ultimately and report them and sanction them.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-03-0.u35037	Thank you very much. Reply to the replica of my colleague Bernardić.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-03-0.u35038	What you said to colleagues Anticevic-Marinović best shows one example. The European Commission has presented a 200 billion-euro European Commission recovery plan in the fight against recession. And it is not only difficult in the funding section, but it is difficult in the directives relating to the legislation or the settlement of obligations. And small and medium-sized enterprises cut payment deadlines from 60 to 30 days. Exactly how it would not be at risk of indifference, just so that we would not be at risk of non-serving obligations to employees, according to suppliers, to all and it is something that is simply necessary to do and it is something that distinguishes responsible behavior in crisis situations from one that is not. It reminds me when we're talking about government debt and that's where this story of the state is in debt, it doesn't pay its dues, and then it goes into a new project. Let's just do this and we'll pay for it tomorrow, we'll think about it tomorrow. It's like a gambler asking for more money, and tonight I'm gonna get my money back to you, and so on and so forth. Unfortunately, in the past few years, this has generated an increasing indifference and a positive shift, unfortunately, is gone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-03-0.u35039	Thank you very much. According to the Rules of Procedure, the time has expired for the application of individual debates and for the replica the distinguished counterpart Goran Maric appeared. Here's my colleague Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-03-0.u35040	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Bernardić, it is undeniable that there is enormous indifference in the Republic of Croatia, but the reasons for the indifference are both layered and multiple. The analysis of economic operators who owe their suppliers the most found that the biggest debtors have no claim at all from the state, that there are economic operators that owe one billion kuna and one billion kuna to other suppliers. So, the starting point... The state is a bit pretentious. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] He got into entrepreneurship and everything. It's not the entrepreneurs who distribute other people's capital, it's the entrepreneurs who risk their own capital. But among the entrepreneurs, we count those who have ruined companies and those who have sold out property and those who have fired thousands of employees and who have ruined everything, only to them is the thicker billing abroad and abroad. Business morality is mostly the reason for Croatia's indifference, mostly business immorality, better said immorality. And he is, most picturesquely, in Croatia as a river that is a kilometer wide and a centimeter deep. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-03-0.u35041	Thank you very much. Reply to the replica of my colleague Bernardić.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-03-0.u35042	Well, yes, colleague Maric, but it is not up to me or you to resolve business morality or immorality, the responsibility is in the government, or responsibility is in the state. You'll agree with me. It is the state that has to settle legal obligations and payment deadlines. In other countries, there was probably anarchy, there was business immorality, and it was likely that laws would be abolished, and in Germany maybe no one would pay anyone. But that's why there's a state that has to create conditions for payment. We have proposed introducing a payment register as an instrument to protect the payment of claims within 30 or 60 days, depending on what the deal is. But that would mean, I agree that there are entities that do. But that would mean that the state has to put the cards on the table and say, OK, now we're paying in 30 days. Now, you see, that's the main reason why this register is in that form and it can't be introduced because that would mean that all of a sudden you have to invent 10 billion that the state itself generated through various sectors of indifference.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-03-0.u35043	Thank you very much. And third application for replica, colleague Mariana Petir. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-03-0.u35044	Dear Mr. Vice President, here's my colleague Bernardic and I have been arguing for days, he thinks the support in agriculture is too great, I think it's too small and I have arguments. If we want to achieve self-sufficiency in food production in Croatia, and I think it is our national interest, then in this sense we must certainly help these farmers, identify those segments that should be supported. And in this respect, it is certain that the support in agriculture must not be reduced, but should also be increased. Of course, here I must not miss the opportunity to thank both Mr Kovac and HBOR who, at a difficult moment and in the economic crisis, recognized agriculture as an important branch and through very favourable loans helped them overcome this difficult period. But I must tell my colleague Bernardic that there is no such support in agriculture and that we are not fighting to position our farmer on the market the situation would be much more dramatic today. For the first time this year, at the beginning of the first three months, the import export balance of agricultural products was in balance, however, the amount of agricultural products was even slightly higher which shows that in agriculture as well as perhaps other segments of the economy with a smart agricultural policy, it can be achieved that we do not only import but also export and that exports become larger. I also want to answer what you said about the price of milk. I am for helping our doctors and what they are promised must be respected because everything else would be unserious. But I must say that our milk is unfortunately the most expensive in Europe, 40 euro cents per litre of milk, only Malta has more expensive milk, 30 euro cents are given by buyers, 10 euro cents is given by the state. Milkers are protesting today across Europe, this has been the case in Croatia, and they certainly need help, the situation needs to be bridged. But here I see also these days Bosnia and Herzegovina is introducing some of its measures towards Croatia and other neighbouring countries when it comes to agriculture, so I would also like Croatia to introduce measures towards Bosnia and Herzegovina and reduce imports of milk, especially powdered milk.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-03-0.u35045	Thank you very much. Replication response, dear colleague Bernardic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-03-0.u35046	My dear colleague Petir, as you said, importing, exporting agricultural products at a good level, and that has never been me before, as if I had dreamed of protesting peasants before the Ministry of Agriculture. I dreamed what I could do, I liked to dream, but it seemed to me this year it happened. It is certain that it would not have happened if the situation had been great, so the situation is difficult, Croatian farmers may have been in the most difficult situation in the last 10 years since '99. and not to run away from it, but to face the problem and to see how it can be solved. What I must say is, it is true that the support for Croatian agriculture is great, I have nothing against great support, I only have against the fact that, on a day of Croatia in the European Union, someone should say to these people that without such support, the vast majority of them will remain. Is that gonna be you? Is that gonna be you? And what we have to change in the Croatian economy project in general is to teach people not to eat fish but to hunt it, because if they can hunt it, then they can eat it more. Here's a very simple analysis followed by some historical motives. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-03-0.u35047	Thank you very much. This is one nice analysis, and all they have to do is let them buy hooks. But we are going to the last debate reported, and this is distinguished colleague Franjo Lucic. Here's my colleague Lucic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-03-0.u35048	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, so it's nice to listen to a debate like this when it comes to the economy, when it comes to banks, but I'm not happy to listen to a debate that won't tell the truth, and especially it comes from people sitting in Parliament, who are now the opposition. The truth is we're all together aware of a very difficult situation in the economy. But I think it is very important to show the public that the economy is in a difficult situation but it should not be displayed as dramatic, it should not be shown that one man is responsible, it should not be shown that the government is responsible if we all know together that the recession and crisis began last year, in the middle of last year when it showed its strength in late 2008 and when it is really not right to blame both now the former prime minister and the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Of course, in times of difficulty, the government in some segments, if we have not responded in time, bears responsibility. But being so critical of the economy and that it's exclusively the government's fault, it's not right. And I come from the economy myself, and today I give every month, my company, 200 personal incomes. We were also forced to reduce the number of employees by about 30, 40 because we ourselves are exporters. And when we talk about a 24% reduction in exports, my colleague Bernardic, the reduction in exports to the wood industry is over 40%. The situation is very complex. So I'm asking you, that you are in power today, which you would do if there was a recession in the whole world, a reduction in orders, cancellation, termination of contracts, and at the same time we know that today the banks that are both talking about and the point of the agenda, especially when we talk about commercial banks, do not support the Croatian economy, because in this crisis that they have found themselves in, and especially because of their parent banks that have invested where they probably shouldn't have invested, is such a situation that only today is a bank, and that is the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development, the only bank, I dare say that, which is today following the economy. And if there were not today this bank, which is supported by the Croatian Government and we know that these are not sufficient funds, I can say freely that today the economy would be in an even more difficult situation and perhaps even an unexplainable situation. Therefore, the bank, the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development, has just granted 6 and a half billion loans to entrepreneurs who need these funds. Also, small and medium-sized enterprises 937 million kuna. Also exports that are very important for achieving all our objectives in the economy. Had it not been for this HBOR support, the results would have been much worse today. It is also approved for exports of cca 3 billion and 900 million kuna. And that is why we have to admit today that in these difficult times this bank has given its maximum economy, in this major global crisis and recession with the approval of a total of 9 billion kuna for various investments and that in 2007 it also approved approximately 8 billion, in 2006, six billion and only proof that in this difficult time recession and crisis were led by both the president of the administration and its co-workers to ensure this economy and not enough funding in this year, but in fact greater than it has achieved and secured in recent years. It is also important to say that this bank has approved 24% more loans than in the last year. When we look at the number of credits granted, it's also around 24%, which is really the same for every commendation. When we talk about exports, he is certainly a very important factor for Croatia and I am sure that exporters who especially deal with exports without this bank simply could not work today because I am a witness and I have fought for all of my entrepreneurs from Požega-Slavon County who are also HBOR users. And when I look at this table using HBOR's funds, then Požega-Slavon County is here somewhere in the middle where and occupy their place of other county. And so when we talk about the quality of today's funding, certainly HBOR is one bright spot compared to all of our commercial banks that today have a hard time and approve loans, but from 9, 10, 11, and even 12%. Today, this bank has subsidized interest, one part and bear it and HBOR carries it through its own business and therefore I am sure that this bank has a future, this bank will have even more painful results when the Croatian government and our economy achieve even better results, and when from the Croatian budget, therefore the original funds, we can allocate even more money to encourage the economy even more strongly, and then it is a guarantee of even faster development and then it is a guarantee of even better achievements in every sense of financial. Thank you very much. And I congratulate you, Mr. President and your associates, on all of this, for providing you with the resources for the economy that you really have today in a world recession. And therefore, dear friends, let's be realistic in showing the real situation. I am aware that here today, especially you in opposition, especially as you mention in these difficult moments today, this government is not in difficult times, this government has its own ministers, this government will have its own president who will know... To run this government, and then I'm sure of the economy. [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]] You've only run the government for four years, and that's why the citizens didn't trust you because you showed you your knowledge and showed you what you could do. If you had better results, you'd probably get trust in the next election. This is how you lost him in a very short period of time, and for a long time you are in opposition which certainly made you impatient and therefore you would be under urgent elections. But I guarantee you that these people who run this government must know what to do next. ... [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-03-0.u35049	We've got four lines reported, so there's going to be an opportunity to clear up a few more things and say it. The first one was answered by a distinguished counterpart, Parliament Vice-President Zeljka Antunovic. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-03-0.u35050	Thank you very much. In part of his presentation immediately at the beginning of his colleagues referred to the situation in the economy and possible responsibility or as he said it was an alleged plea for the government of the Republic of Croatia and tried to explain that there is no government to blame for the current situation, and even to ask a question, and what would you do if you were now at the government's place. Your answer is very simple. We can't be, or we certainly wouldn't be in this situation. We'd probably be in a complicated and responsible situation. But from the beginning, strategically, we would have led a different policy towards the state of the economy. And that's why our problems would exist if we were in government, but we'd be different. It is true that the government is not alone and responsible for everything. That's the only part you're right about. However, the government too has its share of responsibility. And despite what he said just before, we have a colleague, Maric, in entrepreneurship. There's a lot of stuff in there. There's ignorance, there's no responsibility. There is this inertness in relation to the adoption of new technologies, in relation to raising the competitiveness of our production and product, in relation to the possible exit to foreign markets, compared with that we could be investors in our region at a time when it could be. Today hard, no one dares to do so, even those who have the means. However, despite all this, all these weaknesses within the economy that are operating in an area outside the government, the government is obliged to balance. It is the government's duty to have a strategy, to have the ultimate objectives and to direct the economy and economies with its own measures, with its influence, to contribute to the functioning of this economy. And in this government did nothing but let everything go its own way, that these entrepreneurs behave as is not good for them or for Croatia. And that's why you can't remove the government's responsibility. She just exists. It's obvious, clear, and the biggest.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-03-0.u35051	Replication response, fellow Lucic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-03-0.u35052	Madam MPs, at no point did I say that the government does not bear part of the responsibility of any government, but that such rhetoric cannot go to the government as you on the left want to show this public, that the government is solely guilty, that the prime minister is guilty. You're wrong, because I told you, and as a businessman, I felt a crisis in the middle of last year, Mrs. MPs, and that's why you can't talk like that, and that's why it's not true. And that this government does not care exactly shows that through both HBOR and through all institutions it gives support to entrepreneurship because it is aware that the economy is the only one that can retain and can ensure that Croatia lives better tomorrow and that every citizen in this Croatia has a better standard. And I'm sure your rhetoric isn't right, and that's why I was talking about it, because you want to show this public just one other condition. We're aware of the facts and responsibilities and weights, but what you're saying is wrong. I'm also aware as I said you've been in the opposition for a long time and that's probably the biggest reason so you're eager for such authority. But don't show yourself to the public like that, because this public is conscious and has therefore chosen this government twice in a row and its president. So don't say anything that's not true.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-03-0.u35053	Thank you very much. Then we have a replication application, dear colleague Davor Bernardic. Here you go, my colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-03-0.u35054	Here's just at the beginning to correct the way you're sitting. We're on your right. Right? No one said and we talked about it and praised the HBOR report and you well noticed that there was no support from the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development this situation in the Croatian economy would have been even more dramatic, especially because it has grown in the last year, and it has grown precisely because they had to turn more funding to those who are much cheaper and cheaper for them. But what you're going to agree with me is that it's inadmissible that they have to give short-term credits for liquidity. And you asked me what to do and what I would do if we were in power. Well, here's an example. Rescinding obligations, not taking over new ones. The settlement of payments until new settlements are settled. And we sent you 25, now this is the 26th anti-recession proposal. You refused everything. So we told you what to do. We've sent 26 anti-recession proposals. So that's recorded. That's two and two four. And I'm gonna have to agree with you in the end on three more things. I agree with you that the government is not in difficult times. They are in difficult times Croatian citizens. I agree with you that it may not be a dramatic situation for some, but it must be a dramatic situation for those 40,000 people who have lost their jobs in the last six months. And I'll agree with you that it's certainly not one man's fault. It's impossible for one to be guilty. There had to be more.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-03-0.u35055	Thanks for the line. Replication response, dear colleague Lucic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-03-0.u35056	Well, mate, of course I don't agree with your rhetoric. Because when we talk about all these problems you are also aware that the main factor of the cause is both this indifference and all that is happening in the economy exactly the world crisis that has affected Croatia as well. So when you say nothing's done, go back five, six years back to the Employment Service. Look at the number of unemployed then, look at today’s number of unemployed, regardless of how many companies fired employees, so you will see that this statistics is just saying that today the number of unemployed is far less than it was a few years ago. So did all the programs give you their solutions? Have these programs that this government has through HBOR, and you've seen how many programs HBOR have produced. Well, they've just resulted in this global and economic crisis when people get mass quits we have far fewer unemployed than it was in 2005. So look at the statistics and don't claim anything that isn't.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-03-0.u35057	Thank you very much. Next comes the replica of distinguished counterpart Frana Matušić. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-03-0.u35058	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, you've made it clear that your colleague Lucic is not the government's main and responsible culprit that they're trying to speak to our SDP counterparts on the left. In fact, the government has acted very responsibly in recent years, and if it hadn’t been for such responsible behavior, we would certainly have been in a much more difficult situation today. And if by chance the government had listened to the proposals coming from the SDP, then on the expenditure side of the budget, the items would have been increased by about 15 billion kuna, which would mean the first huge deficit, the second would mean that Croatia could not actually deal with these problems financially and would mean the financial collapse of the state. These are therefore the summation of proposals coming from the SDP amounted to an expenditure increase of around 15 billion kuna. The government acted very responsibly because it insisted on reducing the state deficit, because it insisted that the state deficit be in line with European rules, so below 3%, and the last budget was planned with deficit 0, so that was the government's idea and that we were able to, quite certainly, make things easier today, but no matter what, we still left room for the government's debt, which has happened recently by placing bonds on relatively favourable terms since then, unfortunately, followed by the HBOR's task of something more unfavourable, but certainly not because of the government's irresponsible behaviour, but because of the global crisis. And when we talk about the banking sector, then there is only one thing that matters to Croatian citizens. A few months ago on Euronews was one piece of data that the European banks were in debt with their home countries, i.e. countries had to intervene with 3,000 billion euros to save the financial sector, in order to save the banks that are in those countries. We fortunately did not have such a case, banks operating in Croatia are doing business with profits. I agree with those who say they are big interest and that they are high incomes and that they should share the fate of Croatian citizens, but what is important is to say that such a problem the Croatian state did not have and did not give any kuna from its budget to banks. So the European countries had to give their banks out of their budget 3,000 billion euros.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-03-0.u35059	Thank you very much. Replication response, fellow Lucic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-03-0.u35060	I agree fully with Mr Matusic because the government has just done everything possible to make both citizens and the economy do the best possible standard. But at the same time we're talking anti-recession measures. Well, gentlemen, that this government has taken your anti-recession measures that have been exclusively linked to adjudicating this population and voters because you've been saying how to reduce interest, you've been saying how to write off loans. So I'm asking you, and at the same time you're talking about a budget that's not developmental and you said that the budget has nothing to do with the economy, and at the same time that your measures have been accepted, that would be a deficit for this government of 13 to 15 billion, looking at the total of what you've increased. So I'm asking you, dear friends, where would you get so much money in this time of difficult, global economic crisis? And at the same time, your anti-recession measures were exclusively advocacy to the electoral body because you are aware that this is impossible to achieve. And that's why it's devastating that you're running such a policy, but I'm also aware that you have to because there's no other way out.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-03-0.u35061	Thank you very much. I've seen one report of a breach of the Rules of Procedure, a colleague of Arsen Bauk's.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-03-0.u35062	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I think that fellow Lucic was a little confused because he was responding to the replica of counterpart Matusic, he was all the time addressing the left side of the assembly, but this confusion obviously has its continuity because he had previously talked about this government, and yesterday we accepted the prime minister's resignation, and so little to concentrate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-03-0.u35063	Thank you very much. And the last application for a replica, distinguished counterpart Goran Maric, a colleague of Maric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-03-0.u35064	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. You have rightly stated that most of the burdens of financing entrepreneurship and economy have fallen on both the back of the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development. It fell because the business banks were estranged from entrepreneurship, from the economy and from the real sector. We are a unique example in the world that even in one year, business banks placed more money on the population than on the economy. It's unique. We have in Croatia and an economic paradox. It is known that there must be a positive correlation between the degree of profitability and the degree of risk. And according to the Croatian National Bank, all commercial banks in Croatia have almost no risk at all because 97% are fully charged. And their rate of profitability is enormous. And in fact, such a situation has led the banking system to have an extraordinary profit rate, that the gross social product falls by 6.7%, that the real sector chokes in problems, and that the banking sector simultaneously generates enormous profits. Also, why the HBOR, thank God it exists in these moments, because the HBOR did not slip into it as it has crawled around the world, as well as in Croatia into the financial sector and egoism and insatiable desire for wealth. And entrepreneurship, by its definition, will again contain not only individual interests, but also broader social interests. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-03-0.u35065	Thank you very much. And a reply to the replica, fellow Lucic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-03-0.u35066	Here, I agree with my colleague Maric. All I have to do is ask this left-hand side by looking, who should I look at? Here, I'll still watch my colleague Maric, he's closer to me this way. I agree with my colleague completely with your findings because I am sure that commercial banks have not contributed to the development of the economy. We're not just gonna talk about 2009. And especially in these difficult times, I'm sure they should have made their big contribution, especially through such great interest. But when we look at 2007 and 2006, and especially in 2007, there is the president of the administration, and I am sure that the total number of commercial banks, as much as we have in Croatia, approved loans, when we only talk about the economy, are about the same as the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development. Somewhere around here, so we're not going to do it now. Therefore, the greater impact of commercial banks must indeed, especially in this difficult time, be directed towards the economy and I'm sure they don't have to be this big interest, big insurance because it is indeed an indication that in these difficult times when there are no credit ratings, they make an extremely good profit. That is why the appeal of our president who resigned was precisely that commercial banks recognise the interest of the economy and that through the reduction of interest, and that is the direct impact and assistance and guarantee that they will keep the economy and banks alive from the economy. If there's no economy, who will the banks place the funds on? And I'm sure they'll understand this problem, too, because this is a problem for all of us. This is not only a problem with the Croatian government, this is not a problem. We all have to participate, and especially those people who deal with finance bankers, recognize the interest of the economy, because without that interest indeed the economy cannot survive. The economy today cannot function on 12% interest. I'm asking you. And it's not even the banks' interest to become property owners. What about the real estate? Therefore, it is also a message that both banks are joining the HBOR programmes and that, with the cheapest placement of funds, they place funds in the economy, because it is a guarantee that this is the only way that the economy will remain.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-03-0.u35067	Thank you very much. There are no more applications. The applicant's representative did not express his wish for a final return. That's why I'm closing the debate. We'll vote on this point when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-03-0.u35068	22., HBOR Annual Financial Report 2008 is the applicant of the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development. The debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal from the parliamentary working bodies, I am voting to confirm the annual financial reports of the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development for 2008. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? This annual financial report was adopted unanimously by 104 votes.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-03-0.u35069	And we move to the next second item of the agenda, which is - The Programme and Financial Report of the Croatian Olympic Committee for 2008 The Reporter is the Croatian Olympic Committee. You received the proposal. The government has delivered an opinion on this report. The discussion was also conducted by the home Committee on Family, Youth and Sports. We also received a report from the board at the session. I welcome the representatives of the proposings who are here with us. And I ask the Honorable Mr. Zlatko Matešu of the President of the Croatian Olympic Committee does he want to address the introduction? Here you go, Mr. Mateo.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-03-0.u35070	Dear Mr. Vice President, distinguished MPs and MPs. There is another report before you by the Croatian Olympic Committee, a roof association of Croatian sports that unites 81 national sports alliances of which 39 Olympics. This report can be seen in several units. One that is first, these are sports results that are, of course, always exact, measurable and recognizable. The second part is development programs, the third part is the concern of athletes, the fourth part of the financial part and the fifth part for us is an extremely significant control part or controlling. In the first part of 2008, as far as sports results are concerned, you can see from the report, it can be considered extremely successful. It is an Olympic year, a year that has been dedicated to this sporting event for all its duration, and I think that Croatian athletes and athletes have fully justified everything that has happened over the past 4 years, and we run each Olympic game as a separate project, invested in their work and creating a sports result. In the second part of development programmes, we have 10 development programs, of which 6 development programs concern overall sport and 4 development programs concerning local sport. In these 6 development programs covering the entire Croatian sport, today we have about 290 athletes and athletes. In your report for the past year there were 277 of them, all Croatian athletes and athletes from 12 years of age who show an even relevant sports result. Therefore, it can be absolutely with accuracy and responsibility to say that there are no athletes or athletes in Croatia over 12 years of age who have achieved or achieved some sports result quantifiable and relevant in broader proportions, not covered by the Croatian Olympic Committee programmes. The special program is a professional work programme in which, as you can see, 70 coaches are included. All our leading coaches, any national selections, any cadets, are covered by that program. And in this it is a secret of the growth of some sports such as shooting and others, where actually complete professional work and all performances were financed by the Croatian Olympic Committee and in some ways it went towards equating in a media sense more or less expressed or monitored sports. As far as I'm concerned, there are 70 coaches in that program. All Croatian leading coaches, with the exception of Mr. Slaven Bilic, are covered by the programme. As for local sports, 43 Croatian cities from all Croatian counties are covered by 4 development programmes. And we have done, although it is not our primary task, we share this task together with cities and counties, we have done everything in these programmes to cover as many young athletes and athletes as possible, through only one program you see inside, which is the program of the Olympic children's kindergartens. Nearly 14,000 preschool children were included. I especially draw your attention to the part of the program that concerns the care of athletes. Thanks to our sponsors, all our athletes are provided both in terms of insurance and in terms of health care. They have top-notch treatment, so we don't have any special problems on that side. We gave special attention last year to the education of athletes and programs we call career after career. Here we especially thank the Ministry of Education, Science and Sports, the Rectorial Assembly and all those who have found understanding for the needs of athletes in the segment of education. Because as you know, I have to say for example, our skiers have been coming out of the country for over 220 days. And it's impossible for them to e-learning, without the distance learning to attend high and high school institutions. And those programs are particularly important to us, because we want to be a lot more people, I'm not going to list names like our athletes who have proven that they can run top sports careers, but that they can end up with high school institutions. The next part is financial. It shows you that the Croatian Olympic Committee has done business properly. If we had extra income over expenditures of about 600 thousand kuna, which is acceptable and good because we are not a profit organization for normal functioning, we have no credit, we owe no one anything, so we don't predict that this situation would change significantly. I have to be proud that we're an institution that no sponsor has ever cancelled. In fact, we've renewed all the sponsorship contracts. It also speaks in its own way about the trust of the economy towards this institution. The last segment is a control function. We have a few degrees of control. We've got internal control, we've got a monitoring board, we've got a commercial audit, we've got a state audit, we've got budget control of the finance ministry. We are particularly pleased with the fact that we are one of those institutions I would say not a very large number of whom the State Review has given unconditional opinion to you who listen a lot here in the Parliament know about what this means. And we kept the ISO 9001 standard that is renewed every year as one proof of quality in business. All several Olympic committees in Europe have that standard. Everything else is in the report, I leave it to your judgment. I hope you'll be happy with the way we did in 2008. If there are any remarks we are always willing to listen to, change something, upgrade because I am sure that sport is one of the topics around which there is no dispute in this House, everyone is looking forward to the success of our athletes and athletes so that it is one sure topic that unites the whole of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-03-0.u35071	Thank you, Goldie. And these days we look forward to and look forward to the medals that our athletes win at Mediterranean games. I'm asking the committee's rapporteur if he'd like to take a word for it further. No, I don't. If it's not on behalf of the board, we're going to have a debate on behalf of the clubs. On behalf of the HDZ club, distinguished counterpart Perica Bukic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-03-0.u35072	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues, the Honorable President and Secretary-General of the Croatian Olympic Committee. Already the great reputation of Croatian sports in 2008 the athletes again contributed to a number of major results, won titles and medals. Although the medals belong to athletes of the quality of the materials from which they were forged in many contributed precisely by the Croatian Olympic Committee roof national sports association. Systematic concern for sports at all levels from schooling through city and county to top-level has been rewarded by the strong ossification of Croatian sport at a fundamental level but also by top-level results, which are often an unwarranted sole measure of the success of sports communities. As we heard with the winning 271 medals at European and world championships and a bunch of competitions and at the Olympic Games, Croatian representatives have far surpassed standards that, according to world statistics, would be based on the number of top athletes in the population, put on average. All of the above also confirms the fact that in 2008, as many as 3,000 364 athletes requested categorization and thus inclusion in the list of top-notch athletes. The solution has been allocated to as many as 2,000 871 athletes. The decision to care for sport as a whole and in particular its funding for the Croatian Olympic Committee has caused a lot of controversy in time, however, we have witnessed the fact that in 2008 the Croatian Olympic Committee served 81 sports alliances. Of this, 66 alliances projected a programme based on the redistribution of money with 95 per cent and more. If we try to compare this with other non-sport associations and state-funded organisations, we come up with the information that the sport had far more quality and economical than anyone else under the auspices of the state. At the same time, the growth in detachment for local sports programs... The programme has increased almost 500% over the last five years. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] These programmes The Croatian Olympic Committee develops in cooperation with sports communities primarily at regional and local level. The Croatian Olympic Committee's report reads how to improve sports in regional and local communities, encourage sports of children and youth and encourage sports on islands, war-devasted areas and in areas of special state care during 2008 received 70 programme applications and approved 38 supported by around 2 million kuna. These data speak of strong activity at local levels, and it is a pity that nearly half of the proposed programmes had to be left without support. In addition to the regular programme, the Croatian Olympic Committee encourages local sport through specific programmes and the number of participants in such programmes in relation to the total population does not lag behind figures in the EU countries where data suggest... The European Commission’s sport generates 410 billion euros per year or 3.7% of the European Union’s gross social product and provides jobs for 15 million people or 5.4% of the total workforce. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] That's the 2007 data. This best tells how many sports promotion programs are well designed and guided at local level, especially in terms of a program called the Croatian Olympic Committee – a project to support sport at local level and a programme that is its natural upgrade from sports school to the Olympic Games to support 36 sports schools in which future players of Croatian sport are schooled. At that age, talented athletes already use the first of four development programs to monitor the development of athletes from younger cadet to senior age. It is important that athletes from Olympic and non-Olympic sports are involved in these programmes and in 2008 the number of youngest users aged 12 to 16 has doubled compared to the year before. Their further development is then monitored through other programmes and it is important that the programmes include athletes from 24 different sports who won 54 medals last year or placed on the world's European ranking lists at their age. At the same time, there is a minimum number of those who have stopped being users of the program, so those who have given up... sports. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Here, it should be warned that the absolute number of users of the development programs of 287 of 35 sports do not have to be made big, but given that they are the most gifted athletes expected to produce top-level results at the world level, the figure becomes particularly respectable. Great... The development and care system of the top athlete leads us to the most visible segment of the work of the Croatian Olympic Committee, which is a top sport. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In 2008, the Croatian Olympic Committee prepared the performance of our athletes on three major sports events. The public focus was, of course, at the Beijing Olympics. They can personally testify that the preparations and performances at the Olympic Games were wonderfully prepared and Croatian athletes enjoyed the most standards both during preparation and during the Beijing competition, although it remains regrettable that it did not give birth to the gold medal. The fact remains that our athletes won five medals, which is a 66% increase compared to the current average or 30% of all medals won at the five Olympic games which were attended by Croatian representatives. Six years ago, at the beginning of the first term of this sport government, according to the discussion of the strategy for the development of sports in Croatia, the position of sports in society was not clearly defined, the importance of child sports and youth was not sufficiently promoted, the legislation was incomplete and unskilled and the amount of money was insufficient. The selection of future athletes has not been properly or inadequately implemented. In addition, the network of sports school systems was missing, etc. This year's report by the Croatian Olympic Committee shows that a huge step has been taken towards the final arrangement of the sports system in Croatia. The entire work of the Croatian Olympic Committee in the past period and not only in 2008 merits the highest score. The formation of the Croatian Olympic Committee and a clear strategy for the development and implementation of the tasks set at the highest level, they set a standard that created sound foundations for the entire Croatian sport. With the full support of this programme and financial report of the Croatian Olympic Committee on behalf of the Croatian Democratic Community Club, we can conclude that the Croatian Olympic Committee has, in extremely turbulent times, made it possible for Croatian sport to operate uninterrupted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-03-0.u35073	Thank you very much. On behalf of the HNS Club, distinguished colleague Goran Beus Richembergh. Here you go, my colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-03-0.u35074	Dear Mr. Vice President of the Parliament, Mr. President of the Olympic Committee. In front of us is a report that is in line with those who are pleased to read. Not only because the financial part of this report shows that there is a solid and good organisation behind this report, but also because of the scale of things, which are the sports successes, that is, the presentation of Croatia on the business plan. In front of us, a report which therefore testifies that the Croatian Olympic Committee has in recent years established a positive trend which can now be called responsible business with certainty in 2008 but has also established an internal level of consensus between sports associations, sports communities and it seems to me that the Croatian Olympic Committee has achieved one level of mutual understanding between representatives and Olympic and non-Olympic sports but also regional interests in the development of sports. What I am sure is that the Croatian Olympic Committee also shares the concerns of sports alliances but, above all, the sports communities, given how sport is financed at local or regional level. And this step over the past few years made by the Croatian Olympic Committee in financing the development of local sport, I would say rather reflects the impotence of an existing system which units of local self-government rarely respect but only the original missions of the Croatian Olympic Committee. It seems to me that the HO has definitely realized that it can do something to develop those programs for which regional self-government obviously does not have enough meaning, or understanding. This is, of course, positive, especially when talking about working with preschool and school children because although it already sounds like a corny phrase, it is impossible to develop long-term sport if it does not start working at that age, at the earliest age with children. The problem I mention is not irrelevant, namely, according to the Sport Act, all units of local and regional self-government are obliged to allocate funds to develop sports and recreation, and they do so more than anything. Of course, we cannot expect all units of local self-government to monitor the need to separate a certain percentage from their original budget because it is simply such a situation, not only economic but also developmental. In fact, many units of local self-government face the elemental problems of municipal development so that, I say, it is difficult to expect them to achieve that percentage of the original budget that all athletes and recreationals would hope for. However, there is something that is worrying, and it is that the existing Sport Act is trying not only to ignore but also to kind of bypass by many units of local self-government and, above all, local sheriffs of sports development funds assign in one extremely non-transparent way or avoid the distribution of funds to the oversport communities. What does that actually accomplish? It is achieved that the distribution of funds is carried out according to criteria that are not clear, are not transparent. It is achieved that you buy favors, people who are engaged in sports and recreation and achieve that one man decides more or less, until yesterday's headship and tomorrow the mayor, or the mayor, or mayor. This is not good, of course, because the system of sports communities has developed criteria and cannot happen through a system of sports communities without public insight, but it should also be said and the insight of representative bodies then there are major disturbances in the financing system. Therefore, it would be necessary for the competent ministry and, as far as I am aware in this regard, the Croatian Olympic Committee is also responding, asking how much I know is not yet responsible for what the state, or what the competent ministry is doing to bring this system in order. Because if it happens that the community continues to finance the needs of local sport then the question arises whether it will favour those who really deserve it, who have real capacities, who have a real development base and in the number of children and in the number of clubs, or whether something that can be called privatisation or private or any other influences that can come into the zone of favor, nepotism and abuse. It is therefore extremely important that the representative bodies of the local self-government units also make sure that the funds intended for development, sport and recreation are transferred to communities, and, of course, that the community of sports associations is asked for absolute transparency in reporting, therefore, that the representative body knows why, how and when money is spent for sport and recreation. Therefore, even communities must not be allowed to become untouchable and not to be asked in this regard. But in any case, the community of sports associations, as an organization that gathers representatives of all sports, all clubs definitely a much better place to decide on the distribution of funds intended for sport and recreation than it is mayor, mayor or mayor. The honor of each and every one of them should be given the opportunity to continue to assist budget reserves in exceptional circumstances when it comes to performances in some of the higher wounds that local athletes have placed on going to camps or other needs, but this cannot be a general approach in the distribution of all funds from local budgets. What is very important to point out that therefore the Croatian Olympic Committee has stabilised its financial business fact is, huge resources come, hugely I mean, from the state budget, so it should be. One resource is sourced from the budget, the other is lottery assets. But this report shows that the Croatian Olympic Committee built several years ago, and now has already built a system of responsible behaviour towards funds and in a way that finds sponsorship and donor resources that were 13 million in 2008, so not few. The Croatian Olympic family is one of the forms through which part of these funds is alimony and we need to know that 2008 was an Olympic year, so it was much easier to aliminate these funds, i.e. to make all these arrangements, agreements, find donors. It is certain that 2009 will be much more difficult in this regard. 2010 is also an Olympic year due to the Vancouver Olympic Olympics, so it is likely again in this sense to rely more on marketing sources, but we must be aware of the current economic recession, the country's current economic situation will definitely reflect on the financing of Croatian sports. It's not a space that recession and crisis will bypass. I am pleased that in 2008, the Croatian Olympic Committee had a firm and clear view of what would happen. As far as I know, all the border sports this year were in this sense when it was planned to go with a reduction in planned costs, because in 2009 it was anti-civilized as a crisis year and it was not already Olympic to use it then and to try to save it. In this sense congratulations also to President Mateša, but also to all his associates who work professionally in the Croatian Olympic Committee. If it wasn't a small force, it would testify to this figure that about 10 million kunas are spent on wages. It is definitely a major professional mechanism and it is obvious to fit those tasks that the law has set before them. And definitely according to everything I know, and I allow that I do not have enough information, all border sports have a positive view of this report, according to the results and the policy effects of the Croatian Olympic Committee. Once again, I will ask the Croatian Olympic Committee not to stand in this story. Pressure towards the Ministry of Science and Education, which is also responsible for sport, because the ministry cannot and must not escape from its responsibility, monitoring, allocation systems from local and regional budgets for the development of sport and recreation. It must not be stopped, pressure should continue, because the ministry is a very, very responsible factor, and all units of local self-government and regional self-government are now in special danger, conditionally said, because we have a direct choice of mayors, mayors and mayors, and now this intensity of local powers will be underlined to share the money alone without any criteria. I don't think that's the interest of Croatian sport or recreation, that it is not a public interest and that the Croatian Parliament must thus provide support on the part of the Croatian Olympic Committee to make this whole system more transparent and efficient. Thank you very much. The HNS Club will support this report.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-03-0.u35075	Thank you very much. And an application on behalf of the SDP Representatives Club. Dear Representative Arsen Bauk. Here you go, fellow representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-03-0.u35076	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear President of the Croatian Olympic Committee, colleagues and colleagues. The SDP club will join these clubs to support this Croatian Olympic Committee report. Of course, it has its two essential parts. One is financial, the other is sports. I'll look back very briefly on the financial part. Therefore, for the financing of the Croatian Olympic Committee, 133 and a half million kuna are allocated from our budget, 46 of which are listed as regular funding and another 87 million kuna from gambling. Therefore, it is clear that this lotto fever every paid ballot has brought at least a small improvement to our Croatian athletes, so in this sense it is good to advertise further. As far as marketing is concerned, a large increase in funds that the Croatian Olympic Committee received from 1.05 to nearly 12 million kuna compared to 2007. I guess it's about 2008 being the year in which the biggest sporting event took place in the next four years, so the Summer Olympic Games in Beijing, and that's why there's been a greater interest in sponsors. And finally, what's mentioned in the financial section is a surplus of revenue compared to the expenditures of 4.6 million kuna, which is good for us, but here's a colleague from the Olympic Committee if you get that from the Ministry of Finance, you might be able to get budget items for next year, because you'll obviously miss money anyway. As for the sports section, first of all, I'm going to look back on what's called and what's top-notch sports. Croatia won five medals at last year's Olympic Games in Beijing. Let's look at some of the sports we won medals from. In any case, these are not sports that are media-scarred in Croatia and are not sports that can be seen on television every day, whether in transmission or in consideration through the sports part of the journal. It's gymnastics, shooting, tae kwon up and just slightly better represented athletics. Also, our media during the Olympics were very concerned with the ratio of the number of inhabitants and medals we won, and of course we were proud to find that Croatia is at the top of the world by the number of medals per capita. In addition to the Olympic Games, however, it should be noted that Croatian athletes participate in world championships in other major sports competitions, to achieve also envious results that are no less than those in the Olympic Games. However, in all the statistics, all the records still view medals at the Olympics as the greatest peak a athlete could make. It's not even weird anyway, because the sports career around lasts two to three Olympic cycles and you only have the chance to make two to three times in your life such a top score that would lead you to the order of these sports... As far as high-end sports are concerned, the word should be noted, two about media monitoring, especially on national television. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I think it is really inappropriate, not to say embarrassingly, that the Croatian public qualifications of Croatian basketball players for the Olympic Games should have been viewed on satellite programmes, that top water polo regional leagues must be watched on Montenegrin television, that women's sports are particularly unsuitable in national television programmes. And in some ways, the fact that this report of the Croatian Olympic Committee only mentions in one paragraph the title "women and Sports" What is the goal of top sports, the aim of the Olympic Committee in top sports should certainly be to make this top sport self-sustainable, i.e. that I am funding myself, and that what goes out of the budget is used to finance other types of sports that I would share in school, recreational, amateur and professional. Of course different state institutions, local self-government institutions have different roles in financing these types of sports, so of course you should encourage the Ministry of Education and Sports to encourage and finance school sport. Because without those kids who start playing sports, there wouldn't be any top athletes in their later years, and we wouldn't have anyone to be proud of when it brings us medals from big competitions. Recreative sport should be what each of us deals with for recreation, so not because of the competition that needs to be provided in any case by local self-government. All right, so, all sports facilities, all the paths that are arranged to deal with recreational sports, it's in the domain, it should be in the domain of local self-government and it should be the second part of this let's call it sports pyramids. Because, of course, at the top and as some kind of controller and coordinator, it should be the Croatian Olympic Committee again. Then, the third species should be an amateur sport. It's them all, all those sports competitions, all those sports activities of competitive character, but in which people who compete don't live on it. So they simply do it for their own pleasure or for some future success, a future personal breakthrough. And at the top of that pyramid should be professional and top-notch sports. So those sports where people, who deal with that sport, and they live on it, and that's their only profit. And finally, in this top-notch part, something less top-notch, and that's the attitude of politics and sports politicians. So there's a large number of sports associations, clubs that are headed by people who are involved in politics. This only shows that these 150 million kunas of the Olympic Committee's revenue are of course not the only revenues of sports in Croatia because many clubs are financed either from the budget of local self-government units or from state-owned companies. And now it is only a matter of how long this situation can be maintained, for example because of the crisis and recession mentioned already the Croatian Football Federation began to think about cutting the league 16 before it even started. I would also like to look back at some of the things that we warned from the SDP club last year. We certainly welcome the health care programmes of athletes carried out by the Olympic Committee. But since the programme applies only to some top athletes who are participating the Olympic Committee's programmes. The issue remains of health care, prevention and health care for injured athletes especially in local environments, especially in small local environments where there are most often no professional, sports, scientific workers, and there are none in clubs which are particularly worth not only for small local environments but also applies to so-called "local environments". Although they're not small, what we saw from these results at the Olympics, but let's call them that. And, of course, this once again imposes a problem that the new Sport Act has not solved, and even touched, although we of the SDP have proposed that the health care of athletes be installed in the entire health system. We welcome somewhere the fact that professional associations have introduced a new specialization in sports medicine. Here's a joint specialization in labor and sports medicine. However, only the opening of infrastructure, sports ambulances, especially in smaller environments, are local environments that still need to be worked on. It is also known that athletes from Olympic sports are receiving awards from the state budget for the medals achieved, and not only are they getting them but their entire logistics team. So, coaches, medical and technical staff. We would like to reiterate that in other sports, therefore, not Olympic sports athletes who win gold medals at world championships do not even get any formal affirmation for this work, in the sense that at least some official or government official receives them, about the money that we do not even talk about. We think that sometimes gold was won at the World Cup simply medals of gold glow that deserved the same or at least a similar kind of reward by the state budget, regardless of whether it was Olympic sports. In addition, the Olympic Committee's report specifically lists neolimpic sports. Activities with non-member alliances are mentioned, namely, whose sports are not at the Olympic Games. Therefore, I think that we should work on equating or approaching Olympic sports in this segment. When we talk about this difference, it is known that most Olympic sports have excellent media follow-up, and therefore quite good, in some cases exceptional financial support through sponsorship and advertising contracts as seen this year, so the question is whether all these revenues are really necessary and these additional rewards are more so when they are not in some way equal. In this respect, the Croatian Olympic Committee should take a more active role in the affirmation of athletes who may not primarily belong under their partial responsibility, although they are only top athletes in non-Olympic sports to help them with one side of their public affirmation, but also to provide better working conditions by means of additional funds from the sponsors themselves. At the end of what I particularly appreciate is that sports on islands is very attractive and interesting for young people who do not have other opportunities for free activities especially in winter months. However, since the development of sport on islands in the state budget provided for about 100, 200000 kuna, that in this way the interest in sports is not only an interest in sports but also an interest in health, the spending of young people's free time on islands is unfortunately still almost declarative. In this respect, this part of the support coming from the Olympic Committee is really welcome, although it is a minimum of funds. In the end, I want to congratulate all our athletes either from Olympic or non-Olympic sports, whether at world championships or Olympic games or other competitions, of course I want to believe that Croatian athletes will bring even more athletes from the next Olympic games, I apologize. So that Croatian athletes and athletes from the next Olympic games will bring even more medals than it is now in other competitions, that the Croatian Olympic Committee will expand its activities beyond the top professional sport at local level, at school, recreational etc. The SDP club will support this report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-03-0.u35077	Thank you very much. There are no more applications for club debates. We're moving on to individual debates. Prior to that, the presidents of clubs are asked for other obligations and coordination when voting is planned. Somewhere around 2:00 a.m. will be a vote. And now we're moving on to individual debates. First, a colleague, Maras, applied for a hearing. Here you go, colleague Maras. He's gone. He's losing his right to debate. Then a respected counterpart, Perica Bukic, applied for the debate. Here's your colleague, Bukic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-03-0.u35078	Here, dear Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, gentlemen from the Croatian Olympic Committee. I have a need and I individually address this subject since there is one problem because Mr. Bauk on behalf of the club presented a thesis that I think is very dangerous for sport at all. So youth sport, recreation and amateur sport should be financed by the state local administration, etc., and top sport should be left to the market. I think there was some thesis, and I think we heard it on several occasions by the SDP gentlemen. I personally run a water polo alliance and several clubs, and I can tell you responsibly that in that case, if we let the sport market disappear, the top sport will disappear. There is no possibility that any club, especially those from sports that are mass sports, which have thousands of children in their programs to operate on the basis of the market, would mean that we have sponsors who are motivated solely by market interests etc. How connected is the success of these sports and athletes, clubs, how connected they are to the mass of sports, how many children are engaged in sports precisely because of these role models, because of these great athletes who are top athletes, who score the highest score, win medals at the Olympic Games, champions are Europe, etc., I don't think we should stress. And also, all of these kids, we have examples of handballs and water polo, basketball, football, and, of course, the most massive sport that the biggest engagements of these children are inflows, so to speak, in sports right in the moments of the greatest results. So without top-notch sports, without serious help activities, operating top-notch sports, we can hardly talk about mass sports, we can hardly talk about these children who are really engaged in clubs, by various sports and here, this is the introduction to the topic I wanted to say about today's sports financing problems, regardless of the efforts of the Croatian Olympic Committee, and related to this report where the budget of the Olympic Committee was spent at 100%. I must stress that unfortunately, unlike the Olympic Committee, which has not lost its sponsors, sports alliances have mostly lost their sponsors. I can say that, here's a concrete example of the Croatian Water polo Union 3/4 sponsors canceled and certainly no, so I would say almost 50% of last year's budget, hardly that we can keep quality and expect results from the needs, not only of this team, but of all other selections. I must now present the information that, at this point, there are as many as 7 selections of A teams, university, young national team, junior junior juniors, women who have the same B championships in Europe, etc. So this is one drive that is exceptional, which includes hundreds, not only say now the strongest ones we all look at at the world championship of seniors, but also all the other selections, and to keep that quality we want, I think it is absolutely necessary to see in what way additional funds directly help sport because it is unrealistic to expect in the near future, or already today, unfortunately through the night that sponsors might be, means that the needs of these national alliances could be covered by sponsors that are mostly from state companies. And in that sense, in a way and my appeal for a serious debate on the topic of the functioning of sports national teams on the one hand, but closely related to that and the clubs that are the basis, I'm talking about club sports now, but I think it's a very similar situation with individual sports. The special topic is these sportsmen's fees which we, the Croatian Olympic Club, opened where we tried according to our environment, means the countries that have already made such decisions and solved the problem of private Croatian athletes who really owed our country their results. The rewards that would in some way be a reward for all that they gave, but I think, first of all, that it should be one great motive and young people who come, in a good way, explain and present because I think the perception of the public has unfortunately remained focused on several athletes who are well-being, who through sports practice have solved their existence, unlike the vast majority of athletes who failed and who, after winning the gold Olympic medals de facto at this point in a very bad financial situation. So there are a few problems that are tied up, but here's so much for this time. That's what I was talking about last year. I think it's a couple of important problems that we're really going to have to take account of in the near future and try to find a solution because I absolutely think it's past the time of donation from state-owned companies. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-03-0.u35079	Thank you very much for discussing another colleague, Bukic. We've got a few applications for replication. First, a colleague named Arsen Bauk signed up. Here's my colleague, Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-03-0.u35080	Thank you. Since I often discuss sports, sports history, etc. with my colleague Bukic, I hope he didn't think of any antisports dangerous statement that I made at the pay phone. So I'll try to explain it one more time. So my statement was that the aim should be to keep the top sport only sustainable, and that the larger number, the larger amount of money from the budget should be directed at this sport of young people, recreationally, etc. And this is a very logical statement, so the revenue from the sponsor of the Croatian Olympic Committee was not 12, but 52 million, then 40 million kuna could be more directed at other types of sports. So that's how it's supposed to be. It would be good, and we must strive to bring top-notch sport into such a position that it can only be sustainable. Of course, we can't do that if we have a situation to cut power to the Split basketball club, that Nikolai Pesalov sells medals like we heard or, for example, heard. We're missing three football league clubs so we don't know how it's gonna go together. Is this amount of money that the Croatian state spends on sport in the best way? Probably not. In doing so, I am not referring to these budgetary resources of the Croatian Olympic Committee, but also to all the funding by any state institution, any state-owned company or the local self-government unit that finances the sports club. Of course, people who act as leaders are chosen from their citizens' dwellings, and perhaps some citizens do mean that they have a club in the first league and are ready to be singled out of their budget instead of social or other needs for them. It's the right of citizens, it's democracy. And it is up to others to warn that some resources can be spent more wisely there. In that sense, it was, of course, my wish that the more sport I get from sponsors the best, because only he can get from sponsors, and of course that school sport and youth sport gets more from the state budget because they can hardly get from sponsors. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-03-0.u35081	Thank you very much. Reply to the replica, dear colleague Bukic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-03-0.u35082	Well, I figured out exactly what you said, but your statement I have to tie it to your party president's statement in one address where he repeated the same thesis. So it was pretty much, my son's in sports, that's great. We'll support the sport of young people, but top-notch sports should be left to the market, so who can. That's what I have to talk to you about. I don't think you're aware of what sport means, which means top-of-the-line sport, which means club-keeping and what kind of situation it is today. I think the public needs to hear that. So it's not just top-notch sports for 15 of them in football that make good money, they have enormous incomes. The top sports are thousands of athletes who deal with other sports and who work hard for minimum income, and it really needs to be seen and found a solution. Of course money in sports never enough. Croatia's government has significantly increased the segregation for sport. However, I also think that the Croatian Olympic Committee and the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports are being spent in part of the sport as rationally as possible. And on the subject of the facilities and the overall functioning of the sport of school sport, youth, but will I repeat since one big money came from the sphere of state-owned companies, which is already very uncertain today not to say that it is cut to a minimum, I think we need to think very carefully about how and in what way to finance the sport in the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-03-0.u35083	Thank you very much. Next, a distinguished colleague, Klaric, applied for the replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-03-0.u35084	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honored President of the Croatian Olympic Committee. Here I have a real need to support the esteemed representative of my colleague Bukić in his thinking and I will also say this here already three times we can hear professional top athletes not leave the market. What we haven't heard before, and I'm kind of a socialist in my own human and professional location. What we have achieved in the past few dared to say to ourselves in Croatia 5.6 recent years that we have strongly sensitised the Croatian public to an important dimension that the overall sport at the level of all of Croatia can produce and produce already, which is the prevention of all the social types of behavior in our children and young people. That's what Mr. Bukic keeps pointing out, and that's why I'm reporting for the replica now. We must continue in the territory of all Croatia but simply so on all units of local and regional self-government and I will say one more. In fact, if all directly elected mayors of municipalities, mayors and mayors were not only obliged to spend money and plan it in accordance with the Sport Act, but also to install other instruments I would say tools in this sense specifically, here I will be even more concrete and I will say perhaps a scholarship of young people who, in their order and education, are also progressing and are recognized as top athletes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-03-0.u35085	Thank you. Reply to the replica of Bukic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-03-0.u35086	Well, here's a little bit. I thank my colleague for these remarks. I didn't mean to, not on purpose I don't think there's any need to talk about the overall importance of sports and sports at all. So everything that sport includes as a positive, means from the promotion in the world, from the top sport that is the best promoter of the nation, the people, the country in the world. But of course for us perhaps even more importantly, it is a role for young people, for healthy growing up, for sport for all, recreational sport, for preventing all those negativitys that are today, etc. So sport has one huge role that is huge and I think we should give it the same attention. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-03-0.u35087	Third application of the replica, distinguished colleague Marija Lugaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-03-0.u35088	Dear fellow Bukic, a little on this sustainability debate, that is, the unsustainability of not so top-notch but "professional" sport. In fact, I personally believe that even so are most citizens and citizens of the Republic of Croatia, when it is seen that almost large percentages, I will not dare to say now that 70, is that 90 percent of these public funds that go to sport go to only a few national male selections, mostly collective sports, and that actually the proportion of money invested and sports results, simply this proportion does not exist. And I think it's actually, it's the right intensity, and I think we should really talk about it, that we actually base funding on one side of importance, because there's something in national pride, etc. However, on the other hand, this funding from public funds should be simply more equal. I've personally dealt with sports, worked with younger selections, and when you see sports alliances that really have trouble financing that the vast majority of funds go to first male seniors mostly selection, and that these younger selections of women all have no money like that first selection. And that's actually the problem, and that's what we need to think is that we actually have to put some kind of advertising and sustainable funding on those first selections at least in the part where they can handle it, make them do what they do, so that more public funds remain for what's more important, and that's that much wider base of sport, so that eventually that first selection will be more successful. The results of our Olympics at these last Olympic games and actually all the athletes, but primarily the Olympics show that we've been counting on medals from the ones we put the money on that medals didn't bring. We got medals from those we didn't finance that we didn't expect. That's what this is about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-03-0.u35089	Thank you very much. Reply to the replica of Bukic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-03-0.u35090	Well, there's a colleague who's touched a series of questions that would really need a broad discussion. So, of course it is, in public at all, these strongest clubs that you all watch. But for example, out of ten, twelve clubs in water polo, two of them are top-of-the-line, ten others de facto 80% of their incomes are spending precisely on young people and on the functioning of the plant. So, the drive to function of all the younger selections that are six to eight in each club where a dozen coaches are involved, etc. where at 300, 400, 500 children have each club are mostly fixed, they are very small differences from large to small clubs but the budgets of these clubs differ precisely from the quality of these first teams. Of course it is quiet I will now say a dozen clubs from all sports in Croatia in some way privileged and they represent the cream of what Croatia represents in the world and that is important. And that's important, now I'll tell you for what reason. Every kid who starts playing water polo in Rijeka, Sibenik, Split or I don't know where his motive is to come to "South" or "Youth" and that's something that pulls. So we can't share top-notch sports with the rest of the sport. A sport woman. You don't have any collective sport that doesn't have a very strong way of saying quality work and women. So, and basketball, and handball, here lately and I as president of Water polo alliance have been one big initiative just on the development of female water polo run, now finishing preparations, going on... Especially Europe in Manchester. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] These are all resources that are not easy to find, to secure against needs but absolutely for the first time we have both cadet and junior competition in these selections, the League of Women. So, we are trying within the limits of the possibilities of, of course, propagating women's sport, but of course you must understand that this is closely related to conditions and possibilities and that we are coming back to the beginning of the problem, which is the system of functioning or financing of sports and opportunities that are related to it. But I'm going to point out, it's absolutely wrong to watch sports through the prism of just a few clubs that are at the heart of the public and who really could even compete with their competitors in the world and have to be kind of privileged. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-03-0.u35091	Thank you very much. Another replica of my colleague, Bagaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-03-0.u35092	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Bukić encouraged me by his discussion of one reflection, or one replica, and actually a finding. I believe that nothing in the Croatian world connects perhaps other than the Catholic Church in the world as Croatian sport does. Therefore, I understand those who speak of the importance of amateur sport and we know what it is, etc. But if it weren't for top-notch sports, then no one would know about us in the world, among other things. It's not just a matter of medals, it's not just an international reputation, it's a matter of connecting all those who have been leaving these spaces for centuries and having a sense of belonging to this people. Nothing in the world binds our people as they are connected by Croatian sport and the top Croatian sport. The Croatian uniform as recognizable is indeed a wonderful magnet for all of our people. I am also using the opportunity to thank Mr. President of the Croatian Olympic Committee for supporting sports games of Croats outside the Republic of Croatia, which will be held by the year in Zadar, but I would also like to conclude that, given our strength in sport, we are indeed selected, I would say genetically selected people, because otherwise we cannot achieve what we are accomplishing but, of course, we are looking for and we need investment. And my support to the Olympic Committee and to all those who do so may consider in the future that such a people with this kind of potential sport also consider the Ministry of Sports or some other ways of organising sports at an even higher level than we have today. Here, once again, I truly thank you on behalf of the board of Croatians outside the Republic of Croatia to whom I am headed and in a certain way symbolically representing the Croats outside the Republic of Croatia here the present president of the Croatian Olympic Committee, his secretary, but also you dear fellow Bukic, great captain and here is the president of a water polo alliance that has so many successes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-03-0.u35093	Thank you very much. Reply to the replica of Bukic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-03-0.u35094	Here I am just for the end, also thanking my colleague for a beautiful idea which is a dream for all athletes and the Ministry of Sports, thanks, of course, to the president of the Olympic Committee Mr Matesha and Mr. Chop. What makes me happy is that I am sure that all parties are favored to sport, we have seen it from these steps and I think that the goal is to introduce as much order as possible to the system of sport, to finance sports, to help as much sport as possible primarily because of all these young people who are engaged in sports but also because of all the great results our athletes have achieved in the world. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-03-0.u35095	Thank you very much. Dear colleague of Gordana Sobol. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-03-0.u35096	Thank you. Mr. Vice President, Mr. Matesha with associates, colleagues and colleagues. First of all, I want to say that I am sorry that a few days ago we failed to hold a debate on this report on the Committee on Gender Equality because colleagues and colleagues from the ruling party failed to attend the session. All I'm going to say right now was supposed to be the subject of a debate right on the Committee on Gender Equality. Representatives came before the Croatian Olympic Committee. I'm sorry, they were then to us who were sharing an additional material that was talking about the problem of women in sports. It was, I was thinking that as a committee then we would also conclude that this material was going in as part of your overall annual report, but I'm saying I'm sorry that we didn't manage to hold this discussion on the board. But here's a few sentences I'm going to say about women's sports problems. Otherwise, I've got some touch points with the sport. In fact, I am president of a women's football club, so it's basically a rarity, at least in Croatia it's thought that the rarity of women who play football is women who play football and who know and play football well, but that's what I'm going to end up with. Regarding concern, i.e. about women in sport, I think it should be pointed out today that within the Croatian Olympic Committee there is an established commission for women in sport. I think it's been working somewhere since 1996 if I'm not mistaken. This commission was established and is in some way followed by the entire Croatian Olympic Committee, the recommendations of the International Olympic Committee, which relate to the problem of equality, equality of women and men in the field of sport. I'm more sorry that then in this report on the problem, there's still something more said. In fact, about the Sports Commission, a sentence of truth has been practically written a little longer which has been spoken of and mentioned a project that was to be done last year, and it has been done and it has been completed and I am sorry that this report is no longer written about it, that is, here is the report's proposals for this report to pay much more attention to this issue in the next year's report. The more one of the last stands, the public stands held on the issue of women in sports, shows that it is not just a simple and bright situation when it comes to women, their dealings with sports but also their position within different sports organisations or associations at local or national levels, especially in that section relating to women's participation and membership in different professional bodies, or in the governance structure. Because unfortunately, as I assume a number of other countries, Croatia is still far from that declared quota, i.e. the desirable kind of participation of women in these structures, which is about 20%, therefore, according to the International Olympic Committee and the recommendations. And I would more like to ask the Croatian Olympic Committee with care to consider and promote what therefore happened, that after a series of years when this governance structure is analysed and the participation of women at different levels that in Croatia this number of women is being waste. In fact, this shows the research that was done and which actually gave an overview of women's representation in Croatian sports organisations. So it says that in the National Sports Alliance, for example, the share of women in management structures has fallen and now in 2009 is 11%. So it shows that this research also shows in the final examinations of the trend of stagnation and the decline of representation. The final sentence is that it can be concluded that Croatian athletes have reached 20% of their representation in success in Croatian sport while representation in management and professional positions is still below the target and recommended value of the International Olympic Committee, and here are the leaders of the Croatian Olympic Committee to account for this. Secondly, what is also shown in this report, namely, we received the opinion of the Ombudsman for gender equality, and I asked her to give her her opinion, a recommendation she gave here on the Croatian Olympic Committee. It's two things. On the one hand, it's about showing all data to the sex. So the Law on Gender Equality passed last year is clear here. In one part of this report, especially athletes and athletes are observed, but in a good part of these and a series of tables you have given and the data is not separated how much it relates to the participation of athletes and how much to athletes and, in accordance with the Law on Gender Equality, I would ask for the next report to be in that section to come about improvement. Furthermore, what seems particularly important to me and I think that right through the Croatian Olympic Committee, there is plenty of space through local sport-enhancing programmes. On page 6 here, it is stated that the activities of the Croatian Olympic Committee relating to local sports programmes are aimed at promoting the development of sports at regional and local level, at promoting the development of sports of children and youth and at promoting the development of sports recreation. A recommendation from the Advocate General for Gender Equality to supplement this with a recommendation to encourage the development of sports in women's populations. And I would add here especially in the part where women's participation is almost negligible and where I would say that there is actually one good part of misunderstanding, not only from local levels but also from the state level when it comes to dealing with women's sports. I said at first, and I'm going to end up somewhere, more like an illustrative example of how in certain sports, I'd say this with a certain laugh without saying with a huge amount of prejudice and misunderstanding looking at women's participation in certain sports. It's women's football. By the way, next year, if I'm not mistaken, it's being held in Germany, so it's relatively close to the women's football World Cup. All those who have had the opportunity to watch the teams participating in such championships, I think they'll agree that women can play football and play top-notch sports as well as men. Wouldn't it be an opportunity for us, as we've all been preparing ourselves for European, world championships when it comes to men's football, to try and see what we can do together to promote women's football? So football playing women in Croatia through national alliances, but I also believe through the Croatian Olympic Committee. Because believe me, at local levels, a gathering of girls who are at the lowest age, and here you have a girl, six, seven, eight years old, and up they play in men's clubs. It's only when we're 12 years old that we form small women's clubs. The absolute lack of money not to say "incomprehension" that and what money is to be tried if not quite right but at least in a fairer way to distribute and when it comes to it, I took the example of female football, but therefore, when it comes to those sports in which I find them completely unfairly neglected and women. I think that in that part, therefore not only of football, but also of a number of others, the Croatian Olympic Committee can do much in promoting and especially through local levels. This is what I end up with and I support this report with hope, or I would say with a request that the next report that will be completed for 2009 be completed with the missing data.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-03-0.u35097	Thank you very much. Next is the debate of a distinguished colleague, Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-03-0.u35098	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues. Dear President of the Croatian Olympic Committee. Congratulations and congratulations for all medals and winning championships were given by colleagues and colleagues so I will not repeat it and agree that Croatian sport is in large part and promoter of Croatia's interest. But like everything else in life, our sport has a different side of the medal. So I'd like to talk about that other side of the medal, which is why, either by which I or by you or by myself, we in the House can't give us any congratulations and give us great thanks. And this is the medal of our sport especially football stadiums, which have turned into places of savagery, savage turns out to be groups that call themselves cheerleading groups, which, apart from the hooligan outbursts, allow themselves both racist outbursts and Nazi outbursts. In the stands of these stadiums I saw the presidents of the sports alliances that are your members, I saw you and some members of the government, of course. And no one has ever left the stadium in protest and opposition to such behaviour and the disgrace of Croatian sports. In a large number of cases, the sports or football events have been broadcast on our direct broadcasts. No television has ever interrupted transmission when several thousand people shout "for home ready". If Croatian sport spreads the reputation of Croatia, this behaviour certainly is not in this level of interest of the Croatian state, it is not only at stadiums in Croatia, but throughout Europe and the world. And those TVs that I mentioned and their commentators are being silly, blind and deaf when it comes and we tolerate it all together. In this House, we discussed for the fourth time recently the expansion of police powers to establish order and only the spread of police powers. I want to believe that the Croatian Olympic Committee in its programme, among other things, covers that part of the interest. The fact that the football alliance led by Mr. Markovic does not want to prevent such a situation in football, I understand that a long time ago. Because he claims it's not his job, that it's the work of the Stim, of the first-sellers' association. They even encourage such behavior by sitting in the stands of sports stadiums. But I expect the Croatian Olympic Committee to discipline its members, to educate them first, for example, to explain to the football alliance that they cannot be an Olympic sport as long as it happens to us. This happened to you at European championships, world championships, club competitions, representative qualifications. All we need is for us to experience such disgrace at the Olympic Games. Will you then, as an Olympic board, say that this is now the problem of the Croatian Olympic Committee? Everyone gets celebrities, everybody appreciates you and praises you when they need your money, when you finance, but if you asked them to behave in the Olympic spirit, they'd probably say it's not your jurisdiction, which you're involved in. A large part of sports and football that has been declared professional and even privatised public money financing, however, when selling players is only a matter of private interest, then they have no meaning other than that transfers and transfer money end up in private pockets. They also use stadiums that aren't their property, they use the property of the citizens of this country where these shames happen to us. Is it possible that we only work in this area with the police, the gendarmes? All over Europe we watch on television when some sporting event comes across the family with children. They should come to us in vests and helmets on their heads to make sure they don't get beat up. And it's part of our sport and it's part of our everyday life. And that is why I am asking you, Mr. Matesha, will you tolerate your member regularly getting money, also participating in the Olympic Games and embarrassing Croatia and Croatian sport? Did you, within the Olympic Committee, discuss, prepare, adopt certain regulations that would sanction such insubordination of one, two or three sports alliances within your membership, or are we also declaring this solely by the problem of the First League Association and we all claim that we are powerless to do anything? I'm surprised at the athletes. I'm surprised at the athlete who hears that he's going from the stands to the huk if it's a dark-road opponent, and I'm surprised at the athlete who hears "home ready" and the captain of the team who doesn't turn to the fan of the Lord and says there's a lot of it. I'm surprised at the coaches and the team and the clubs who never responded to it and said that's enough. We will no longer appear in front of such an audience, in that stadium and tolerate it. It may seem to someone that this is not the issue of the Croatian Olympic Committee or this report, for me it is. It is for me, because it has happened too many times in European stadiums and European media to write about the behaviour of Croatian fans under quotes. If our silence means that we agree to the situation that we're only trying to make order through the police, then I can certainly tell you that I'm sure we'll never make order. And how's that? How is it that other countries can solve this, other alliances and other Olympic committees can only solve us in Croatia cannot find a solution. That is why I strongly recommend that you consider my proposal and introduce a rule of Croatian Olympic Committee member, a sports alliance that is unable to make order within its alliance cannot represent the Croatian Olympic Committee or Croatia at the Olympic Games. He cannot win, have the honor of going to the Olympic Games on your behalf and on behalf of the Republic of Croatia with such disgrace behind him and the risk of that happening there. It is a serious risk, and I think that such a right to treat your members must have, you must have it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-03-0.u35099	Thank you very much. My colleague Lesar has put a lot of things on the board, and he is aware that sport is only a mirror of what is required of society, and in the stadiums you only often sublimely express it in the same place. But we have a report of a single replica. A fellow Maras called. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-03-0.u35100	Thank you very much. You can also tell by the vice president's reaction that he's quite active in this part of football. And I absolutely support you there. I think the Olympic Committee, along with this part, although this entire report is drawn up in a way to see what budget money is spent on and on what money the Olympic Committee has going on. But I think that there is one component missing, which is the effect both Mr. Mateša and the Olympic Committee have on sports in Croatia, that even these big sports that probably don't take the Olympic board with enough authority make a slightly greater impact. I'd miss Mr. Matesha as a successful businessman saying so it's crazy that Croatia has a professional football league with 16 clubs. For what? Well, it's all spent on public money. Which is why there wouldn't be any more money in less sports. Well, I'm not happy here either in Zagreb what so much money goes to “Dinamo” that later one person usurps, privatizes for his personal business and earns money from public investors. That's my criticism of Zagreb as well. So I miss that little rationality in sports and the influence of the Olympic board that will then say as a roof organization, so you can't. We're all part of a sports family and need to be a little more rational. And here I absolutely support you and I think that this way we should work more on the Olympic Committee not only formally on what we have spent, how many medals are anywhere, but also put ourselves by authority towards our members so that some "guilty Drine" can be corrected.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-03-0.u35101	Thank you very much. The answer to the replica of my colleague, Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-03-0.u35102	I agree with you that the league is 16 points on and destroying Croatia's team sport. Yeah. Yes, my colleague, seriously, I'm telling you. Well, then she's 26, then she's even better. Yeah? But who cares, because whenever you ask Markovic anything, he immediately begins to recite to you the successes of the football team, for the club competition, he cares. And I agree that the situation in sports resorts is largely the result of the situation in society. But how come the water polo alliance took action and there's no mess around the pool. How can a basketball alliance deal with problems, handball alliances, athletic alliances? Why do we only have a problem with football if it's the result of the general condition? The consequence of the general situation is, lai not only in Croatian society, but in the football alliance, in the Croatian Football Federation. And as long as we're all being stupid not to see what's going on there and how the football alliance is being run in Croatia for so long we'll be looking for excuses, not solving problems.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-03-0.u35103	Okay. Just a colleague of Lesar, I've been in football for decades. Believe me, Međimurje wouldn't be in the first league if the Mayor of the Chakovec sky signed that he would meet the requirements of stadiums, lighting, stands, seats, etc. And that, and the club that provided the funds and that it was liquid. So, first there's a license and then it's sent to the football league and promises to keep it all coming true. It is only then that he becomes a first leaguer, and the first leaguer does not become a subordinate to Markovic or an executive board or an Olympic board. But good. You know that. Okay. We're moving on with the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-03-0.u35104	What you said was another shame on football, just that guarantee of cities.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-03-0.u35105	But then we transfer and call them, not the covenant that eventually accepts all this together, process it, and accept it with credibility. Because who's the one who can suspect that the mayor of one city is giving a guarantee that doesn't stand behind all the structures that work in that city. Nadica Jelash, next debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-03-0.u35106	Thank you very much, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, President of the Croatian Olympic Committee with associates, colleagues and colleagues. Last year, when I took part in the debate on this point on the Croatian Olympic Committee Report, I made some remarks, and I must now be pleased to say that a large part of them has been adopted. Thanks for that. However, it remains to be noted that this time again, this year's report, i.e. the 2008 Report, shows only a comparison of the results compared to the planned size. So again there is no comparative achievement, a reporting period. So in 2008 compared to the achievement in 2007. And here's a few more remarks about the financial part of this report. Financial results are better than they are for 2007. The loss was also covered, which was shown in 2007. We do know, though, that he was the result of the lack of funds from the state budget just about the Beijing Olympics. Now it's all settled, covered, all marketing revenues have been achieved, that's very good. There was also a surplus expenditure revenue of around 4.6 million kuna. True, that surplus is not realistic because you are not calculating all obligations. If these obligations were accounted for in the period, so by the end of 2008, the total surplus would be less by more than 4 million kuna, i.e. the amount of what the presidents said would be slightly more than 600 thousand kuna. As already mentioned in this assembly just before Chakovec and Međimurje County, I will ask one question about the implementation of the programme at local level. Namely, this report shows that out of the 5.4 million kunas invested in all the districts of Međimurje County received 90 thousand, which is far from all other counties, so there is one huge disproportionate between what other counties received compared to what the County of Međimurje received, so I'm curious whether this is the reason in any of the problems that are local or regional? And here, I am taking this opportunity to remind the president of the Croatian Olympic Committee of his promise, so on your promise to the president that Croatian Olympic sport will benefit to a far greater extent from the resources we have in Međimurje County. I mean the Atom Sports Hall on Sunday. So this hall really provides the highest conditions for athletes, and the best evidence that that is the case is Philip Ude's silver medal from Beijing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-03-0.u35107	Thank you very much. Here, after Međimurec and Međimurka and we all agree. I followed the polls last year in Međimurje. The most famous Međimurac was just Philip. I hear that, we all know yesterday won the medal again and we all congratulate him on everyone else and bravo, bravo. A colleague named Maras called.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-03-0.u35108	Thank you very much, colleague Jelash. Just a few things after you looked back at the financial report. I primarily believe that both programmes and other resources from the state budget need to be more singled out. For the Olympic Committee, this may not be a topic for this debate, it is a topic when the budget comes to the agenda because it is illogical that we allocate 133 million kunas to the Olympic Committee, something and according to the Law of the Lottery, of which 76 million are given to national sports alliances. While in Zagreb, the City of Zagreb stands out for sport 198 million kunas, 101 million kunas go from that to sports alliances. So the City of Zagreb as one local unit, though the richest by budget in Croatia, stands out more for sport than the Republic of Croatia stands out. And that's illogical. So we have to give greater support to the Olympic Committee to make one step there. As far as marketing revenues are concerned, I don't think they're enough. 13 million kuna and well just looked at the donor table, I don't see HEP, HEP that gives huge money on the political lines to football clubs every year. Why isn't HEP on the Olympic Committee donor list? Is this monopolies on the Croatian market interested in helping football clubs fight for consumers, and the overall sport that we all pay as electricity consumers, is it impossible to single out some money? Or the INA that gave 800 thousand kunas, which amounts to several times less than it did in only the 2 biggest Croatian football clubs that I don't have to mention right now, we all know who it's about. So I think that these funds, especially public enterprises, have to issue and have to give greater support to the Olympic Committee, and I am not satisfied here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-03-0.u35109	Answer? There's no application. Okay. Thank you very much. The following debate was registered by distinguished counterpart Shimo Djurdjevic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-03-0.u35110	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. President of the Croatian Olympic Committee, Mr. Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. I wouldn't repeat myself, here in an hour there will be a vote, as my predecessors here have said. I have answered to say very realistically and correctly that this report as well as the reports that have been coming to this House are extremely correct, well methodologically composed and honest. The indicators inside are extremely accurate, and I think they're correct. I'm not going to talk to my dear friends about top-notch sports. I want to talk about the sport of youth that I was educated for and for which I dedicated my life's call. When it comes to youth and local sport, I believe that some units of local administrations and self-government set aside funds and special attention to youth sports, and some, even rich units with rich budgets, regardless of the municipal, city or county budgets, are counting. The role, therefore, was recognised by the Croatian Olympic Committee, so that those counties which are more modest in their budgets as well as certain incentives for local sport. It is important that we train as many coaches as possible year by year, regardless of who they are, whether they are educated at school in our Chinese college or other certified institutions, but it is important that these children are treated by people who have said such a simple language from the trade, not by ex-athletes who do not have pedagogical psychological training and who can carry their skills and experiences as top athletes to children. So for such people, regardless of whether he's passed, he's a professional athlete, amateur or top-notch, it's important to pass school, coaching school, and then get caught working with kids, and even with athletes who are in federal ranks. In the counties there are communities of sports associations and alliances, city alliances, in larger municipalities and municipal alliances, but it is important that in most counties, but not in all colleagues and colleagues there are both school and sports alliances. So municipalities, cities, counties and budgets of these units of local and regional self-government must monitor sport at the level of their county. And everything that is participated from the Croatian Olympic Committee and from the Ministry of Education, Science and Sports is plus ibera and welcome. Sports schools, or schools at sports clubs have their own special managing body have their own bodies, but have their own special accounts. We need them, and they are separate from the senior team. It's not going to the senior team of thunder money that comes from a variety of sources, even from sponsors, but the funds strictly intended for youth are submitted at the end of the year where the funds have been spent. Catagorized athletes. I think we have about 6 categories if I'm not mistaken, don't ignore me if I said wrongly, according to categorized athletes, according to the place where the athlete is located or where the athlete is located or where the municipalities and cities and counties have certain obligations, it's prescribed by the rules. And so they can't since the allocation of funds because they can't be amnesty. No matter what category the athletes are in. And so one of my remarks from the past period is a sports object. Sports facilities, mainly those that we're building new ones, regardless of the variety, whether it's a basic school, whether it's a single-part, two-part, three-piece hall, I think we've been building these sports facilities over the past few years, regardless of what source it's funded from. It is financed in one expensive way mainly by these covered sports facilities, meaning sports halls that we could do this far cheaper technologies, so today every elementary school, home school would have a covered space for their children where they would conduct physical health culture classes and would mainly highlight that health component when it comes to preschool children, through primary school and to school exits. Funding, I said, and I am glad that you have renewed all sponsorship contracts and I am particularly pleased that you have been involved in local programs and have recognized that, from these inclusions of mass, one sport work, one good approach, educated coach, educated teachers and teachers of physical health culture and external associates who work, regardless of whether at the club or at the school of that mass finally achieves and results, achieves a professional athlete, a top-notch athlete who presents the Republic of Croatia with dignity regardless of the degree of competition. Whether Mediterranean, European, world championships, Olympic games are summer, winter and so on. Once again, I support this report and it is for the past year, but for all these years, which you and your secretary have led, I congratulated you for putting things in the right place with regard to the Croatian Olympic Committee and Croatian Sports. I congratulate you on that and support this report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-03-0.u35111	Thank you very much. And last reported for the hearing, distinguished representative Daniel Srb. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-03-0.u35112	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. Vice President, representatives of the Government, representatives of the Croatian Olympic Committee, colleagues and colleagues. I would first of all say that this report also shows by the way it was prepared and by its content, that the Croatian Olympic Committee is systematically doing well and I commend it. However, in addition to all the praises of the Croatian Olympic Committee for one apparent progress of the organisation of sports in Croatia, there are problems I would like to talk about in order to encourage the solution of these problems, as I believe their resolution is beneficial for all. Well, first of all, when it comes to sports, I'd start with schools, first of all elementary schools. At this point, I do not believe that there is enough cooperation between the professors of exercise in elementary schools, or schools in general and sports societies, or the community of sports associations at city and county levels, and that this leads to a situation that, for example, in primary schools, teachers of exercise in principle do not know which of the children they teach in sport. In that sense, honor of exceptions, but I also know specific cases that respected sports companies have called for cooperation, to communicate, professor of exercise. However, after written calls, no one showed any interest in the matter. This should be intervened on the one hand by the Ministry of Education, Science, Sport and establish this one relationship that will lead to children's rights and talents being focused on sport, interested in sport, but also to find real talents. We certainly don't have enough good and real cooperation here. I also had a chance to hear about cases that, for example, in the 1st grade of high school, a high school boy in a gym class when the mandatory measurements run out at 400 meters a fantastic result, that an interested professor of exercise directs him to an athletic club, informs about his score athletic club, even the coaches from the athletic club come in, talks to the guy, tries to persuade him, because it's obviously about a guy of exceptional value, to start dealing with athletics, but however there's no interest. So the question is, why is there no interest in this one guy who could certainly have gotten to world quality levels? I'm sure there's one bigger question. We can also talk about the popularity of small media sports. The media unfortunately devote an extremely large space to foreign football leagues that have practically nothing with our Croatian sport. So maybe for comparison here are the last Olympic games in almost a year, so I think all of our Croatian Olympic medal winners in Beijing had five of them not even 5% of the Croatian media space of that dedicated sport. And there's obviously something wrong with our society. All medal winners came from our opportunities as we call small sports and great Croatian successes I would say the Kostelic family, the Vlasic family, were achieved thanks to the extraordinary efforts and efforts of the families themselves. It is a great happiness and in this I see the great role and merit of the Croatian Olympic Committee, which through its development and its increasingly better organization has made it possible for such individual successes to experience the necessary support to reach the summit. However, we must be aware that this is not the case as a rule. So, exceptional personal engagements, so when it comes to Philip Ude, when it comes to Robert Zeligman or some other athletes, are the consequences of one such relationship. So, when it comes to finding talent, their orientation needs to be done more and there more I call for a ministry that can and should have a greater impact on this segment than the Croatian Olympic Committee but cooperation at these school levels between sports culture communities and schools themselves needs far better than it is now. Furthermore, I would like to mention the question of sportsman status. It has been solved through certain categorization, but there are also certain problems especially of top athletes but in small sports. Mr Mateša presented in the opening presentation an example relating to skiers and their problems of harmonising their obligations in schools, universities with training obligations which are the same as they are, so training must be done outside of Croatia. However, many others have similar problems, especially those who study. Students top athletes have a lot of problems. I was in such a situation more than 20 years ago because on one side the menus have their own rules of conduct, each athlete must appear at a certain point in preparation. If it is not there, if it does not meet the plan and the preparation program has no place in the election line. But on the other hand, there is also a commitment in colleges and when someone is studying at a particularly difficult organised university, a teacher tells him, too, if you are not at certain exercises held each year then and then a colleague a year. It's one situation in society for which we all need to find a solution together. It is the principle of athletes' students who are, so I would say the perspective and most valuable part of Croatian society and we must find a solution for them. We haven't found him in the last 25, 30 years I haven't known since. I would ask those who have a certain influence to do something about it and perhaps end up with a bill that goes in that direction. And the third question is how to provide top athletes with the bearers, the Olympic medal winners, I'd stick to them, I wouldn't go to world championships, special status in society. In fact, it is most often about people who devote their lives entirely to achieving that result. He's been training almost all day. So it's not six, seven hours, it's from eight to ten hours of training a day and of course it's in a certain sense representing a certain handicap when it comes to their life perspective. The countries of our environment have found certain solutions and provided a special pension for such well-deserved athletes. I stress, these are not people who come from those sports that generate enormous incomes, these are people who barely provide the necessary resources just to prepare to get results at all. They need help and Croatia that I would say loves sports this much but we still haven't found the right way to resolve the status of such athletes and how to provide them with the future through a special pension that I encourage and want to get rid of. In the end, I'd like to say, we are a country where our residents, our people love sports very much, but that we're not a sports country. I think it's one big illusion. Unfortunately, we don't have too many people involved in sports. Sport activities are primarily organised in larger urban areas. When it comes to the rural part, it comes down to football clubs and there's practically nothing out there. Our young people are rarely allowed to practice sports other than football in these environments and certainly we have fantastic talents that remain unused and should be found especially at county levels how these young people who have incredible talent get involved in certain sports disciplines and, of course, create conditions in society to recognize them, appreciates that they stay in sport. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-03-0.u35113	Thank you very much. And we're done with all the individual hearing reports. The President, Mr. Matesha, came to the conclusion of the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-03-0.u35114	Mr. Vice President, distinguished MPs and MPs. I have to admit, I'm extremely pleased and I'm glad this debate had a course like this. Namely, colleagues and colleagues formerly to say so in view of my former position have said a lot and a lot of problems mentioned by both us and who are the problem to me and above all point out that the problems of sports are very well known in this high house and they are pleasant and less pleasant. I'll just say a few words of what's said, try to express our views first of all when it comes to funding, I'll start with that. The Croatian Olympic Committee shall finance exclusively national sports alliances. Not a single bit of what the High House gives, through the budget, through the lottery or what it gets from sponsors, goes to any club. So, we don't finance clubs and on that side we're not competent to get involved in the club financing debate. Although, of course, we also have an opinion on it. Our wish was that through funding we would now enable the development of those sports that unfairly but Colloquially call it small. And the success of that is actually when you look at the decoration schedule from Beijing, it's a direct reflection of those efforts that haven't been since yesterday. And the most honest said Snježana Pešič at her first press conference in Beijing after winning the medal, when the journalists asked her how you, she said, all financed by the Croatian Olympic Committee, not the Croatian Olympic Committee, you also finance taxpayers through our budget. It's the same thing with tacodo and gymnastics. Therefore, it is important for us to understand in this House that we want to lead this policy further, one of the expressions of this policy is that the Croatian Olympic Committee does not even finance the Croatian Football Federation. Not because they would not have the right to do so, but because they have enough of their income and are very correct in giving up what they would have right from the Croatian Olympic Committee's budget, so they indirectly enable those who have less to redistribute these funds in this way. There was a mention of health care. We would love to, and I think our athletes deserve it in this broader aspect of health care to be equaled with cultural workers. You know that the Croatian state pays certain health care to a whole series of independent artists, there is no difference between athletes and athletes and them in, and should not be in this treatment. We fully accept what is said by the distinguished representative Sobol about gender equality. It has two dimensions. One of our obligations stemming from the rules of the International Olympic Committee, which consists of that 20% of women must be in our structures. We have it, but with great pains because of the 81 national alliance of our members and members, only three alliances lead a woman. How can we choose only someone who is in our congregation? If these women do not come through alliances to our congregation, we cannot simply choose them. And that's something that absolutely stands to be different in the future and has to be changed. Local sport, well said by colleagues, seems to me on behalf of the HNS Club, local sport is resolved, but legal solutions are not respected in the good part of local sports communities we need to find mechanisms that what is intended for sport goes through programmes in local sports communities. Often there are problems at a personal level, irrational and not really problems of the system itself. But there are cities like, for example... Some others where it works very, very well. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Sports infrastructure, a colleague talked about it, we advocate, we even co-financed the project... sports programs. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Sports infrastructure must be Scandinavian Spartan, there is no reason to make sports halls that are monuments of any size. And it can be done. If you'll ever be in a situation, look at a sports hall in Balaam that cost 7 million kuna, which also won the Barcelona award for the best sports facility last year. To make it, you have to have a will. The education outside the university, yes, education outside the university exists through our institutions Croatian Olympic Academy is over 3,000 sports workers in the last year, you have in the report passed through various forms of education and they certainly contributed to that, to expand, that sports base in Croatia. We're seven months to Vancouver, to the Winter Olympics and I'm sure our athletes and athletes who, don't at all be in doubt very, very closely follow this debate that we're having here today. And no matter what they're... at the Mediterranean games, they're very interested in a lot of what you said yourself. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Here's a colleague mentions benefits for excellent sports results, they're not any pensions, that's the one who wants to hurt that story then mentions a pension. It's no retirement. It has many countries and I will tell you very openly Jacob Fak the man who is the third in the world in... Never during his career will he earn money, ever. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And his whole life will be devoted to that, all of his time. There is another solution, neighbouring Slovenia, Italy, Greece, Germany and I will show you this information if it is on committees of debate, Slovenia has a contract with the Ministry of Defence, Home Affairs and Finance of 200 top athletes who are employed there. My colleagues and colleagues, Alberto Tomba, is a customs officer you've never seen at any customs crossing, nor will you ever see him. So, there's something to talk about, we're counting on what we've heard here, on your understanding that after some mature debate there are words about it. What's most important and what I would really ask you to honestly bring a little attention to think about and that's what can happen in this difficult situation that we all share and sport will also be very, very difficult in sports next time. And that's the third television program. We will never see Philip Ude in the domestic contest, Snježana Pejčić at home competition, the volleyball women's championship of Croatia never because HRT would not want to pass it on but because there is no time. And the constitutional obligation of Croatia is to broadcast domestic sports. And I ask you, they have the will for it, they have the desire for it, they have the infrastructure for it, I ask you to support such an idea in the name of Croatian sport, on behalf of all those who never see it on television and then we could see them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-03-0.u35115	Thank you. We have one correction, Mr. Representative Arsen Bauk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-03-0.u35116	Thank you, Mr. President. I'd like to correct one of the allegations that Mr. Mateo said at the beginning of the exhibition when he spoke about the financing of clubs and therefore not to deal with it, that he had his own opinion on it, and that he would love it, I don't know how he put it, to say it. Therefore, the objectives of the Croatian Olympic Committee on the first page of this report are, among other things, concern about the development and promotion of sport at the national level with the promotion of the organisation, the coordination of sports at the level of counties, cities and municipalities, and the promotion of promotion and care of all kinds of Croatian sports. Which means that you can have an opinion about it, and you are invited to say it, and I would really like to hear it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-03-0.u35117	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. We'll decide later. Thank you. 23. Programme and financial report of the Croatian Olympic Committee for 2008. The applicant is the Croatian Olympic Committee. The debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal of the parliamentary working bodies and the Government of the Republic of Croatia, I am voting for the next conclusion, the programming and financial report of the Croatian Olympic Committee for 2008. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? The Croatian Olympic Committee's report was accepted by most votes, 102 votes for and 2 abstentions. I don't mind.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-03-0.u35120	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. I hope that you have all received the 112st book of the Croatian Academy of Science and Arts, which describes the overall work of all the individuals and units of the academics in the last year, so in 2008. In addition to this extensive report, the Academy's administration sent a summary to the Croatian Parliament on 15th, 20th cards. And my assignment today is to say, as soon as possible, a summary of those 500 or 600 pages, about 10 minutes. On 31 December 2008. The Croatian Academy had 150 regular members, 139 correspondence members and 97 co-workers or a total of 386 members in all membership categories, which is several more members than it was the previous year. In the past year, the Academy held two regular congregations, one constituency and two formal sessions. The April Regular Assembly adopted a report on the entire work of the Academy and completed the 2007 Academy's account, while regular plans and work programme were adopted at the December Assembly, the 2009 Financial Plan of the Academy and the decision to set up anthropological Croatian Academy in Dubrovnik. The election assembly held on 29 May 2008 selected new members of the Croatian Academy, 7 regular, 8 correspondence and 12 co-workers. Eleven co-workers have been re-elected. At the ceremony of the Academy held on 29 April 2008 on the occasion of the Day of the Academy of Arts, 11 artists were awarded awards from the Croatian Academy of Sciences and Arts for 2007, and newly elected members of the Academy were appointed at the ceremony on 17 June. In particular, several annual election assemblies of the Academy, scientific meetings, lectures, book presentations, exhibitions and a number of other events were held. The Bureau held 9 regular sessions last year. At the meetings, members of the Bureau discussed and reached conclusions from their responsibilities. She paid particular attention to preparations for the assembly, for the ceremony on the occasion of the Croatian Academy Day. Meetings of the Bureau discussed the adoption of the following: preparations for the ceremony of the 150th anniversary of the Croatian Academy in 2011 on the establishment of plates of the Croatian Academy in Rome at the Church of St. Onofria in honour of Croatian philosopher Fran Petrić, on preparations for restoration and conservation of the Guarneri King violin in Cremoni in Italy, on preparations for the establishment of the Academy of Research and Art in Vukovar, on the proposal of the Croatian Academy of Science Agreement and the National Foundation for the Establishment and Activity of the European Science Foundation, on the opening of an exhibition of Croatian Academy of Sciences and Arts through photographs in Bjelovar, Koprivnica, Rijeka, Sibenik and Vienna, on the insufficient promotion of activities of the Croatian Academy in the public, which adequately presented the results of the work on scientific projects, i.e. in publishing activities, on the award of the Croatian Academy for the most scientific and artistic achievements in the Republic of Croatia in 2007, and on the parliamentary debate on the Croatian Academy's report on work in 2007 on the Croatian Academy of Works, which is very positive. The Bureau also supported the proposal to launch a procedure for changing the status of members of the Croatian Academy's co-workers. Guidelines for the work of the Co-operation Committee with universities in Croatia and with scientific institutions were discussed, the results of the visits of members of the Academy of Management to the Cultural Society in Gradisto were discussed, and the Bureau supported several proposals from the Committee on International Co-operation. The Bureau then considered the possibility and needs of establishing new academic scientific units in Požega, Sibenik, Koprivnica and Sisak. In addition to everything that has been pointed out, meetings of the Bureau also discussed the marking of important anniversarys and the patronage and the organisation of numerous scientific meetings and elections in the scientific and research professions of the staff of the Academy. During the year, the Croatian Academy Foundation successfully carried out the task of encouraging scientific and artistic work in the Republic of Croatia, which was established by the statute of the foundation. The State Budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2008 The Croatian Academy's funds were secured 2 million 625 thousand kuna, as part of the compensation promised by the Croatian Government to the Academy of Deprived Apartments. After the public tender, the Management Board of the Foundation decided to schedule a total of 67 projects proposed, proposed organisations and individuals in a million kunas. Last year, funds were first allocated from the Dragutin Tadic Academy Fund. The international cooperation of the Croatian Academy of Science and Arts has intensified compared to the year before resulting in increased scope and quality of action by representatives of the Croatian Academy in international associations where it is an active member, and particularly by active involvement in the work of the European Science Foundation. In addition to mentioning our academy is working with almost 30 national academies in 22 countries. It is particularly important to note that our academy in the past year has become the coordinator for the Republic of Croatia for a major European programme of humanitarian sciences, the area of humanitarian sciences, HERA. The Presidency of the Croatian Academy established a Committee for the Reconstruction and Development of Arboretum Trsteno and appointed a number of academics for its members, as well as professional associates in Zagreb and Dubrovnik. During 2008, the Committee considered and accepted a study of the found situation in Arboretum Tristeno, consisting of a floristic vegetarian and construction-architectural part. Along with regular ongoing maintenance of the Zagreb Academy buildings in 2008 which includes minor operation and renovation of buildings. It is also necessary to mention the level of implementation of long-term capital projects as well as other major operations on individual buildings. However, far the biggest works were carried out in the reconstruction of the building on Strossmayer Square 14 which allowed the beginning of this year to open a new academy library at Strossmayer Square 14. The academy is... The scientific and research activities took place except in classes and in other numerous units both in Zagreb and outside Zagreb, in Zagreb two, and in Dubrovnik one by one. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In Dubrovnik two, and one in Split, Zadar, Rijeka, Varazdin, Bjelovar, Osijek, Vinkovci, Trsten and recently in Požega. The scientific and research unit of the Academy in 2008 worked on 43 scientific projects, so-called parent projects whose research is carried out by the Mahma in the Academy, whose main researchers are exclusively or regularly members of the Academy and other scientists from the Academy's institutions and institutes. In the science and research, museum-gallery and professional units of the Academy, 232 employees were employed last year. In addition, 39 other scientific recruits were employed at the academy. The museum-gallery activities feature gliptotheque, cabinet graphics, Strossmayer's gallery of old masters and the Croatian Museum of Architecture. In 2008, Gliptotheque was significant, held 30 exhibitions, 12 promotions and book presentations, and a number of other events. All the exhibitions were accompanied by appropriate catalogues. There were six exhibitions in the graphics cabinet, also with catalogues. Strossmayer's gallery of old masters was open to the public with an old gallery layout. The Croatian Museum of Architecture held seven exhibitions during 2008. There are other forms of scientific work at the academy. So last year, 15 scientific councils worked within the Academy. In addition, an international committee for research on boxing, clay, aluminium works. Then, the Committee on People's Life and Customs, and the Croatian Crystalographic Community. In these councils and bodies work not only the members of the academy, but also scientists and experts of the extraordinary academy and abroad. During last year, scientific councils organized dozens of scientific meetings, and round tables, lectures, and annual congregations. During the last year 93 publications were made in their own publishing or were in publishing, and of which 33 books, 8 chambers from scientific gatherings, 35 volumes of magazines, 12 catalogues of exhibitions, 4 events with abstracts, 2 bibliography, 2 partitions and 1 dictionary. Of the support of the Croatian Academy Foundation during 2008, 46 published books joined. In last year's summerbook of the Academy, there was a detailed report on the financial operations of the Academy in the previous year. The total assets held by the academy last year amounted to 86 million 341 thousand kuna. This amount includes most of the funds secured from the state budget, then funds secured from other sources of funding such as the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports, the Ministry of Culture, the City Office for Culture of Zagreb, the County, cities and other legal and physical persons, as well as funds achieved by their own activities of the Academy. The final accounts show that in 2008 the Academy spent an amount of 81 million 213 thousand 370 kuna for its entire business and thus made excess revenue over expenditures of 5 million 128 thousand 237 kuna. During last year, a major step has been made in efforts to open the academy to the media as widely as possible, and thus to the general public. In this regard, contacts with the media have been intensified, but we are still not satisfied with the way some media monitor the work of the Croatian Academy. Last year, a redesign and reconstruction of the Croatian Academy portal was completed. In early 2007, the presentation of the Croatian Academy of Sciences and Arts through photographs began, with the aim of warning and familiarising the Croatian public with our academy and the values it promotes. The exhibition was presented last 2008 in Bjelovar, Koprivnica, Rijeka, Sibenik and Vienna, and recently in Sarajevo. According to so far, the exhibition has been very well received. It has given rise to a great interest in information funds, but also citizens, and school youth. Over the past few years, the interest of cities has increased to establish academia of scientific and research units in their midst, confirming the reputation of the academy in the general public. Such units, as already said, are established in Bjelovar, Vukovar and Požega, and are soon being prepared for their establishment in Koprivnica and Sibenik. Allow me, Mr. President, to finally express my belief that the Croatian Academy of Science and Arts has achieved its task of promoting scientific activities and artistic creation during 2008. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-03-0.u35121	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to be taken? Yeah. On behalf of the Committee on Education, Science and Culture, Mr. Chairman of the Committee, Mr. Selem.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-03-0.u35122	Mr. President... My colleagues and colleagues. [[You can't hear the speaker.]] I will shorten this report of the board because the proposaler's representative, academician Cvetnić, has already presented the content of the report very extensively. So, the Committee on Education, Science and Culture of the Croatian Parliament at its session... considered the report on the work of the Croatian Academy of Sciences and Arts and discussed it as a parent working body. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The opening argument was submitted by the representatives of the applicant. You have all received this impressive book "Croatian Academy of Sciences and Arts" where it is a very thorough summary of the work and the academy and its individual members. So, "HAZU Chronicles", you also got this short version. From everything it is clear, which is the conclusion of the board that the academy meets the needs of time and the reasons for which it was founded. The number of organisational forms of work in the Academy in Zagreb 18 organisational units, outside of it 11 organisational units, has also been highlighted. There are also 43 scientific projects, 15 scientific councils, not to mention. One project that I particularly care about and that is repeatedly spoken to on the board when the Academy report comes, it is a project of publications Croatia and Europe. We accepted the information that the second book in English came out of the press, that there were continued preparations for the issue of the third notebook in English and French, and that we are particularly pleased, and we expect the fourth volume to appear in Croatian soon. The special committee accepted as a very important date in the academy's work training space for the library of the academy in an extremely beautiful and quality renovated facility. It is also registered with the pleasure of the international collaboration of the Academy, in particular... photo that was also in Vienna after Croatian cities. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Of course not, the rich international cooperation of the Academy with the relevant institutions of the Association of European Academys and other relevant institutions is not exhausted. The Croatian Academy of Science and Art Foundation also participated in the financing of over 60 projects. The budget situation of the academy this year is relatively good, 75% of the income comes from the state budget. What the board also approves is the fact that the academy has responded to some of the current problems that are being imposed in the environment in which we live. So, for example. The recession as a global problem, the problem of education development in Croatia, then the traffic problems of Zagreb, so these are all the topics that the Academy has been working on and through which it has shown that it participates not only in one narrow scientific sphere, but also in the scientific processing of current topics. What doesn't satisfy all of us is the clear presence of the Academy in the media. That's what Mr. Academyman Cvetnić was talking about, we really think that the academy deserves a far better treatment in the media and that it should keep trying to find a way to do this, that work in public gets an echo that deserves it. The debate also confirmed the board's earlier view that, after a thorough debate, it should propose to the academy to join the establishment of a class for theatre and film art. The debate also mentioned the question of perhaps the most precious item available to the academy, the famous King violin. The issue of use, use for the artistic practice of this precious instrument has been raised. The question, the clear insurance that is then always being asked and there it is suggested that you look for ways to make that valuable and affirmative as a living fact of our musical practice. After the debate, the committee unanimously concluded that it proposed to the Croatian Committee to accept the 2008 Croatian Academy's report on the work of the Croatian Academy and also proposed to the Croatian Parliament to recommend the Croatian Academy of Sciences and Arts to launch a procedure for the establishment of a class for theatre and film art. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-03-0.u35123	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the HDZ Club, Mr. Representative Peter Selem.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-03-0.u35124	Mr. President, Mr. Academy, one more time. I'll only stay at this last point, or the last point before... and this is the issue of the debate which was opened about a year ago in the Committee on Education, Science and Culture in terms of the proposal to the Academy to initiate the procedure for the establishment of a class for theatre and film art. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In fact, about a year ago, around, something even more at the board meeting, representatives Dr. Antun Vujic and representative Mr. Frano Matušić raised the issue, thinking that the academy should clearly monitor the development of the concept of permanent art that is clearly changing over time. While contemporary theatre art was related to literature, in addition to literature, while film art had an undefined status, today after all theoretical and clear practical experiences, in particular the other half of the 20th century we know that these are completely autonomous arts that don't connect to theatre, to film art, or to art, but really art entirely autonomous, to their own. I won't quote theoretical works... continue to discuss the subject and, in addition, the position of committees and representatives who raised the issue in order to make it very useful in the academy to follow logically the development of stable concepts and concepts of artistic fields and fields, in order to also say, to create a perhaps better working council between scientific and artistic classes. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So far, the academy has six scientific and three artistic periods. The launch of this process would clearly lead to the establishment of the 4th class. But clearly it's a matter of the academy, of her procedure, of her procedure. In short, the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community will support the adoption of a positive report on the work of the Academy and will support this proposal by the Committee on Education, Science and Culture, on which the Government of the Republic of Croatia has also given a positive opinion. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-03-0.u35125	Thank you. We're moving on to an individual debate. Mr. Representative Nevio Šetić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-03-0.u35126	Thank you. The Honorable President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable Secretary-General of the Academy. I would like to say a few words about this report, which is more about the very complex report that we received and the summer paper of the Croatian Academy and it seems to me I would like to discuss some parts that are not seen enough here. And I have personally witnessed how the academy has recently engaged in a very important debate on the responsibility of science for Croatia's future, which is not a small thing. And especially about the latest changes in education, where members of the academy have just started public debates together with the rectors of Croatian universities. It is a new dimension that we get in Croatian social and political life, because science is responsible and should have a place in the social development of our society. If you remember when there was a big debate about the cultural policy, the academy had this very big and important key role, just to raise awareness at the highest professional scientific level of what it is, as well as Croatian universities, and this synergy gives me a new quality. That's what I was going to say because in the committee debate, it wasn't enough, it wasn't seen. And secondly, when a precise report is read, then we see what source, what resource, what knowledge we have, which we may not use in the practical part. We don't understand much. Because other than the scientific works except for the gatherings that are and here they come from. Also, what I would like to praise is what is equally important for the development of society, is the fact that the Croatian Academy encourages the establishment of a research art institute throughout Croatia. That's how the last time was founded, the one in Vukovar. I see here a very important fact that the Academy wants to open such institutions again in Požega, Sibenik, Koprivnica, Sisko thus completes what is already in Pula, and in Rijeka, and in Zadar, and in Split, and Dubrovnik, etc. This also seems very important to me, because this experience of scientific projects can be extremely helpful to these parts of Croatia in its position and in its development. That's what I find very useful. I would also like to commend international cooperation, working in international cooperation. And what might be good for scientists and researchers to hear, the academy has its own foundation, the Croatian Academy of Sciences and Arts, which has almost 5 million euros in its account and last year has divided about 70 projects million kuna for scientific projects and research. That's good potential for those who can compete. And I won't be long, since we're expecting a vote I'll try to finish up by two o'clock, so I don't. And there is one more thing I would like to praise is the fact that we are working on Croatia and Europe. So this is extremely important today when more international levels and writings of harmony can be sought in science, which can encourage our development and which has strengths in international experiences and which can suffer such criticism. This seems to me that one edition is very important for Croatia and for its positioning in today's world. I won't be long. I thank and support this report.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-03-0.u35127	Thank you. Mr. Representative Dragutin Bodakosh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-03-0.u35128	Thank you very much. Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Academyman Cvetlic. This report today certainly shows one strength of the academy because with 371 members in three categories it is an impressive number, a potential that has certainly contributed greatly to Croatia's science. Normally and the funds used by this academy, and here there were talks of about 86 million kuna or index 112.5 means an increase in the funds received by that academy, should certainly be adequate and used. What we see from this report is that about 5 million kuna is extra, or I'm interested in this 1.8 million on neutral income for basic and other jobs, I think that these assets should be used normally and there are certainly reasons and opportunities where they should be and should be used. The Academy that deals with safe and scientific research and these scientific research units in cities that are founded and which are of growing interest, surely that's good. And normally if it's interpreted through certain activities, like what a 7 was. Strossmayer's days in Đakov, on the subject of "Strassmayer and Ban Jelačić", means historians who were present there that this is one way of their education and that such work, they ate and talked about by members of the academy about it. Therefore, it is certainly useful in the overall social and scientific life of Croatia. One of the forms of work are also indicated here by these 15 scientific councils. I'd just mention one thing, and it's for agriculture and forestry. Here in the yearbook we have a report on what this scientific council was doing and I can say that they could not be satisfied with the potential of the work of that council, because if they had specifically spoken from agricultural production, there was a technology that held a round table on the topic "Development of new technologies in the process and production of food in the Republic of Croatia", that it is still too little for such a scientific council because I once had the opportunity to participate in such a gathering that today the late academic Macelski organised on the subject of protecting agricultural products, using the protective means of artificial fertilisers. So in such a single set and the reports that were subsequently printed they were able to be one more quality way to get the profession to know these parts of knowledge that the academy has. We can see from this yearbook that there was still not enough activity in this section and especially in the areas that are important for the survival of the Croatian economy. Foresting, too, was very few speeches and especially today when both forestry and wood industry are in one difficulty normally in order to present these councils, people and knowledge that are in operation, which should be in function of the solution that these problems present at the moment should certainly be better presented by the Croatian Academy of Sciences and Arts. I specifically say that relationships with Europe and this kind of round table isn't enough. Which is why I'm saying it all. So precisely because I appreciate both the importance and authority that the HAZU has and I think it should be used more to real life and solve Croatia's economic problems. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-03-0.u35129	Thank you. Mr. Representative Frano Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-03-0.u35130	Thank you. Mr. President. First of all, I would like to commend the Croatian Academy's report and I would only refer to what my colleague Selem was saying as regards the initiative to establish a new class for theatre and film art. In fact, on the board we discussed very comprehensively this need to take into account all the facts that happened in the last century in theatre and film art and the fact that they are truly autonomously functioning, that it is simply today a need and that the Croatian Academy is establishing a new class, so a new class for theatre and film art. This idea came upon fertile soil within the committee itself and on the board we gave unanimous support to this initiative, but of course it is now the very academy itself. In the meantime, the government also supported this proposal, which was put forward by the board and so that the proposal actually now has the support of both the Croatian Government and our committee, and I believe it will certainly get the support of the Croatian Parliament, after it has done everything it needs to do and to consider first of all whether it is in line with their views or to support possibly this initiative and to initiate a procedure for setting up another class, so the classes for theatre and film art. What also seems extremely important to me is the question of the "king" instrument which is one of the most valuable instruments we can say on the globe. Certainly this precious fact is something to be used in a positive sense in order, of course, for world artists to be attracted and to be able to perform on that instrument. The issue remains of insurance of the instrument itself, but we believe that in Croatia there are booming insurance houses that at least some of them will find enough hearing to take on themselves sponsorship about the insurance of the instrument itself because it really guarantees us the arrival of the most top artists because it is an instrument that will attract absolutely every real pirate or violinist to come to Croatia. Here in this sense, of course, support the entire report. You yourself were talking about that media unfortunately... We could also see this at the previous point concerning the Croatian Olympic Committee, but we certainly give full support and when the Croatian Radio-Television Report is we will insist that the work of the Academy be monitored more intensively because the Academy and all the academics deserve it. [[The speaker is off, you can't hear it.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-03-0.u35131	Thank you very much. I'm concluding a debate on this agenda point. We'll decide later. 24. Report on the work of the Croatian Academy of Sciences and Arts. The applicant is the Croatian Academy of Science and Arts. The debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal of the Assembly Working Body and the Government of the Republic of Croatia, I am voting on the next conclusion, The report on the work of the Croatian Academy of Sciences and Arts is actually accepted by the HAZU Report. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? The Academy's report was accepted by most votes, 101 votes for and 1 abstention, nothing against. The Committee on Education, Science and Culture proposes to the Assembly to draw conclusions that are recommended to the Croatian Academy of Science and Arts to launch a procedure for the establishment of a class for theatre and film art. I am voting on the proposal for a conclusion of the Committee on Education, Science and Culture. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? This proposal was accepted by most votes, 100 votes for, 3 abstentions and nothing against.
