ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-29-0.u41363	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, honourable MPs and MPs. I'll be brief because you've certainly seen this document, carefully read it. I'll maybe just two, three dry figures at first say the type we've valued 13 existing high-schools, we've valued 56 postgraduate studies, 37 other programs, 50 undergraduates, etc. But I don't think it matters here, those numbers aren't something we should talk about. We should actually talk about what we did not do and what this National Council should do to raise the overall quality of higher education in the Republic of Croatia. I must immediately say that the National Council for Higher Education does not have too much authority. I'm here to draw out the articles of the law, and I'm going to single out the verbs from the articles of the law relating to the National Council. The National Council is concerned, proposed, encouraged, proposed, proposed. It's mostly a suggestion. The executive of course has no authority whatsoever. And then we're handing it all over to the Rector's Assembly, which is in the law to decide. However, given the autonomy of the university, a globular Senate, such as the 70-member Zagreb-based recommendation, is that our main recommendations of the National Council can be accepted and simply deafen it as well as the decision of even the Rector's Assembly. We were actually dealing with a huge number of objects. It was more technical work, something that actually the National Council shouldn't do and that's why I'm happy that this House voted what I call the ZOKUZIVO Law on quality assurance in science and higher education which actually transfers this technical part to the Agency for Science and Higher Education. We were mostly involved in the search for reviewers who then either accepted the review or did not accept it. If they didn't accept us, of course we couldn't do anything about it, I wouldn't point out the reasons. Either they didn't want to object or they didn't pay well enough. And I also have to say that in this whole system of ours that we built for me, the protection of those who won't work is much bigger than protection in Kuterov. I'd call Kuter a hunting ground compared to our academic community. And it was actually hard to refuse the study programmes that then have a positive assessment of the mildly favoured reviews, positive everything, minimum legal conditions. They are indeed minimal, 33% of employees should have a high school at the level of higher education or high school, the university only 50% of the employees under the law should have. And then there's actually no way to get them if they're not high-quality initials. We don't know that they're not, and that's why the reevaluations that will, of course, come and go, I think they're the real picture of you in our higher education. I have to say, a lot of marketing terms have been used in these new study programs. For example, management for the ambitious, it's a proposal for a study program. The following study programme is called macroeconomic management. I'm an electrician and engineer, but I still have the impression that at pre-graduate level, talking about macroeconomics and more management in the macroeconomic economy might not make too much sense, how much this country actually needs macroeconomic experts. So what I would have done with this opening address and exposed myself to artillery fire, of course, which I expect because it wasn't all that neither I nor you would have wanted. I'd say it's time for one strategy, for one serious evaluation, but we can't do it alone. In fact, the National Council for Higher Education cannot just decide what the priorities of the Republic of Croatia are. The Republic of Croatia has its own bodies, it has this distinguished Parliament and I think that the help of this Parliament and its bodies is necessary to decide what we really want, what branches of the economy we want to encourage, is that shipbuilding. I'm not gonna say yes or no here because I'm no expert on that, but let's just say the three shipbuilding studies might be too much. Is that the ICT I won't say again because it would be water to my own mill as a dean of the Faculty of Electrical Engineering and Computing. I'm not going to say, of course, that these are some other professions that I wouldn't call them now, but, say, at the University of Zagreb, they need two studies of history, whether they're actually on a doctoral level. There's two philosophy studies on this one, two history studies at the doctor's office, three studies practically geology, and one university with a tendency to teach everything at all. I was misquoted, and I believe you remember that article in the paper, "Don't write humanism." Which, of course, I didn't say because you probably learned that the text says one thing or to tell the journalist one thing, that the journalist writes how correct and then the editor puts a title that will sell the newspaper. I definitely didn't say it, but we still don't seem to have enough doctors, that we don't have enough productive interests so said and that this fama in this people is going to become a manager, that we're going to get a management contract still standing, and I think we all have to work to decide what we really want. Here, I wouldn't take your time anymore. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-29-0.u41364	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? Yeah. The chairman of the Committee on Education, Science and Culture, Mr. Peter Selem. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-29-0.u41365	Mr. President. Mr. President of the National Council for Higher Education, colleagues and colleagues. At its 21st session, the Committee on Education, Science and Culture discussed the report on the work of the National Council for Higher Education in 2008 as a home working body. The introductory explanation was submitted by the representative of the applicant of the report. The National Council for Higher Education report shows in statistical indicators and through their problematization of the scope of the activity in the past year, then relations between individual tasks of the National Council, particularly in the conditions of redistribution of certain functions so far. The report thus shows still unlimited pressure on the establishment of new higher education institutions, unlimited pressure in conditions until a network of higher education institutions has been established. At the same time, the National Council has worked at a non-decreased pace on the evaluation of the study programmes of existing higher education institutions that have so far been verified more than 800. By assessing applications for the establishment of higher education institutions that would be financed from the budgets, the National Council warns that these proposals are largely not going, I underline this is not going to raise higher education levels in line with the standards of excellence, but are often being questioned and the existing level. This is true when it comes to funding opportunities from budgetary means, especially given the situation with the teaching staff, since the same circle of teachers appears in an increasing number of existing higher education institutions or those institutions in the establishment. The National Higher Education Council has not been sufficiently concerned with strategic levels so far, since it has been employed by a large number of individual issues mentioned in the recently adopted Law on Quality Insurance in Science and Higher Education as questions of initial accreditation, accreditation of higher education institutions and their programmes. The law mentioned above has entrusted the Agency for Higher Education with operational tasks so that the National Council will be able to address key issues of higher education in the future. During the reporting period, the National Council discussed applications for the establishment of 21 new higher schools, of which 3 private universities, a private university and 17 private higher schools. By the end of the reporting period, the evaluation process has been completed in the most part. The Minister was referred proposals to issue or deny a permit to carry out the activities. A significant part of the activities of the National Council for Higher Education in this reporting period concerns the examination of postgraduate, doctoral and specialist programmes proposed by the universities for approval. Over the past year, the evaluation of 37 doctoral and 60 specialist postgraduate studies programmes has been completed. Finally, the National Council report insists on the adoption of a network of higher education institutions. This is the most important thing, absolutely the most important fact of this report, and this is the Committee clearly, absolutely supported and accepted that as soon as possible a network of higher education institutions is brought in, and I expect that the Croatian Parliament will, on the basis of observations and proposals with the existing proposal for a network, bring forward such a document, with all the difficulties that arise when territorially deployed, and thus discipline the demands of local and regional units. The debate expressed a commendable opinion on the criticism which the National Council addressed to the issues in these and other issues, particularly when it comes to the lack of strategic considerations. As regards the hesitation in the adoption of a network of higher education institutions, it has been pointed out that the National Council for Higher Education should be the bearer of the draft of this document, but that it must consult on the completion of this task, so it must consult representatives of economic and other interested structures, as clear executive and legislative authorities. The need for a network of higher education institutions is indeed urgent and important, as it depends on a number of individual decisions, but the sensitivity of the issue is that the speed of network identification must not affect the quality of this solution. The debate pointed out the documentary value of the add-on report, which, by statistical indicators and the problematisation of closer, shows the state of the individual studies of higher education institutions and proposals for their establishment, but does not draw all the conclusions necessary for action from these reviews. A number of specific issues have also been highlighted in relation to the state of higher education among which it is noted that in all higher education institutions it is not equally regulated, a very important moment, are not equally regulated in the position of students who started their studies prior to the introduction of the proposals of the Bologna Process and thus are challenged in some institutions by the fundamental right to complete their studies according to the proposition according to which the study was started. After the discussion, the Committee unanimously concluded: "The Committee proposes to the Croatian Parliament to accept the report on the work of the National Council for Higher Education in 2008. year."
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-29-0.u41366	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the HDZ Club, Mr Krešimir Ćosic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-29-0.u41367	Your Honor, Mr. President. Dear Mr. President of the National Council for Higher Education. As this report puts it, the main activity of the National Higher Education Council in 2008 was to give an opinion on the new proposals for pre-graduate, graduate, professional and postgraduate studies proposed by the existing higher schools. Since, through the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports and in 2008, an extremely large number of new proposals of higher education and study programmes have been received, I would say more and more intensive discussions on their justification, especially given that the expansion of the existing network of higher education and study programmes with relatively modest human, spatial and other resources can have a negative impact on the quality of the overall system of higher education of the Republic of Croatia, and that is what I would say is an extremely important finding which should be the direction of the debate on how to direct the education system in the Republic of Croatia so that it can achieve the fundamental interests of Croatian society – knowledge, education, competitiveness of the economy, stronger exports. These are the strategic goals of the Croatian state. Without it, there is no improvement and improvement in quality of life. When we view this account in this way, it becomes fully relevant and meaningful. The mass of this is today a fact, the quality unfortunately lies in another plan. As Professor O'Donnell said. Selem's lack of strategic thinking is a fact that happened under great pressure from all those who are interested in diplomas of various, different degrees. But the quality of the debate on what is behind these diplomas and what is the contribution of these diplomas to the real competitiveness of the Croatian knowledge economy, published works, prominent international magazines, etc. The report further points out on page 3. In the evaluation of postgraduate studies, special attention was paid to doctoral studies, taking care of the consistency of the structure of the proposed doctoral programmes with the principles for the establishment of postgraduate doctoral studies and recommendations on the establishment of postgraduate doctoral studies. During 2008, as noted, the evaluation of 97 postgraduate studies programmes, 37 postgraduate university doctoral programmes and 60 postgraduate specialist studies programmes was completed. I think it is important enough to highlight the fact of this trend regarding mass and desire for education. But above all, the desire to open numerous higher schools without clear, strategic criteria, which can be acceptable, which can also be an interest in the local environment, but also in the economy of the Republic of Croatia as a whole. Just doing the illustration. During 2005, I remind myself that more than 8 hundred study programmes have been issued. This huge effort of people, resources, limited financial resources question whether the best source in the context of what we have discussed is the strategic competitiveness of the Croatian state not only in scientific but particularly in economic terms, in terms of strengthening Croatian exports. Also, in 2006, a licence was requested for 65 new undergraduate, graduate, professional studies, and 16 new higher schools. And during 2007 for 91 new undergraduate, graduate and professional studies. It shows trends, it shows trends in which massism I would say a strategic goal, and massity can't be a strategic goal. The strategic goal is something else. Quality has the best of the best, because they can only make a real contribution to the Republic of Croatia not only in educational, scientific, but also in any other respect. Furthermore, the report notes that a large number of new study programmes proposed without firm reflection on the real needs of a region to launch a certain study programme profile has an impact on the spread of the existing network of higher education and study programmes uncontrollably and versed. For these reasons this debate is today I would say very important, far more important than we think of the future of the Republic of Croatia. And I think that an extremely important observation that has also been said in the opening presentation of the President of the Council, but the president of our committee is also strategic thinking and thinking in the field of education is extremely important. If we do not have all that is happening today, it has a negative impact on the quality of the entire high education system of the Republic of Croatia, and this is part of the finding found in this report. It is concluded that the basic motive of most of the existing public and private higher universities, as well as the promoters of the new higher universities, is to multiply the number of study programmes and/or the opening of new higher universities, to which the poor financial, spatial, human resources are to be spent anyway, without the desire to increase the quality of existing study programmes so that they truly become competitive at European and global level. These are the findings found in this report. All of this in some way warns that we must engage much more and that we must put much more effort into these problems of our education, the usefulness of education in a very practical and pragmatic way through appropriate strategic thinking. There is no more competitive Croatia, no strengthening exports. Without strengthening exports, there is no possibility of serviceing the debt that is growing every year and these broader strategic observations I think are very important. The statistics we've heard here incontestably indicate I'd say of a psychological phenomenon that has its own and broader political context. Croatians want to learn, citizens of the Republic of Croatia want to learn. According to this statistics, they really seem to want a society of knowledge, that it's probably their commitment. But the question when we scratch a little beneath the surface is what's really going on. Do Croats, do our citizens really prefer diplomas or do they really care about quality knowledge? However, quality knowledge is acquired by hard work of long term duration. And because of all this debate on this report deserves me to say increasingly comprehensive views of higher education with many aspects. As macroeconomic management has been said for someone who hardly has any fundamentals ahead of education and a prerequisite for such problems to think about. Someone learns that they don't have conditions, someone teaches it to someone who doesn't know anything about it, and then there's the point of what we're really doing? What is the guarantee, so this report shows that the mass that happens these days or these years will ultimately produce the quality that only makes sense and only justifies the investment of not small ones, but I would say limited state resources from the state budget to higher education. This scale and this mass is somewhat surprising, warns 8 hundred passers-bys, a hundred new requirements, and I would say very nicely the Međimurje University in Čakovec, the High School of Information Management in Virovitica, the High School of Croatian Zagorje in Krapina, the High Business School of Minerva in Dukpolje, the Higher Political School in Zagreb, the High School of Media, Multimedia, Communication Technologies, macroeconomic management, strategic planning and I would say all those expressions you can hear on CNN, Blomberg, etc., when it comes to new ideas on how to strengthen competitiveness on the global level, you will see no less in the titles of such study programs. Hiding behind such study programs is not hard to imagine. At the same time as all this is happening, I am free to conclude the following fact and observation that the position of the Zagreb University on some world ranking lists is very worrying. While we're focused on mass, we're almost wasting the time and energy needed to concentrate on the only thing that only makes sense and justification, that's quality. Quality produces and provides a quality product, a competitive product, and only those involved in this chain of creating a competitive product and strengthening the competitiveness of the Croatian economy makes sense to be financed from the state budget. The other day I was in Split at the Faculty of Electrical Engineering, Engineering and Shipbuilding, and unfortunately there was an extremely high-quality, reputed international conference on now some technical area of numerical fluid dynamics. Extremely important for shipbuilding, energy, etc. Since I had to address the meeting on behalf of the President of the Croatian Parliament, I was free to ask amongst these gatherings of scientists who are here from the economy. Who's here from the shipbuilding. There was no one. This also shows and points to a phenomenon which unfortunately does not work to the extent that it should function, connecting the economy, top education and quality. Therefore, the position of our education system in the context of strengthening our economic competitiveness is a matter that deserves attention. I would say freely, I hope no one gets angry, absolutely important to us social sciences, but the trends that are happening today warn that the number of engineers of electrical engineering, engineering, chemistry, physics, mathematics also deserves me to say maybe a little more attention and effort. Their integration with the organized economy, with people in the economy who have feelings and know-how to create a competitive product is very important. I think that in the end, we can also be concerned about the fact, if we have to realize that perhaps the best students at our universities today are having a hard time hiring. There are people on PMF, and in physics, and in math. Here's a month ago, teaching at our mother's college to students of the 9th semester, I asked them where you were going to work. The best of the best still don't know where to find a job today. One good part of them. This warns us in some way that the debate on higher education must be conducted in a broader context that deserves special political attention and priority such as the introduction to and said appropriate strategic thinking in the interests of the Croatian state and all Croatian citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-29-0.u41368	Thank you. On behalf of the HNS club, Mr. Representative Miljenko Doric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-29-0.u41369	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. President of the National Council, colleagues and colleagues. I also spoke last year in front of the Croatian People's Party club following a report by the National Council. I put in front of the Croatian People's Party club a number of questions, got answers, but this year's report denied some of those answers that we received, and especially points to many, and especially those key problems remained. Prof. Cosic was now talking about some of these problems, Prof. Selem in front of the home labor body. I'd like to continue in the same spirit. Namely, colleagues and colleagues, if you have read this report, and it has a full 132 pages, then in terms of the political dimension of this report we can all come down to six sentences. The professional part, the technical part, is excellently done, but the job that you and I, especially the Government, are waiting for is something I would especially like to underline here. So let me read those six sentences for the citizens who are following us, because we're probably on the wire. During 2006, a licence was requested for 65 new studies. During 2007, for 91 new studies. And during 2008, even 107 new studies were requested. During 2006, the establishment of 16 new higher schools, 2007 for 22 new higher schools, and last year for 21 new higher schools. A number of new study programmes remain in the report, it was proposed without firm reflection on the real needs of a region. The existing network of higher schools and study programmes is spreading uncontrollably and scytheically. It is concluded that the basic motive of most existing public and private higher universities is to multiply the number of study programmes and/or the opening of new higher universities, which is further spent and such scarce financial, spatial and human resources rather than the desire to increase the quality of existing study programmes in order to make them truly competitive at European and global level. Last sentence, this activity is being started by applying profit rules which negatively affects the quality of the teaching process itself. That's what we should talk about today. We've already talked about it, especially within the parent body we had a round table, Mr. Selem knows that we've made a series of conclusions, that we've put those 7, 8 conclusions on paper and we asked a year ago to be accepted by the Minister of Science, Education and Sports that meeting never happened. My colleagues and colleagues, each developed country has a very specific development strategy, the development strategy is directly based on education policy, economic policy, tax policy, customs policy, etc. Let's stick to education policy. It has a series of segments again, refers again to both high and high school profiles, which the state needs, here I am very interested in whether the National Council of Government has ever come up with any data with numbers as long as Croatia will take 5, 10, 15 years of doctors, it is the state sector. Judges, cops, teachers, etc., I believe you never won anything. It's called shame, but that's how it was last year, this year, I hope it'll be something better next year. Now we're all telling the same story, but the clear problem is the implementation of that story. Further, when educational policy is brought, who should participate in it all. Only regions are mentioned here, which is non-sensual, I have now cited an example of the ministry that should be directly involved, but there are certainly recognitions, county, local communities, there are economic operators, crafts chamber, economic chamber, educational institutions, teaching institutions, I ask you colleagues and colleagues, when the prime minister with the minister of education, the minister of the economy invited the National Council and that other National Council, and the trusts that we had two weeks ago on the agenda, larger companies, crafts chambers, economic chambers, when they sat together and agreed on education policy in this country. It's not just about colleagues and colleagues of quality, it's about profiles, in which direction we push this country's education policy, whether we produce for the needs of the economy, for the needs of the Employment Service or for the needs of France or the German industry, I ask you who we produce for. If we know all of this, then the question is how could we let so many new universities, universities, high schools, countless studies, and not put them directly on development policy? I have never seen in this report the real needs of the Croatian economy, so that on the one hand we have needs and on the other hand what we do to meet these needs, we don't even have an analysis from the Employment Office, to see which profiles we have surpluses, stand 2, 3, 4 years of people fail to work, and on the other hand we have deficits. Which is what we do to direct the education system towards the deficit and to reduce or skip the year, two entries of those profiles that have been standing at the Employment Office for years. It would be a political move for this country if these young people didn't waste their time, so we didn't spend money, and they didn't end up getting a job because there's just no need for them. I'm going to apologize here at the end of this request to really establish better communication. HDZ colleagues are in your hands some leverage, I'm not running away from responsibility, I'm a university professor, but this communication policy between economies, between governments between educational institutions, you can take that first step. You know, talk about university autonomy, about the autonomy of the national council, about the autonomy of the foundation, finally the autonomy of autonomy turns into anarchy if we don't network them, I beg you, let's start creating that network. We all have our share of responsibility, let's take this strong step, save money, time, nerves for these young people, and we'll achieve more. I will finally give you an example of Slovakia, which has impressed me, and I always talk and convince him, and here I will do it in the end. The Slovaks were in a very difficult position when they became an independent state, there was this heavy Warsaw Pact military industry that ultimately served nothing after the collapse of the system, but these people in that industry knew how to stack those vehicles, and what did the Slovaks think was best done? To continue in a similar sector, to educate people, they primarily thought of the automotive industry. They took every investor very seriously, when the investor came from the other side of the table sitting ladies and gentlemen their minister, the mayor of the regional head was sitting, and he was sitting on the mayor of the area where the factory was planned to open. No matter which party the minister was in, no matter which party the mayor was in, no matter what party the mayor was in, they had to work together and they did the job brilliantly. The minister presented to the investor legislation, which are the advantages of their laws to invest there. The mayor under which the secondary school education system is promised to clearly educate the primary profiles that the automotive industry needs, to install in the programs exactly what these young people need to learn, what skills they need to acquire. The mayor normally had to promise that water, gas, installations would arrive at that workshop in so many weeks or months, and it was a very serious Slovak story. It is not unusual then that they have received KIA and produced it for half of Europe, that they have received Peaugot, their plants in Slovakia that again produce it for the whole of Central Europe. This is a serious approach to development planning policy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-29-0.u41370	Thank you. On behalf of the SDP club, Mr. Agent Iron Flego. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-29-0.u41371	Mr. President, at first one personal remark, which is actually quite a disappointment that there is no one here from the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports. Look, we're discussing today a report from a strategic national body, and the resolution ministry is not interested. Well, it's not possible that there's no one from the Ministry who can't attend here and who, by their profession, wouldn't have to be here when we're discussing this whole thing. This account is fortunately different from the present because it is critical and self - critical. He's critical of the current state of affairs and he's actually talking about how the National Council has failed to perform some of its strategic tasks in the past. The strategies exist, but it is only a matter of how the National Council is referred as a strategic body to existing strategies and whether it is not actually the strategic task of the National Council to go beyond the current strategic frameworks of its new initiatives. This, unfortunately, has not happened or happened, and this is basically the basis for the finding that this report is also in continuance with the present one. He is in continuance with the present and because he is much more concerned with technicals, not with what is his basic task. Its basic task is strategic thinking and strategic stepping out of the existing. I'll give you just a few examples. In Croatia, there is a kind of devaluation of higher schools and higher education programmes. This devaluation takes place thanks to the interests of the ministry and the functioning or inaction of the National Council for Higher Education. Because simply too many programs without sufficiently verified assumptions for the implementation of these programmes are approved. I'm primarily referring to humane assumptions, then I'm also thinking about infrastructure. Therefore, the idea was born to create a network or projection of the medium-term development of higher universities in the Republic of Croatia. We said hello. That network showed up last year at 6 months. And she was pulled right after she showed up. This network was prescribed or proposed by criteria under which new higher education programmes would be approved and new higher education institutions set up. The network should also project Croatia's needs over the next few years and this network should be a basis or framework, however you wish, for the work of the National Council for Higher Education. It's been more than 15 months since that network appeared without being further worked on. And that is, there can't be a case in the world's most dynamic activity, which is also science related to higher education. Comrades and colleagues of another country and around us are taking steps of 7 miles, we are mostly groping in place, and that is something that is inadmissible in our court. The second element, the second major failure in the strategic activity of the National Council, is what happened last year. I will remind you last year that the first generation of Bologna students ended their first study cycle and instead of dying of curiosity, knowing what the results were, what were the achievements, what happened, what didn't happen, and what was going to happen, what was good, and what was it like to be even better? No one, not the ministry or the National Council for Higher Education has encouraged studies about what happened in the Bologna process. This team is more of a failure that the Bologna process rests on dynamic, continuous monitoring and continuous improvement of study. The more Croatia is a very disadvantaged country in highly qualified people, the more I remind you, therefore, the university and university educated we had 7 and a half, slightly less than 7.5%, high and with higher expertise, we had an unfulfilled 11.5% of the population. So, we should have seen whether the effectiveness of the study by the Bologna process was improved or whether it remained at the same level of tragic study ineffectiveness in Croatia or perhaps worsened. We recently read about the situation in Zadar. Of the 3.5 thousand or not, 4 thousand students, a thousand and a half students did not meet the requirements for enrolment in the following year. Well, for God's sake, it's an event, if the press has written correctly, it's an event to ring the alarm and the ministry, but it's also the National Council for Higher Education. That National Council for Higher Education, I think as my strategic activity, has not done it. Third example, in 2001, we signed an access card for the Bologna Process. In 2003, we passed a law that began to apply since 2005. In the Bologne process, in my court, we flew in extremely unprepared. And one of the unprepared is a new system of study with an old system or a nomenclature of occupation and calling. My colleagues and colleagues, the first-timer in Croatia gets the name of high professional training and thus we have all those first-graders who have completed their studies, discriminated against the European prime ministers, and we have disabled them. The National Council for Higher Education has not responded to that fact. And then we here have to encourage it, and we don't owe it or anything, but it's actually the whole thing in the executive power and the way the whole system works or the better said coordination of the system. The Ministry of Science, Education and Sports had to provide appropriate documents to the Ministry of Labour and Social Care, so that it could actually apply appropriate legal provisions on a new way of studying. And the whole series of first-graders is professionally handicapped. A whole series of first-graders is professionally disabled for one reason. For tens of years, the education system has been based on what is technically called learning outcomes. That's the way it is with higher education. In order for that dissident, which has been formulated by fellow Cosic and spoken of by my predecessor, it is necessary to agree on the outcomes of learning on the one hand the European Qualifications Framework, on the other hand with the Croatian labour market or labour force, i.e. agree on learning outcomes with employers. That didn't happen. But then it was supposed to happen at the end of the first generation of Bologna. And then it was going to happen or agree in 2008, when the first generation of the second cycle of students began to study. That didn't happen either. We need to make appropriate steps if we want the whole thing to work the way we consider it optimal. Or at least if we can't think of it at national level, then it should be copied to say or take it from Europe. Mr. President, as you know, we have two years in a row, and perhaps the number of newly enrolled students is dropping. We need to ring the alarm. We need to figure out ways to get the students to study. It is necessary to come up with stimulating measures for those professions that are already deficiting and stimulating measures for those professions, which will be deficiting when students who are now enrolling in the study have completed their studies. However, we expected that when the ministry does not already do so, then from the National Council for Higher Education, to encourage an analysis of the state of staff or to do or to encourage the creation of a projection of human needs, if in anything else, then in public services, in education, in science, in traffic, etc. etc. So we don't know, in fact, except from direct experience, which we're going to need in four or five years. I hear there's a whole generation of primary school teachers before retirement, especially high school teachers. Who will replace them if we do not think in a strategic projective way? So, and it's kind of sadly missed. And finally the last point I'm going to mention that we've discussed a lot in both the Parliament and the board. The National Council for Higher Education shall be obliged to meet with the National Council for Science and to make recommendations together on the allocation of the budget. If that seemed to be the greatest and far the most productive scientific and educational, most productive university, and this is Mr. President of your university and my university, he is terribly financially lagging behind the others. I'll tell you the pre-rebalanced data, so some universities have grown 112 even 113% in the last five years. Zagreb University grew 56.5, so 57%. It's completely unwarranted. I should have done these analyses, also warned of the inappropriateness of such a relationship, but it was also necessary for our court to analyse the draft budget rebalances. The more we lose billions and 130 million kunas in our budget, the more we're missing in the system. Finally, the National Council for Higher Education has its legal obligations and has opportunities. Is this how the possibilities in this tall body are to think, to suggest, to initiate and to actually ask for appropriate changes? As I was saying at the outset, this body was much more concerned with techniques than with important and strategic issues. Therefore, it cannot receive a passing assessment of SDP representatives. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-29-0.u41372	Thank you. On behalf of the HSS Club. Mr. Representative Stanko Grcic on behalf of the HSS. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-29-0.u41373	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished applicants of the report, colleagues and fellow MPs. As noted in this report, the main activity of the National Higher Education Council in 2008 was to consider and give an opinion on the new proposals for pre-graduate, graduate, professional and postgraduate programmes proposed by the existing higher schools, and on proposals for the establishment of new higher schools. During 2008, several applications were received for the establishment of new public, private higher universities. Who 21 proposed and approved new undergraduate and graduate professional studies of 107 proposals, which is more than the previous years. The National Council for Higher Education has also presented a number of complaints, as well as its dissatisfaction precisely because of a large number of proposals for the establishment of new higher universities, as the Council considers that the basic motive of most existing public and private higher universities, but also of the promoters of new higher universities, is to establish a mere multiplication of the number of study programmes or the opening of new higher universities, in addition to spending any scarce financial, spatial and human resources and not the desire to increase the quality of existing study programmes in order to make them truly competitive at European and global level. Furthermore, the National Council for Higher Education points to the fact that the increase in the network of higher education and study programmes was not accompanied by a proportional increase in funding from the Republic of Croatia's budget, most often resulting only from the redistribution of existing funds and from the damage to the overall quality of study. Clearly, the National Council for Higher Education is also dissatisfied with the fact that the legal obligation to give an opinion to the Minister on all these proposals for the establishment of new universities shows an extremely high level of operational work by the council, especially by the agency, which focuses primarily on these newly accepted requirements which set out all the tasks that the National Council for Higher Education should deal with and which would be of much more strategic interest to develop and improve higher education in the Republic of Croatia. Furthermore, the report also noted that the current increase in the network of higher education and study programmes was not accompanied by a proportional increase in funding from the Republic of Croatia's budget, most often resulting only from the redistribution of existing funds and from the damage to the overall quality of study. And there was also a lack of qualified teachers who were exposed to increased teaching burdens and stimulated forms of external co-operation in the follow-up, which also undermines the quality of teaching. In order to address this problem, the National Council recommended to the Ministry of Science that all new high-level universities, to which a secretary's permission will be issued on the basis of a council recommendation, should be subject to administrative supervision in order to determine the real situation regarding the appropriate quality of permanent teachers. However, the National Council for Higher Education states in the report that no feedback has been received, as the new higher school has indeed hired teachers listed in the university's draft. It is also proposed to review certain provisions of the Act on Scientific Activity and Higher Education, in particular those relating to the establishment of new higher schools, in the sense that the criteria necessary for issuing a permit to carry out the activities of new higher universities are strengthened. As one of the most important activities in 2008 the National Council noted the implementation of the external evaluation of thirteen higher universities. In this context, the failure to meet the high-school evaluation plan in the Republic of Croatia, according to which 32 universities were to be evaluated in 2008, on the grounds that the council had no insight into the exact amount of appropriations for this purpose. And since the implementation of it requires large financial resources, the overall activity started only half a year. In its report to note, the National Council expresses great dissatisfaction with the multiplication of the number of study programmes, regardless of limited financial, personnel and spatial resources, their overlap and parallelism and significantly less efforts to improve the existing study programmes and their implementation. Furthermore, the Council is dissatisfied with the development of an internal system for ensuring the quality of high-quality universities themselves, which is not yet established at the stage of establishment or at higher schools or in high schools of the Quality Insurance Unit. In line with the identified shortcomings of the existing system of higher education, the National Council, together with the Agency for Science and Higher Education, launched two major projects that should be amended. It is the first creation of a Quality Insurance Act in science and higher education to reposition the position of the National Council and the Agency in a way that the National Council is established as a body aimed at making strategic decisions and recommendations while monitoring the quality management system at higher schools would be in the responsibility of the Agency, as well as direct evaluation of higher schools and study programmes. The second project is the creation of a national information system for higher education and science, which would give the Agency broad tasks and powers in the field. This is a rare example of a report in which not only the mere statistical indicators are presented, but the observed irregularities and shortcomings of the existing system are very specific and a solution is proposed to improve the situation in higher education. In this report, the National Council for Higher Education stressed that it is doing its job as best as it can, even expressing dissatisfaction with its own achievements, whether it is about the incomplete implementation of commitments for financial reasons or for dealing with non-prime tasks that the Council should deal with. However, it is a pleasure to receive a lot of information on the state of the system of higher education and the justification of the existence of the National Council is certainly unquestionable. Therefore, the Croatian Peasant Party Club will support the 2008 National High Education Council's work report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-29-0.u41374	Thank you. On behalf of the promoter, Mr. Professor Vedran Sailor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-29-0.u41375	Thank you very much. I really thank you for these constructive discussions and I must say that I agree with the great majority of what they say. We're not happy with what we've done but we still have the best intention of doing better. I might be commenting on just a few key words that have been said here today in these discussions. First is quality. It all comes down to quality, but now we're going to see what's really quality. Is the quality in higher education to enroll 500 students and then through one rigorous selection to graduate 50, I don't think so. I don't think that's definitely quality. The problem of Bologne may be the biggest misunderstanding that it's actually Bologna. At most of the fact, I still have to say it openly at universities, colleges, high schools in Bologna actually brought only scissors after the third year and nothing essential else. Professor Flego mentioned today that article in the paper that really tragically sounds like three of them came to the fifth year of their studies. However, what is a fifth year of study? Why today after we started in Bologna we're talking about a year of study, first, second, third, fourth. What is a year of study when we have ECTS, when measured, the only measure of success in the study should be collected number of ECTS points. And why is it that someone who has collected 59 ECTS points has not collected 60 ECTS cannot study further, why? Now he has to repeat the year again in those old times. I really don't understand it. The second is, look at what's going on right now at the Faculty of Political Sciences. The students' rebellion, the threat of a study blockade, why? Because everyone wants to go to master's school. That's where the quality should be. I am deeply convinced that not all those who have enrolled in pre-graduate studies deserve to enroll a master or a graduate study. The economy doesn't know us. True, no one worked with the economy. True, the economy hasn't been educated by anyone, but I do, and I'm sure, I'm sure a lot of employers are looking forward to... I recently had a conversation with the same person who appeared relatively often in the press in the previous months, Vlasta Sakar, she is president of the Small Employers' Association. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] She was surprised I wanted to see her. It was strange to me that she was surprised that I wanted to see her. Well, it's my duty to talk to her to see what employers, even small employers, eventually how many big firms we have. I once did an analysis in my sector, so there are, with us, an average size of ICT companies 3 employed or four. You have a hundred ICT companies in the Republic of Croatia that have zero employees, zero. So employers, you have three or four companies whose number of employees is measured in hundreds. She made a very interesting claim that is contrary to everything we actually think we should, that our economy can't absorb that large amount of highly educated personnel. We have been taught, of course, by example by developed countries, America, Australia and Japan, that there are 40% highly educated there. We've been worried about our 11%, because it's still 7.5 is not true and it's headed for one debauchery. There must have been some mistakes in this debauchery, we may have gone a little too far, but it's up to us now to get through that one process of revolution on the right track. Watch out, the system is very trom, the education system is something that shows its results in five years. Our decisions today may take place next year, for two years, and the results of what we have decided will be after six, seven. Let us be aware that we started this reform of education from a single system where the average duration of study in a four-year study was 7.1 years if I am not mistaken and when you consider those who graduated, 30% of them were enrolled. And now we've done what I think we should do, a pre-graduate study which is a follow-up to high school education that gives kids, I say, I call them kids because they are. And those I promoted yesterday, I really appreciate the understanding of the President of the Croatian Parliament for transferring this point today, because yesterday I had one promotion for 110 new engineers. A thousand of their parents, relatives and friends arrived from all over Croatia, and in our university it is unthinkable for the dean to shake hands when he shares his diplomas. In this context, these children must have the best conditions for education, to acquire high professional training, why not? We are working on a Croatian qualification framework that will define these degrees, degrees of education and that is one compatible with those 40% of Americans, Japanese, etc. One more thing I barely dare say to this body, which is that still studying is some kind of social refuge with us. The illustration works, our student in the student cafeteria gets a full meal for 4.40 kuna, the ministry subsidized the difference by 16.60. It's about soup, dessert, etc., the main dish, and the real economic price of this meal is 25 kuna. 600 million kuna per year costs the Republic of Croatia a student standard. And let's be honest, we have really students studying for student benefits. In such a system where we started with so many anomalies in one school reform that again, it's called the process of what we call Bologna, it's actually called the Bologna Process, the process is something that lasts. We can't get out of it and we can't get out of it at least quickly. What we need is an inventory. At my first session of the National Council, I said that I would very much like to answer those few questions that actually teach journalists how to write articles in any school of journalism. You have to answer the questions who, what, who, who, when, and why. I have to say that in this system of ours where we approved a bunch of study programs based on 33% of the high school employees, etc., I have no answer to the question of who teaches. I have only really much to do, because all these study programs are properly written, they have names, they are comparable to the European Union. Who? Let's look at how many students are enrolled in any study program and go to class and count how many places are actually empty, and we'll see that to whom it's not quite certain. When? There's class, there's class, there's class, there's teacher, and there's team, and there's team, but you'll always find someone in the hall. At some high school level, we have an educational inspection. And do we have a high school inspection that's been going to, say, all these high schools that we've approved in the meantime and sat down for classes to see who and who he's teaching? I think there'd be surprises? Where? So when you add up the students, when you add up how many students you have, and how many places are there in the classrooms, you'll come to where it's problematic. And why is that? Well, that's actually the hardest question. In my own college with which I'm actually proud, there are objects that I can't really answer the question of why this subject is now, in today's context, being taught in modern times. Therefore, we have a difficult task ahead of us. It's a difficult task ahead of us. ... Was this a signal for me to bring in the end? [[I don't know what you're talking about.]] I apologize for this deeply. I simply had to tell this esteemed body honestly what lies on my heart and what I would like to fix in that system. Thank you very much. And I'm sorry if I was too wide.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-29-0.u41376	Thank you. It's all right. It's okay. It's okay. Now we're going to have an individual discussion. I'm also announcing that at 10.49, the deadline for the application will be 10 minutes. In an individual debate, the first female representative is Romana Jerkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-29-0.u41377	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Mr. President of the National Council for Higher Education, colleagues and colleagues. This report comes during a period during which our higher education is indeed faced with great challenges although it seems to me that this time of challenge in this country for higher education has been taking too long. I think that those who really live really realistically, so students and their teachers face really big and different problems than those relating to the increase in scholarships, the insufficient number of scholarships, the major infrastructure problems, the insufficient number of teaching staff, etc. which very often leads to the naked improvisation of the practical application of the Bologna legal standards. Because of all this, I expected as some of my previous colleagues pointed out something different, actually significantly different this report on your work. Also, recent student protests I think are a very strong indicator that should be radically different and much more quality approach both to the structure and to the financing of higher education. And I think you're a little bit relativizing this problem that was brought to the media and the problem of Bologna in general, because for me it's really worrying that 1500 students from 5,000 at a university have a problem with enrollment in the senior year. And let's say 500 students out of 5,000 actually more, actually permanently loses the right to study if the Senate, and besides the Spirit of Bologna, does not approve that I can enroll them for the second time in the same year. And I agree absolutely with my colleague Fleg so that we can take due care to discuss today that we have an analysis of whether bad, ugly, catastrophic predictions have occurred that in some departments, only two to three students in one university could reach age five. So, I'd expect you to be such an analysis, making such an analysis you've stimulated. You who are the most professional body, you who are the roof institution that should, here you have listed several verbs, the verb suggests, appoints, encourages. For me, it's very binding verbs. But here's another one. So, you as a roof institution are obliged to take care of the development and quality of the entire system of higher education in our country. Therefore, I do not think that the National Council for Higher Education is intended as some sort of conclusion from the report of the Management and Technical Committee, which, on the basis of some criteria, adopts an opinion, gives an opinion and licences for programmes and for studies. Of course. It is an important segment of your work, but it should have come to me, I believe, after something she said would be of strategic importance for Croatia at the moment, and that is what Croatia wants from higher education and how we will achieve it. So what we should do for the development of the country, for a knowledge-based development and whether we can do it in the end at all with 2% of the budgetary separation. It seems to me that finally, and you yourself, in your opening presentation, should begin to plan higher education in view of, or based on some assessment, based on the needs, the real needs of society and new development. So, I expected to hear in this report and from you thinking about what high education we're going to build society with, and at the same time education doesn't become a privilege just for some. You said so, and of course I can only agree with you. Today, we do not have in Croatia an analysis of the current needs for individual professions, even less we have a projection of the development of individual professions in the context of some long-term strategy and expected trends in the globalised world, and even less the adjusted registration quotas. So we don't have it all. However, I would expect this very important role of the National Council for Higher Education, which you are at the head of. You also mentioned one very bad trend and the examples are a lot. Today in Croatia, for example. We have seven different institutions on which to study a particular profile, a particular profession. We put them in for hundreds of years, we generate hundreds of them annually, and at the same time we have so many at the Employment Office that we don't know them. So the question arises, yes, to agree on it, but I do, for example. I can ask whether money from their education should be directed to something called deficiting professions. What deficiting professions they are. Would we, for example? should invest in the education of graduate IT engineers who have six times less per million inhabitants in Croatia than in Ukraine? I don't know that. But I would expect the National Council for Higher Education to run some kind of analysis in that sense. One of the country's more important political commitment, which is very often said, is an increase in the number of highly educated people. However, how to increase the number of highly educated persons and at the same time take care of something also mentioned, which is the quality of higher education. And quality is something whose fall we've been really facing lately. And of course, I think we can rightly ask ourselves if all the reformed study programmes due to lack and spatial conditions and personnel should have received their credentials. So it is rare to hear that Croatia should have 25% and more educated in 10 years, significantly increase the number of doctors in science, but very rarely it has been heard that in Croatia since '91. By 2006, the total number of students who themselves financed or co-financed their studies increased by 814%. For 814% of colleagues and colleagues. Today, practically 60% of students pay some kind of tuition, and in '91. For years, we had 88% of the students who studied on the Ministry's burden. There are only three countries in the European Union that have higher scholarships than those in Croatia. It's England, the Netherlands and Latvia. So it's not the specifics of Croatia, the problem facing, so commercialisation of education. But we have examples of countries that have introduced scholarships, but they are aware, they become aware of what has actually brought it in the long run, and they have abolished the scholarships. So I don't think we can get a 25% number by commercializing high school. I don't think that's really worked for anyone so far. So what I'm going to end with, I expect from the National Council for Higher Education is that it gives concrete, that it has views and that it gives concrete proposals and measures to stop certain negative processes, how we're going to support positive and how we're going to need to run. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-29-0.u41378	Thank you. Mr. Representative Nevio Šetić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-29-0.u41379	I would like to thank Mr. Vice President, the Honorable President of the Higher Education Council. I must commend this report and this debate, because such open debates should be conducted in the Croatian Parliament, because forming a higher education is not a very simple process, nor is it a process of several moves. The word is in building a dynamic system that fits those points and tends to be the knowledge of the 21st century, where Croatia also has a chance. Mr. President's debate reminded me when he was saying why, to a debate from '93. The year when scientific higher school contributions were evaluated in Croatia, it was said that there were about 10,000 scientists up to 12, but that one European quality would withstand 3,000. So, we were already faced with the difficulties of building the entire system, and then the following was said in that debate, that we have professors who lead, say, the archivist department, never in the archives. So, you... Unfortunately, Professor... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] He said here and he wouldn't have mentioned it if you hadn't reminded me of it. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Why do I commend this report? Because this report is very real. Saying what happened, saying what should be done, and let's say the council failed to come, like the debate... education and as is primary and secondary education where is... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] policy basis to bring children high quality readyness that will be included in higher schools. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Then, as the report says here, competence at entering higher education. Then the national qualification framework on which we all know very well is very much done. Why? Because just when you look at all of our high schools, universities, you see that some programs won't last long because the qualification framework is changing extremely. So that's the basis, but it's our current creation. Then question ECTS points. Educational environment, registration of year or semester, collective contract, conditions for progress, restructuring of funding systems, then scientific money and teaching, etc. So there's a lot of questions. But what's important. Why is it good to talk about all this in the Croatian Parliament? So to raise awareness of the problem, that operationally in the ministry and agencies this process is being formed to the end and that we stop living in fakes, that we start to reject what we can't give bread. The basic and basic dimension of higher education in Croatia, as far as I understand it, seems to me that with the new universities and new universities we transfer to Croatia... , in Croatian areas of such an institution and develop various programs, thereby strengthening our society there with such profiles and people that not everyone has to come to Zagreb, Rijeka, Split. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Therefore, the awakening of high schools is from that title. Have we always achieved quality in that? Now there's a big question, I don't think so. And there's a process that should be stopped, because the high school accreditation process is that you have a certain number of teachers, that they 33% surrender, but when we go to check it out, it's probably not exactly like that, and they have an obligation to be employed at that high school, then they don't become it. Therefore, it should be a little better designed. We cannot be against universities that are established throughout Croatia, but we need to ask ourselves what these universities are producing for us. I want to point out one fact here. If knowledge is a resource of the 21st century, then we must give our people competences so that they can be competent in the labour market and in life through additional education that they can get among other things and so on. Here's an example. Someone who runs successful agrotourism in the Istra area or somewhere else and he makes some money and manages to live his family but he notices that he could refresh his product, let's say here's the next. With 3,000 chocolate vines if you can make shampoo wine in a bottle you can further increase your income to agrotourism and where you can learn this method that you can learn in one academic year at the university. We have not yet in practice come together between knowledge, knowledge transfer and the labour market and life. I think our universities must come up with and come up with exactly what life requires, and such occupations offer, and there will be room for both people and those who will come up with such competences. I'm not going to analyze the programs of all our universities right now, but there's room for raising that quality. In the report, I have to say that it dominates and therefore this High House must be asked, dominated by the occupations created by people who will be able to traffic other people's goods and value, management especially. It dominates those who will manage companies, but very little has a program where we will produce our own life, our own products that we will know to spark and create. This I noticed, it means we went easy on the road, means traffic, know how to design it, and that Mr. Molnar said nicely it keeps water compared to some design in our environment, but is it enough for Croatian society to provide quality jobs and produce why our people couldn't do it. That's what I thought in reading this document. And secondly, I personally believe it is impossible for the National Council for Higher Education to come up with everything but can point out in this quality way, to point out to the public and to this House of Higher Education, but also to the Ministry of Knowledge, and what should be pointed out? There's something to show, and it's not possible to stop the process. For example, in a month in the Regulation adopted by the Agency for Education, Pardons, Science Agency and the National Science Council, we have received a new scientific field, an interdisciplinary area and is expected to receive new studies where among other things the methods for setting up scientific discipline are going to occur and such a post-graduate study will likely occur which will normally be a requirement to increase needs in some new scientific and study programmes. That's good, why? Because Croatia thus frames, completes its picture and becomes compatible with European High School and Educational Practice. It's news that strengthens this system but certainly but it's a very slippery area where it's possible and wrong, where it's possible to get to that goal more slowly because it's not enough to write and say it's what we want, it needs to be implemented, it needs to be brought to life. These are some of my observations about this report that I support, and I support that sense of quality creation, because that's the key word that we've all touched in this debate. And quality isn't just in people, it's in space, it's in the financing system, why? Because with the creation of new universities and universities, and that process is a little disturbed, I have to say, because some universities aren't satisfied with everything yet, it's a student standard, so it's organized space with frames, it needs to be more invested in those parts, and then surely the whole system will live better. I support this report, why? Because he's one refreshment, he's real, he's talking about what happened, he's talking about what hasn't arrived and the problems, and he's opening up the whole process to the public to all of us, and on the other hand he's strengthening our awareness of what we're doing. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-29-0.u41380	Thank you. Replica Mr. Representative Miljenko Doric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-29-0.u41381	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I'm responding to a sentence you said that seems very important to me. Namely, the National Council cannot solve all these problems and issues but can point out. I don't think we should move that back to the future. Today, as far as we are concerned, for more than an hour, we have been discussing all the shortcomings and the vast part of the gap. But there's always an implementation, a change. I suggest that if you agree, that our parent body, together with the National Council, is in a week, two, let's see in what direction to turn certain actions and start implementing them. That bothers me, let's get out of here and implement.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-29-0.u41382	Answer to the replica Mr. Representative Nevio Šetić.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-29-0.u41383	Well, here's a thank you, Mr. Representative, for pushing me into something else I'd like to say right away. I think this House should have one commission or our Committee to follow systematic changes in education and higher education and science because it really concerns everyone, and on the other hand, I think there really should be a national consensus that is of a political nature because otherwise we can't get out of all these issues because it's too complex work.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-29-0.u41384	Ms. Representative Marija LUgarić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-29-0.u41385	Mr. Vice President, Mr. President of the National Council. Maybe I should start with this controversy between my colleagues a little while ago. So the National Council is just the board of the Croatian Assembly for Strategic Affairs, it is our body that suits us, therefore we do not need the body of our home education committee because we have this body whose report we are discussing right now. I have to admit here I have been following these reports for many years, and this is a report by the National Council something different from all of our previous reports, unfortunately only about the part that speaks in that difference because the reports so far have said that they have worked very hard and that everything is good, this says here's what it was like but we're not satisfied with it, these so far National Councils have been mostly satisfied with their position and with what they've been doing. However, colleagues and colleagues must admit that a little in this debate surprised me to say so about the lack of strategic documents. Some of us in the opposition have been warning here for years that the strategic documents we have, and we have them, that they are not good, that they are not adequate. From the government of most of us, we've always been given sharp denials of our thesis and said no, we have super-made strategies. And for that reason, I must admit, especially from the president of the HDZ Club, it's a miracle that I'm missing strategic documents. I'll remind you here, the government put in place a strategic framework for development somewhere in 2005 where this whole strategy is, so they told us. On 10 September this year, the Government adopted a document called the 2010 Government Programmes Proposal. – In 2012 and from the strategic framework for development to September so many strategies were adopted, a strategy must be adopted which would be strategically determined according to strategies, because we have very many. A strategy called the Education System Development Plan 2005 has been adopted in our field of education. – 2010 which has a specific area of higher education where the priorities and needs of higher education are very clearly expressed. I looked at, here during this debate, this document, and I have to say that those actions that were supposed to be or those results that were to be achieved in 2006, 2007, were not achieved at all. So it's not true that we don't have strategies. We only have strategies or strategies are not good or they are not implemented. And one and the other conclusion, and the third is gone, simply the third is gone, saying that actually the whole story that's been served to us for years, to know what it's done, to know how it's done, that it's actually done, is actually not true at all. That's one thing. Secondly, Dr. Mornar, in your opening statement on the work of the National Council for Higher Education, you listed some of these verbs, I agree with my colleague Jerkovic that these are very powerful verbs and that, in fact, with good management, to use these quite popular words now, some powers simply need to be taken into their own work. Here's an example for you. In its section, the National Council, together with the Higher Education Finance Council, should actually be determined, given guidelines for the state budget, etc. You've sat down, you've reached conclusions, you've made it very clear that the funds in the 2009 budget are actually less than 2.7%, let's just say the funding for the student standard subsidies won't be enough, which has been determined by the way to be said and audit, but our government keeps saying that it's enough and so let's say some suggestions you've made for me very valuable. We didn't know anything about these proposals when we were making the 2009 State Budget. We are discussing them now because we have seen them now that you have brought them. Therefore, here is my suggestion in this part of the operational tasks, so to speak, and the suggestion that you may not be waiting for annual reports for the Croatian Parliament, but when some of the things that are in progress, which are relevant for deciding on us in the Assembly, and I repeat, I am somehow experiencing the National Council as our body, the extended hand for us as the Croatian Assembly, which professionally needs to do and strategic things, simply send us a letter and a letter with some concrete recommendations because we need concrete recommendations for the 2010 budget now or in a month, we do not need them in the annual report. So the same thing applies to these other circumstances because that power of suggestion, so to speak, that power of suggestion, is very strong if it's timing, so to speak, some things in line with what is actually to be done. There have been discussions here about somehow opposed concepts.... and quality in higher education. I don't think that these are opposing concepts, sometimes or very often quality we can get out of mass with that other part of mass that doesn't come out as good quality, so to speak a little bit and rough, I think it's worth adding value to both individuals and society as a whole. So the goal in terms of massaging higher education not only did not pass the time but it is something that we should work on because indeed the percentage of highly educated is still too small for us, and then it is expected to get some quality. In addition, I would like to hear some consideration of the National Council and I would like you to discuss it because it seems to me that we must now bring the laws somewhere by the end of the year, related to the story of tuition and in some way free education. The "Progress Report" of the European Commission is just as one of the things in education that have been in principle assessed as solid is listed as a recommendation from the European Commission that Croatia must review its model of scholarship. There have also been speeches here, and I am somewhat President of the National Council, and I agree with you that undergraduate studies is actually a sort of continuation of high school education and that we must have this vertical. But I'm warning you of one thing. That one thing's called State Prom. The state prom originally thought of as an external, so the final exam, which as an external evaluation of the completed degree, has actually turned into the first step of the next degree, because actually the state's graduation in principle as it is now designed and will be passed by our high school students, here starting next spring, is actually a centralized state entrance exam. And in that sense, high school kids who go to vocational education, who have to graduate high school for the mass of colleges, have to finish their high school graduations. We high school students who come here to the Croatian Parliament are freaked out by that fact. And that's what I see as a really serious obstacle in this sense to vertical passing from the secondary education system to the higher education system. State graduation is a good concept, we simply have to have an external evaluation and a centralized one, but it seems to me that at these 2 moments that we've somehow turned it into a centralized admissional exam of state, and then set up such demands, which have had such negative implications for these high school students from vocational education, we haven't done a very good thing, and I think that, apart from national girls and the qualification framework, the National Council would have to deal with the story of state graduation, because I think that the problems of state graduation will just come to us right now. And finally, in this debate, we've heard a lot of phrases, we've heard a lot of general places that we repeat from year to year. However, colleagues and colleagues, each of us has his own responsibility, the National Council of his own, but we as a Croatian Parliament have our own responsibility. When we make a state budget, when we vote on the means of higher education, when we claim together that they are insufficient, then most of them raise their hands for that budget, then it seems to me that there is no right to complain and general places in some way. And Mr. President of the National Council, it seems to me that despite the criticism that is not bad, which is welcome, that I say, progress in this part, ash spilling is not the most effective strategy for seeking passages in the Croatian Parliament and the Croatian Parliament, because critically speaking about ourselves as if it does not apply to us, as if, in fact, as we in the House, we have part of our responsibilities primarily in terms of the economy and the budget has a national council of responsibility for doing so, but it seems much greater to me for inaction. It can get some kind of sympathy for that recognition that some things have not been done, but it is not enough to get a pass here in the Croatian Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-29-0.u41386	Thank you. Three replicas. First Mr. Representative Miljenko Doric.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-29-0.u41387	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Lugaric, my replica goes in the direction of two sentences you have spoken. The responsibilities of the Croatian Parliament and the Croatian Parliament do not need a new body to address the issues we have raised here. I fully agree with you that the National Council is our body. We choose members and we appoint and we can do there if we want to if we estimate that they do not work properly to change them etc. However, you have to admit why I've reacted a little before. It's a body in isolation. And never did the prime minister, the prime minister, the minister of education, call on the economy, ever sit together. And my intensity when I suggested that we go along with them to work very quickly, to be a bridge to the executive power, to finally start doing what we need to do. That's our responsibility, too. Unfortunately, our attempt from a year ago to meet with the minister has failed. But I hope that these times will change a little bit and that we will finally start doing what the citizens expect us to do.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-29-0.u41388	Replica reply, Ms. Representative Marija Lugaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-29-0.u41389	I agree with you, I absolutely agree with you, with a possible supplement, that apart from being the national council in isolation by the executive authority and the policy it has to implement it in its own isolation. This was the reason why I suggested that in some ways it might be more proactive to go towards us, that in some way and for its work and answers, which in at least one part of the circle we could implement some recommendations or at least try to implement them.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-29-0.u41390	Second replica, Mr. Representative Peter Selem. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-29-0.u41391	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. We are on the Committee on Education, Science and Culture as well as colleagues Lugarić and colleagues of Flego spoke very critically about this report. We have been particularly critical of the fact that really the council had to deal more with secondary matters, less with strategic decisions. However, we unanimously accepted that report on that committee. And the same thing happened with the National Science Foundation, etc. There we accepted it unanimously, here colleagues show very strong reserves, which I absolutely respect and accept. And they announce that they will vote against what they voted on the board. Now I'm a little worried, isn't it possible that my boarding board is so authoritarian, so illegal, that then colleagues there vote maybe pressed, I don't know some of my solids to impose some sort of thing, and then here they vote differently. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-29-0.u41392	Replica reply, Ms. Representative Marija Lugaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-29-0.u41393	Mr. President of our board, I don't think you have to be concerned about your way of leading the board, but I don't think we can all be satisfied with the effects that our work, which are the effects of our work on the board. We've agreed on a lot of things too many times on the board. A colleague, Doric, warned about some things, but for years nothing happened. You and I have been sitting on that committee for the last six years and some of us, some of us longer, some of us have joined colleagues in this term, and this is the result of our statement here different in the plenary session unlike those on the board. Because we hope to cause some kind of positive shock and that we might cause, in fact, a kind of good communication finally gets its equipment in real real action. Because if we're going to talk these same phrases again next year, list the same problems, then we didn't do a good thing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-29-0.u41394	And Mr. Representative Dragan Kovacevic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-29-0.u41395	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Namely, I'd like to replicate on a thesis that my colleague said. So that we in Croatia can possibly achieve both mass and quality. I don't agree with that. First of all, because I believe that at this point it is only theoretically possible and that in the Republic of Croatia we do not have sufficient scientific and teaching potential to ensure that we have both mass and quality in terms of establishing new study programmes etc. So, scientific and teaching staff, active scientists, scientists who publish, scientists who investigate, etc. and on the other hand with teaching experience. In fact, I would absolutely support what the president of the National Council said and what he put in the report. So that such a large number of new study programmes proposed without a firm reflection on the real needs of a region. So that this influences the existing network of higher education and study programmes, it spreads uncontrollably and scytheically, which negatively affects the quality of the entire higher education system. What's the point? We had two groups of our university professors, set up a study program, and then instead of coming there to teach, they send their assistants. And an even worse version is that since there's no potential for teaching or science to be handed over by engineers without teaching experience and knowledge, so that's the pedagogical, elemental, but also without any scientific work. So I think mass and quality at this point is very difficult to achieve.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-29-0.u41396	Replica reply, Ms. Representative Marija Lugaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-29-0.u41397	Dear colleague Kovacevic, I don't think you got me right. I just wanted to say that the dilemma of counter-quality is not really a dilemma. Because if we can do good quality, we can achieve mass. In this second part where you have actually troubled this story of a large number of institutions, and in fact a very small number of teachers, I absolutely agree with you. And there's no dispute. Actually, the problem is that we're in a kind of paradox. We, on the number of residents and the number of children who are students, have a very large number of institutions. And actually, the number of teachers is almost ten times smaller than the standard they should have. However, when some of us in recent years have objected to the fact that the government makes regulations to establish new universities mostly and higher schools, especially in each part, I think there was no reaction. However, the government's programme says it will continue to do so, is that it's a politic development. So we have one conflict here when we look from the perspective of that general development and the official government policy that you support and those of others when we speak as experts coming from certain areas. It's a problem that you must primarily solve within your party, then we can talk about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-29-0.u41398	President of the National Council for Higher Education, Vedran Sailor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-29-0.u41399	Thank you very much. Here's a question that may not be and I honestly think it's about the work of the National Council and the system of higher education, that's the problem of the state's graduation. My colleague Lugarić is quite right that the current perception of the public is such that the state's graduation is due to enrolment in the university but that's actually the consequence I would have said one guilty again I will say marketing, false marketing perhaps even from the Ministry of Science which so presented to the public. It is not, its purpose is not to, their purpose is to raise quality and level the quality of high school education and enrolment in the university is byproduct. So, a real formulation that, for political reasons, probably nobody wanted to say that high schools use the results of state graduation as part of their classified procedure. Here we have this problem about high school kids who went to vocational high school. However, no one in medical school has ever asked if biology, chemistry, and physics had listened to them in the high school program or listened to them in another way. They're knowledge, they don't have the obligation to lay. They currently have so at least an interpretation of the National Centre for External Evaluation of Education, they have an obligation at the basic level to lay down Croatian, mathematics and foreign language which I mean truly well. I am convinced that for any high school in the Republic of Croatia it is not good to receive a candidate who does not read the basics of Croatian language and who is unable to calculate 5% of 50 and unfortunately we have those at the entrance, but unfortunately at the exit from higher education. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-29-0.u41400	Thank you. Mr. Representative Dragutin Bodakosh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-29-0.u41401	Thank you very much. Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable Chairman of the National High Education Committee, colleagues and fellow MPs. Well, this report of the National Committee is certainly important for the quality of the work of our higher universities, and just as the report states, it is the basis for considering and giving an opinion on the new proposals for pre-graduate, graduate, professional and postgraduate study programmes proposed by higher schools and proposals for the establishment of new universities. It is also noted that an extremely large number of new high-school proposals have been received and that it is precisely because relatively modest human and spatial resources can have a negative impact on the overall quality of the Croatian higher education system. That's exactly the part where the government, which according to the law, has given opinions, has also been referred to, to give its opinion to this very National Council. I think that, in addition to giving opinions, it must be a question of ensuring the quality of higher education for students who are being educated in one of the important issues. I don't think we have done enough of this in the past and also the feature of the introduction of a Bologna process, which the current prime minister, with high pomp, announced and introduced us already in the European system before Croatia was officially admitted into the European Union. All this suggests that this quality is not in proportion to this large number of high-school openings in Croatia. What should we do to realize and connect these two things, which is the quality of teaching and the number of universities that are being opened. Well, first of all, I think it's a projection of a network of high schools that was talked about, which was done a year and a half ago, etc. However, it is still not finished and is not formed. This is why such a network would certainly create better and more transparent conditions for opening and setting up higher schools. I think that in today's day, so here's the 21 requests that were made last year, 18 of which were completed and it's obvious that two universities, one university and five higher schools were opened and a negative opinion was given to one university and nine higher schools. From all of this great number, it can somehow be seen that many because the majority and large number are now the private establishment of such high schools, some have seen that this is a time of "good work", means that in one particular way it can be introduced, created, opened up a high school and that in this way certain funds will accumulate and create that I do not say good profits for individuals. How many of the openings of these universities, universities, high schools are in the function of creating people who will work on economic development, that's another question again. There's already been a talk here about it, and I don't know if the National Council knows why it's giving all these passes to possibly issue passes by the programme ministry that we often see from this right now are competing for the exclusive name. The introduction also talked about it, and I think that when you read everything here that's there and what kind of high school or high school it's supposed to be. I don't know, then there's the question of what it means, as mentioned here, that high school of management, sports management, etc. Anyway, that word management is the most used in everything else in this matter. Just as we look at the expansion of these organizations is present, however, we have forgotten that the most important thing is to maintain the quality of this higher education. We are introducing studies, but here is Professor Kovacevic, saying how many scientific and teaching staff we have that can serve all these studies. We often have people, not to say from the last century, running these teaching programs without some major changes, and especially what is evident is a tour of the same lecturers two, three or more universities. So it happens that it's much more important how and how to go around all of this and possibly some, not to say, money to make money, and what about students, that's another thing. And in this particular report, we should certainly have the results of these studies and all possible openings of these universities. What exactly are the results of these studies? As far as they're concerned with the conditions of these universities, I'm talking about the scientific study staff, how attached they are to the student standard itself, to the payments. We had a past, or when it was, big pay problems that students at all of our more or less student centers were talking to university centres. The question is what kind of student standard is, not only through paying for these studies, but also their housing in homes, in supplying where these new universities are opened, how much infrastructure there is related to the student standard developed. What's very important is the question of what happened to that Bologna. We don't have the results of that. There was a speech here, Professor Flego mentioned and I read some of this partial knowledge like in Zadar, etc., but the question is, what are the final results? Are they good at these universities or are they better at private universities that are plentiful and paid for, and which unfortunately also include children of parents who have deeper pockets. So these are usually private schools, and often, I don't know what the results of those who work in the Bologna process are. And in the end, I think the search immediately, opening of universities, universities, etc. It seems a little strange to me, because when I went to the University of Zagreb, it was the University of Zagreb, there were colleges in Osijek, and eventually the question is whether the university, if it has two or three studies and which are related to a humanistic group of humanistic subjects, is whether such a university should also be named university. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-29-0.u41402	Thank you. Two replicas. The first is Mr. Representative Zoran Vinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-29-0.u41403	Thank you. Dear colleague, speaking of the university network, I'm just saying that here's the city of Djakovo has entered the university network. However, since we have been past those five months, you know that there has been a shift in the city of Djakov and that a letter has been sent to the vice president, but not in front of the city, but in front of a student association, a student association of students. So in those five months, the city hasn't even come forward as interested. Since this was also the project of my headship before the shift, the City of Đakovo also came from the overall development programme of the City of Đakov, given the needs of the city itself and the needs of the city's population, the needs of the economy, to the three studies that would be at the Veleukište in Đakov. And this whole project is dedicated to the Ministry of Science, with all the necessary consent. To this day, there is no answer from the competent ministry without saying that this solves a long-standing problem both of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of either one of these and which will come. Namely, it is the building of former PIC Djakovo, now and possibly the former Đakovština that the state has rescheduled a dozen times, staring empty and where the state spends enormous amounts of money since they pay certain fees. So here I am also appealing to the ministry, but also to the National Council to finally make a decision, and this is a positive decision, given that it is based on the overall and real needs of the city for one university, to make a positive decision and to give the green light and thus to solve a series of problems that in this part, other than paying for these duties that have left 35 million kuna, can help the economy and the city. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-29-0.u41404	Replication response. Mr. Representative Dragutin Bodakosh.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-29-0.u41405	Thank you very much, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. So, colleague Vinkovic, Djakovo, I also mentioned the issue of the University of Djakovo in my discussions before. Here is the same eclectic example that we have the opening of certain universities of private or even universities parallel in cities that are either like Djakovo or slightly larger than Djakova, but without a certain goal what such universities need to bring to that end or universities and what should be. I think that Đakovo as a city and the economic centre of Đakovština can certainly be given and should be given one possibility for people, i.e. students from Đakovština and the surrounding areas to study for what they should and have the opportunity to work in the city, or in that area. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-29-0.u41406	I have given, as Mayor Djakova Mr. Vinkovic knows, full support to you too, Mr. Vinkovic and those who came after you, and you again, that the Velučište in Djakova is resolved. The ministry is on the move, but it is also on the move to resolve the issue of mimosa. Yeah? We hope it settles. Ms. Representative Tatjana Šimac Bonačić, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-29-0.u41407	Thank you very much. My colleague Bodakoš, when you spoke about the quality of higher education then you mentioned that of course it depends on the quality of teaching, i.e. the number of schools. I'd say it still depends, of course, on the conditions of study. Here in Dubrovnik we have a new school and university and our young university is growing. However, Dubrovnik still has no home for students. We have 3,000 students and half of them are almost out of the city of Dubrovnik. There is a problem with private accommodation because the tourist season of course begins before the semesters end. And that is why I think it is a big problem, and I hope that the Government, that is, the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports, will put funds into the budget this year for this infrastructure project, an object that is very important for the development of universities and sciences in Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-29-0.u41408	Replicate response, Mr. Representative Dragutin Bodakosh.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-29-0.u41409	Dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, colleague Bonačić. Well, I think I mentioned the question of those student standards in my presentation. The student standard is certainly one of the essentials for the conditions of study, i.e. for the results of that study. We all know how, who we studied before, when it was even harder to get home in a much harder way if you had to, if you didn't have such conditions secured. That is why, the National Council must lead and possibly lead, but still have some guarantees that where certain universities are opened, high schools will also allow those students who will study there to provide them with a quality work and life. Normally, in a city like Dubrovnik where tourism is certainly more important than private living, I do not know the fifth, sixth, ninth, tenth month, that in such a place with this development, and the University of Dubrovnik certainly has a development that should solve the question of a student standard, or a student home where students, because also the gravity of students according to Dubrovnik is large not only from that part of you but even Slavonia go there. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-29-0.u41410	Thank you. Mr. Representative Vladimir Ivkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-29-0.u41411	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, the Honorable President of the National Council. This report, which is quite critical in front of us in relation to the state we have in the field. And this debate that was so far had an academic flow from the position of the service provider. What I would like to say except, of course, that I have no objection to the report and I will support it is a debate about this same problem but from the position of the recipient of services, and I think the recipients of services are the economy, local self-government, regional self-government and ultimately the students themselves who attend approved programmes. Last year, I mentioned specific cases I'd like to repeat. It was a view of the local self-government of the lack of educated people with high and higher professional training in one part of Croatia, i.e. the County of Međimurje, which is the most recent in Croatia. And since we know where Croatia is in Europe, then we could say that this region is the last in Europe by number. And what can be done in such a situation when it is established by regional self-government. An attempt to determine what causes it and it has been found that the most likely cause is too few gymnasium sites, and later the lack of programme access in higher and higher education for more users who cannot afford to go to Zagreb. And, accordingly, certain steps have been taken. The government of the Republic of Croatia has come out to meet established a university. Council, this council approved programs of engineering, construction and computing, and then we have a lobbying system based on the principle of murderous high school. Neighbors from Varazdin later requested and received permission for engineering and construction programs. Of course, it's about a university of public character. It's this in Chakovec and this other one that's a private public character. And it's private public practically entering the competition and trying to push this other one out of this area. Now, in today's debate, we have heard that for a prerequisite for good education it is not only to establish a university, but to create spatial conditions, human resources, equipment and, of course, the last thing that is equally important for the economy for the people who come out of it. This university had signed contracts for personnel who needed construction firms, because there is definitely no number of those who would run under legal conditions to meet the conditions for construction heads in a number of construction firms, and the same applies to engineering. And now, in such a situation we have a competition and which lobby will be stronger at this point that has got the physical organization of these two programs. Let me just repeat that in Međimurje, there is twice as much production, i.e. income from machinery products, and in the building we definitely have one of the most famous secondary schools that creates preconditions for studying on construction, and of course the need of construction companies. And in such a situation, something must be done. It happened that the acquisition of the programme practically takes place for the two programmes in Varazdin, although they have six programs with those two, and this university is kind of a prerequisite for existence and comes down to one programme, but we know that the prerequisite for the university is three programmes. But in order not to make it look sad, the question is, why does this network not define areas more clearly so as not to be intertwined? And then there's still the question why it's invested so much in the facility, it's invested in the county, the government has given up the facilities, it's invested the economy, it's equipped all the classrooms in one great way, we've got perfect conditions, we've got personnel, it's got the same ones that are in Varazdin, so there's no flaw about it being better or weaker somewhere. So we have the same assumptions, and only one happens... and a personal desire for competition to be abolished in the future. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Someone would say or have already said it was about an exorcised university in Chakovec. No, it's about embezzled programs that were taken and already defined in Čakovec and moved to so-called. the future regional centre. And as far as I know, we've never said, in this House, in any law that we've come to five regions. What's standing in front of the university right now, standing in front of the users of the service, which is to wait. Users of service, students await enrolment and will likely lose this year. The users of the economy hope that they will finally be able to achieve this in their area. And the profession is trying to place a third, or fourth programme to save this several times mentioned controversial programme in sport and tourism. Yeah, that's something new. From the beginning, I didn't think it was just a name, but by visiting the investments that took place in our county's economy, then we found that some economic operators invested from 10 to 50 million euros in buildings and created European gymnastics centres, created European centres for... , these days was approved grand priss, and this is the formula one in that sport for the world, and created a training centre for golf and preparation in all other disciplines. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It is, therefore, at least three major projects that have concluded themselves from the need for this economy to need personnel who will be able to manage these projects, facilities and content that are being prepared in the interdisciplinary knowledge of the economy, law, medicine and other additional content, and are related to sport and tourism. Therefore, I ask you, President of the Council, that these days when this programme is decided, take into account the real and objective need of that part of the economy in our county and approve the programme that is ahead of you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-29-0.u41412	Thank you. And Mr. Representative Dragan Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-29-0.u41413	Thank you very much. I'd like to begin my presentation with a quote from the book "Future of Capitalism" L.C. "In a globalised world when everything falls out of the equation of competitiveness, knowledge and ability of the organization remain the only comparative advantage of one state and one national economy." Those in the globalised world of economic governance will have to be ready to educate, organise and mobilise intellectual power. In fact, we started our project a few years ago, the government's knowledge society project, so where we said that we would base our economy on knowledge. And what is certain, when we see in general the position of the Republic of Croatia in relation to the economic environment, in relation to competitiveness etc. It is certain that only highly finished production in which knowledge is incorporated can therefore be our source of comparative advantage. We have agreed on these strategic goals, but it is certain that their achievement will not be easy. We also often call for structural reforms, economic restructuring, etc. in the economy, but I also think that one restructuring, one structural reform and in the academic community, universities, education system, etc. It would also be necessary. In fact, we have done perhaps only one part of that work, these structural reforms in the education system. I think someone here has now pointed out that after a few years of being a pain in the execution, after we've already carried out a generation on a new system, so we should definitely do a more systematic analysis, so see what improves in that system. In fact, we were doing a partnership between students who studied under the old program and the bolognas. So on the same teaching classes and unfortunately what has proved to be students, therefore who have laid those same classes, it is clear that it is not about top-notch students because they have laid them behind from this earlier generation, but have shown better results. And it's not on oral exams, it's on those letters where standard questions are the same questions for everyone. Namely, where I think the key is the problem. The point and point of the bologna should be in real study, so have a small number of courses and allow the student to really study, study these subjects so that he can consult a large number of literature and really prepare for these exams. This is how we're on tape, they're pushing us, we have to push them, they have to meet the standard to pass certain exams in order to enroll the next academic year, and we on the other hand have their pressure that we have to give a large number of deadlines and in fact we don't get the right quality of study but we've just systematically captured ourselves and we and them. So I'm saying that when it comes to the bologna, really after that, now we can say one generation of these should do one systematic analysis. In this regard, I think it is important that it is extremely objective, that it speaks critically of the work and of the National Council for Science but also of all that is happening in science and in the system of higher education and for this reason it is absolutely acceptable and we will accept it, but if again a year we get the same text with the same opening, the same issues, the same problems, the same remarks, and also self-critics, etc., it is clear that we will not be satisfied because we believe that we need to use the same text next year to make clear steps. It is clear that the National Council of Science has a number of hand-related issues and that this job and these problems that we are talking about are not only the National Science Council but also the ministries and all other agencies, etc., all those in charge who make up the infrastructure in science. When we talk about this structural reform of the university, the academic community, etc., here's just two examples where we have big problems, we haven't solved them, let's just take the nepotism problem. On the one hand, we force a system of excellence, here we have in some way expressed regret that our top students, here yesterday you promoted one whole generation, and they're today and it's the top-notch ones who can't find a job and it's certainly a big problem. But on the other hand, for many of them, there is room at the university but that place takes their nepotism. We have examples at our universities, in individual universities, where parents not only hire their children as scientific recruits at the university but even at their own department. So these are things we need not only to check, we need to systematically remove them. If you need information, I'll give it to you, I'm talking about concrete examples, I'm not going here about names. That's not good stuff. So that excellent student who, by his own knowledge of the pawn, etc., he can't stay in college, and he's certainly potential, so that's not the only quality of grades, but he certainly has potential. However, these others come in this way that I have said and that, in my opinion, is not only a question of those moral ethical codes but even a question of legality. Second, we keep talking about this principle of excellence, we're looking for them at the students, and look what we have on the teacher. We have teachers, and here's the same particular example, he's 65 years old, he's respected in the scientific community as an old university professor, etc., he's still a doctor, so he's 65 years old, but he's done one more damage to society and the entire academic community because he hasn't educated in his own department, he hasn't raised any young scientific staff who could inherit him. And now you have the law. By law, you call the competition and the competition if no one is in this particular scientific calling and means this profile, etc., it appears in the competition and we continue to extend his stay for 5 years at the university. So if no one answers that contest when they're 65 years old, you leave it on the system because there's no one to teach. That's the way it is. So we need to see if anyone can turn 65 and be a docent, how his system of advancement went and what he was doing with scientific work, etc. I also spoke here in the replica about this numerous, this personality at the expense of quality where a large number of new universities are founded, which do not have exactly that human potential that they can serve certain scientific curricula. It is often done by engineers who have not passed nor practice, and in particular have not passed this scientific part because teachers who hold these objects either have no time or have simply left it to them. And what I'm saying about assistants etc. I'm going to give a specific example, and I'd like you to check it out and get that concrete feedback. It's about the University of Požega. There, the Faculty of Food and Technology of Osijek proposed a study program of food technology that should have been in some way related to the upgrade of agriculture they have at that university. The programme was proposed, it was adopted, it was approved by the National Science Council, and it started to be implemented. However, as the director of this university does, he simply does not invite professors who are the creators of this programme, whose programme passed reviews, etc., but hires engineers who were employed yesterday at this university, sort of not to tell the quasi, etc., who are now supposed to be the teachers of quality teaching at this university. It is clear that they are not, that there is neither scientific nor technical backgrounds, but systematically, there is a need to see if there has been any way of alienating copyright, because if someone is the author of the law, if this has passed the review, and now it is impossible for these people to surrender at this Veleucite. Therefore, we think that this mass problem is a major problem and that this significantly disrupts the quality of the study programmes.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-29-0.u41414	Thank you very much. We've registered three replicas. First of all, distinguished colleague Šima Djurdjevic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-29-0.u41415	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. In my opinion, my colleague Kovacevic is not questionable, as you said, the mass establishment of a university in Croatia. I don't think that's a question, why not? But if all the classes and all the colleges were professionally covered, why couldn't some of the colleges be covered by a professor from the university. In my opinion, the problem is something else, and it is a network of universities in Croatia. So today dear friends we have a university in Istria, right on this side Učka 2, Zadar 3, Split 4, Dubrovnik 5, Zagreb 6, and this northwestern part of Croatia and the east is only one university and that is Josip Jurj Strossmayer in Osijek. That's where we have to deal with this problem, and then it's no problem for university professors to cover colleges in high schools and high schools. That, in my opinion, is the problem and it is the problem not of the eastern part of Croatia where I come from, but also of this northwestern part of Croatia. It is therefore very important for me to have another university in this place from Osijek to Zagreb. Another university that will be few and all of these universities in HR and every other sense must put on the feet of this new university. And why shouldn't it be, for example? Slavonic ship? Border city, 211 thousand inhabitants, etc. That I don't take away precious time. Here I am now personally announcing this battle, but fighting with arguments why Slavonski Brod.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-29-0.u41416	Thank you. Replication response, colleague Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-29-0.u41417	In fact, I support most of this all that my colleague said, but here when I talked about that I couldn't take over a complete study programme, that I couldn't take over, therefore, the graduate engineers who graduated yesterday without teaching knowledge and also without being introduced a little into this system of science, so at least in that beginning and beginning. It is clear that such universities in a year, two, three, etc., need to be strengthened in that sense and that they should then take care of the education of staff. However, it is certain to be lost to quality if there is not one at least in the beginning of the management and preparation of these personnel means to lead the whole educational process. So this one would not be misunderstood by his colleagues, so we absolutely have to have that network of universities in Croatia. Therefore, especially those universities that are economically regionally important in order to raise a particular area in a particular sector in a particular activity and that project must not be abandoned, but we must also not go to the core of the quality of this entire educational programme. So at least in that start of training, so forming that, so we have to have that, so we can't ignore science and scientific research, we can't ignore the profession. So we have to go to the principle of excellence, so we have to stand in those positions first. I therefore believe that this part of which I was talking about means that in this one system of forming these studies, etc., there must be the help of the university.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-29-0.u41418	Thank you very much. Further replica, esteemed colleague Boro Grubisic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-29-0.u41419	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Here's a colleague talking about, first of all, nepotism in the election of scientific recruits, so let me tell both the professor and the head of the university department, so I just wanted to say that politics has an impact on everything. He's got fingers in everything, and so is high education, whether he admits it or not. Therefore, Mr Kovacevic, as far as I know, has high positions in some administrative councils and leading structures in Osijek, so I find it interesting for you to say that it is nepotism, and certainly you have the power to influence that nepotism, and in the protection of quality and excellence, does not exist at the Faculty of Osijek. And secondly, Mr. Šima Djurdjevic, a colleague, has already said something about the beginnings of the University of Slavonski Brod, which we will explain later, but it is not a university in eastern Croatia that is in Slavonia, Mr. Šima Djurdjevic. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-29-0.u41420	Thank you. Replication response, colleague Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-29-0.u41421	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Namely, what the esteemed representative was saying is that so little in one broader context is it's affecting some administrative councils etc. We're talking about the university here, where exactly the way a university works is known. It is also very well known who is opening a competition for a particular workplace and who eventually has a final word to be admitted to a particular classroom and to a particular teaching class, which is always the head of the department, or head of the college, etc., so he decides whether to hire a young scientific recruit on his case or not. And so, first of all, it's up to him and his college, and it's up to them if these things happen to nepotism. Therefore, there is a system of competitions and engagements of scientific recruits very well known, and if there is a problem in this nepotism somewhere, then they can be precisely located in this hierarchy, in this vertical so who is responsible.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-29-0.u41422	Thank you very much. I can see that my colleague Grubisic would like to raise the plate again, but I believe that you will discuss it further, because the replicas to the reply to the replica did not predict it to be, but that is why another replica also came from his colleague Franjo Lucic. So here you go, fellow Lucic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-29-0.u41423	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, here's a colleague, Kovacevic, he'd say the same thing if he wasn't right about the Požega Grand Court, because I'm only going to say one thing. When the Požega Grand Court was founded, we used teachers from Osijek. Today, this university, for several years, has created such a reputation and created its own image that there is simply no need to allocate funds for all those teachers who came from Osijek. We have nothing against them, but it cost a million and 200 to a million and a half kuna in Požega. Today we have our own lecturers, the truth, I agree, there are engineers, but they are people who are educated, who are directly upgraded to those occupations that are in the university itself and of course they are educated. Well, in a year or two, we'll have all the proper lecturers. No, a few are just engineers, but we don't have any more teachers from Osijek today. Not because we don't want it, but because it costs a million and 200 to a million kunas. Therefore, my colleague agrees fully, and it is only possible that both the environment and the county are progressing with this kind of vision and education and the training of the staff of their own because ultimately this is our goal. Well, it's not our goal for teachers from Osijek to come, nor for teachers from Požega to go to Osijek, but for our own staff to grow up and finally give opportunity and opportunity to those who went to school for it, because if we don't give them a chance where they're finally going to work.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-29-0.u41424	Thank you very much. Reply to the replica of his colleague Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-29-0.u41425	... who was partly informed by the situation at the university. [[The speaker is not enabled.]] And I'll tell you you're absolutely right when you talk about certain study programs. Because these study programs, I don't know, last a decade, and it's in those ten years that the colleges of human beings have been trained, that they can treat these complete study programs with their staffs, so those who are both native to Požega and how you said. Your director is from Slavonski, same from Požega. Yeah. I also agree that there should be no payment if there are staff in Požega. However, I will give you an example, and you check it out since he's your colleague. Doctor, Dr. Borislav Milicevic, who was also your candidate for the mayor of Požega, worked on this study program of the food technology of that suit, so he worked only a year. Now they just squeezed him out. And the other day he complained to me, so he's going to put in for him an engineer, etc. He's from Požega, right, and I think he's scientific and teaching and experienced in running this one. That's why I'd like to ask the President of the Council to look into the situation there. What's going on there and what's going on.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-29-0.u41426	Thank you very much. This is what we've exhausted all the applications for the hearing. On behalf of the promoter, Professor Seafarer was shown not to take the floor. We'll vote for it when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-29-0.u41427	Report on the work of the National Council for Higher Education in 2008, applicant of the National Council for Higher Education. The debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal from the Croatian National Assembly Working Body and Government, I am voting on the following conclusion: "The report on the work of the National Council for Higher Education in 2008. year." Please, let's get involved and vote. It is not forbidden to engage others who are present. Score. This report was accepted by most votes, 78 votes for, nothing abstentions and one against.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-29-0.u41428	And we're going to the 7th point of the agenda. It is - The Final Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Rights of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families, an emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 453 The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You received the proposal by mail. On the occasion of the establishment of the agenda, we accepted the proposal from the Proposer to discuss this legislative proposal in an urgent procedure in accordance with Article 159. Rules of Procedure. The emergency procedure combines the first and second readings. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by committees, the Legislative Committee and the War Veterans Committee. You've received reports from the board's meeting on the bench. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? Yeah. Here you go, Mr. Minister. Minister Tomislav Ivić.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-29-0.u41429	Thank you very much. Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament and the MPs. Here I will try to explain in the shortest lines what the amendments to the amendment and the addition of the Law on the Rights of Croatian defenders and members of their families are about. By taking effect this bill, the possibility of achieving the status of the Croatian defender will cease. So, the moment the law enters into force, no one will be able to achieve the status of the Croatian defender anymore. We believe there's been plenty of time. Since '91. 18 years have passed, and since the end of the war it's been 13.5 years and that all those who had the intention, who wanted them, who wanted them to be able to manage their status without problems which they had a basis for, of course, their status as Croatian defender. Also in the proposal to amend the law, namely by applying the law, the disease will no longer be able to be brought into a causal and consequential relationship with participation in the Homeland War and, therefore, to exercise pension rights under the Law on the Rights of the Croatian defenders. The explanation is the same as in the acquisition of the status of Croatian defender. So, 13.5 years have passed since the end of the Homeland War, and according to the profession, it is very difficult to determine with certainty that the disease is the result of participation in the Homeland War without, for example, the biological process. It's the same thing about death as the consequences of the disease. It will also no longer be able to be brought into a causal and consequential relationship with participation in the Homeland War. So that the family of the deceased Croatian defender will not be able to achieve the right family pension and some other rights under the Law on the Rights of Croatian Defence. This proposal also provides criteria for the achievement of the minimum pension. Under the current law, all Croatian defenders were entitled to the lowest pension, which was 40% of the average salary in the Republic of Croatia, regardless of the time spent in Croatian Army troops during the Homeland War. Thus, with one day, this right to a protected, or minimum pension under the Law on Croatian Defences could be acquired. This amendment requires a minimum participation of the Croatian defender of 100 days in the Homeland War in order to possibly consume this right. And what I would especially like to stress is that this right of the lowest pension will not be possible for all those who are in the single register of Croatian defenders in the non-combat sector. Therefore, only those who participated in the Homeland War for 100 days will be able to achieve this right in the future and in the combat troops of the Croatian Army. The criteria for the delivery of supplies are also tightened. It also introduced this condition that it is necessary to participate in the Homeland War of 100 days. What we also want to highlight as an amendment in this law to bring the extramarital community into the same legal position with the marriage community and when it comes to the rights and obligations arising from this law. And what I would also like to emphasise as an amendment to this bill that, by way of effect of this law, all the procedures concerning the amendments to this law will be suspended, so when it comes to sickness and death as a consequence of the disease resulting in a causal relationship. Therefore, those procedures that were submitted in time will not be suspended when it comes to the status of a Croatian wartime wartime invalid. So these are key changes and a proposal for changes in these amendments and amendments to the law. I think they're the reality at this point, that they won't damage anyone, that all those who wanted to regulate their status in the Homeland War in any way had enough time to do so over the past. And I must say, of course, that the amendments to this law do not require any additional funds in the state budget and, of course, that the vast majority of the Homeland War associations representing the interests of the defenders and the defenders themselves support the amendments to this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-29-0.u41430	Thank you, Minister. We have one application for correction of the alleged, distinguished colleague Ivica Pancic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-29-0.u41431	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Here, amongst the reasons for the amendments to the existing law, it was said that we held that there was plenty of time for all those who wished they could regulate their status. It's just not true. The basic reason for the amendments to the law is the problem in the state budget because you declared the 2001 law anti-defense law and declared me its author a Croatian traitor. And now these amendments to the law take over the laws of 2001. There's nothing left for me to say, ladies and gentlemen of the HDZ welcome to the club of Croatian traitors. A lot of you will be able to learn. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-29-0.u41432	Let's not do that. Do the rapporteurs, on behalf of the board, want to take a word for it? No, I don't. The committee's reporters aren't answering for a word, but that's why we have club reports. On behalf of the Croatian Democratic Community club, distinguished counterpart Josip Djakic. Here's a colleague, Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-29-0.u41433	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues. In front of us is the proposal to amend and supplement the Law on the rights of Croatian defenders and members of their families who, in fact, with the passing of time, have a lot of right to come into the process and to regulate those things that were really time-supported enough to get rid of and regulate themselves. Since the defence of the sovereignty of the Republic of Croatia ended on 30 June 96, the legal procedure and regulation has been amended many times and complemented in the light of the needs. The Croatian Democratic Community, like its club, has always gone and watched the law benefit the Croatian defenders and members of their families, especially those who died and members of their families, children killed. The Croatian Democratic Community club still today supports the amendments and additions of this law and certainly in its previous interventions and the adoption of the law, we have given enough time to all those who were Croatian defenders but who did not exercise their rights to regulate them in this time of 13 to 18 years, and we believe that this is quite enough time that was behind us and anyone who considered himself who wanted to have time but who wanted to have rights under the Law on the rights of Croatian defenders could have done so in this time-out. What my colleague Pancic is talking about certainly doesn't stand. Neither is it the same provision, nor is it a similar provision as it was in his law. His law abolished the rights of thousands of Croatian wartime wartime people, thousands, even over a thousand and several dead Croatian defenders could not exercise their right because his right was lifted. So we can't talk at all about whether something happened in this law or not, especially in order for someone especially the Croatian Democratic Community club, the Croatian Defence Ministry to be part of his club. His club is, I'm not gonna call him by the name he called him or I'm gonna call him because I don't think it's appropriate in this High House to talk about what they were doing back then. I have mentioned it many times and I will not deliberately repeat it now because to the Croatian public and especially Croatian defenders and members of their families it is clear... what was at that time when Pancic was head of the ministry and the late Racan led the government. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Therefore, we do not want to remember that time, it was too difficult for the population of Croatian defenders. And so I just want to point out that in this predicted time that has passed, everything has been defined. And none of the rights acquired will be abolished by these legal provisions. The acquired rights don't touch and that's what makes us happy. But the more rigorous criteria and criteria in this law certainly have their own legal effect because we cannot tolerate someone's sloppyness and indifference, someone's indifference to tolerate, and this goes to harm and difficulties in the work and the Croatian Defence Ministry as well as the Croatian Defence Fund that cares and cares. And it would be a causal link with the setting of a new number of shares that would support these demands by all those who are not in the Registers of the Ministry of Defence or the Ministry of the Interior, i.e. who did not come into the Croatian Defence Register system from these two Ministry of origin. Therefore, the articles that change are visible that the right to a disability pension can no longer be recognised only by Croatian wartime people, Croatian defenders cannot do so. There is also a harmonisation of the text with the provisions of Article 1 of this Act because the right to a disability pension can only be recognised by Croatian wartime wartime people from the Homeland War, and not by persons who have only the status of Croatian defenders. Such opportunities will no longer exist at the beginning of the validity of this law. It is also foreseen that the right to the lowest pension belongs to a Croatian defender who has been in the defence of sovereignty for at least a hundred days and as a member of the fighting sector. It means that the non-combat sector will no longer exercise the rights that have so far been possible. Such a same right is also defined for the lowest defence pension, but also for the supply, which is described as a social category in this law, there are additional structures that speak about who can't achieve all the supplies that are at the height of 1092 kuna. Therefore, it is not possible for those persons who have pension insurance based on agricultural activity, who exist in the register of agricultural holdings. In addition to these two new absolute disruptions for the recognition of the right to supply, what it says about ownership is that users and owners of motor vehicles, vessels and who are either users or owners can also not exercise the right to supply. The supply is indeed social, considered and classified in the social category of receiving Croatian defenders who do not have any other options. It is also defined by this law that marriage or extramarital communities are also in the same category and that the extramarital community and the Family Law are defined so that it would no longer be possible to use a family pension to those members who are in the marriage or extramarital community after the death of the Croatian defender. Namely, this law clearly and... include more rigorous measures and criteria for the acquisition of certain rights. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] They are certainly due to the time-deviation of the timely, nor have they come to this High House too quickly, nor have they come too late. Although there are initiatives from the Homeland War associations, individuals as Croatian wartime disableds and victims who seek even more rigorous measures, we believe that this is quite enough to establish a final number of Croatian defenders, so that there are no new opportunities and means for new defenders to find new shares in order to define everything that has been done so far, and that all those demands that have been accumulated recently because of some potential opportunities for material rights will be interrupted by these legal provisions, but do not touch the acquired rights. These provisions of the law do not touch on acquired rights and it is important to repeat that everything acquired remains in the same scope, and what is in the procedures for obtaining an age pension or supply is limited by a hundred days of stay in the Croatian Army units and in the fighting sector. Therefore, the Croatian Democratic Community club, as I said, unreservedly supports the adoption of this law, which neither came too late nor too early, but in time to define all that is necessary and to separate the rights of the combatant from the non-combating sector and clearly define the number of Croatian defenders that we can further think about their needs and include in the state budget what is necessary for their normal life and normal supply and grant of the rights resulting from the measures so far... Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President and Mr. Secretary. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Here's so much from the Croatian Democratic Community club.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-29-0.u41434	Thank you very much. One quote correction application. Dear colleague Ivica Pancic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-29-0.u41435	Well, there was a lot here to correct, but let me just correct the claim that the 2001 law abolished the rights of thousands of Croatian defenders. It's just not true. He only introduced minimum control mechanisms, just as you explain the current amendments to the law. And I would pray when you speak of difficult times for the population of Croatian defenders in Racan's time to leave Racan the deceased alone. You have your Sanader who has escaped and who has left you to now fuck the acquired rights of Croatian defenders. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-29-0.u41436	On behalf of the IDS Club, distinguished colleague Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-29-0.u41437	Dear... Mr. Vice President, gentlemen of the Parliament. [[Everyone's talking in a voice, you don't understand.]] Your Honor, Mr. Secretary. As it stands here in this reasoning in the assessment of the situation and the basic issues to be settled, so I quote: it is known that the defence of the sovereignty of the Republic of Croatia ended on 30 June '96, so just over 13 years ago and that all those involved in the defence of sovereignty had a long period of time at their disposal in which they could apply for recognition of spoken status. That's right. It is further stated that, after 13 years of the end of the defence of the sovereignty of the Republic of Croatia and almost five years after the entry into force of the current Law on the Rights of Defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families, there are no longer grounds for granting the possibility of recognising the status of Croatian defenders, etc., etc. Article 6 states that the lowest pension shall belong to the beneficiary of the pension referred to in paragraph 1 and Article 5 of the persons referred to in paragraph 2 of this Article and to the Croatian defender from the Homeland War referred to in paragraph 3 of this Article if they, or persons based on whom they are entitled to a minimum pension, have recognised participation in the defence of the sovereignty of the Republic of Croatia for a minimum period of 100 days and are determined by a base of 45% of the average net salary of all employees in the Republic of Croatia, which is notable when we are at pay in the last two months below about 160 kunas than two months ago. The truth is, I think now that it's normal to get into certain acquired rights here. I think that article 6 should stay the way it reads in the old law, why should it be touched. Those who were in the military units, I think they should be admitted to that. To preserve the right they knew of the laws so far. The truth is, sometimes a man asks himself a question of what it's a battleline, which is a non-combating system, it's sometimes hard to define. Is the cook from Vukovar who cooked tea for the combatants or is she a non-combating sector? I spoke on the subject here on Monday with Brigadiers Bosniak and Brigadier Muženić and they now, Muženić tells me just like this. Well, I ran the operations down in Stone in '92. A year. We used to be in bunkers sometimes. But let's say these postmen, the electricians, actually from the mails that fixed the cables while we were being dropped by grenades, we would have gotten away, but they had to normally establish connections. And now what's the battle here, what's the non-combat composition? The problem in this country is that two officers, let's say, who have the right to retire the same act, no one actually has the same pension, and they say so themselves. They say Croatia is the only country that has no dead soldier. Okay. I even understand that. We gave them rank to raise their pensions, not to them, but to their families. They owed the country, they deserved absolutely agreeing about it. But there's one more moment and it's important. Our pension defence system has literally been exploited and needs to be made public in front of the Croatian public. Croatia has reached 499 000 defenders. So, by the end of the year, we'll probably get through that magic number of 500,000. The status of defenders from 2005 to 2009, so 10 years after the end of the Homeland War, more than 10,000 people were given. But in the last six years, the number of people with disabilities in the Homeland War has also increased by 10,000. Meanwhile, the number of pensioners for HVO, the Croatian Defence Council in Bosnia and Herzegovina, increased by 3029, means in those ten years to 6174 or over 100%. So it turns out the parallel gentlemen fought another war, but this time for privileges. And if there was ever a need in this country to review that number of people with disabilities in the Homeland War, that's what defense attorneys are today. And in order to do that, it is necessary to publish the defence register. I agree, you should even consider erasing that non-combat composition with certain exceptions. It's not easy to do, but I'd stand for it. A normal review of the number under the allegations of privileges in that system should be made, and I dare say clearly to revise any disability case based on PTSD in the last six, seven or eight years, anyway. If the number of defenders, or disabled in this country in the last five, has been increased by 20,000 for six years, if we have employed an additional 40,000 people in these last six years, look out for at least 60,000 people. I say it was part of buying this electoral status, or voters, that it was all this people paying but that it just couldn't anymore and that's why we're putting it in reverse now. Why was that? Well, because pensions are three times bigger. Circa 5800 kuna is a defence pension, and the largest number is in disability pension and disability pensions are on average 7084 kuna while 12116 receive more than 8000 kuna. In that number, then of those 65,000 is somewhere around 30,000 people who have PTSD which hardly gentlemen can correspond to reality I would say right now. Look at what's going on and some individuals we've had a chance to track lately. I don't know, let's say this problem of the Prince of Bosnia and Herzegovina. I don't know how old that man is. Looks like there's no sure there's no 40. They say he has a pension of 8000 kuna. So what act did he have to get? What does he owe Croatia? Someone from Tuta's battlefield. What did he do for Croatia, with Ahmics, with what? Another problem of the same Knezevic comes here to the County Court in Zagreb as a suspect in the murder and after 10 minutes let him go and walks free which is a shame, absurdally "banana state" rather than one serious country we want to be. Instead of putting those individuals in a bunker and carrying them across the border, leaving their car there, here's your luggage, you'll get my car back, actually fill it with someone who's gone there and so clearly in these cases we should act because it's no longer possible. It's clear that we need an audit I dare say to every disabled person who's had PTSD in the last five, six years. I need to re-publish that defense register. It may be necessary to reconsider the contract with Bosnia and Herzegovina, and this one hundred days or thirty days, why not ninety-nine days. Is that fair, I don't know. Make it a hundred days, okay. There's no problem. But someone who's been on the front for, say, three days or 30 days had the same head in his bag as the one who was a hundred days. Croatia we all know there are 4 million and 400,000 inhabitants. True, we have far more voters. At the end of this month, we fell somewhere below the number of millions and 500,000 employees. We have about 1 million 150,000 pensioners. We have nearly 280,000 unemployed on government salary plus salaries in local self-government there are 288,000 152 of us. It was somewhere in the seventh month, so it will say that a million 230 thousand people in the manufacturing sector, in agriculture, in tourism, in crafts, in the trade must support more than one and a half million people. Simply this financial system has collapsed and cannot be further exploited. And that's what he's talking about, and that's actually what this law is talking about. So a system like this can no longer be exploited. He's overstretched, he's gonna snap, and he shouldn't be surprised if in the next year, we might be able to get some new haraches or harrases in place. The question also arises why certain rights were constantly spread year after year, including an increasingly wider and wider circle of people. I repeat, this has been done for the sake of the elections, and now we clearly need to narrow down certain rights, but I still don't see that we are going to reconsider certain behaviours, and we are doing this for clearly limited, limited budgetary possibilities. In 2010, we are all aware of this, it will be more difficult, especially when it comes to the real sector than it was in 2009. What was for the 2009 monetary system will be for this real sector. Whoever survives, I would say, that year in the economic sense, figuratively speaking, he will live forever. We are in a situation today that every day without a job in this country is about 160 people. The external debt will exceed 42.5 billion euros by the end of the year. Next year, more than 10 billion kunas are due back. How? How are you going to get to the exchange? At this point, I do not know the governor of the Croatian National Bank, let alone ministers in the government. One word, the time has come to say no more populism. Now follow the sobering. Pancic had earlier cried out welcome to a club of traitors or traitors. Let's not do that. So we don't need to talk, so we don't need to talk, but it's certain that we've come to the edge, that we can't take a step further, because we're simply going to sink, but we're going to pull this country back, including these 500 thousand defenders, 65 thousand people with disabilities that we're talking about today. So, we're arguing today, we're voting for this reverse. That reverse doesn't mean treason, it's certainly not high treason, that reverse is one sobering, one sleep awakening, one utopia awakening. We're literally at the edge. Let's face it, the system is exhausted, which is why, I agree with Pancic, the former prime minister left the ship behind a wasteland, but also HDZ in power. Okay, but today is a responsibility for measures to be taken, not only on HDZ, but also on the opposition. In one word, the system of this ministry alone, if I'm not mistaken for 6.6 billion kunas, is simply somewhere around 5% of the budget in this year or next is difficult, under quotes, it's a burden, but it's simply about the people who owe this country and that money needs to be absolutely found. One more time, I'm going to say, fake defenders, you need to wipe out fake disabled people. Why? That the real disabled of the Homeland War would have more. If we'd done that, we could've evened the men of the People's Liberation War with the fighters of the Homeland War. ... Wait, don't yell and yell. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] These others in the pension care system have about 60 grand somewhere. I claim that they created this country, that they did not need to be deprived of their rights, and that the honorary defenders of the Homeland War defended the Republic of Croatia, because I do not know if you will agree, but that is my opinion. Without certain partisan movement, never one Istria, Rijeka, Zadar, islands would be integrated into the national Corps of the Croatian people. Is that right or isn't the HDZ gentlemen? That's right.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-29-0.u41438	And we're going to the partisans again. But first we go to the correction of the quote, dear colleague Josip Djakic. Here's a colleague, Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-29-0.u41439	Thank you very much, Vice President. Well, I'm going to correct a series of inaccuracies that my colleague Cain said. I will correct only one claim that another war for privileges has been waged. It's absolutely incorrect and it doesn't stand. Your comparisons about... Croatian defenders, disabled Homeland War in Bosnia and Herzegovina, as well as in Croatia, are the cause of the law we passed and the possibilities of the 2005 law, as well as professional analyses of all those who have observed what is happening to Croatian defenders who have suffered from PTSD. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And so this number is real. It's not true that we have 65,000 people with disabilities in the Homeland War. It's an absolute lie. You counted, the pears and the apples got mixed up, you counted together. 45 thousand is a disabled Homeland War, the rest are those who retire as Croatian defenders and have no disability. And with today's bill of law, we've regulated that there can be no such thing. And you're not familiar with the fact. Seventy-five thousand fighters... Plus the victims of the war and the money that crosses 100,000 people on our budget of the Republic of Croatia. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-29-0.u41440	Thank you very much. Dear fellow MP Branko Boxti, rectification of the quote.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-29-0.u41441	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleague Cain said it is difficult to meet the reality of this moment for the number of PTSD patients. Mr. Cain, what makes you say that? Are you a doorman or what? Today you could read in the Zadar list Mayor Katusha resigned. That's my mayor Benkovca. You know why he resigned? It's the PTSD. When's he gonna get it? Who knows? The last two sentences in your presentation have shown the number of partisans, namely pensions, namely World War II people get. It means more numbers than the number of lawyers who get a pension in the Homeland War. That doesn't concern you, and you're worried about the number... who got a pension in the Homeland War. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It's really sad.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-29-0.u41442	... [[The speaker is not enabled, not understood.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-29-0.u41443	Let's go one step further. Correction of the allegations, a distinguished colleague, Neda Klaric, also applied. A fellow representative of Cain, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-29-0.u41444	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary. Here in a whole series of incorrect allegations, I'd like to correct two Mr. Agent Caine, who states, of course, incorrectly exploits pension insurance and we're going to reverse. Falsely, Mr Cain, because the current law on the rights of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families clearly testifies to the legislative and institutional framework for all Croatian defenders. The amendments and additions to the law we're talking about will definitely testify more justly to all the defenders of the Homeland War. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-29-0.u41445	Thank you very much. And for the correction of the quote, the esteemed colleague Davor Huška applied. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-29-0.u41446	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I'm going to correct Mr. Cain's incorrect claim that he needs to wipe out the disabled and the false defenders of the Homeland War. This procedure is ongoing. The review of cases after a tip is ongoing. And Mr. Cain, if you know of any of the known false Croatian defenders, any of the false disabled Homeland War, it is your duty to inform the Ministry of such cases to delete them. I have one proposal, as we now limit the number of participants in the Homeland War, let's let's let the people pass the law to limit the number of participants in the People's Liberation War, 2. World War II because I get the feeling that they're more and more year after year, at least according to these indicators from the State budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-29-0.u41447	Thank you very much. Before I give my word to my colleague Grubisic, on behalf of the prime minister. Minister, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-29-0.u41448	Thank you very much. Your Honor, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Caine, you've simply provided some data that doesn't correspond to the actual state. A colleague, Djakic, told you that it is not true that 65,000 are Croatian defenders, the figure is less than 50,000 Croatian defenders. It is not true that this Ministry is difficult as you said 6 billion kuna, this Ministry has a 2009 budget of 4 billion kuna, and this does not, of course, apply to Croatian defenders the entire amount, but also to family and intergenerational solidarity, significant amounts are in this Ministry and children's allowance and maternity benefits that are more than half the amounts foreseen for the functioning of the Ministry. It is not true, of course, that the electoral body was bought. Mr. Cain in the past 5.5 years, through legal regulations, new law, and other regulations have systematically regulated the position of Croatian defenders. And a lot seemed to be at a better level than it was when the new government took responsibility for the management of Croatia in 2004. You see very well, I will not mention now everything that has been done in the past 5 years in this sense, but I will answer some questions to the Croatian Defence Fund, today the most powerful in financial terms in the state which at this time weighs some 2 billion and 300 million kuna, and the increase that you mention the number of defenders of 10 thousand, which is precisely due to the formation and functioning of this Fund because the fact that the current laws of the Croatian defenders did not have any special rights under the Law on the Rights of the Croatian Defences. THAT the legal provisions mainly applied to the victims of the Homeland War. And when you talk about the number of Croatian defenders, I will ask you whether it is tragic and regrettable that Croatia's single Croatian Defence Register was only given in 2005, so 9 years after the end of the Homeland War. So that previous government, the previous government of Dr. Ivo Sanader had the courage to deal with the hot potatoes that no government had until then, because everyone knew what a hot potato was and what kind of debate would cause the publication of a total number of Croatian defenders or people who participated in the Homeland War. In the end, it is not true that this Law touches acquired rights. None of the rights acquired by changing the law is questionable, so find me, and I'll agree with you if you can find it. And what Mr. Huška's parliamentary representative told you is that the audit is carried out daily and that the Ministry responds to any report of problematic acquisition of status and that it passes to the state authorities in charge of the check and no Croatian defender has lost status or disability based on such checks. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-29-0.u41449	Thank you very much. We have a correction to an incorrect quote, colleague Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-29-0.u41450	First, all the fake... all the fake NOB fighters, all the fake disableds I don't know in whatever system they're supposed to be tried and not just wipe out of the system and ask for a baseless return. That's one, two. Croatia has reached 499 thousand defenders, from 2005, as you yourself confirmed by 2009 that status has been given to 10,000 more people, but in the last 6 years and the number of people with disabilities of the Homeland War has increased by 10 thousand as well as the number of pensioners for the Croatian Defence Council with 3,000 exceeded the number of 6 thousand and that's all true. I said before, it turns out there's still been a war of the Homeland this time for privileges. Many in this system are simply fake disabled and false defenders, and if we want real defenders to have more... those who don't deserve it. [[The speaker is off, you can't hear it.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-29-0.u41451	Thank you very much. Comrade Cain, you've actually confirmed four allegations. Correction to the quote of colleague Denon. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-29-0.u41452	Mr. Minister, I will correct your incorrect or I would say a quote that is not good. When we talk about Croatian defenders in this Croatian Assembly, I would ask you not to talk about them as hot potatoes or even in context, because of all my friends who were in the Homeland War, they are nobody's hot potato, so I apologize. While I'm in the Parliament, when I hear someone talking about them like hot potatoes and a problem, I'll always react.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-29-0.u41453	Let's not play with potatoes and comparisons with defenders. Let's move on with the club debate, on behalf of the HDSSB, distinguished counterpart Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-29-0.u41454	Dear Mr. Vice President, colleagues and fellow MPs, Mr. Secretary. Here, I would say that, with one lasting and slightly endless persecution of Croatian defenders, we have the latest example of Puma defenders, with the distortion and counterfeiting of the truth about the Homeland Defence and Liberation War, including in the textbooks for elementary schools I spoke about, in which one of them literally writes that there was a war in Croatia due to the dismissal of a few Serbs from work and the appearance of radical Chetnic groups in Serbia. You can think of such a definition as the war in Croatia or the start of a war in Croatia, here's just one small example. Furthermore, we are witnessing and either one of the examples is mounted and a politically motivated process to Croatian General Branimir Glavas and now at the end of 505 under the yellow. So, about 505,000 Croatian defenders, as far as the register goes for a number here and there, so what they say about the advertising of a Slovenian firm, we now underline it to the yellow one, the proposal of this new Law on Croatian defenders, which is called the Amendment Law and the addition of the Law on the Rights of Croatian Lawyers, and I would say that this is the proposal for a law on restrictive or cression of the rights of Croatian defenders. That could be better called than what it's called. When Mr Cain, who left the assembly, spoke of Croatian defenders, he did say a lot of things. Of course he can't do it without the People's Liberation War, but I did my best, so I pulled out of the rebalancing budget item from the Ministry of Economy and found that the floor, I don't see exactly the code, with a number like this: "The peace fighters of the People's Liberation War for this year 600 million kuna. The peace of members of the former JNA 400 million kuna." That's a billion kuna. You, Mr. Minister, said that pensions and disabled Croatian defenders amount to approximately 2 billion kuna, so you said, because you have children's allowances and everything else. So if we take the Croatian budget as something over 100 billion, 120 billion kuna, then these items, so the pensions of former JNA members and the pensions of the National Liberation War fighters, are almost, and there are still some items, about 1% of the Republic of Croatia's budget. The most interesting items from budget to budget are growing year after year, although 64, 65 years have passed since World War II. Well, we, though I know there's an increase in the percentage of pensions, but still given the natural outflow, which is understandable and we're going to leave one day, that yet that rising item is disproportionate to the number of years since World War II. It's very well known to me, because, let me say, I've lived in more places in this life and I know well, even personally, people who, along with two witnesses, have changed their age to achieve the right of the People's Liberation War fighter. I even know that they were fictitiously married to a widow for a month, two days before she died with some member of the People's Liberation War and a wartime military invalid to retire. I also know that the president of the Union of Antifascist Fighters seemed to be in '31. A year and I ask how he was with a ten-year-old fighter, I don't get it, but there he is. It's not about today's debate. In this material, to move to the very material of the legislative proposal, mentioned in points 15 and 16, which are very interesting, that the procedures should be initiated under the provisions of the Law on the Rights of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families, for the recognition of the status of Croatian defenders, the status of volunteers and recognition of the status of members of the family of the dead Croatian defenders, so that these proceedings, which have begun, are suspended. I may not be an expert in law or administrative law, but can I ask the minister if there will be any complications regarding the implementation of this if the administrative procedure has already begun? Article 16 states that these procedures, if they are in the audit phase, will not be stopped but will be completed. And there's something else I'd like to ask Mr. Secretary because it doesn't say here. What is the number of those who have begun to exercise their status, and what is the number of people on the audit? So to know how many people there will be, let's say, I won't say cut, but affected by these procedures. Here's what I'd like to ask Mr. Secretary to tell me after my presentation if he has the information, and I think he has the information. In the Committee on War Veterans of the Croatian Parliament, thank God as the parent body, this matter is considered and has an interesting sentence in the end almost as a conclusion and says that the possibility of carrying out an audit of all statuses is mentioned, which should therefore, in the future, in the condicional, which should be prescribed by law because it is not fair to cement the existing situation, and aware of the fact that a significant part of the person has obtained the status in an illegal manner. This is due to the lack of implementing rules. That's, I'd say, a shy definition. This is one, so it is not mentioned that this is one, so the possibility of systematic audit is individual. Let's report to the Frankfurt Brigade that he wasn't in Croatia at the time of the war, and then we'll shut him down or strip him of his defense or his disabled status. So who's gonna report who? How many of these reports are there at all? Any knowledge of a fake disability or a false defense attorney status? This should also be taken into account by the Croatian government because they have achieved their status as fake precisely through institutions installed by the Croatian government and the ministry responsible for assessing these statuses. And the status of defenders and the status of a wartime military invalid. As this has been systematically achieved, there is also a systematic need to be audited, and not to say, there is a possibility. What possibility? It would be good if he had the possibility or whatever it is he's already defined. It says the possibility of conducting a review is mentioned, which should be prescribed. So let's write it down. Who prescribes the law? Then the Government of the Republic of Croatia, Ministry of Defence. Mr. Minister, it's up to you. You are now the executive body of this government, you have the Ministry. I hope you will do so in good faith and in good faith. You have the possibility of legal further provisions, and in connection with some of this proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Rights of the Croatian Lawyers. In Articles 7, 8. etc. It is a very interesting definition, he says, "Right on the supply of family disabled users, personal disabled users and Croatian defenders from the Homeland War who have residence in the Republic of Croatia, when they are unable to attract". Even if Article 8 explains that they are, that group includes those who are not employed. So, incapacitated, it's not the same thing as unemployed. Well, with sound logic. So that we were able to hire Croatian defenders, that we were able to hire them. And it was a tendency of all governments, here's to tell everyone, to find a job for the Croatian defenders. Then this definition and this definition of inability to attract, and they're about 30, 35 years old, would be really funny. And we see by our cities, in our places, in fact most of those who have achieved that status in a variety of ways, members of Vienna or the Frankfurt Brigade, who have therefore not even smelled the gunpowder, were not even on the front lines, as they behave, as they occur, as they come across the excesses of different species in our places. Work makes man worthy, work makes man man. And what needed first of all to be taken care of, above all, to allow the maximum employment of Croatian defenders, to enable them to hire, to work, to earn their income by their work. He thus acquires his dignity or restores his dignity. When all these facts are taken that I have listed, it is difficult to decide on the outcome of the vote. I'm talking about myself and my club, the HDSSB club. So in some ways, as someone said here, here's the undertone, as they say in Slavonia "refe". Mr. Secretary knows that. And yet on the other hand, I'm afraid that those who will be suspended will be damaged, so I am in doubt and most dearly, I would be restrained in this vote, but here we will consider the vote itself. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-29-0.u41455	Thank you very much. We have one application for correction of the quote, dear colleague Arsen Bauk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-29-0.u41456	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I would like to correct Mr Grubisic's allegations about the number of members, so the People's Liberation War fighters who are receiving pensions. It is true that 45 thousand 965 have such pensions, and 27 thousand 400 are related to family pensions. I would also remind you that in 2005, the Croatian Parliament adopted the Declaration of Antifascism, which calls for increased care for members of the People's Liberation War fighters. And it wasn't at all the subject of this debate. So, I call upon you to when it comes to this subject not to interfere with some past wars. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-29-0.u41457	Thank you very much. Here we got the exact numbers. My colleague Grubisic, injury to the Rules of Procedure. But why don't you turn yourself in and tell me which article, then?
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-29-0.u41458	Article 209 of the Rules of Procedure. Thank you very much. Namely, you're talking about what I didn't say at all. Nothing about the charter, nothing. Therefore, do not interfere. I'm surprised you didn't report to Mr. Cain on a replica or correcting an incorrect quote.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-29-0.u41459	This didn't make anything right or distract us. But the Honorable Minister answered. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-29-0.u41460	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, I'd only like to answer some questions that Mr. Grubisic, the honourable parliamentary representative, has asked how many proceedings are under way? Somewhere around a thousand and 500 proceedings are under way. So, by acting on amending and supplementing this law, they will be suspended. But I have to say, this isn't about the reverse effect of the law. The feedback of the law would refer to the negative changes caused by this law in the completed administrative cases. And that's not what this law predicts. So, we don't question any of the solutions that have been issued so far and therefore do not stand to restrict existing rights. No, I don't. Yes, of course. As for the unemployment of Croatian defenders, I must say that the majority of Croatian defenders and 15 years after the end of the war are in the world of work and make their own work a reality. That the unemployment rate of Croatian defenders is less than the rate for the rest of the population, that there are about 21,000 unemployed defenders somewhere. And that in the past five years more than 10,000 Croatian defenders have found their jobs through the employment measures of the unemployed Croatian defenders conducted by this government. And as far as the audit is concerned, I have already answered that the daily audit is being carried out without personally being "systemic audit". We've seen what this system audit means in the past. What did she do? She's made thousands and thousands of litigation disputes, which are usually lost by the state. And tens and tens of millions of kunas were spent on these trials for damages from the state budget. And here's what I'm going to say to my colleague Denoni. I never spoke of Croatian defenders as hot potatoes. However, I am always about Croatian defenders because I am a Croatian defender myself, and I appreciate what they did in the Homeland War, I spoke with respect. And don't put what I haven't said in my mouth for a moment. I just said that this problem of a unique register and figuratively and picturesquely called it a hot potato, no one until the government of Eve Sanader tried to solve it.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-29-0.u41461	Thank you, Minister. So, if what he's going to say is picturesque fellow Grubisic refo but not a musk. We're moving on with the debate. You said you understood the first thing, then you knew the second and he knew the same thing. And there is a debate on behalf of SDP's respected counterpart Ante Kotromanovic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-29-0.u41462	That's why I have a healthy head to watch the entire war, of course. You know what Zivko would do now? ... Nervous while I fought for the Croatian state, I think someone wrote you down what you should say. ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Oh, don't talk. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] I keep my dignity but I keep my mouth shut.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-29-0.u41463	... Just some of you defenders act like this because if you're talking to each other like that, then that's the attitude towards the Homeland War. [[The speaker is turned on afterwards, you can't hear it.]] I'll warn everyone. I understand this, and I'm asking you to go ahead and discuss it the way it's supposed to be.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-29-0.u41464	Mr. Vice President of the Parliament. Let's get going, of course, with the debate, to plan for stupidity. Mr. Minister, dear fellow MPs and MPs, before the MPs, rather than the MPs. Here is today, of course, on the subject of the Final Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Completion of the Law on the Rights of Croatian Lawyers from the Homeland War and members of their families. Of course it's an important thing for us defenders because this proposal limits certain rights so far. Of course I read maybe unlike my colleague's gentleman downstairs from Split this final bill of law and of course I have my own opinion of him for not being sure about others of course. And I would, of course, like to comment on the complete articles and what was done in the Ministry of Defence, family and intergenerational solidarity. When we look at all these articles, there are, of course, absolutely fine articles, so I will start with, for example, Article 1 which is exactly the same as my colleague Pancic noticed as he did in his day. Article 2 which is also very good, which solves a lot of things, Article 3, Article 4, also, Article 11, Article 12, and that's good. I like it because as a defender and volunteer of the Croatian Army all the time I have advocated that the time has come to finally end this story and that we can finally have some things more important and more important for this Republic of Croatia. But there are several articles in which I will, of course, ask the Ministry of Defence’s opinion, which I will, of course, give my judgment and see how we can discuss this later. Article 6 which speaks of the right to a minimum pension, so far we have had practice and the law has been such that every person who was as the minister said could one day exercise the right to a minimum pension and that is what people have done because it is quite clear. They realized even though I could ask why we could set such small criteria and that man really didn't spend one day in the war and get the status of defender who knows how, gets the lowest pension. I am fine with this article 6 also the same though we will have problems today precisely because of what certain people have received the lowest pension because they were one day and they may have been in the same unit, the same water, the same tenth and those for example 65 years the person who claims to get a pension has 64 years of life and a few days and will not be allowed to do so under this law. I'm saying, even though personally I think you should have raised a little bit more. When we talk about article 10 of a marriage mate or an extramarital community established by the Family Law, he loses his rights under this law as a member of the family of the mortally injured Croatian defender from the Homeland War and the deceased Croatian wartime invalid. I think this is written more pro forms because we can't prove it and it's hard to prove that someone lives in an out-of-marriage community. We discussed it with my colleague Djakic and I, all together, it's just like that. And who will confess in the extramarital community, lose the right to what this law has. When we talk about Article 14 of course I agree that it is time to finally close the story of recognising and obtaining the status of defenders because we are probably the only country in the world that after 14 years is not regulated, this law will now regulate the status of defenders for people who have been and perhaps some have not been in the Homeland War. I have to say a few words here. As chairman of the board, and we commented on the same fellow Djakic and I on the committee yesterday, I received several requests from the Association of Minors to the National Protection of Osijek, reportedly there are over 4.5 thousand people who have requested the status of defenders and they are now, therefore I have asked the last time that this law does not go through with an emergency procedure rather than to go into regular procedure so that they can as well exercise the status of defenders until the end of the proceedings. He's supposed to be pending proceedings. Well, Mr. Minister, I'd like to ask the same thing to see if we can just see if it's true or if there's anything else we can do about it. I have also heard from pyrotechnics these days, one category of 96 pyrotechnics, 97, who demined Croatia who also allegedly did not resolve the status of defenders and should see if there is still something to be done for people who may have given something for the Croatian state. For me, what my colleague Grubisic was saying is the most controversial article in Article 15 and Article 16, and I think that's enough. Maybe it's clear to the lawyers but we had a lot of questions and we also talked about it yesterday on the board, they all said the same thing. It's one problem for people who aren't lawyers and when, and they were very frightened by these amendments and amendments to the law because people thought that all those who were under trial would lose their status. It's a good thing the minister said all that and it's a good thing it's a clear message right now. These two Articles 15 and 16 can be very easily illegal in one way and comply with the Law on Administrative Procedure. In fact, the Administrative Procedure Act allows for unlimited procedures to be conducted. We heard from the minister just now that there are about a thousand and a half people who will end it. I'm afraid that's going to cause some problems, that maybe they'll follow up on certain lawsuits against the Ministry of Defense again, which, of course, wouldn't be good at all. We have thousands and thousands so far, so about 35,000 requests, as I understand it, 35 thousand people have applied for recognition of the status of Croatian military disabled in the past period, about until 2005, something behind it. Do you know that now all those members who have applied for the recognition of the status of disabled and who have not received a final solution whether they will be interrupted, this is important, very important. I think that maybe through the law or through some amendment, we should explain it to be very clear and precise. I was interested in how many such people there are, but I heard it's a 1500 figure, and it's quite a number that can just give us all a headache. I think maybe there are a lot of real warriors among these people, we said, we've heard about 1,500 people who will be left without the right to proceed. Maybe let's see which one's from the fighting sector. If we are already dividing into a combat and non-combat sector, to at least allow those in the fighting sector to exercise their rights, and those in the non-combat sector should not have rights, the right to disability, pension and all these other things, shares of the shares they receive after they gain the status of defenders because I believe that whoever was in the non-combat sector did not fight on the front line could not have it. These changes and the additions of the law to me are about 11 years late. In this past period, so 14 years after the war, the number of defenders has reached about half a million and about 65,000 pensions all together, meaning not only disability pensions, there are family pensions, etc. The status of defenders, as we know, we also discussed on the committee yesterday, could have obtained a Malta not anyone because Article 2. The law on the rights of Croatian defenders has been laid quite broadly by me and has allowed certain people, journalists, politicians, MPs, doctors, firefighters. I had an example of the fireman in '94. A year from a city that was never on the line, a man got the status of defenders and asked for the status of disabled people and thank God the ministry refused because it just doesn't make sense. And here people, if they realize the status of defenders, of course by initiative, can exercise other rights such as disability, pension, shares, shares, and that many have never been on the front line of the battlefield, which is absolutely unfair and unfair to me. Yesterday, as I say, we had a board and I'm going to quote General Borkovic, the young hawk, who said, "This law has made us cement all those who illegally acquired the status of defenders." He said it. This law was passed by me for the necessary reason that we finally realized that the devil had taken the joke away. Six years ago, this existing law was passed as a rescue solution for defenders in the Republic of Croatia. Now we see it wasn't exactly like that. Many have achieved the status of defenders and pensions under the old law and by me poor criteria, not justice and reality. If it wasn't for what I'm saying, we wouldn't be changing this former law right now and proposing something else. I think there were two more things to be solved before we finally closed the story of the defenders and the story of who gave who more and who took more defenders in the Republic of Croatia. We've touched a little defense register. I think we'll have to take care of it anyway. That's what the minister and I were talking about, that we should take him down. Of course I have my own opinion on it in a way that's a little different than right now. In that case, even the announcement is completely unnecessary. Here's the first time I'm gonna say it here at the assembly room. How? It needs to be taken out by war brigades, by choir areas of the war brigades, and now it's set up in an alphabetical manner so that we have for example. a thousand Joseph Horvat. If the defence registry were regulated in this way, they would know exactly the number of members of the Croatian Army, those who were chasing, killed, wounded, disappeared, were trapped in the fighting sector. Of course, those who aren't playing the case. They'd know exactly the number of people who got the status of defenders, and that's good, let them get it without being on the front line, because there's a lot of them. We can take many examples that people have done a lot, contributed to the creation of the Republic of Croatia without being on the front line of the front line, but it is very important to have an exact number. We have somewhere today maybe 17 grand, maybe more, Minister, in the non-combat sector. Personally, I think it must be at least 100 grand. If they did that, and it doesn't cost us anything, I think they'd do a lot of work, and that way they'd certainly contribute to the return of dignity to both the defenders and the warriors of the heroes of the Homeland War. The second thing, in my opinion, that we need to do to close this story about defenders, which is to make one category of defender: a) the defender of the one who chased, disappeared, wounded, fought, etc., has every right to disability, to retire, to share, to share, and b) the defender who has the honour of being a participant of the Homeland War, but was not on the front line of the front line, we will not take away any rights from him. That way, I think we'd be completely satisfied with all those people on the ground who are still complaining about half a million people and all the people who may have gotten the status of defenders and weren't directly on the front line of the front line. And in the end, I thought you were sitting there with serious people who would seriously argue, who wouldn't throw themselves out of the bench and I'd never warn anyone again. When I listen to any of you, I listen carefully and follow what you say. I've never made a face ugly, I've never thrown a word, I've never done anything. I'm the last time I warn you here, I'm saying I respect you, I'm asking for respect. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-29-0.u41465	Thank you very much, colleague. We have two reports of correction of the quote. Dear fellow MP Josip Djakic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-29-0.u41466	Thank you very much, Vice President. Well, here's the thing, I'll make it right to an esteemed colleague, even though we've agreed on a lot of things on the board, but we need to correct that in Articles 1, 2, 3 and 4 that these are the same legal provisions as they were in the 2001 law. His colleague Pancic. Absolutely that's the difference. These provisions of the law do not abolish any acquired right as those legal provisions did. That is the important difference, and therefore this correction of my incorrect claim was necessary. The cemented state is absolutely equally incorrect. No one who falsely acquired anything from the status of defenders to the status of Croatian wartime wartime invalid can be cemented because the laws of the Republic of Croatia say that everyone will be sanctioned when it is established.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-29-0.u41467	Thank you very much. A colleague of Rebic's, a colleague of mine. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-29-0.u41468	So counterpart Kotromanovic said what Mr Djakic had corrected, that in order to cement the status of defenders. So we can agree on that. He was quoting, but that's what it's all about. We are aware, so we are aware that many have obtained status and a wartime military invalid who had no right. So let's just remember those committees that were medical, which were on the studies, so they were both disbanded. Let's also remember a lot of audits. But it is not true, therefore, that the revision is carried out permanently and therefore all of them will, therefore, not be realized and will not be certain if they are not truly wartime military disabled. And I hope we'll never again like the minister said, that we'll never make the kind of heifers like that audit that was carried out a few years ago that looked more like. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-29-0.u41469	And Mr. Secretary also answered. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-29-0.u41470	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, I would first of all like to express my satisfaction that Mr. Kotromanović as a Croatian defender, however, as far as I understand from his presentation supports these amendments to the law and that they are logical and I would say necessary. When it comes to Mr. Kotromanovic's lowest defence pension, I must say that at this point only 228 of such minimum pensions are under the Law on the Rights of Croatian Lawyers and, of course, no one will question those 228 pensions because they are still in force under the law. But from the day of entry into force, we see that this significantly tightens the criteria for the achievement of that pension. I also made it clear in the opening statement when it comes to teaching procedures for the recognition of HRV status that they are not subject to the provisions of this law. So those who have temporary solutions about disability to them do not apply these provisions. Their actions will continue and end. And as for the register of Croatian defenders. The register of Croatian defenders, of course, is conducted in alphabetical order, which is quite logical. We're not gonna take him on an alphabet or I don't know without any order. But every member of the register, that is, every Croatian defender, is led by a unit in which he participated in the Homeland War. And it's very easy to determine for every unit by clicking on a computer button to throw out all members of a particular unit during the Homeland War. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-29-0.u41471	Thank you very much. At 13.25, it was time to apply for individual debates. I'm announcing a break by 15.00 hours. We will continue to discuss the club of representatives of HSS and representatives of Stanko Grcic. Thank you very much. My colleagues and fellow MPs, Mr. Secretary. I suggest we get back to work. We're starting the afternoon session. On behalf of the HSS Club, Mr. Representative Stanko Grcic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-29-0.u41473	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary, colleagues and fellow MPs. The Croatian Peasant Party welcomes the proposing's intensities to draw a line on the total number of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War. He also hopes that all true defenders have so far exercised their rights that belong to them by law and that the number of those who have misused rights that do not belong to them is negligible. For us, the only question is so-called. the retroactive action of this law, precisely in terms of feedback, as stated by the Legislative Committee. I have to mention here and present some two impressions and impressions of us at the HSS Club, that mostly here when we talk about the rights of Croatian defenders about the Homeland War, we are mostly talking about senior Croatian Army officers from the Homeland War, and through these discussions we focus exclusively on the fighting sector, which I think is normal because they are members of these units, or the structure of the combat sector. But we completely forget the citizens of other organizational forms of defense from that time. Which means that in those years, the Republic of Croatia had a domestic, defence and fair war and other organisational forms of defence, which have thus allowed for the successful conduct of these war or activities to be done so on the first line of the battlefield. Because simply without these activities and members of any unit he could not give what he had given, that he suspected other organised forms of defence and protection in society, that he suspected that his homes, families, women, children, his family had been unsettled and that he had no other way, how often we could say that logistics full support. So we think that in this non-combat sector we have a lot to ignore. I can say freely that it is both belittled and not appreciated in accordance with the country's defence contribution, which I will say more about later and later. I will try to briefly present the details relating to certain articles and, above all, Article 8 where it is proposed that the right to supply as a form of social assistance, the poorest Croatian defenders only restrict to those Croatian defenders who, including members of their family, are not owners or users of motor vehicles, all types of passenger cars, tractors, trucks or motor vessels over 6 metres long and are not owners or co-owners of properties that do not serve them for the settlement of basic life support. We support the intensity of the proposal, but we are not sure whether it is best placed in the law of the provision, i.e. that he will not cause new injustices. And here's what we're gonna do to explain why. We all know that sometimes having a private car is worth about 500 euros in total need. Therefore, we would like to know why the remaining personal vehicles and vessels of up to 6 metres have been released, e.g. in the provisions of Article 2(2), the following paragraph is added: The road safety law, the concept of motor vehicle, has the following meaning. "A motor vehicle is every vehicle driven by the power of its own engine, except for a vehicle that moves along rails and auxiliary walking means." The article lists personal cars, tractors, trucks. You might as well ask the opposite question. What about mopeds, motorcycles, four-cycles, working machines, motorcycles and other machines? Further when we consider the issues of the rights of Croatian defenders, we want to mention them in another context. According to the Croatian Peasant Party, the reconstruction of the defence administration and office from the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Croatia is in preparation. We hope that its completion will not call into question business related to the demands of Croatian defenders and other citizens in rural areas, and related to the exercise of rights through personal or family needs. We are aware that the existing system of administration and the office should be changed, or rationalised. But it has so far made it possible for the quality and practical availability of jobs for the needs of Croatian defenders and members of their families, given the distance or width of the area they have so far covered. I am noting this here because it might be good to consider some transitional period and time for those who have not yet achieved certain rights, that, nevertheless, by rationalising such a network, we do not allow management and defence offices to enable them in this short time, to exercise certain rights. As for us in the HSS, we support the duration of 100 days of participation. Belonging only to the fighting sector is questionable for us, because the status of the Croatian defender is effectively abolished, if so far the right of a specific Croatian defender has not been used. What are we trying to say? That Person A and Person B have the same solution and solution on the rights of Croatian defenders, based on action in the defence of the Republic of Croatia from the non-combat sector. Person A has achieved this right for a particular reason, perhaps years of age or something else, until Person B has achieved it because it does not have a number of years. This results from the fact that the B person who did not do so, after this law-making process, will in fact no longer be able to achieve it, or in other words, a solution to the rights of Croatian defenders simply doesn't need it anymore because he simply doesn't have any rights either. As an example, we often mention secretaries who have cooked coffee in non-combat sectors, in some offices, ministries or I don't know where, and we usually mention them in a negative context, and on such an example we generalise a large number of officials who have worked responsibly complicated by many things that can be freely said and actions of strategic importance. I'll list some. I'm saying this because the mobilization of the unit is a strategic action, a complex and significant action without which no unit would exist would be formed. The unit was to be filled with other technical, material and other means, clear and armed. Who did these responsible jobs, if not those in crisis headquarters, persons in the defense offices and clearly in the defense departments in the counties. And now we come to a situation and I will set an example in my field and point out the fact that it gives me the right to ask the promoter to find perhaps a more just solution to the recognition of the rights of persons in the non-combating sector, where I think of crisis headquarters just certain institutions and institutions that have acted in the affected field of war. We have a situation that the person in charge of mobilization with me in the area of the Bjelovar-Bilogor County, in the area of Daruvar, Pakrac, Grubišni polje, which was affected by the wartime activities, is invited to the task force of members who are in charge of a particular type of weapons which was later designated for the security of the facility in which the headquarters or crisis headquarters is located. The person who provides the headquarters is in front of the facility while members of the crisis headquarters are also armed, they are in the facility. They do not have the right to act in battle and the fighting sector. The defenceists of that time will agree with me that we cannot and must not generalise and observe through drinking coffee safely in some shelters the entire non-combat sector. We ignore and do not wonder if more civilians or members of military troops were killed during the Domino War. We avoid the basis of these indicators to come to a conclusion on the degree of threat and danger of our citizens. Who was more endangered, whether organized units with trained and equipped members or members of other units, or our citizens in the field of civil action. A member of the task force is equipped, trained and able to defend himself and is known to defend himself while a member of national protection, civil protection or citizens have not been and are, in my opinion, a more vulnerable structure of the population. The rights of Croatian defenders by us must be equal for all defenders or at least approximately equal. We can't have a first and second-row defender. Who today can precisely fathom to contribute to the Homeland War of a person holding a rifle in the hand of a rural home or a person in a crisis station or a defense office that is also with personal weapons in that rural home and performs the fill-up or renewal of members of a task force filled in from that area. We must not allow such a proposal to allow injustices that are apparent that the families of the two dead, that two Croatian wartime disabled, that two Croatian defenders who are killed by the same mine, only each of them has different rights or one of the two victims has no right simply because he is a member of the crisis headquarters or of some active composition of the Ministry of Defence and has no recognised war action. What am I saying? In 91 or 92 years, we know in which way we were organized, we know who was doing the fulls, the logistics supply of our troops. Well, it's these members of our crisis headquarters, our defense officers, and they're just putting themselves in different dangers. We have cases that a member of the task force's front line has also been found on the front line and that a member of the crisis squad and member of the crisis squad have been killed by the mortar grenades. In our opinion, they both died and we can't have the intensities to make it impossible for each other because he simply made a big contribution to the Homeland War. I think we need to provide exceptions and allow this proposal to prove some specific cases. Therefore, the HSS suggests that the proposal should be applied to the proposals presented in the debate, as well-meaning certain types of problems is intended to make the law better and fairer and ultimately enforceable. On behalf of the Croatian Peasant Party Club, I thank all our defenders for the contribution given to the creation of the Croatian State and I would like to ask that this law does not create new problems in terms of feedback on all categories of Croatian defenders who, by circumstances, have justified circumstances in which I consider years of life some of their rights have not achieved what they simply have not achieved for years of life, but in a year or two, some of their rights would surely have achieved. Therefore, we ask that this feedback, retroactive action be seen as avoiding or determining a certain transitional period that would certainly allow individuals or a certain number of Croatian defenders to determine their rights and based on the solutions they have as Croatian defenders and achieve. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-29-0.u41474	Thank you very much. Next is a debate on behalf of the Croatian People's Party club, distinguished counterpart Goran Beus Richembergh. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-29-0.u41475	Dear Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. I'd say there's no more sacred thing than the courage a man can muster to defend not only himself and his family but his own end, his own country. As pathetic as that sounds, it's true. That's why it's said that all those who defend the defense have five times more power than those who attack. On the other hand, there is no greater shame and mockery than when people and states cannot thank those who have gained so much strength, the courage to defend them. So when those who should be grateful to them, they use that space for everyone, just not for the real care of these people. In a process that a mature nation, a proud and mature nation, uses to thank those who have fallen or those who have survived for common freedom, there may be mistakes, for all of this rests on a living man who is not sinless. But when these mistakes become part of the system, it's painful and humiliating. And what have we done for the past 15 years since the Homeland War to this day? Most of the time, for political and political reasons, we allowed those who did not deserve to talk about it to actually bring us into a situation where defenders feel bad, deceived, manipulated or humiliated. So then we let the robbery and privatization behind their backs, so when they came home, they didn't have any more jobs. So we allowed abuses that turned national treasures into private property in different ways. So we let besides those who deserve it with benefits and benefits be used by those who don't deserve it, all the time playing real bureaucratic games. And today, a man who has passed the war, who has remained alive, who wears wounds either physically or mentally, certainly cannot feel happy. Many of them say we didn't want such a country, we wanted a proud, free, but honest and successful. They're not happy, and they can't feel good when they see who took advantage of all the status that belongs to them. How will they be happy to read in the paper that a member of the State Commission for Public Procurement ended up in prison because several years ago he received a benefit he did not deserve by betraying himself as a Croatian wartime wartime invalid, lying about his property situation? It can't feel good, because it knows that every mention of defenders and Croatian wartime wartime disableds in a negative context harms all those who really are. And so few people in Croatia who are real defenders and real disabled have problems with making public or not the register of defenders. He who fought for Croatia does not need any ego to be happy because he did. It's a natural thing, to be happy and satisfied with your country and your participation in the defense of hers. Each of them will be proud of it and not afraid to publish just because it would make it impossible for all those we can call war profiteers in one way or another. The topic is painful, of course, primarily for people who are suffering from PTSD that we see in the Republic of Croatia there are 30,000 who are already receiving a pension. But until this question is cleared about the register, the problems will only come back. The very secrecy of the register is the source of all the problems we face and the problems facing the competent ministry because if there were no such problems, there would be no proposal for this law. But the fact is, you remembered too late. Five hundred thousand people have gained their status. Every attempt to revise that status stops, and you now remember that no one can become a defender with the benefits of retirement if it hasn't been for a year or a hundred days on the battlefield. What is that worth now that the flower of Croatian youth is already retired? People at the age of 25, 30, 32, are retired in the greatest and greatest of power. And how? Many were even under the honor of seeking retirement at that age. Many were under the honor of seeking any benefits, and they said we did not go to war for it. I'll look for her when I'm old enough and powerless, and by then I'll be working for myself and my family, for my community. Some people didn't think so. On 11 February 2008, USKOK's action called "Diagnosis 1" caused the arrest of 11 persons in Split, i.e. 14 persons among whom 6 doctors are suspected that more members of the Croatian Armed Forces and the Croatian Defence Council have allowed for obtaining or increasing pensions, disability and other defence privileges. Two separate groups worked in the Split area, so-called Diagnosis one and Osijek so-called Diagnosis two. We have never welcomed the Diagnosis Three for the city of Zagreb where the highest concentration of people is, and then the possibility that they were abuses, and they worked in the same way – bribery and corruption. The BOOK has filed charges in the Diagnosis One case as I recall somewhere early this year. We still haven't experienced the court epilogues of this case unlike the Diagnosis Two in which the actors of the scandal were tried, and sentences were imposed from six months to six years in prison. Among those punished are four doctors from Osijek Hospital. Mrs Jadranka Kosor, then minister of 15 February, announced an individual review of the defenders who will follow the anti-corruption actions Diagnosis One and Diagnosis Two. Not only that, the interior ministry handed over to Minister Jadranki Kosor the first list of names of a dozen defence attorneys suspected of illegally gaining disability status on 27 February 2008. I have no doubt that an individual procedure has been carried out, that audits have been carried out. But what worries me is never denied information in the paper that out of somewhere 2800 documents in the Diagnosis one reviewed more than 90% of them were falsified. One of the defendants found 50 seals. All defence associations welcomed the joint action of the MUP and USKOK. The government of the Republic of Croatia welcomed the actions of Diagnosis One and Diagnosis Two, but the Diagnosis 3 never occurred. It's not good, because there is no united, unique and powerful action in this direction that will once and for all clean "chicken grain" and let finally real defenders and make disabled people in peace so that they are no longer disturbed or disturbed by stories about how many people have abused the benefits. This should be resolved once, but this cannot be resolved without the publication of the register. Of course not the whole, but the way the HNS Club proved by publishing the general act. Whoever in the general section listed the information that was classified, and it was said that there was also a unique number of citizens who broke the law, or regulation that came out of the law. Therefore, it is necessary to ask for heroic health why the publication of the register is disabled. The Regulation makes it clear what is in the register is the general, which is the secret part, i.e. the specific part. Anything written in the general section can be published without any problem if we stick to the rulebook. And obviously we haven't, but that's what the minister's gonna need to explain. The publication of general data would settle the situation within 30 days. All units could be virtually lined up without any problems. Any Croatian defender would know who was on his left, who was on his right. And who dragged these thieves into a small door and who suck up the state budget on their burden, because the huge resources from the state budget that are meant for the defense population end up with those who didn't deserve it. And that money, those funds, those benefits only belong to those who really deserve them. Therefore, their interest is that the quantity of rights, the quantity of funds, is not reduced but well used. This law was passed here in '98, 2005 would mean a lot and gold would be worth it. It's already too late today, today someone's conscience is being washed, but none of the only problems we've seen so far is being solved, unfortunately. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-29-0.u41476	Thank you very much. Arsen Bauk, rectification of the quote. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-29-0.u41477	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I'd like to correct one of my colleagues, Beus, who said that for heroic health, you should ask the one who put this information in the rulebook. That quote is not correct. For the sake of heroic health, the person who called the Personal Data Protection Agency should be asked to change his opinion given in 2008 or 2007 on whether or not to publish the defence register. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-29-0.u41478	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary answered for the word. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-29-0.u41479	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I am really pleased that Mr. Beus is a parliamentary representative expressing so much concern for Croatian defenders. I would prefer the party to whom he belonged when he was able to take care of Croatian defenders during that period from 2000 to 2003 but we know what time it was and how this relationship was with Croatian defenders. When you talk about some things, you simply have to know the problem and there have been a lot of words about it here and we have always warned about the unique register of Croatian defenders and his public announcement that there are no legal requirements for this, that several laws that prevent public publication are because it is personal data and that the position and opinion of the Agency or the Data Protection Office cannot be published. I'm not saying the laws can't be changed, but there's never been an initiative as far as I know from the CNS in the sense that these legal regulations are changing so that the register can be published. When we talk about the number of Croatian defenders, then we also need to know some things that we also have when it was discussed always pointed out. And this is that the war in Croatia lasted practically six years, that often there were mobilizations during these war years, that only in the preparation and execution of military regular operation "Storm" was attended by nearly 200 thousand Croatian defenders, so more than one third, so almost one half of the total number of defenders. Of course, at no time in the Croatian Army were half a million people, but in those 6 years that at least 6 generations of citizens passed through the troops and that 499 thousand Croatian defenders came to that number in the only possible way, based on the records that existed in the defence offices and that existed in the MUP. And that number can't be a matter of someone's personal judgment or his opinion. It must be based and based on actual facts. It is the same as if someone here said so I think Croatia has no 4 million and 200, 300 thousand inhabitants, that Croatia has 3 and a half million inhabitants. So that number can be exclusively and it is a matter of fact, a matter of documents during that year that have been collected, which have been led where only one could be led, and are led by competent authorities, the Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of the Interior. The Ministry of Family, Defence and Intergenerational Solidarity, since there has been no Croatian defender, has given the status of Croatian defenders, because it is simply not authorized. And even when it's spoken like a parliamentary representative was saying that there's a large number of people who don't deserve it, who are either faked or disabled, and that should be based on some facts and data. The very fact that these two actions and diagnosiss have been carried out one, and the diagnosis of two, that they have been imposed and the legal sanctions are a confirmation that the system works and that all indications if there are, and I said so in the opening statement, and even those anonymous natures are being checked and forwarded to the competent authorities. And that's what we said about the revision going on every day, not the way it was done from 2000 to 2003 to opening a hack to Croatian defenders, that all Croatian defenders are being pushed against a pillar of shame, that their participation in the Homeland War and everything else is at stake. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-29-0.u41480	Thank you, Minister. Correction of the quote, esteemed colleague Miljenko Doric. Here's your colleague, Doric.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-29-0.u41481	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I'm correcting the false allegation, the inaccuracies of Mr. Secretary, who said the HNS never came from an initiative on the need to publish the register. ... That's what you said. ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] That is not true either, because for the last 5 years, Mrs Pusic, Mr Kurtov, spoke of it countless times, me, Vuljanić, Kapraljevic, countless times. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Does it have to be in writing? That's what we've told you countless times. Please, nice.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-29-0.u41482	I give my word to everyone, but according to the Rules of Procedure one by one, and I think the debate is going well for now. And everybody has the right to say it, but they have the right to answer it. And now it's time to speak to Honorable Parliamentary Representative Daniel Srb. Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-29-0.u41483	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary. There is a law before us that will in some way regulate the rights of Croatian defenders and their families, and the moment is to actually talk about what the defenders are dissatisfied at this point. And they are obviously dissatisfied on one side not only often with their own position, but also with the fact that they are pushed on the sidelines of society, that they are actually often, too often, subject to the extremely negative connotations that are directed towards them, in some ways to people who are burdened by the budget of the Republic of Croatia. And that's exactly not supposed to be the case in our society in any way. The defenders obviously overstate their dissatisfaction with the situation themselves and the increased number of suicides, which requires the task of all in society to help them, so that all those defenders who have problems in some way engage in the development of the Republic of Croatia. However, too often, even when the number of defenders is mentioned, how many defenders deny the fact that we in Croatia probably have 410 thousand defenders who work, who do not receive any pensions, who normally do their job. Among them are certain those who were wounded in the war, such as our minister. And therefore, they deserve a completely different treatment and status in society than they are unfortunately imposed on. 30,000 defenders are probably among the unemployed at the moment. People are looking for work. They need to be able to do so, with certain incentive measures around 10,000 were employed. There's more to be done on that. We have an opportunity to see almost daily, as in other countries, for example, the United States of America, there are no problems with soldiers who participated in the war in Iraq, and apparently these people have certain problems that society must understand and find ways to help them. And there's the role of the Ministry. What can especially concern us is the fact that, for example, according to statistics that are still not accurate enough, but they say that the average life of the defender is 58 to 60 years, that it is 20 years shorter than the average age of other residents, and that it should also be taken care of in a certain way and that measures should also be taken through the laws to prevent and reduce the consequences of stressful situations which may be manifested in malignancies which clearly have some statistics on it. Therefore, since 4 to 6 defenders die daily on average, what we may be concerned about today in the debate is that it is possible that only now to equate the number of people with disabilities from the Homeland War along with partisan pensions and users under the family legislation of Partisan pensions. Indeed we live in 2009 and if there are almost 50,000 Partisan pensions today I really don't know how many Partisans were then 45, it will turn out that there are more of them than Croatia has today. However, we live at a time when certain Partisan crimes are discovered almost daily. We recently discovered numerous remains of death on the island of Daxi near Dubrovnik. The question is, in fact, who are the perpetrators, who are responsible for these crimes, and why there is absolutely no investigation about it. If there are today so many users of Partisan pensions, the assumption is that there is and did not have the number of those involved and responsible for various crimes. Who are basically all unexplored and who should determine who is responsible. If someone shot 60 students, a doctor and a priest, we too today need to ask ourselves where these people are. Is the fact that you're not telling responsibility for these crimes actually leaves the impression that such a crime is allowed. And whether it sows practically the seeds of some future possible crimes. I don't want us to get into a situation where we're looking into something forever, but I don't want a situation where just before some elections, there's going to be some kind of investigation into some crime that will never end. The question among these users of Partisan pensions was whether there were perhaps members of the Chetnic formations that had mass-crossed the Partisans, which no one asks, and today 60, 70 years after 2. World War I, we have so many partisan pensions. And when we talk about the different needs of rationalization and savings, maybe there are some fake partisans there too. Let's check that out, and we'll make some savings. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-29-0.u41484	Thank you. Here's a correction to the quote, MP Petar Mlinarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-29-0.u41485	Mr. Vice President, a colleague said something incorrect, said the defenders were placed on the sidelines of society, which is not true. Our defenders have their dignity, play a great role in society, we often see the president as a government, now the president has met with the Association of Coordination, that they are on various supervisory committees in the fund and everything, so those who strike hunger may be individuals who strike hunger to get their status, usually for whom they would die, we can't look at these cases, but we have to look at the right picture that defenders have their dignity in this society. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-29-0.u41486	Thank you very much. Another replica of the esteemed colleague, Arsen Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-29-0.u41487	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I must respond to the presentation of fellow MPs under the Act on the Rights of Croatian Lawyers touched 2. The World War and I have spoken in an inappropriate way about pensioners of the People's Liberation War. So 27 out of 45 thousand refers to family pensions, and in 2005, the Croatian Parliament adopted a declaration that needs to increase concern for living participants of course in the anti-fascist struggle. As for the crimes committed under sign and in the name of that army and the anti-fascist struggle in any case should be condemned, the perpetrators should be punished because none of the crimes committed in any name can be justified. How does that apply to any army in any war? Every crime should be condemned and, of course, they should all respond regardless of the sign, the uniform and everything they wore. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-29-0.u41488	Thank you. Replication response, colleague of the Serbs. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-29-0.u41489	I thank my esteemed colleague, Bauk, I must say that I agree fully with you when you say all those who have committed crimes should answer. Exactly if we want to do so, we need to conduct a number of non-disclosures on the crimes committed on the 45th immediately during the end of the Homeland War and shortly after the end of the 2nd. The World War and all those perpetrators who are responsible to punish, surely there are still a lot of work to do if you would like to do so and here I am glad that you have precise figures on how many more users of Partisan pensions there are. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-29-0.u41490	Thank you very much. Next is the debate of distinguished counterpart Ivan Shantek. Here you go, Comrade Shantek.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-29-0.u41491	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary, dear colleagues and colleagues. We have before us the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Rights of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families. Every time it intervenes more significantly in an existing law that regulates such a significant area, it is necessary to approach this problem carefully. Following the implementation of the applicable Law, some important things were observed which should have been changed or more precisely defined. After more than 13 years have passed since the end of the defence of the sovereignty of the Republic of Croatia, and almost 5 years since the entry into force of the applicable Law on the Rights of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families, there are no longer really reasons why they can recognise the status of Croatian defender. It is immediately important here to point out that this conclusion does not refer to the issue of certificates on the recognised status of Croatian defender for all persons kept in official records of the Ministry of Interior and the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia during the period of defence of the sovereignty of the Republic of Croatia. Amendments and additions to the current law stipulates that the right to a disability pension can only be recognised by Croatian wartime wartime people from the Homeland War and not by persons who have only the status of Croatian defenders. It is also foreseen that the right to a minimum pension belongs to a Croatian defender who participated in the defence of sovereignty for at least 100 days and as a member of the fighting sector. Article 8 provides for the introduction of 2 additional absolute disturbances for the recognition of the right to supply which have been applied in practice and so far, namely the Mirovna Insurance of basic agricultural activities and the second existence of registrations in the register of agricultural holdings. In addition to this 2 absolute disruption to the recognition of the right to supply, another new absolute disturbance is proposed for the first time, which is to the owner of a motor vehicle or the use of a motor vehicle, and the same applies to owners and users of motor vessels over a certain length as well as ownership or co-ownership of properties which do not serve them to meet basic life needs. In the area of recognition of the right to the family disability and family pension of members of the family of the dead Croatian defenders who died of the disease, it is necessary to establish whether there is a causal link between the death of Croatian defenders based on the disease and their participation in the defence of the sovereignty of the Republic of Croatia. Since Croatian defenders stopped participating in the defence of the sovereignty of the Republic of Croatia at least 13 years ago and even up to 18 years ago, it is no longer possible to determine with certainty whether their death is due to participation in the defence of the sovereignty of the Republic of Croatia or because of newly acquired disease. There is no objective reason for recognising the right to a family disability or family pension. In connection with the exercise of the right to a family disability and the family pension of members of the families of the dead Croatian defenders, the current Law on the Rights of Croatian defenders and members of their family makes the difference between the husbands of the deadly injured Croatian defenders who founded the marriage community and those living in the extramarital community, which is the opposite... in the family law. Therefore, the amendments propose the equalisation of the extramarital and marriage community, i.e. the termination of the right to family disability or retirement by way of a degree in the extramarital or marriage community. The amendments to the law specify more precisely the definition of medical documentation and training procedures in the case of the suicide of a Croatian defender, and in the process of recognising the right to a family disability. The definition of medical documentation in the event of the death of a Croatian defender is left out, as is the case with Article 14 of this Law, and a provision on medical documentation for the recognition of the status of a Croatian wartime wartime invalid from the Homeland War has been deleted. It is important to note that the application for recognition of the status of members of the Croatian Ombudsman's family in the event of suicide can continue after the entry into force of this law. By erasing the provisions of Article 13, it is intended to prevent the misuse of the translation as it is a complex medical skill which is, as a rule, not possible... for 3 months and is not correct and objective that only because of the time period provided for for in the revision, the rights of the positive first-degree solution are recognised. The defence of the sovereignty of the Republic of Croatia ended on 30 June 1996, so just over 13 years ago. And that all those who participated in the defense of sovereignty had a long period of time at their disposal in which they could apply for recognition of spoken status, so I believe that right now it is the right time to adopt these amendments and supplement the laws. For all the sake of the above, I will support the adoption of this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-29-0.u41492	Thank you very much. A esteemed colleague, Dragutin Lesar, appeared further. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-29-0.u41493	Dear colleagues and colleagues and Mr. Vice President. This is a proposal or similar bill I expected and announced two years ago. That's when I said and now I repeat that the government has now come from itself to the situation, and then I announced that the government is going to have a situation where only two options are going to happen. And I'm glad the minister had to explain to the Parliament today that there are only two chances. The first possibility of the government was, and Mr. Minister, to propose what he suggested, no more "who was not hidden, the donkey was". Another possibility was that certain already acquired, approved and recognised rights were reduced. The money stands out, whether it's about pensions or anything else. For quite understandable reasons, the government has not decided to reduce the amount of individual rights, but rather to save it trying to do it in a way that says, "Now there is no more." All right, but I'm not appropriate to judge whether a number of 500 thousand is justified or not, and you ministers certainly wouldn't have taken that amount of courage to judge whether each of those 500 thousand in the register were justified or not, but if only one case was proven and prosecuted that the right to pass the law and judgment of the court or in any other way that right was taken away by an administrative act or by a court ruling, that is proof that abuse was and that the system worked so that it could have been. Now whether it takes 10, 100, 1000 or 10,000 cases to realize that there's a possibility that there's more in the register. Now I'm going to play presidential candidates, let the system institutions work and let them discover, so I'm actually going to move on, anyone who knows someone fake let them report it. What we're asking for the defenders to spy on each other and the citizens are reporting them, and the system knows there's a feller and that in the register, you know that there were those who weren't supposed to be in the register. We deal with evaluations, and based on the estimated data, we pass laws. We ratified the contract with neighbouring Bosnia and Herzegovina, took over the pension system of Croatian military disabled HVO, and the government then wrote the maximum number of users of that right. 3 years after signing the contract as a final acquisition of the rights of 1900 users, 1500 to 1900 users. I've got Mr. Minister's documents, I've got documents I've saved. The estimated amount has been entered annually, the last year of the final. In this year, that amount is almost twice as high as the government then estimated. The number of users acquired rights is 5300, not 1900. 5300 with a trend of further growth. So let's be very careful, everyone, if we don't have the data when we give an assessment or possibly estimate that we make decisions on that basis and when it really goes far beyond that, we're not ready to admit and say, we're confused. Wrongly calculated, the register was not correct, system anomalies led to this. I only mentioned this example as proof that even the defense register is not necessarily a matter on still decent papers. In the last term, I spoke to a fellow MP who was a military commander at the time of the war and who told me that papers could be obtained and how defence status could be realised, not in 2000, ministers, not in 2003, but in '94, fifth, sixth, ninth, 2007, 2008. But let's let it go now. You've declared the defense register a secret document. And it's not true your statement just now that a register has been requested in the House. There was a request for the publication of a general section of the defence register. You know very well that the content of the register does not prescribe the law, but that the law states that the content of the register will be regulated by the Regulation, and that this Regulation does not provide for personal data such as JMBG in the general part of the register. And they're collected, I know it. Now I've figured out why. I've figured it out before. On purpose, the general part of the register entered JMBG to be an excuse that we could not publish it. The Agency for Protection. It was done on purpose, calculated to make it impossible to publish it forever. It was a plan, nothing else. The data protection agency first concluded that the register could be published because it had studied its contents under the Regulation. And she gave the impression that it could be published. But then someone from the government called and said, but there's something in the register that doesn't say in the rulebook, which is JMBG. So they changed their minds, said it couldn't be published. What I think should have been published doesn't matter. Leave what I think I am to you. But I've heard hundreds and hundreds of defenders say the same thing, so let's make it clear once. I want to make sure he says who was all in my brigade. Because from what I read in membership associations, I can see that our brigade was five times more numerous than I knew when I was at war. So, you're facing the fact, let's let the defense associations go. I know how to deal with associations. Of the 500 thousand people in the register, 250 thousand people now sign your statement that they agree to publish the register. And they won't be offended for publishing their personal data, their privacy. And speaking of privacy, who wants, who's afraid of privacy and who wants to know how far his privacy has gone, let him go and try to buy Iphon. It's that device, so when he asks you for JMBG, then you can happen that he shows up on the screen, you can't come into possession of that device. And only if you're very persistent, as was one of my friends from the day before yesterday, will he explain to you that the Iphon salesman in his database has your profits, how much you earn. And if he thinks you don't make enough money to pay your expenses, he'll just deny you the sale. So the state allowed traders electronics and communication devices to get it in their own database, and it could only get it from the state, it has such data as whether or not it's similar in financial terms to pay for it. You definitely refused to publish the register and in a way that the defenders themselves cleaned it up. Minister, we know things very well. Not now. You did it on purpose now. But you think you've solved the problem now. You've just begun the defense war. You'll see what happens now. You said something a thousand and some percent of it. There will be 15 more, if not 35,000 of them who will use all the resources to try to make something happen. And then they, then the ones who are just about to get into trouble, are going to be opening up new problems. This solves the financial part of the problem, because there's no more money to give those rights, but the problem you're opening up to this, as long as this problem is not unblocked, you can only quote it. I'm afraid even my allegations aren't serious enough that anything can happen. That's the same thing, and after World War II, it was a problem. Not just with us, but in all the countries that unfortunately had a war, where D-day is, where the border is agreed. Whoever brought her in and made her, didn't make it. You will see Ministers that you will soon be at the Parliament's opportunity to propose a change of what you are proposing.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-29-0.u41494	Thank you very much, colleague Lesar. We have a report of a replica, dear colleague Ivan Bagarić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-29-0.u41495	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Mr. Lesar, since you are often here in the assembly raising the issue of HVO victims in the interstate agreement between the Republic of Croatia and Bosnia and Herzegovina, and you have touched that issue, then I think it is necessary to say the following. First of all, up to one member of the HVO is, in its own way, the Croatian defender, as well as this Croatian defender here, because he also opposed himself, perhaps in some difference in time, to equal Serbian aggression to the Croatian people in Bosnia and Herzegovina, as well as Croatian defenders in the Republic of Croatia. On the other hand, it is important to know that a large number of these people, so these defenders at the same time, I would say, along with the Croatian people in Croatia, defended both the Republic of Croatia and my small Tomislav city, I remember that before the war and just before the war itself, about 400 people voluntarily went to war. So, at the beginning of the war itself, so that's one whole battle. Now when it comes to these numbers that are spoken of a lot. It is sad to read in Croatian media that still defenders of the Croatian Council of Defense are used as a single discrepancy, as a seed of discord in the Croatian public, so the figures are too high, so the money amounts that I don't even know about these victims, and even 800 million, billion, figures are mentioned, God asks you how many. However, the exact amount is the following. So for 5 thousand 790 users making disability pensions, the total amount of family pensions in the period from January to September is 162 million 680 thousand kuna. So he's no bigger than this amount. On the other hand, no one could predict exactly how many of these defenders would be, no one. So how many people are going to get hurt and how many people are going to get killed because only the interstate agreement covered the wounded and the dead. On the other hand, the amount was also almost impossible to predict because it certainly did not foresee an increase in pensions, etc. which happened together at the level of the entire defence population as such. I think it's very important to clarify and specifically handle numbers for public reasons. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-29-0.u41496	Thank you, colleagues, Bagaric. The answer to the replica of my colleague, Lesar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-29-0.u41497	My colleague Bagariæ, I don't need historical lessons about how many defenders were from your village. That's what I heard, and that's good for you to know, and I've read it all. And you went to a replica of me. I am the contract of Croatia and Bosnia and Herzegovina and in taking these people into the pension system of Croatia mentioned and then said that I did not have a problem with its contents but with the assessment of the situation, that's the part where the government sent us an assessment of the situation, that the government, which was not 99th, not 97th, was in the Parliament in 2005 or 2006, if I am not mistaken, ten years after the last war operations, evaluated the number of users, you said 5 and 700 of them. My last data was five and 300, that's it now. And now look, I'm going to bring this tomorrow because I have it preserved that the government has estimated how many users will be, maximum in three years, the last year of approval of this status and how much in the budget it will take to ensure it. If, therefore, when ratifying the conclusion of an interstate contract, we do not have data that at least 97.5% would be true, then both in the government and here in the Parliament, we are deciding on the basis of the wrong data. ... Wait, buddy. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] It is unacceptable that once it is seen that there have been significant changes, that a misdemeanor with false data has also been wronged, the same government does not say that the situation is now not a thousand 900 but 5 and 768. It won't take 118 million but 200 million a year. ... Let's bet, I'll bring the paperwork tomorrow. [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-29-0.u41498	All right, you bet and the debate will include a distinguished representative. ... The Minister wants to? [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-29-0.u41499	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. My colleague Lesar, no one has ever disputed that there was no abuse, and no one from the government, from the ministry, has said that. It's facts and things that happen everywhere, even with us. I ask you whether individual cases require audits of the entire population or whether the system institutions do their job. When you talk about an agreement with the HVO and the evaluations that were made, they were pretty good. I remember very well, and I worked together with the members of the Croatian Defence Council to prepare this agreement and I can remind you that at that time in the parliamentary debate it was said about the following, and we can also check through the minutes. That a thousand 600 cases have already been processed but have been hitched, placed in execution in 2000, and it is estimated that the audit will be carried out and that thousands of 600 will pass, but that they will all pass because the Croatian doctor of the commission has passed, that they will be entitled under the agreement and you have said so yourself, and that this has been reiterated by Parliament's representative, Mr Bagarić, that the agreement applies to families of the dead Croatian defenders, that it refers to wounded Croatian defenders and imprisoned Croatian defenders, that there will be around 2,000 500 people who will be injured and imprisoned. And the assessment was that somewhere around 900 families, 930, if I remember the dead defenders well, would exercise the right under the agreement. Total she heard you were right about 5 grand 800 people. You add up this data that I've provided and you'll get to the number of about 5 grand. So, respecting the circumstances and everything else, and the records that existed, I think we've very accurately predicted what's going to happen here. By the way, I'm going to tell you that there were over 13,000 requests for rights under the agreement and it was achieved by something under 5 grand, or 5 grand 800. The second thing, JMBG didn't deliberately enter the register. So to distinguish people with the same name and last name and you have hundreds and thousands of them with the same name and last name, and even the same address. So that's the only reason JMBG entered the register. And third, it's not true, Mr. Lesar, that the agency first gave an opinion. No, the agency once gave an opinion and that opinion was the same as we all say the register cannot be published because, among other things, the JMBG, because of a single parent number. And I don't know who passed the law that the JMBG data can't be published.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-29-0.u41500	Thank you very much. Correction by colleague Lesar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-29-0.u41501	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, words, namely at this point may my word against yours or yours against mine. So I suggest that the correcting of the four allegations is incorrect, which you have now said tomorrow, we make an exchange of documents, not my government's, that we don't continue to harass people. But after that, if I'm right, I'll ask you to publicly admit it here. If you're right, I'll apologize to you publicly.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-29-0.u41502	Let's move on with the debate. Dear colleague Neda Klaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-29-0.u41503	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues. In fact, one of the fundamental issues that should be regulated by this law is the recognition of the status of Croatian defender from the Homeland War, so by the power of this law, it is no longer possible, or it will no longer be possible, because of the defence of Croatia's sovereignty, as we have heard, it has been at least 13 years and no more than 18 years. This is the period during which all those who participated in the defence of sovereignty had a sufficiently large space of time in which they could achieve that status, therefore all the rights arising from the title of that status and for this reason no longer exist. It is also the same with the recognition of the right to a family pension, a family invalid, because after the passage of such a long period of time with certainty it is impossible to determine whether their death is due to their participation in the defence of sovereignty. Therefore, the right to a disability pension under this law can only be achieved by those Croatian defenders who have achieved their status under the existing legal framework of the status of a Croatian wartime wartime invalid. The paper of this law is also that the right to the lowest pension, we also had the opportunity to hear on several occasions, belongs to the Croatian defence attorney for participation, and in the shortest period of one hundred days in defence, and as a member of the fighting sector also heard it, and this is also one of the conditions for recognising the right to supply. The introduction of two or two absolute disturbances which so far have been put into effect under the existing legislative framework, namely pension insurance based on agricultural activity and registration of the Register of Agricultural Economics. For the first time, this proposal now proposes to establish itself as another new absolute disturbance and property of a motor vehicle or co-ownership as well as the ownership or use of a vessel over 6 metres in length and the ownership or co-ownership of properties that do not serve them to meet their basic life needs. So this right would continue to exist as a form of assistance to the poorest Croatian defenders. It also provides for eradicating provisions that recognise the right to singleness in supply rights, rights so far used by Croatian defenders, users of supplies older than 40 years of life, and do not have living family members. Now the supply for singleness is increasing 50%. By abolishing the right to singleness, all Croatian defenders would be entitled to equal treatment, regardless of whether they are single or living in a joint household with family members. We have also heard that the proposed amendments and additions to this law equalise the extramarital and marriage community. the termination of the right to a family pension or a family disability by way of an extramarital or marriage community, which is in accordance with the provisions of the Family Law. The termination of recognition begins the proceedings and audit procedures in the status of Croatian defenders, volunteer status and status of members of the family of the mortally injured Croatian defender and the right to a family disability on the basis of the death of the Croatian defender from the consequences of the disease in defence of sovereignty after 31 August '97. However, it is necessary to review and regulate the years. Therefore, the bill does not touch the rights acquired, but it is important to say that they support it as the Minister of Resort in his opening letter and made it clear that this bill is supported by all associations arising from the Homeland War, i.e. all defenders, Croatian defenders from the Homeland War. Finally, the proposal's intention to make these decisive and courageous amendments and additions to the laws that will result in a greater degree of justice towards all Croatian defenders from the Homeland War should be welcomed. Well, here are the main reasons why I'm going to support the adoption of a law like this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-29-0.u41504	Thank you very much, colleague. And now a colleague of Peter Mlinaric's. Here you go, dear colleague Mlinaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-29-0.u41505	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues. I would refer to some discussions of our colleagues who were wondering what was the battle position and what was left. I believe that that narrow combat position and those who supplied weapons, repairing weapons in the night hours, carrying some parts into the workshops, keeping the weapons in order, those who cared about the aggregates, supplying oil and keeping the aggregates and everything else, I think it's all a battle position because one without another couldn't. So here is finally justice that after 13 years of the ceasefire of the sovereignty of the Republic of Croatia and almost five years since the entry into force of the applicable law and the rights of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War, it has finally stopped recruiting new defenders. In the area of recognition of the right to a family disability and family pension with members of the families of the dead Croatian defenders who died of the disease, it is necessary to determine whether there is a causal link between the death of Croatian defenders based on the disease and their participation in the defence of the sovereignty of the Republic of Croatia. Since Croatian defenders stopped participating in the defence of sovereignty at least 13 years ago, this is no longer possible after such a long period of time, with certainty to determine their death, whether participation in the defence is a consequence or whether there is no reasonable reason to recognise the right to a family disability or pension. In connection with the exercise of the right to a family disability, the family pension of members of the families of the dead defenders, the current Law on the Rights of Croatian defenders and members of their families makes the difference between the husbands of the mortally injured Croatian defenders who founded the marriage community and those living in the extramarital community, which is contrary to the provisions. So here is this Family Law, which is why changes suggest equalising the extramarital community, i.e. the termination of the right to family disability and family pension. So those who have lived in an out-of-marriage community have been retired from now on, if the law is not going to be able to use it anymore. The basis of the current Law on the Rights of Defence Members of their families, the lowest pension belongs to every Croatian defender and the one who has participated in the defense of sovereignty for only one day, and is proposed to provide for the minimum duration of participation of 100 days in the defence of the fighting sector which is not currently foreseen. According to the current legal arrangement and the right to supply, Croatian defenders who participated in the defence of sovereignty can acquire only one day, and it is proposed that the right to supply in the future be granted also under conditions of at least one hundred days of participation in the defence of the sovereignty of the Republic of Croatia. Moreover, it is proposed that the right to supply as a form of social assistance to the poorest Croatian defenders in the future be limited only to those Croatian defenders who are not the owners of various motor vehicles, vessels as well as owners and co-owners of property that serve them to settle basic life needs. Also, it envisions the termination of the right to singleness so far used by those Croatian defenders who are more than 40 years old and do not have living family members. As well as the basis for the adoption of this law by an emergency procedure, it is found in Article 195. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament adoption of this law by emergency procedure are proposed for justified state reasons. It is therefore necessary to adopt the proposed legislative amendments and amendments as soon as possible to redefine the procedure for the recognition of certain rights and the deadlines for their implementation. So the Homeland War HRVI, which has created a permanent loss of working ability, is a general inability to work what some use that have a general incompetence of 100% use where work relationship cannot be concluded. However, there are some manipulations where, here is how our werewolf mayor uses them. He's got a general incompetence 100% where he should have a guardian by his findings, but he's got a working relationship. Or where there was a professional inability to work as a result of injury, injury, captivity in the camp, disease, deterioration, etc. Then, we have the right, Article 87, to supply the users of the family disability, the users of the personal disability and Croatian defenders from the Homeland War who have a residence in the Republic of Croatia. That's how this law is good. I welcome him and support this amendment to the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-29-0.u41506	Thank you very much. Now, an esteemed colleague, Ingrid Antičević Marinovic, has applied for the debate. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-29-0.u41507	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor, Mr. Minister, with an associate, a colleague and a colleague. This bill, or amendment of its ministers, has been presented to the public by you, Mr. Minister, explaining perhaps some controversial provision that too much time has passed to determine that some disease is the result of participating in the war. The second minister, Minister Karamarko, said. “This law draws the line, and now we will really know who the real defenders are.” So, implicitly, he, like any public, thinks that all those registered as defenders are not defenders. However, here may be something that is not disputed. In order to achieve the status of defenders, it is necessary to have the status of a wartime military invalid or participation in combat or for a minimum of 100 days, not as it has been just one day so far. That might not be so permissive. The minimum pension, which is 45% protected from the average net salary of all employees, would not in future refer to defenders registered as non-combat members, and to that pension so far, and so far all defenders would have had that pension after 65 years of life. However, what all of them were talking about, and what the defenders were talking about, all the public about, that the status of defenders in Croatia provided 492000 people with whom 50,000 people were registered as wartime military disabled. So that number is something that's really controversial, which is, above all, questionable among the defense population. We all know, it's fortunate that those past days that we don't impose on such and flossules about the deprived dignity of the defenders, we will return the dignity of the defenders and so on and so forth. It can come back as a boomerang. Therefore, the dignity of any person, especially those who gave the most, should not be thrown at. Every man has his dignity independent of any authority and no authority can take it away from him with it we must be clear. I think it's finally mature for a while, past the time not to play with it. However, I would also like to read the words published on the internet as well as in the announcements of these changes. He says that the divisions, so something that's been happening since the beginning and whoever's been doing it can't get out of it, so these changes are really creating additional new problems in the old Latin that have gone into trouble since the beginning can't be convalitated. And we're always in a new problem. So who was it supposed to be? Now all of a sudden, and I'm going to say more about the most resilient provisions that are truly amazing whether they could have been found in the law and to which I will react by amendment to Articles 15 and 16. You can't believe that can exist in the law. Actually, I'm going to say it first. A defense attorney's status doesn't get through your papers, you need to know that, he won it in the war, not in the papers. What's registered is not original. It's just a way of admitting something that existed. So someone's the defender I repeat and that status has been won in the war, not in peace. And what you want to do, which is somewhat correcting something that we have warned in a completely wrong way. And you better not have changed him than to change him like this. There's too many defenders all of a sudden, now there's too many defenders. Now you're bothered by those who have a complete right not to have reported until now, but they're defenders and have the right to activate their status at any time, when it suits them, because it's a right that's entitled. And there can't be any blindness or sedition about it. Is it possible? So I can't believe that the actions that aren't done for what? The guilt of the administration, the administration. Why aren't they? Because they didn't allow it, they brought all the necessary papers, documents. So why are no solutions rejected or rejected, which could have been completed. And that reminds us again of another injustice. Well, we had laws like that, except they're incomparable things. There it could have been bitten, so if someone had lost, they couldn't buy the apartment because the administration didn't get rid of it in time, so many older people, and they speculated on purpose that such the oldest people, instead of getting rid of their status first, had not been resolved. But then the law said, "Who didn't get the status?" So in time, people filed documents, filed a request. Well, where's that? Instead of the punishment of those who did not get rid of it in time, you will punish them. Well, that's great. And on whom, in which population? The defense attorneys. Even more beautiful. You who called yourselves that you would restore dignity to the defenders. That's why I'm pleading for this article to be deleted in the 15th and 16th, but to do something else, which everyone demands. And before I say what you know for sure and know what people are looking for, above all the defenders, you are speaking here yet, which are not finished in Article 16, which are not finished with the final solution. And what does that mean? That means you're denying the right of a court-law. It's only when the Administrative Court has settled that the solution is a powerful one. You're just talking about the finality of the solution, which means first-degree and second-degree decisions, administrative decisions, i.e. administrative. So why do you remove the fundamental right of the defenders to appeal that the Constitution has been corrupted? I'll read it to you, each of you is guaranteed the right to judicial protection. And you defenders of this Article 16 deny the constitutional right to appeal, because you speak only of the final solution, and not of the rightful one. So, please, whose workshop is that made up? Whose manufacture is that? Incomprehensible. If someone had told me that you guys were gonna do it, I would've heartily defended you, if that wasn't possible, but every time you deny good intentions and good intentions. What the citizens are really looking for, what the defenders are looking for, is a publication of the register. And it didn't even have to be published in the register that they didn't get into the register and that you had the strength to look at it really. Who got in the middle of the line. Well, there's no worse offense for a defense attorney than for a defense attorney to get one who didn't defend the country. There's no such thing as an insult. It's the worst insult. So you've diminished all the suffering, and that's what he's talking about, which is what I wanted to start the debate with, a Zagreb defender who says he's not surprised by it all, this proposal, because the divisions are said to have been made during the Homeland War. One on the battlefield, in the trenches, and the other on the posts, and the other on the headquarters and the crisis headquarters. One gets killed, the other eats and drinks, he says. Some get fired because of the field, and others open up companies on the ground. They share suffering and war horrors, and others honors and honors. One after the war to fail, and the other in power says he. Today deserters tell defenders how it was on the battlefield. Profiters tell the victims that they should submit a sacrifice for Croatia. And then they say they're still angry when the victims don't come and listen and they don't come clapping. He did not sign, but was therefore signed by a defender from Split, even a defender living in Split. Otherwise, he was an MORH employee named Mile Radman, who says it is a disgrace and humiliation for every real defender that those who are not defenders have settled in ranks, he says, so we know that Croatia has not defended nearly that number. We personally know the people who were on the battlefield with us. Who gave them these disabilityes and the status of defenders, and who did that serve? Anything can, he says, be easy to determine where he is and who he was. Me and other true defenders, he says, are not against the audit. On the contrary, I'm calling on the government to do a review of the defense attorneys. I've been through, he says, all the war actions, I've had comrades dying around me, and now someone has, say, more rights and privileges than I do. It's the biggest insult. I think on that path you have to endure, because this is really an extra great injustice and I believe... that you will withdraw at least this Article 15 and 16. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-29-0.u41508	Thank you very much. The colleagues of Antičević exactly from what you have read and those who have signed and those who have not signed have come to you from what will happen, which will happen when one day this JMBG is removed, so it all gets published together. Because he says it was eating and drinking at crisis headquarters. If he had eaten and drank there, he would have nothing to wear, he would have nothing to wear, he would have nothing to wear, he would have nothing to wear, he would have nothing to wear, he wouldn't have anything to wear, he wouldn't have anything to wear. I did it, so I'm telling you. Because they were taking orders within hours, now it's zero, and within 48 hours the brigade has to go to the battlefield, and you figure out where you're gonna find something, and then it's gonna be said that those who did it, that they ate and drank you, because that's what it says, you know. Now that's it. You think I'm... It wasn't the Partisans that used to fight, who was Partisan on the first day, who the other day, but never... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] 20 organizations, but the defenders are divided, fight, attack. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And here's what you do in this House. I'd be wondering how we'd fit into the same machine now that we're arguing like this. But I believe that these tensions, too, are going to pass this year, that they are going to quiet down, and that we are going to argue more soberly, even though I agree with those findings that the greatest insult of those who were right to participate in those who were not. We also have one application for correction of the quote, colleague Neda Klaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-29-0.u41509	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Here I am to correct Mrs. Anticevic's quote that says the status of the defender is not obtained by your paper. Inaccurate Mrs. Anticevic. Just as it is true that our Croatian defenders gained their status as Croatian defenders by participating in the Homeland War, but it is also true that the state of Croatia has recognised the laws and documents and pro post that status and provided all the rights that belong to the Croatian defender from the Homeland War. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-29-0.u41510	Thank you very much. We have one report of a breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-29-0.u41511	Mrs. Klaric violated the provision of Article 209 of our Rules of Procedure because she was distorting my exact quote. So, I repeat, you have incorrectly said all the papers and documentation and solutions that are being made are declarative nature, and the status is being achieved, Mrs. Klaric, in the war. And that's the truth that some of them got him in peace, that's the problem.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-29-0.u41512	Thank you very much. A distinguished colleague representative, Ivica Pancic, also applied for the debate. He's gone? Then he loses his right to argue. There's a report from a respected colleague, Gordan Maras. Here you go, colleague Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-29-0.u41513	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Secretary with an associate. We are now talking about this one quite, as I would say, subject that is controversial and that is always causing a lot of attention in the Croatian public. It is, of course, a matter of people who have given a lot and who have owed our country during the Homeland War, then it is always a logical and legitimate question why some law is changing after some time and the arguments given to us by the legislator that 13 years have passed to determine who was the defender, who wasn't the defender, I don't think they stand. As counterpart Ingrid Antičević-Marinović said someone who was a defender has the right to activate their right at any time. Why would he have to do that during this period or not? The situation, I think, is that the motivation of the legislator, i.e. the government of the Republic of Croatia, is primarily because it simply couldn't be controlled in the right way by the number of defenders, to stand behind that number and finally tell and stop all of these stories that we've been hearing for years about that there are a lot of defenders who are not, who are receiving certain benefits and, I would say, also pensions. Is disabled, does regular not matter. 500 thousand defenders are a figure that is controversial to everyone in Croatia. If we had really so many defenders, probably some things would have been different, probably even colleagues who are here from my club, Kotromanovic, would have been easier for them in some war operations. That fact probably doesn't stand. The fact that the government will not stand behind this data has been proven by avoiding public announcements that were defenders, that they too see for themselves who has achieved all the rights and in what way. 500 thousand, and of course we have an apology that has already become a little bit funny to all the defenders, which is that we can't because of the public data of JMBG etc. No one's looking for JMBG, probably all the defenders could, let you who passed the law, if the law is bad, it's not good, you can change it. 5 years have passed, after all today you are proposing the law which the situation has forced you to do, so you were able to correct this situation and that injustice with another law, that is, to amend that law so as not to dispute this release of JMBG. Then everyone would be, everyone would be clear who's the defense attorney who isn't and then there wouldn't be a need for this law. Because this law only goes to limit the consumption of the rights that certain people make under the law because we are aware that this law tries to limit and underline the line under the number of defenders. Yes, the situation is not intransparent, that the situation allows all those who really have the right to exercise these rights would never be passed, all defenders would have the right to exercise all the rights that the law has provided for them. 100 days is one number, I don't know why it was taken exactly 100 days that someone had to be in combat formation, could have been less. So far it's been one day, unfortunately it's hard to explain to someone who got right up to a year or a half ago, he was 15 days in the army, or on the front, and now that someone is entitled to 100 days means he can only exercise that right. It's hard to break things up, the only argument that's logically imposed here is that it's trying to limit consumption because there's no system, which is not an opportunity to revise who's really a defender and who's not. What I do and what information tells me that this 13-year-old argument is not good, for example. from the number of defenders, i.e. the Homeland War and the number of pensions that have been made. For example, between 2003 and 2009, the number of pensions increased from 31,000 to 66,000. Which means 35,000 new pensions. That's the last five years of 13, so it's more in the last five years of retirement than it was in the first eight. It suggests that perhaps this 13-year-old limit is not enough and that this law should not yet be passed that would in some way limit some of the rights that people might be able to achieve. So a 13-year-old time period can't be accepted as an argument. Also as a colleague, counterpart Anticevic, I cannot accept that someone who has not received a solution because of the state administration's slowness simply will not exercise their right and that these procedures will be suspended. I don't think that's right, and it's going to hurt a lot of people who just make a living and who would now have the right to get a pension. I would like more of the ministry to deal with the cases of the "Lozancic" type, when people receive pensions, and there are many and there are many people who are here to talk to us and as representatives, they warn. Sometimes people, unfortunately, make jokes about how many people make big amounts. Here's Mr. Lozancic, in parallel, was receiving 8.9 thousand kuna pensions, and he was a public figure from a neighbouring country and there was still a large salary. So it's not according to the law, I find it hard to believe that one serious internal control at the Ministry of Defense wouldn't be able to establish that. It's not a small breach, and there's still such a sure thing. Or an example of this gentleman who is suspected of a serious act in Mostar. That is where the same HVO surrenders to Croatia and waits. I don't know if he's going to be tried here and what kind of procedure this is going to be, but a man makes eight thousand kunas and some pensions. Now I'm asking, since I read that he was neither an officer nor a long war route, how did he make that eight thousand kuna pension? Even Mr. Djakic was surprised that I read it in the paper, so that a man would have to have a brigade or general act that he had made such a high pension. But no, the man was, at 35, he was now, so he was a soldier in HVO and now he's making 8,000 kuna pensions. There are many such cases, and I am sorry that there is no will in the Ministry of Defence to shed light on such cases, to see who has achieved and for which and in what way these high incomes. If someone really deserved it, and someone didn't, then surely there wouldn't be a need to pass laws like this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-29-0.u41514	Thank you very much. Correction of the quote by esteemed colleague Niko Rebić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-29-0.u41515	Thank you. Well, colleague Maras, it's actually hard to understand how you of the SDP are discussing in this law. counterpart Kotromanovic says on behalf of the SDP club that the law is 11 years late. And Mrs. Anticevic and you say that these 13 years should not be over and that it should finally be concluded, draws a line with the defender, but that it should be left indefinitely. It would be a good idea for you to agree that you didn't know or didn't want to make a register, so you would drag this on if you were actually creating as much a mess and chaos as possible, I say, with the law... But mostly you have to work out what to do and how to deal with this. So, not one to be 11 years late, and you think this is too short a time.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-29-0.u41516	Okay. I saw a plate, a breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-29-0.u41517	I didn't hear you say replica or correcting an incorrect quote. Correction, then the Rules of Procedure were injured. [[Agreement: Correction.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-29-0.u41518	11, 13 was that switch.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-29-0.u41519	No, no, no, that's what Kotromanović was saying and what I was saying. It can't be a correction to an incorrect assumption. I spoke here as a representative, Kotromanović spoke on behalf of the club. So this was just a persuasion of who was saying what, not any correction to the incorrect assumption. And that's where you had to react, Mr. Vice President.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-29-0.u41520	Thank you very much. Dear Minister, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-29-0.u41521	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Maras, no country in the world has had such a long time to recognise rights based on participation in the Homeland War. 18 years, as we said in the introduction, have passed since '91. Is that so, when the intensity of action was greatest. 13.5 years have passed since the end of the war. So did someone limit that possibility to regulate their status in those 13.5 years? Especially when it comes to sickness and death as a consequence of the disease. Do you know how much this is in European countries? Three years. We opened from 1. 1. In 2005, when a new law came into force, five years, almost five years old. All over 2005, 2006, 2007, and here it is now 29. Ten. In 2009. Wasn't that enough time? What should we allow this possibility until 2068? It's not true, colleague Maras, that in 2003 there were 30,000 pensions. There were 42,000 pensions. You probably didn't add those family pensions used by members of the families of the dead Croatian defenders. And when we talk about publishing the register of Croatian defenders. I ask you, I am sorry that there is no former Minister of State Pancic here, why then from 2000 to 2003, you have had time for 4 years to make a list of the register of Croatian defenders and to publish it. Why didn't you do it? Why did he never publish even though he said he was going to publish a list of people with disabilities in the Homeland War? It's never been published. Why? There's probably a reason why he didn't. Legal regulations and everything. Not to say what I said. So who passed the law that JMBG can't be published? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-29-0.u41522	Thank you. And the final application for a hearing. Dear colleague Mato Bilnjic. Here you go. But I'm sorry, buddy. We have that distinguished colleague Maras. Here you go, and I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-29-0.u41523	Well, I did. Here's a colleague of Rebic's. I am just reading the data, here is my colleague Ivić, Minister Ivić from the website of HMZO 31 thousand 511 pensions of Croatian defenders and temporary compensation of Croatian defenders. So that's official data from the end of 2003. So I said the exact number. 35 thousand and the next four years, or five years of new pensions. And as for the law, I beg you, you have both the skirt and the scissors you say, suggest I first sign that law and I will collect 56 signatures at the SDP Representatives' Club to disappear obstacles to the publication of all defenders who are in Croatia today, to change that law. But me and we've all been begging you here for the past three, four years. But there's no effect. So you don't want to do it, that's what it's about.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-29-0.u41524	Thank you. Now a colleague of Biljić's. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-29-0.u41525	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues. I would like to make a contribution to this debate but somehow in reverse order than I planned, because today I did not report for corrections of incorrect allegations or replicas. And there was today everything and everything. First, we need to know certain things so that we can talk about whether 500 thousand Croatian defenders are at issue. Surely 500 thousand Croatian defenders are not disputed, perhaps something is disputed. And that's something quite small, which has slipped through the needle's ears in the last 10 or 15 years. And the question arises to the one ministry that has nothing to do with that register, they just updated it. One is the Ministry of the Interior, the Ministry of Defense, they're the ones who gave data to the Ministry of Defense, and the Ministry of Defense. And how did someone get confirmation? He acquired through us commanders, brigades, captains of choir areas, or chief police, etc. When we take that only in one year, in one month about ten days more than 210 thousand soldiers participated in one operation. In the eastern part, East Slavonia was defended where there was no defence. One who knows what the absentee is is about three times more defensive than a regular defense, so she defends herself in that part. It was further defended in Savina so that they would not break through, from the direction of the Bosnian Posavina, that they might not fall into the Sava River. He defended the entire line from the parish to the under of Jasenovac. So we had armed forces that were from Glamoch constantly over Neretva down joined up with... , so we had armed forces defending the southern battlefield, the border with Montenegro and Bosnia and Herzegovina there towards Trebinj, and by that date we had several thousand dead, many thousands of wounded people, and you will see that only in that month were more than 300 thousand people in the armed forces, which in the Ministry of Defense. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And then when we remember in the spring of 92, when the demobilization came, how many people left and went to work, and then we remember those hardworking people who sent calls in orderly in defense, gathered troops, armed armies, and prepared us to go on combat missions. Maybe someone slipped through, but with this law, we're now saying that this non-combat sector is stopping. So this law is simply a limit to telling them that those who have passed can't pass. You have a series of information which is public information about Croatian defenders mainly when it comes to the disabled of the Homeland War. So all the county announces spring, and this year I think... in the third month to publish a list of residential care and less anyone who is disabled is looking for some kind of credit for an apartment or apartment, or finishing up a house, etc. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I didn't see certain things on the ground that reflected someone pointing a finger and said it was a lie. Although this law does not cement anything, it means that someone can always report a fake invalid and know what the procedure is to remove that part. So, surely when we take that we've had so much... The combat and non-combat sectors today are discussing whether this is a combat and non-combating sector and we share it a little bit. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I agree that it was 13 or 18 years ago, that it was a long period, that people who had needs had their rights, that they consumed them, whether through regular or administrative procedures. The only thing I regret is that it's likely that one of my friends, our friends, our defenders, will attack him in five, ten, fifteen years like PTSD because then you don't know how long it lasts. It's the only thing that we can tell this whole thing to the Minister that he was determined to come here today to discuss whatever minister's law that you suggested one part would have attacked you and said you were wrong, it wasn't good, it was supposed to be like this, it was supposed to be like that. Today it was about the Croatian Council of Defense and colleagues who talked about it did not have them, he told it and left. The role of the Croatian Defence Council and who these people are should be known. Croatians from Bosnia and Herzegovina were hundreds, at 200, at 300, of thousands of people, leaving their villages in the middle of 91st. It's also known by the M.O.P. First the MUP, then the armed forces and defended the Republic of Croatia. In 92 they were demobilized, returned to the Croatian Defence Council as experienced defenders. That's where they organized it, and let's never forget it's a fact, that's how it exists. Slavonski Brod, Županja, I cite two cities that were below my cities did not defend themselves on the Sava River but were defending themselves on the Čovic field of Županja and Slavonski Brod was defending itself under Doboi or on the slopes of Derventa. And where the Croatian Defence Council was established in Bosnia and Herzegovina, Croatia was not occupied, where we did not have in Bosnia and Herzegovina the Croatian Defence Council is here, unfortunately because of the strong forces they had been through and our state was occupied. And people took part in all the actions that mattered without talking about Cincar, not to talk about all these actions that came to Glamoch and Grahov, and how we freed ourselves in that part of Knin. Therefore, members of the Croatian Defence Council certainly have every right because they bled on one side and on the other, I speak in this part of the continental... The Sava River. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So, the ministers certainly do this work, these amendments and additions to the law, except for now one doubt about this part can mean that when PTSD completes the protection of the dignity of Croatian military disabled and members of the armed forces. So, the possibility of certain people who were in the non-combat sector will be reduced even though I appreciate the non-combat sector as commander and the Guard brigade. I know what my right hand was. My right hand was the same as the soldier on the front line, so was the non-combating sector because one without another in the war just can't work. So here's why I want to support it. You're sorry if it happens and we're likely that more people like fellow Boxes today will say that these days one man who won the election that just snapped in his head, simply all those traumas came to that part. When it comes to these supplies, I think we need to think about all these points that are listed, we fully agree that we have cases if the other ministries of ours who share certain aid work as you ministers and your ministry then it wouldn't happen to us that someone who has an Audi or a C5 or some kind of speedboat would get some kind of sociality. It's social welfare, it's for people who have nothing to live on. It's not for those who have something. And my one thinking, and I've talked to a large number of defenders, maybe you should see in the next period, go into a certain amendment to the Labour Act, I don't know now, I'm not a lawyer so that Croatian defenders who are retired and have the remaining working capacity to be allowed to work, that they can be craftsmen, that they can be entrepreneurs, that they can work, just so that it doesn't be on state mangers, means in the state administration, local, regional self-government, and that they can still make contributions with their own contribution, such as pension, health, or taxes. I fully accept this, and I hope there won't be too many of our friends who will ask for help from PTSD. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-29-0.u41526	Thank you very much, colleague. The registration of one replica, dear colleague Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-29-0.u41527	Thank you very much. Mr. Bilnjiæ, you said that someone who says how many defenders there were, whether the figure is small or large, should know things better than they say, and I don't know who can know things better than the commander of the Croatian Army in '95. in the year, the late president of Franjo Tudjman, who found that there were 356 thousand defence attorneys at the time. So you're implying by your argument that the former president of the Republic did not know how many defenders were in the Republic of Croatia and that he did not know the situation. I'm just passing on that data, that's what was said at the time. As far as I'm concerned, you've talked a little bit about who's earned what he deserves and how he should get a pension. The fact is that internal control at the Ministry of Family and Defence doesn't work well, you can tell by simple data. So on average, people who retired from HVO have 9 years of employment, opposite the Croatians who have 17 to 18 years of employment. So that's the only information that says something's wrong. How is it possible that defenders, on the same basis, have twice as little training as those who retired from the HVO, or from these units, from those who have exercised their right in Croatia? And once again, I will remind you, so Mr. Knezovic, who is now current in the media these days because of this situation tragically with the Sarajevo fan, receives a pension of 8 thousand kuna, and Josip Djakić, after seeing the data on how much a man should have an internship and how disabled he should be for such a pension and said that he must have at least a major or colonel's rank and 15 to 20 years of employment. ... Considering... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Djakic said. Considering... Wait a minute. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Since a man is now 35 years old, he certainly can't have 20 years of employment. I'm just saying that we need to do internal control to determine whether there are irregularities, because every day we get these things out in the media. That's all I'm saying.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-29-0.u41528	Thank you very much. Replication response. Here you go, fellow representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-29-0.u41529	When it comes to Commander-in-chief Franjo Tudjman, everything he said in life, I sign everything, I won't even watch what he said. No, 350 grand in '95. The years of the fighting sector certainly were, but everything else was then people regulated their rights through the laws and so came this number. I said in that part that you couldn't ask the minister, because the minister had nothing to do with it, he didn't give the status of counsel. They only pooled the certificates, i.e. the documentation of one and the other ministries. Here I see you've been talking about this Knezovic all along, so this Knezovic is not an HVO, he's just one member of the Croatian Defence Council. And as much as anyone had a job experience in relation to Croatia and Bosnia and Herzegovina has one piece of information, which is that in Bosnia and Herzegovina people before the war, so my father had to do '65. Escaped, everything that was a working Croatian population went to Austria, Germany, Switzerland, Italy, Canada, Australia, and that these were children who defended them with a rifle. They were far younger, but the older people were up there and those people who financed the defense in the Homeland War.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-29-0.u41530	Thank you very much. We've exhausted the charges for the hearing. Does the promoter want to get back to you? Minister Tomislav Ivić. Here you go, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-29-0.u41531	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. So before I thank all those who discussed this topic today, just to tell Mr. Maras that internal controls at the Ministry of Family, Defence and Intergenerational Solidarity are working very well, that it may be the only ministry that has always had an unconditional report and the opinion of the State Audit. And secondly, the retirement process is not carried out by the Ministry of Family and Defence, but by the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute and that often after retirement, and especially when it comes to disability pensions, it is not important that the length of the job is worked but is important if it comes to defence, wounding and everything else that goes with it. All right. Here I would thank everyone and the clubs and the representatives who debated each individual debate in the end. I think the debate was quite correct and tolerated, much more tolerated than it was before, and I hope that we are coming to this stage when Croatian defenders will not be the subject of politicising and trying to collect cheap political points on them, that we are interested in it, or that we should be interested in all of them, care and care for those who are most responsible for defending and creating an independent and sovereign Croatian state and upgrade the system of care for Croatian defenders and precisely this amendment of the law which, I hope, you will probably support tomorrow when voting are in this direction. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-29-0.u41532	Thank you very much, Mr. Minister. I'm closing this point. We'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-29-0.u41533	We move on to the Final Proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Rights of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families. It was an emergency procedure, P.Z. Number 453. Proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. The amendment was submitted by MP Ante Kotromanovic. I would like a representative of the motionary, Mr. Secretary of State Stjepan Adamic, to be shown on the amendment. It applies to Article 15 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the First amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-29-0.u41534	It is not accepted, for the reason that this amendment essentially does not change anything, as Article 14 of the proposed law provides for the termination of the status of the Croatian defender and the termination of the right to the family disability, and then the legal effect is the same whether the proceedings are suspended or the end of the proceedings under the provisions of the proposed law.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-29-0.u41535	Mr. Representative's gone. Who is for this amendment that the Government does not accept? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. Article 16, same agent, amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-29-0.u41536	It's unacceptable. For reasons of the provisions of Article 16. The proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Rights of Croatian Lawyers from the Homeland War and members of their families provides for the possibility that the Administrative Court may, on the basis of the administrative action brought in cases which have not yet been completed by judicial decisions, assess the legality of the administrative solutions in those cases, and the proposed amendment would not recognise such an option to the Administrative Court. And in terms of protecting the rights of parties in a court procedure that has not been completed, we cannot accept such an amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-29-0.u41537	There's no representative. Who is for this amendment that the Government does not accept? One. Thank you. He didn't make it. And I am voting on: The final proposal of the Law on the Amendment and Completion of the Law on the Rights of Croatian Lawyers. Please, let's get involved and vote. And let's check it out. The result? The bill was passed by a majority vote, 77 votes for and one against, no abstentions.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-29-0.u41538	Now we're moving on to point nine, because for eight, we don't have any evidence of the board yet. It is - Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Commercial Companies, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 456 Proposer of the Law is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the proposal in boxes. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of Rules of Procedure. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the The Registrar's emergency procedure unites the first and second readings of the law. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by committees on legislation, European integration and the judiciary. We received a report from the board's meeting at the clubs. The amendments were submitted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Justice and by Advocate Ivo Grbic. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Here you go, Mr. Secretary of State. State Secretary Drazen Bosnjakovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-29-0.u41539	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen. In front of you, the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Commercial Society, as we know, is a very important, very important law that had its significant changes in 2003, 2007. Let us remember, in 2007, we implemented a very important solution in force in the Member States of the European Union. Today, we propose in these amendments to the law that we implement in our law the solutions offered by Directive 36 of the European Parliament and of the Council on the achievement of certain rights of shareholders in the stock companies traded on a regulated market. Furthermore, Directive 63 of the 2007 European Parliament and of the Council, which concerns the requirement for an independent, expert report in the case of mergers, mergers or division of shares. What seems most important to us in these very extensive amendments to laws that are indeed quite sufficient, but I must say immediately in advance that in a large part of these provisions the text is being cleared up because we are harmonising the editorial errors that have actually occurred in the last changes. And as you know next to that, we have a monastic and dualistic system of management of the stock companies, so wherever we have with the stock companies certain powers of the administration now in a whole series of articles we prescribe that these powers also have executive directors. As the most significant newspaper this law adopts, it is also possible to set up a society by investing or taking over things and rights without reviewing the establishment. It also provides for the possibility for the statutes to provide for or powers of the administration, i.e. the Management Board, to enable stakeholders to exercise all or only certain rights in whole or in part by electronic communication. And when, personally, and through the power of attorneys, they do not participate in the main congregation in a place where electronic communication is maintained as well as the conditions for the use of electronic communication. It also obliges the company of shares that are included in the regulated market for trading, that immediately after calling the main assembly, they take all necessary steps to make the prescribed documentation available on their website. It also provides for the responsibility of the administration, i.e. the executive directors, to declare at least 21 days before holding the main assembly an invitation to the meeting to credit, i.e. financial institutions and stakeholders’ associations that have used voting rights in the last main assembly on behalf of the shareholders or have requested that the call be made to them. It obliges the company, the shares that are included in the regulated market for trade, to establish the decisions taken, that the determination of decisions taken for each decision has a certain content. This means that the number of shares on the basis of which votes have been cast, the share of the company's share capital which falls on the shares on which votes and the number of votes cast for each decision, the votes cast against and the circumstances of the number of votes which would fall off those who abstain from voting. In addition, these amendments are bound by the company, the shares that are included in the regulated securities market for trading to be held within seven days after the main assembly has held the results of the vote on its website. Also, this law prescribes a way of exercising voting rights through credit institutions and persons acting in an appropriate manner. It is prescribed that the judicial decision on the inadequacy of the amount of severance determined and the main shareholder acts on all minority shareholders regardless of whether they participated in the procedure laid down. The conditions under which an increase in the share capital, stakes in things and rights is possible without reviewing the increase in the underlying capital and for the issue of shares with investments in the company of things and rights are prescribed. It is also prescribed that the social contract empowerment of the administration that within five years of the registration of the company in the court register may increase the underlying capital to a certain nominal amount by issuing new business shares with the appropriate payment of the stakes in the company. These would be the most significant changes proposed by this law. By bringing the solutions set out in these two Directives into line our legislation regarding companies with legislation and the acquis of the European Union. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-29-0.u41540	Thank you very much. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. If not, then we move on to a debate on behalf of the clubs. On behalf of the HDZ Club, distinguished colleague, Ana Lovrin. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-29-0.u41541	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State with associates, colleagues and colleagues. The Croatian Democratic Community Club supports the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Commercial Society with the Final Proposal of the Law. The law on commercial societies is a fundamental regulation for the legal regulation of relations in the economy, and as we say about the Law on Criminal Procedure that the Constitution is criminal law, so we can say about the Law on Commercial Society that it is actually the Constitution of economic relations. This law has been in force since 1 January '95. A year. So now almost 14, over 14 years. During its adoption, he antiquated, so all new economics, with deeply altered economic relations in Croatia. He's been anticipating the transformation of social property into known titleholders of ownership. Therefore, the conversion of former social enterprises and their business into limited liability companies and stakeholders. During these 14 years of application, he experienced several amendments and additions in 2003 and 2007, which is not much in view of the pace of economic development, of globalisation, of new technologies that inevitably lead to new practices, of new factual relations which then require new legal legislation. The last more serious changes, as we heard, were those from 2007 that entered into force on 1 January 2008. And these changes went as a alignment with the acquis of the European Union. It has been introduced, in these amendments, as in most countries, a type of structure that allows for greater freedom of organisation for faster economic adjustment, regulates cross-border merger and association of companies, cross-border provision of services without the establishment of branches, and particularly significant changes from the aspect of the fight against and prevention and against corruption and the prevention of money laundering. Therefore, provisions removing securities on the holder as well as provisions on the annual and consolidated report on the state of the company and the method of composition and publication of annual reports. In 2008, changes were also introduced to introduce, instead of the tax number, the term of the personal identification number as one of the anti-corruption measures. Today, we are facing changes and additions that are numerically large. So of some 650 articles the Law on Commercial Companies has, 240 articles are amended, so 240 articles have this Act on Amendments and Supplements. However, they do well in relation to the editorial arrangement and the nomotechnical harmonisation, with a larger law passed, for example the Law on the Court Register, the Accounting Act, the bankruptcy law, the Law on credit institutions where this harmonisation was necessary. Other provisions, as the content of these amendments and additions, go towards the regulation of Croatian trade law with a European acquis and the adoption of the rules of the modern economic environment and a unique economic European space, and to remove some of the statements that have been in place and in practice caused doubts. Thus, in addition to adapting to economic reality and harmonising with the European acquis, a series of these provisions also seek further transparency in the work and business of companies as a prevention of corruption behaviour in relation to, interrelations between shareholders and other economic and social environment entities. We've heard in detail all the changes from the promoter, but here's just a few to point out. It is therefore a regulation of the possibility of establishing a society by investing and taking over things and rights without reviewing the establishment, which will also allow founders, as well as in the case of an increase in core capital where the introduction is allowed, an increase in the capital capital by entering things and rights, and without reviewing the increase of the underlying capital. In this way, this process will be made significantly easier, it will not be necessary to engage in an audit. But what matters is that it won't be without any objective standards or no conditions. So there will certainly have to be a statement by the founders, there will have to be an assessment of the court's expert, and it will still remain, to say the court's assurance that the court has the right not to enroll the subject if it is clearly overrated values. We continue to believe that it is extremely important to allow shareholders, i.e. stakeholders, to install in their statutes, to allow stakeholders to exercise all or some of their rights by electronic communications, and this is also important today in view of new technologies, at a pace, on globalisation, on and on communication, and in the court register, and otherwise extremely important because of the speed of business. It is also here that a number of new provisions obliging stock companies which are included in the regulated market, the capital market, have to implement a number of measures, therefore for the sake of a transparent business towards all shareholders, but also for those outside the trading company who are interested in this. So now let me not repeat, so publish on the web pages of decisions made, about calling for the use of voting rights, etc., etc. It is also a provision for all members of society to be registered and published in the court register, including that a public notary is required to supply the list of members to police administrations, etc., etc. These amendments to the law are extensive, the law is large, 650 articles, it has already been changed so far, and here we have heard that there are indications of further changes, so it would be good that the next time it starts to edit this area to reach for a new law, because now it's already coming through, for those who apply it, it's extremely difficult. Here, with that hope, the Croatian Democratic Community supports the proposal for these changes, changes and additions, and we will vote for the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-29-0.u41542	Thank you very much. On behalf of the HNS club, colleague Zlatko Koračević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-29-0.u41543	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. We at the Croatian People's Party club will support this proposal to amend the Law on Commercial Society, but we simply need to simply have the needs and conversations we had with, first of all, the legal profession, we need to warn about a few things. According to the opening statement of this amendment, the amendment states that the need for this amendment and the addition of the Law on Commercial Companies stems from the need to bring our commercial right to a level that meets modern needs. We definitely support it. Because by forming it based on adopted rules in the modern economic world, it makes it recognizable to all entrepreneurs. That's what we support, and every one of us believes it supports it. However, I repeat, in consultation with the legal profession that faces the problems of the current Law on Commercial Society, in its application, and in particular the case law, we believe that we must mention the following in this debate. First of all... which are proposed more and are generally technical, rather than resulting from a more studio-based approach to analysis, the results of the application of the law itself back several years of its application of the existing law. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Furthermore, we believe that right now there was an opportunity for the law, which fully deserves the name of the highest importance for economic efficiency, to be thoroughly implemented through its operation with all aspects and the consequences that this law follows in court practice, whether commercially or at the Supreme Court, and certainly that the analysis also requires the criminal aspects of this law. Furthermore, we are convinced that the importance of this law in application far exceeds the importance it is committed to, and that the influence that this law today has on the current political opportunities in the Republic of Croatia is neglected. We are witnessing that politicization and frequent misreads, and in particular the abuses of its provisions and contents are present, and as an example we have the frigid, fresh, "Podravka" is an eclectic example of abuse and interpretation. We at the Croatian People's Party Club are sure that this law will continue to be adapted and harmonised before the accession negotiations with the European Union are completed, and we have heard this from our colleague Lovrin on behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club whose substance is definitely and should be processed and monitored because it monitors and greatly determines the way we operate, especially in the economic part. In addition to the editorial changes that were necessary, the proposal for amending and supplementing the law is about the introduction of standards that are prescribed by the guidelines of the European Council, which, according to our assessment, are currently not the most urgent issues regarding the effectiveness of this law. For example, in addition to this whole series of quality solutions, but we have one solution that is definitely good, but the question is, it is questionable how important and significant this is at the moment, is the introduction of a provision on the electronic way of calling the assembly and so on. provisions, which do not show, which will not give in the near or nearest time the possibility of applicability until some of the far more important issues of this proposal are resolved. We at the HNS club support any action, any action that, on the legislative plan, is related to compliance with the EU acquis and even in this law, however, we believe that it is far more important to correct and amend the issues raised in the case law itself. We would like to stress that we are once again missing the possibility of harmonising with previously detected shortcomings, I repeat, first of all in court practice. For example. In addition to a whole series of possible conflict situations, we would like to draw attention to Article 51 of the Amending Proposal, according to which the proposals of stakeholders to supplement the society's agenda should be received no later than 24 days before the Assembly is held and, on the other hand, the invitation to the Assembly in the "National Journal" should be published at least a month before its maintenance. And in this situation, it is practically impossible for shareholders to ask for the completion of the agenda because the deadline for publication of calls is almost identical to the time limit for putting forward a proposal, so it is not clear that shareholders could actually meet these deadlines that are almost excluded. And normally, in practice, it is almost impossible to achieve the application of this regulation. In this respect, even with respect to the deadlines, the administration shall bear no consequences unless it completes the agenda on the shareholder's proposal. And now the question is, what is the purpose of this arrangement? Who is in the best interest of this consistent regulation? And we at the HNS Club believe that this is also one of the evidence that in the application of legality, and in particular in practice, we stress this, especially in practice, in particular in court, does not pay particular attention and protection to each shareholder, especially small shareholders. Finally, we will support this bill and hope that, in the near following amendments to the Law on Commercial Society, and almost certainly before our formal entry into the EU, we will have opportunities to discuss a law that will result from experience. Above all, negative experiences in our case-law, and regarding both the existing and this law when we pass it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-29-0.u41544	Thank you very much. And on behalf of the HSS club, distinguished colleague Boris Klemenic. Here's your colleague, Klemenic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-29-0.u41545	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. As can be seen from these amendments and additions, the Proposer stated in his own assessment of the situation all the amendments to the Law on Commercial Companies so far, and found that these amendments and additions to the implementation of the Directives of the European Parliament and of the Council in the Commercial Society Act itself will align everything necessary to comply with EU gains, but also comply with the provisions of other positive regulations in the Republic of Croatia and enable the establishment of a company by investing or taking over things and rights without reviewing the establishment. In particular, the most interesting changes to this proposal relate to the positive Act on Commercial Companies in several of the following points. Namely, it excludes the possibility of issuing shares that are on the bearer. The change itself is due to compliance with the EU acquis, and it aims to improve the anti-money laundering mechanism because it is precisely the characteristic of the share on the bearer that it does not indicate the name of the holder favours the transfer of the stock without control in which way and which means purchased by the previous holder. It also precludes the self-will of a company in determining the deadlines for paying dividends, given that the issue of obtaining dividends in practice has been resolved differently. Article 223 is amended as follows: The company law is clearly regulated when a shareholder acquires a claim to pay the dividend. In contrast to the current arrangements for the acquisition of own shares, this law liberalises the acquisition of its own shares, but also prescribes specific conditions for the company to give advances, loans or insurance for the acquisition of its own shares when it is allowed in spite of the law. The acquisition of own shares is limited only in certain cases. The question of resignation has been resolved in a way that it is determined that the term of office does not end with the decision of the Supervisory Board but on the day when the statement is given if there is an important reason for it. Similarly, in order to prevent possible manipulation of the resignation itself, the resignation becomes irrevocable and may be withdrawn only with the consent of the Supervisory Board. The resignation of a member of the Supervisory Board is also irrevocable, and can only be withdrawn with the consent of the General Assembly. The law also provides for the possibility of introducing a monastic structure of a shareholder company body whose basic characteristic is that one body, the board of directors, is authorised to decide on the essential matters of the management of the company's affairs and to monitor how these transactions are run, appointed and called off by the executive directors and represented by the company in relation to them. The possibility of bringing an action against legal actions based on insufficient information from stakeholders on personal fees, i.e. payments, is excluded, thus preventing the abuse of the rights of shareholders to press charges for personal reasons, not for reasons of the interests of all members of society, and thus society itself. To note that we have before us a bill that contains many amendments and additions, 241, which is indeed a very extensive intervention in the law. It is understood that one third of the law itself, and no doubt that the drafting of this bill required a thorough approach and enormous effort. However, it can also be concluded that it is not clear why the applicant may not have sent a brand new Law on Commercial Companies in the procedure, but Article 240 obliged the consolidated text to establish and issue a Committee on the Law of the Croatian Parliament. Is it that in front of me, here in the Parliament, we have a proposal for a whole law that would certainly be where and where we can easily follow the changes and supplement and their purpose and possibly propose a proposal, or amendment if the MPs determine the need for such intervention? In any event, it is good to approach these amendments and additions for the purpose of harmonising the Law on Commercial Companies, both with the acquis of the European Union and with the positive regulations of the Republic of Croatia. Because a proper and clear regulation reduces waste of time and money, with administration, but removes the possibility of irregularities and intransparency in the business of companies. And finally, on behalf of the HSS Club, we will support these amendments and additions to the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-29-0.u41546	Thank you very much, colleague Clemenich. We've exhausted applications for club debates. We're moving on to individual debates. The first one was registered by a distinguished counterpart, Ingrid Antičević-Marinović. She's gone. He's losing his right. He's late for a hearing. Afterwards, a respected colleague, Josip Salapic, applied. Here you go, my colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-29-0.u41547	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Amendments and additions to the Commercial Society Act should be observed through three very important levels. The first level is the harmonisation of the proposed amendments and the addition of the law to the acquis of the European Union and the introduction of relevant directives that are even here of the 9th Directive of the European Council and of Parliament into our national legal Corps. From... levels should be observed these proposed amendments and additions of the law through horizontal alignment with a series of Croatian laws adopted in recent years, which are not so far due to the need to be introduced into our Commercial Society Act. This is primarily accounting regulations, bankruptcy regulations, credit terminology, and the Personal Identification Act. And the third level, which I consider to be the most important, is our intention to adapt the provisions of the law to the terms of business of 21st century companies, which is mainly regarding electronic communication between shareholders and the board of directors in the exercise of part of the right and publication of documents on the company's website, so before calling the main assembly, publication of decisions by the main assembly, and even the number in voting who voted for, who was against, who I consider to be an exceptional contribution to these amendments to the Law on Commercial Society. Under the conditions of the latest developments in the conditions of the economic crisis, two provisions should be commended. This is primarily the futility of a legal transaction to which a company gives a person an advance, loan or insurance for the purpose of obtaining shares of that company, except in those cases when it comes to current legal transactions of financial institutions, if the specific law is not different, and the granting of advances or loans to provide insurance in order to acquire shares of employees in a company or company associated with them. That's what I consider a provision in this law to be commendable. Furthermore, in determining the total receipts of members of management in commercial companies, it is to be commended for the provision in respect of participation in profit, compensation for expenditure, payment of premiums on insurance, commissions and all other charges, that supervisory committees should take into account that the total amount of the remuneration of the members of the administrations is to be reduced accordingly in relation to the situation in the company, and the situation on the market, as well as the powers of the court for those fees in the appropriate procedure. We have also witnessed these latest developments, where salaries in certain corporate administrations were extremely high and that under these conditions these provisions of the amendments of the law should certainly be observed differently. It also puts particular emphasis on the tasks of members of the Supervisory Boards, no longer considered to be a syncure in which someone is carrying out higher or smaller fees, but is obliged to take care of how the company operates, and that the compensation they receive for the work on the Supervisory Board is indeed taken care of by lawfulness and the right of business of the company in which they sit on the Supervisory Boards. One of the obstacles that is perceived to be based on this law is the application of the so-called Law. Management contracts. We see and witness their floods in practice, despite the provisions of the law, it is suggested that they are often made up by people who are not members of the board of society, who are despite the rules of the labour relationship in society. Such a situation often leads to paradoxical cases where commercial courts are terrified of the authorities of these contracts, and in fact it is typical contracts of work. As fellow predecessors have said, it is a matter of really extensive changes and additions to the Company Act. I would point out that I will vote in favour of the adoption of these proposed amendments and additions and that I believe that the benefits of this law are, above all, intended for our economies and entrepreneurs to meet in these new circumstances and the application of the European acquis of the European Union in these amendments and additions and that this law will benefit our entrepreneurs in carrying out economic activities in the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-29-0.u41548	Thank you very much. And the next application for the debate is distinguished counterpart Franjo Lucic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-29-0.u41549	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State with his associates. Now, since a lot has already been said about this law, of course I don't have anything special to add, all the little ones are no longer said. It is important to say that the Company Act as a basic regulation for legal regulation was adopted in the economy at the end of '93. the year, and began to apply in January '95. A year. The Act amending and supplementing the Law on Commercial Companies entered into force on 1 April 2008 which takes effect on the day of the accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union. In addition to the above, it is necessary to correct editorial errors resulting from intervention in the text of the law, which is why certain norms are not sufficiently understood, and have caused uncertainty in application. Finally, it is necessary to comply with the Law on the Court Register and the Regulation on the way in which the register is entered, but also with the Accounting Act, the Law on Credit Institutions and the Banking Law. All is presented for a reason to pass the law on amendments and additions to the Law on Commercial Companies. It is also said here in the debate that 240 articles are being amended, so it is in line with the new regulations and that is why this law is adopted in order to comply primarily with the legislation of the Republic of Croatia with the acquis of the European Union. I therefore support the adoption of the law on amendments and additions to the Law on Commercial Companies. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-29-0.u41550	Thank you very much. There are no more or more applications. The Secretary of State has concluded his address. Here you go, pal Bosnjakovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-29-0.u41551	Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen. On behalf of the promoter, I would only like to thank everyone who has supported this law because the law really implements those solutions that apply in the Member States of the European Union and we hold that this is a significant step and that in any case what it has been said to be in order to help our economies is very much so, and this solution on the electronic way of voting whether it will be significant at first or be somewhat less. In any case, they allow such communication in the shareholders’ congregations. Also, this way of setting up societies by investing rights and things without review makes it possible and simplifies the process of starting companies in this way. Thank you again for the support this bill has received. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-29-0.u41552	Thank you very much. This concludes this point. We'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-29-0.u41553	Final proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Commercial Companies. It was an emergency procedure, P.Z.E. No. 456. The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. The amendments were submitted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Justice and by Advocate Ivo Grbic. I ask the Ministry's representative, Mr Drazen Bošnjakovic, to declare on behalf of the Government as State Secretary these amendments. The first is the amendment to Article 80. The Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-29-0.u41554	Mr. President, the government accepts all amendments to the Committee on Law, all amendments to the Committee on Justice and all amendments by Mr. Ivo Grbić. And we thank you for the amendments.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-29-0.u41555	Thank you very much. All proposed amendments have been accepted. I am voting on the final draft law amending and supplementing the Act on... Please, let's get involved and vote. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The result? This final bill was adopted by the majority of votes, 77 votes for and 1 vote abstention, nothing against along with the amendments adopted. The Legislative Committee proposes a conclusion to the Croatian Parliament. The professional service of the Croatian Parliament is hereby authorised to carry out a revision of the text of this law before its publication in the National Journal. I am putting this proposal to the vote. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? This conclusion was adopted unanimously with 78 votes.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-29-0.u41556	We're moving on to the next point. - Final bill amending and supplementing the Law on genetically modified organisms, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 448 Proposer of the Law is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the suggestions in the boxes. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Rules of Procedure. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the The Registrar's emergency procedure unites the first and second readings of the law. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by committees on legislation, on European integration, on health and social care, and by the Committee on Environmental Protection. You've received reports from the board's meeting on the bench. The amendments were submitted by the Committee on Legislatives and the joint amendment of the HDZ and HSS Club of Representatives. Does the proposaler's representative want to take the floor intro? Dr. Golem's secretary of state. Here you go, Doctor.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-29-0.u41557	Thank you. Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen. In 2005, the Croatian Parliament adopted the Law on genetically modified organisms, the law which is the subject of the regulation of the areas of genetically modified organisms but which is also the subject of harmonisation of the legislation of the Republic of Croatia with the legislation of the European Union, in particular with a number of directives and regulations of the European Union. In the law in question, the majority of the laws are dedicated to products, genetically modified products and one smaller part of the law concerns only the possibility of introducing them into the environment. What was clearly and loudly set out in the next course of negotiations with the European Union on the basis of the progress of the report or the presentation of the progress made in Chapter 27 clearly and aloud said that Croatia has made progress, however, that new needs of compliance with EU legislation are put before Croatia in those Directives and that, after the adoption of that report, a number of European Union Member States have asked the European Commission to check that the issue of Article 26a has been resolved as well. The European Union Directive is based on the 2003 Regulation, which concerns the consistency of organic products and genetically modified products in nature. In view of this and of the need for this harmonisation, and also of what was clearly and loudly visible and during the debate, this proposal, which lies before you, that it as such will cause and a minor controversy, is needed in the name of the motion of the Government of the Republic of Croatia in a clear and loud way here. Amendments and additions to the Law on genetically modified organisms, which concern areas of possible or impossible consistency, are absolutely going into the situation that this law does not approve of co-existence, that this law does not allow for co-existence, but only deals with the directive by laying the groundwork for the adoption of certain regulations which will then clearly and loudly show whether there will exist or not co-existence in Croatia, thus more so than this law is legalised and the will of Croatian citizens expressed through decisions by the regional administration to make a number of areas, I think that there are 17 to 18 areas or counties in the Republic of Croatia as areas free from genetically modified organisms. As such, these amendments and additions to this law, therefore, in this first part of the law should be clearly highlighted and legal at the end the basis for such decisions which have been made and also ensure that, even if the remaining three counties in Croatia are clearly and loudly expressing their interest in this area. It is our obligation as the Republic of Croatia to join and negotiate in Chapter 27 – the environment to regulate this area. Ours is not an obligation for us and the Priors to allow such a part. Another misunderstanding because it was clear that there would be discussions about it, there is a need to make it clear here. The procedure or procedure of amending any regulation which would have any effect on the environment clearly has its own special procedure and is applicable as such. Amendments concerning this law do not have an impact in this regard but it is therefore legal introduction into legal legislation in order to discuss it at all. In this way, it is clear and loud to say that during the debate in the Croatian Parliament, certain provisions and certain articles that may have not clearly shown the intention of the Government of the Republic of Croatia as a promoter and the Ministry of Health and Social Care as well as the one that has drawn up the proposal not to regulate this law but to lay the groundwork and in any case not to allow this law to bring something into the environment or not clearly and loudly to say that we will accept the proposed amendments because these proposed amendments give a different way of expressing a better definition in any case that our intention as a promoter would be fulfilled on the one hand and on the other hand in order to meet the conditions set before us for the purpose of the negotiations. In addition to this issue in amendments and additions to the laws, we define what the concept of co-existence is, in these amendments and additions to the laws, we therefore put the possibility, namely that the areas declared as areas free from GMOs, that there is no co-existence in these areas and that there can neither be nor be introduced in any way and that it is necessary to establish a national strategy in accordance with all environmental rules and which the national strategy will be exclusively in the jurisdiction of this High House to adopt it on a proposal from the Government when it is put forward, when a public debate is passed, when the Environment Council and the GMO Council passes. Other changes in this law are strengthening therefore certain control mechanisms, because at this point the law did not, the existing law, fully regulate the entire area precisely around the intentional or accidental introduction of GMOs into an environment that is unintendedly defined and is therefore possible when transporting or in some other ways and in particular the possibility of cross-border transfer. Now, these proposed amendments and additions that competence over the control of all of this together are given to the sanitary inspection of the Ministry of Health so that sampling and complete treatment can be carried out and, ultimately, they can apply the prescribed penalties for those who would try to do such a thing. In any case, therefore, the harmonisation of directives on deliberate introduction into the environment, on controlled use of GMOs and cross-border transfer are three things on which the promoter and requested the urgency of the negotiation procedure 27. The law is implemented in an inter-resorial manner. The central body for this law is the Ministry of Health and Social Care, however the Ministry of Culture, Ministry of Science, Education and Sports, the Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries and Rural Development, the Ministry of Regional Development, Forestry and Water Economy and the State Inspectorate. I'm thanking you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-29-0.u41558	Thank you. The Legislative Committee? European integration? Health care, social care, environmental protection? I'm opening a debate. SDP representative's club, Mrs. Mirela Holly. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-29-0.u41559	Thank you, Your Honor. At the beginning of the presentation on the Amendment Law Proposal and the Supplements of the Law on genetically modified organisms, I would like to stress that the Club of Representatives and Representatives of the SDP will not support the adoption of this law. I use this opportunity to express a great surprise over the fact that clubs, especially the HSS, but then HDZ also support the adoption of this law for two reasons. The first reason is that the 2007 HDZ, HSS and HSLS coalition agreement, which later became the government's work programme, explicitly includes a legal ban and the possibility of introducing GMOs into the environment and nature. The second reason is the uniformly accepted conclusions from the thematic session of the Assembly Committee on Environmental Protection held at the beginning of July of last year, so the conclusions supported by both MPs and representatives of the position and opposition, which read as follows: "the competent ministries are tasked with, in accordance with the programme of work of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the Cartagena Protocol and the Regulation establishing the ecological network within six months of the preparation of the draft amendments and addition of the Law on genetically modified organisms to be covered by the following provisions: the ban on the release of... The genetically modified organisms in the environment, the ban on seed sowing of genetically modified seeds, and even for experimental purposes...", I will not continue, because it is not so important for this debate. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In the SDP club, we are therefore asking the question of what happened so revolutionaryly in the meantime that this bill, which seemed to have been written by interested multinational companies, rather than by non-governmental bodies that should protect the public rather than the private interest to such extent, liberalise the provisions of the law towards the release of GMOs into the environment. Since it is even possible that the parties sitting in government today, which have written a coalition agreement, later the government’s work programme, are today in favour of what they so strongly resisted two years or a year ago. Where is the credibility and political responsibility of these politicians and politicians? Don't they think that by disrespecting the coalition agreement and the government's work programmes, they've deceived voters who have given them confidence? Again, as an alibi for its own inability and irresponsibility to protect key, long-term, not national but life- and existential issues, Europe is mentioned. Again, as has been so many times since the government has been hiding behind the European Union, as well as a completely impenetrable and impenetrable front. But the European Union was not given a mandate to protect Croatian vital interests from voters and voters, but rather a mandate which means responsibility, not only the right to rule and manage, was given to the coalition government of HDZ, HSLS and their smaller partners. And that is why this shameful law is not the responsibility of the European Union, but solely of the Government. Despite the arguments on the necessity of respect for the European Union Directive, as well as the obligation to the World Trade Organisation, the closure of the environmental chapter, the fact is that this law most clearly proves that the Government is unable to represent and protect Croatian public interests, because it would not have sent to the Assembly such a bill that is very uncritically liberalising the Croatian market to GMOs would already have been very strict, complex and expensive procedures for the release of GMOs into the environment in reality. However, the applicant in this proposal does exactly the opposite, so in Article 6 of this proposal, the minimum time limit for the assessment and making of the opinion and objection to the public in the process of issuing a permit for the deliberate introduction of GMOs into the public environment is reduced to 15 days. What's with the acceleration of the procedure? Certainly not because of protecting the biodiversity of Croatia, Croatia's greatest natural wealth from deliberately letting GMOs into the environment. This minimum short term is also contrary to the provisions of the Environmental Protection Act relating to the public awareness process in documents of importance for the protection of the environment. Article 11 of the Law, which allows the Government of the Republic of Croatia to make it extremely possible to introduce genetically modified reproductive material into the environment and into protected areas and in the areas of the ecological network, in other words everywhere. They are totally unacceptable and provisions concerning the so-called. Co-existence of genetically modified crops and conventional and even organic farming, since there is absolutely no possibility of co-existence between genetically modified crops and organic cultivation. Although Article 17 introduces the so - called so - called “supervisory ” The mandated fines for the offenders of this law are so ridiculously low compared to the possible multi-million-dollar damage that such violations may cause, so it can be said that they act more incentivically but repressively against potential perpetrators. On the other hand, the legislator is extremely strictly in the mood for non-obeying members and members of the Board for genetically modified organisms and the Board for GMOs, allowing them to be fined between 15 and 50 thousand kuna, provided that, in accordance with their conscience, they publicly discuss possible harmful proceedings related to this problem. In other words, it introduces a measure of intimidation and shut-down of the mouth. The key issue of this bill is whether it is indeed in the public interest of the Republic of Croatia to adopt this and such a bill. In the SDP club, we believe that it is not and that there is no argument that we must adopt such a bill because of compliance with the acquis of the European Union and the WTO rules. Directives of the European Union are, as we all know, a legal framework and do not specify how a country will regulate a particular area. In addition, in the SDP club, we stress that Croatia, we hope, is conducting negotiations with the competent authorities of the European Union on the accession of our country to this community of states, and does not act as a mechanical tele-delegated doll under the command of enforcement. In the SDP club, we believe that negotiations mean negotiating, representing the interests of the state, reaching certain arrangements based on strong arguments. And from this bill, just like a whole series of previous laws that the government has sent to the Parliament, it is evident that the Government is not negotiating with the European Union, but is obeying orders and taking steps beyond what is required of Croatia. And this is terrible and has to worry us because it shows that already today, because of this incompetent government of Croatia, there is a considerable limited sovereignty in its country. What we need to worry about even more is the hedges and the uncontrolled spread of monocultures that are the greatest threat to the biodiversity of the world. And GMO crops and technology terminator implanted in them with the aim of protecting patents owners, multinational companies and large capital are the most aggressive monoculture. This bill brings an extremely large market liberalisation towards GMOs in all aspects and forms, and unfortunately also according to the environment and nature, the most dangerous form of the possibility of releasing live GMOs into the environment and nature. This is where the liberalisation of Croatia towards GMOs was openly recognised by the legislator at the meeting of the Committee on Environmental Protection. It is a sad fact that within only 6 years, Croatia has significantly caved in to lobbying pressures from GMO groups, and this is visible if we look back at the history of previous legislation on GMOs. This history is characterized by the constant Croatian softening of relations with GMOs. I would remind you that during the time of the coalition government and Prime Minister Racan and SDP, the then Ministry of Environmental Protection and Spatial Planning launched the campaign "Croatian GMO free country" soon working with NGOs to protect the environment. The protest notes of the WTO followed, and neither the US financial and political powerful multinational companies were satisfied with such a campaign directed by a transition state, and not so much because of the possibility of losing the potential market for GMOs, but because of the possibility that the Croatian precedent would open Pandora's box of opposition to imports and shine of GMOs and in other countries that had somehow resisted them. So what do we have today? Since the state campaign against GMOs, which has announced the adoption of a special law that will be completely prohibited by the GMOs in Croatia, through the Nature Protection Act, which left a formal, although very small possibility of sowing GMOs from the Law on genetically modified organisms, which has been proposed by a rather strict procedure to approve the sowing of GMOs from the Nature Protection Act liberalised and untransparently placed in the field of public debate and accountability, we have come to today's proposal for a law that almost unreservedly liberalises Croatia's GMOs. All this opens up the possibility of almost uninterrupted entry of GMO seeds into Croatia. Unfortunately, such a situation will not change limbo until responsible political structures finally decide what kind of country we want to be, the country of organic agriculture and the country of so-called. ecological tourism or a country of industry and intensive farming based on monoculture. The fact is that even after 19 years of independence, we still do not have a country development strategy that would answer a question that has been plagued by Croatian businessmen and all citizens and citizens of the Republic of Croatia for years. It is even less realistic to expect that politics will ask Croatian citizens how they see Croatia's development strategy, and that the government will draw up an implementation plan based on this response. Croatia's ruling policy is unfortunately being implemented in a globalised environment where the country's long-term strategy and interests have replaced the current particular interests that are heading towards a darker foreign globalisation. The history of legislation towards GMOs in Croatia shows it most clearly. And finally, I will briefly look back on the meaning of the proposed amendments of HSS and HDZ clubs and express a surprise why they did not become amendments to the Government of the Republic of Croatia. This would bring much greater security to us that some positive steps will be taken in this direction. However, I should stress that even these amendments are not all disputed places under the law, meaning the amendment of the GMO Act, and in this sense should consider, however, that this law should be withdrawn from the procedure, not to be accepted, to make a more acceptable legal solution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-29-0.u41560	Thank you. Two corrections, Ms. Mariana Petir first.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-29-0.u41561	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Mrs. Holly has incorrectly stated that the HSS Club will support such a law. We will uphold the law if our amendments are accepted, and our amendments are more than clear. The law deletes the entire area of co-existence and second legalizes the status of GMO free counties, which means that in Croatia it will not be possible to release living genetically modified organisms into the environment which I will explain later when I will speak on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the HSS and I am glad that it mentioned the campaign of the Ministry of Environmental Protection. I designed and ran that campaign and gave good results. So, Croatia is free of GMOs today.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-29-0.u41562	The second amendment, Mr. Representative Dragan Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-29-0.u41563	It's kind of like that. So, a colleague claimed that we'd support this one she so said a little embarrassing law etc. Then I thought she hadn't seen the amendments, but I can see that in the end, she's been corrected. So, the HDZ Club will support this law but in addition to the amendments that we have submitted together with the HSS Club in which we are very precise and clearly ousting co-existence and giving legality to these decisions of the counties on GMO free areas, which means with two very important changes.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-29-0.u41564	HSS representative's club, Ms. Mariana Petir. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-29-0.u41565	Dear Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, MPs and MPs, Mr. Secretary of State. The Croatian peasant party, of course, is unacceptable to any possibility of co-existence of genetically modified crops with conventional and ecological, and therefore with colleagues from the HDZ Club and we have proposed amendments to this Law on genetically modified organisms. We believe from the opening statement we heard from Dr. Golem that the Ministry of Health will accept our amendments. The aim of these amendments is to protect the biological national sovereignty of the Republic of Croatia, and I think it is the interest of every representative and representative, as well as of citizens and citizens of the Republic of Croatia. I will briefly explain the amendments submitted by HSS and HDZ clubs, although this has already been the case, and therefore most importantly concerns the giving of legitimacy to counties that have been declared free from genetically modified organisms. There are 18 in Croatia today. I must say that Europe is working intensively, because there are already over 50 regions free from genetically modified organisms. I am pleased to have signed the accession of Sisak-Moslavina County as the first Croatian county to European regions free of GMOs at the time when I was acting as Deputy Mayor of Sisak-Moslavina County. We are also changing the article concerning the content of the Government of the Republic of Croatia regulation. Therefore, the Government of the Republic of Croatia will not be able to adopt our amendment if the release of living genetically modified organisms into the counties declared free from GMOs, but not in protected areas, or in the areas of the ecological network, or in the area of organic agriculture. So nowhere practically in Croatia. We have made sure with these amendments that Croatia is indeed free from GMOs. There have also been words, and we have thrown the consistency out of this law. We believe that there is no room for co-existence in this law, but neither in Croatia, so it is our suggestion that this issue be discussed in public and citizens' opinion heard, that the opinion of the profession is heard, and then only to approach the regulation of the area. I would like to point out that 16 of the 27 European Union countries have asked the European Commission to allow them to regulate this area by their own national legislation, so we have the view that Croatia does not need to run ahead of the ore, because there is no single European policy either. We therefore think that Croatia should give itself space and preserve what is most valuable, which is a well-preserved environment, a great perspective for agriculture and tourism, and of course people living in this area. Which is why I'm saying all this. Why are we in the HSS against co-existence? The experiences of other countries have already shown that there has been pollen with those parcels that are irradiated genetically modified crops pollute cultures from conventional and ecological cultivation and have shown that co-life is practically impossible, therefore of course and difficult to implement, and that we are aware that the legislator is guided by the recommendations of the European Commission, but these recommendations are not mandatory, they are in fact only a recommendation, but we are also aware that the law makes everything perfectly imagined and prescribed. However, the pollen of genetically modified cultures carried by wind or insects cannot identify which field they are allowed to enter and also not to come to. So it can't be prescribed. Once such a living genetically modified organism is released into the environment, the process becomes irreversible. In conditions that rule in Croatia, where there is a major fragmentation of agricultural holdings, there is also a high probability that the planting of genetically modified agricultural cultures is allowed or the contamination of other crops occurs. Economic damage is possible, as organic farming cultures in the market achieve a far higher price than genetically modified, and if their mixing occurs due to the transfer of pollen from organic farming is lost to values. This also applies to conventional crops. Therefore, we at HSS ask who will compensate for the damage to a farmer who has put forth a lot of effort, time, and resources to verify his products as organically grown if pollution occurs because his neighbor has sown a genetically modified culture. Therefore, the Croatian Peasant Party has been tasked with doing so for 105 years, protecting the interests of our farmers, their right to sow its traditional cultures, and not that once the pollution of genetically modified cultures has no choice but to be left to the mercy and mercies of multinational companies, of which they will have to buy seeds in order to shine the field, and such examples we have had opportunities to look at and listen to. Sowing genetically modified agricultural cultures would endanger the natural and domestic production of seeds due to possible pollen pollination, thus increasing Croatia's dependence on the supply of seed material necessary for the production and supply of food to the population. This was also recognized by 18 Croatian counties that have declared themselves free from genetically modified organisms. I would like to invite those three remaining Osijek-Baranja County, Vukovar-Srijemska and the City of Zagreb, who have not yet made decisions to ban the seed of genetically modified seeds, to do so urgently, to support the position of their citizens who do not want Croatia to be polluted with GMOs. The Croatian Peasant Party also defends the interests of consumers with this attitude, and that is all of us. We must defend our right to choose healthy domestic food, preferably from organic farming, and such food will not be released if we let GMOs into Croatian fields and therefore we have proposed amendments to the GMO Act. Of course, if the promoter accepts the amendments of the HSS and HDZ Club, and we believe that our arguments are strong enough, then we will also support the law. I must also point out that the ecological justification for the shine of genetically modified cultures is questionable, as scientists warn, and the research carried out has shown that the shine of genetically modified plants in the fields and around them reduces biodiversity, and in some cases because of the use of protective agents contributes to environmental pollution. It is clear from all of this that agriculture which uses genetic modifications is contrary to the principles of sustainable development that involve balancing economic, environmental and social objectives. A small country such as Croatia, which has preserved its environment, water and soil so far, and which has an exceptional wealth of species of plant and animal life has a chance that other countries do not have. There is a chance that because of the preserved environment and exceptional natural beauty, it will direct its development through the integration of tourism and the production of healthy organic food. And living in a healthy environment and the possibility of choosing food that is not polluted by GMOs are not something that we should seek only because of the tourists and income they will leave with us, but also because of all of us and our children. We in HSS are also looking for a stronger engagement of all inspection services, especially those in customs to prevent GMOs from entering Croatia. The Ministry of Health and Social Care during 2008 was extremely active and carried out 500 controls, sampling a total of 776 food samples. From this, 214 food samples in 10 counties were sampled at the time of the national monitoring, which was conducted in three stages. Of the 776 samples, 47 of them were positive, and 11% contained more than 0.9% of GMOs, which is contrary to the government's law and regulation, so we would like to hear here and the secretary of state that sanctions were given to those who broke the law. The Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries and Rural Development during 2008 carried out only 18 inspections involving 55 cultivers, 5 types of seeds of agricultural plants, sugar beet, corn, sunflower, soybeans and rape oil. During 2008, 10 samples of seed sugar tail, 26 samples of hybrid corn seed, 4 samples of sunflower seed, 4 samples of soybean seed, 11 samples of rape oil in legal entities dealing with production, dorading and import were taken. The sampling covers the cultivators of the most significant domestic and foreign selection companies that place seeds on the market in the Republic of Croatia. All 55 samples were negative for the presence of GMOs, which is certainly good news, and deny those evil prophets who are constantly scaring the public that the shine of GMOs should be legalized, because they are entering Croatia at a small door anyway. The data I've provided shows exactly the opposite. I also want to point out that today we make decisions about what kind of land our children will live in and what kind of food our children will be able to choose. By releasing genetically modified organisms into the environment, the right to choose, as much as there is talk of protective mechanisms, will actually be threatened because pollution will be a constant threat. Therefore, the shine of genetically modified cultures, for which co-existence or co-existence with others is not only unnecessary, but poses a threat to our development chance. In this respect, the Government of the Republic of Croatia programme also states that it is necessary to exclude the possibility of introducing GMOs into nature, i.e. the release of live GMOs into the environment, from planting GMO seeds or for experimental purposes, and products found on the market and containing GMOs must be clearly declared regardless of the percentage of pollution. With neighbouring countries, we want to start creating an area free of GMOs and verify laboratories for GMO analysis. This is followed by the conclusions of the thematic session of the Committee on Environmental Protection of the Croatian Parliament held in July 2008 which are tasked by the departments to prohibit the release of live GMOs into the environment by the Government, the Cartagena Protocol and the regulation on the declaration of the ecological network, and to introduce a clear declaration of products containing GMOs regardless of the percentage resulting from pollution. In addition, I repeat, most Croatian citizens, as well as Europe, do not want to consume food containing GMOs, and our duty as parliamentary representatives and advocates is to respect the will of citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-29-0.u41566	Thank you. One correction, Mrs. Zdenka Chuhnil. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-29-0.u41567	It's not good here in Parliament, Your Honor, Your Honor, Your Honor, to speak something that has no scientific background. The co-existence of genetically modified organisms is possible only have to know the spatial insulation and must know how this production is conducted. So what science has no basis for, let's not argue here and sow simply incorrect information and selection of incorrect information. So correcting co-life is possible with real technology.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-29-0.u41568	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Ms. Mariana Petir.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-29-0.u41569	So I give injury to the Rules of Procedure for this reason that there is no evidence that co-existence is possible because the experiences and practices in other countries that allowed the sowing of genetically modified seeds shows exactly what I said, and about this witness and the American farmers who were here in Croatia at the invitation of the Croatian Peasant Union and presented that co-existence is not possible and that, of course, the wind of pollen that came from fields with genetically modified crops and polluted and their fields is therefore not possible.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-29-0.u41570	HNS representative club, Mr. Representative Miljenko Doric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-29-0.u41571	Dear Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Mr. Secretary of State, I'm very sorry, but you'll see that I'm the only one who will stand up for you. Members of the HNS Club will, of course, base their argument on the arguments they have, and the basis of the debate that will be held on this subject and vote tomorrow on their own conscience. I will personally support it and explain it the following way. Look, colleagues and colleagues in the '70s were discovered the first proteins, the first enzymes that had the capacity to vaccinate DNA in a specific place and in this place you could install genetic material of another species and clearly manipulate it in this way. This begins the period of genetic engineering and, I would say, biology takes over primate in front of physics and chemistry that were undoubtedly the most significant science of the 20th century. Biology becomes the fundamental and most important science of the 21st century. Many have assessed this technology and technology as monstrous. Reagan in America has banned the use of these technologies and research in that direction. The French and the British didn't do it, they went really far. They managed to install a human gene for various hormones, cytokines, chemokines into various microorganisms, and these microorganisms did what? They produced perfectly pure substances that biomedicine was used to treat humans. Until then, we had to extract hormones from other animal species, not human proteins, human materials. They were responded by the human body by transplant reaction, rejection reaction, allugenic reaction, or xenogenic even reaction because they were other species and were all avoided through the use of this technology in one important segment of the pharmaceutical industry. When the Americans saw it they quickly lifted all possible bans and research in this area, very quickly. Of course, many species of genetically modified microorganisms have been created, thousands of them, but also all sorts of 60, 70 transgenic plant species, or transgenic animals, which were later used for commercial purposes. Sadly, those who knew the least about these organisms were often the loudest. I agree that there are reasons for many doubts, there are reasons, but unfortunately so far we have no arguments for these doubts. 4 years ago in the Council of Europe, we had a very important debate on the subject and a colleague who prepared the report called for even 130 references in the world's most significant magazines trying to find at least a clue of something that could systematically say no, put a ban, let's not use such transgenic animals as well, or plants. I would colleagues and colleagues dare even connect this story to the story of the first train and the first car. A little over a hundred years ago when the first train was constructed he was moving at a speed of 20 miles per hour, and the human organism, God created us, to move at an average speed of 5.6 km per hour. The Royal Medical Society has also made a decision and a declaration saying that these inventions, namely the formation, that train and that steam car, are extremely harmful to health, that it will lead to vascular system disorders, internal organ disorders and that they should be banned. Today, colleagues and colleagues of our tin pets are moving at a speed of 10 times that of the initial. These pets are killing, leading to an accident, leading to a huge number of people with disabilities, and who of us would dare to say today that we should ban the production of cars? Probably no one. We have a similar situation here. In 50 years, no one will even mention these problems that plague us today in this debate. Trust me, no one. When this law, the applicable law appeared in the Parliament four years ago, we had two readings. And he showed up at the second reading, and there was an initiative to go through the third reading. I was against it with an explanation, that this is such a dynamic area that this law must be in permanent reading, in permanent reading. We have to constantly be on the tide, whether in our parent committees dealing with this topic, monitor the area and see what we do and see how we update, clear law and individual articles in it. I'd just like to add that when you talk about genetically modified organisms, then you should approach that problem with at least four aspects, at least four aspects. These are ecological, economic, social and ethical problems. I agree with my colleagues who spoke before me. There is reason to suspect that we will compromise the long pathways of biodiversity and that is very significant. There is also a suspicion that by producing transgenic animals, we will eventually make some animals sensitive to some diseases, that we will get certain zoonoses that will pass on to humans, and thus we can endanger the human population. Some claim that allergies that will endanger us through the production of such plant, or animal species. I don't have any proof of allergies. Genetically modified microorganisms may become significantly more virulent than those surrounding us today, but this may happen in a clear way, depending on the measures we will take in laboratories where such microorganisms will be produced with a purpose that they clearly produce certain substances that we need above all in biomedicine and other areas. As for economic parameters, will GMOs solve hunger on this planet? The answer is no. There's no way. You know GMOs are related to patent rights, intellectual property, producers and trade monopolies and the danger is economical in what? It can easily happen that tomorrow the European Union that imports such food from various continents, tomorrow says these countries, you grow and plant and animal species under conditions that we require under European standards, we simply have to close the tap and leave the poor even poorer. Therefore, there are great dangers, great dilemmas. It is also clearly related to the social aspect. Economic and social are very tied up. Ethics issues, transgenic animals. What did we do? We disrupted metabolic processes, accelerated and changed the growth mechanism, led to numerous changes in the animal itself, disrupted her health. It's one of the important ethical issues that are being asked in front of us. And that doesn't have to be ignored. However, there is no return from colleagues and colleagues. There's no going back. Believe me, there's no going back. The economic benefit, especially this pharmaceutical one, is that we have to separate it from this story we've heard so far. You can also see that these two amendments, which, that is, amends the two parties, refer only to plant species, leaving room for genetically modified micro-organisms, because we need to use them. Otherwise, our pharmaceutical industries have no chance of surviving in competition with companies that use these technologies. The problem is you didn't mention transgenic animals anywhere. I think this should apply to them, too, this amendment. ... Please. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] It stands here with me, at least in my copy, that it's a plant species. Therefore, I perceive this lack in this amendment of yours. Harmful action. As a scientist, colleagues and colleagues, the only group of diseases we could possibly compare the potential damage we expect from these organisms is something we can compare with prion diseases. We all heard 15 years ago you remember "The King of Madness." We all know today that prion proteins through the digestive system can lead to an increase in the incidence of a new variant of Creutzfeldt-Jacob disease. But that's one example we have on our planet. We hereby suggest that those who suspect there will be more cases like this. I don't dare have them, I don't dare say, but possible. But for these 70 species that we use in practice, we have no evidence of human harm in any way. Therefore, for each species to be introduced into practice, a very detailed check of potential harmfulness must first be made. And even if something is subsequently revealed and suspected, it must be tried to clearly eliminate such a product from use. I wouldn't be long. I just wanted to say, or I'm going to support this bill for a reason because I think these three areas related to chapter 27, which is Commission recommendations 557 of 2003 and 787 of 2004 hold water, that they are justified. I don't mind my colleagues giving the amendment, which they think we should maybe slow down, maybe be more careful to get into this area. But as a scientist, I have to be very honest that we have no evidence, so far, of their harmfulness. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-29-0.u41572	Thank you. Two corrections. First Mrs. Mirela Holly.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-29-0.u41573	My dear colleague, I'm correcting your statement regarding car comparisons, and that invention means cars and GMOs. I don't think that's something that can be compared to, because there are inventions that are useful or that are at least ambivalent. There are inventions that are very harmful. In that sense, I would mention, say, a nuclear bomb, which I can't think of as a useful invention in any way. What makes me think that GMOs have proven to be a harmful invention? Namely, in India where it is very liberalized, the GMOs India had three thousand types of rice years ago, today they have 30 types of rice and have just shown that GMOs are having a devastating effect on biodiversity and that they are introducing monoculture. And I think it's really the greatest danger to planet Earth's balance.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-29-0.u41574	And Madam Representative Mariana Petir. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-29-0.u41575	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President. A colleague, Doric, claimed that for the time being, there are reasons for many suspicions but there is no evidence of these doubts. This is incorrect because many of the studies that have been done and then the last one that was done in the UK shows that genetically modified organisms have a significant impact on the reduction of biodiversity and when we disrupt biodiversity, we will certainly question both food production and human nutrition, which I think is a major and serious problem.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-29-0.u41576	Thank you. The National Minority Representatives Club, Ms. Zdenka Chuhnil. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-29-0.u41577	Thank you very much. Honorable Vice President, Your Honors Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. Thank you, too, to my colleagues, because my opinions are very close or very close to his thinking, since we respect science above all. I must say that at this time, I am in a very large dilemma about how to talk about the law, because just when this proposal came to us, fundamental changes were just about to be in the area of co-existence of genetically modified organisms and conventional crops, because we have to adapt normally with the European Union and at the same time it is said to be withdrawing, i.e. to amend it. So I really don't know what we're going to change by this law now except maybe that part about the inspection or the part at the end of it that doesn't matter at all for genetically modified organisms. I will start with that today 99% of the plants used in the economy or in production for a certain profit, use, etc. They have been changed compared to the parent plants. The fact that all these mutagenesis that were caused at first were caused by any chemistry, or by radiation, etc. that we received very often certain characteristics of such a plant that we selected them for and we didn't know what was going on with the other genes. And there is no guarantee at all that if we do conventional selection methods today that lasts between 10 and 15 years that we will get exactly the plant we want, that we will get it healthy and not harmful by health and by the environment. In particular, the data is known. Two, three years ago, a potato was withdrawn from the market that was obtained by conventional selection method or selection over several years which, when it came to the market, was found to have too much bacon. Or a celler who had too much carcinogenicity, etc. Thus, production is not a guarantee of healthy food as probably not a healthy environment. So let me say that just as my colleague used to say I have to say that history doesn't really know the case of such a fundamental lack of understanding of any of the issues as the problem of modified organisms has created, and it's mostly only negative information being released, I'm saying even though my colleague was talking about what kind of discovery is going on here. It's about shortening the time of the selection, that it's about controlled selection as I've already cited in relation to the natural selection that lasts many years without knowing the results we're going to get, that we're getting really controlled genetics exactly what we want. I know that even here in parliament, but even more in public, we really use absurd things. Many of you will remember three years ago when there were conversations on television about genetically modified organisms when the bread shelf was shown and there was a question to the trader what do you think if the bread was conventionally produced here and the one produced from genetically modified food whether there was a possibility that this bread could be infected, it corresponds to that. Well, for God's sakes, they don't jump genes in nature, they don't jump around us. They are an integral part of the food, an integral part of the organism, or better to say the component of the cell or further amino acids. Therefore, I think the problem is that insufficiently relevant scientists appear that we have left such an important thing to us politicians, and such selectivity of information really says that there is no precedent in Europe. At the same time, politics has taken this to stop genetically modified organisms from the Americas, or to add certain foods, but in parallel, believe me that Europe today has a far stronger and larger number of selected genetically modified organisms than America has because America has directed itself when it comes to precisely economically usable plants, primarily soy, corn, oil rape. And at the same time, one of the Netherlands and some other countries that are in the field of flora, in the area of just vegetable production, are using this modus or genetically modified organisms far stronger. I'm still going to say a little bit about the benefits and benefits of genetically modified organisms or molecular genetics. It certainly is the production of more food on less land. Plants today grow where they were not previously grown. There is a lower consumption of pesticides, especially those that pollute the environment. We all forget, in fact, that the production of genetically modified organisms actually started to reduce the amount of pesticides, that is to say, to protect the soybean, not with five, six sprays and more, when large amounts of active substance pesticides were introduced into the soil. Therefore, environmental protection was first. And on the other hand, it's also costing production, and that's also increasing productivity. In order for the public to have a proper view of genetically modified organisms above all, we need to know the basic problems of genetic engineering, genes, genomes, listen to experts and arguments for and against. I'm very sorry that today we just, let's say, the law practically on the co-existence of genetically modified organisms, and that here is not an agronomic profession that would exactly be about production, about the possibility of transferring the field to isolation zones, etc. She could talk a little bit more, because medicine, health care is speaking from the aspect of health issues, but she's not expanding, and we've just been focusing on living organism, on its spread in nature, etc. I'll just briefly cross where the dilemmas are. First, the question arises whether there are chemical differences between conventionally produced food and genetically modified food. So far science has found no difference. Safety of consumption, as well as conventional production. Allergic possibility, yes equally, but nothing more than a conventional way. If the peanut gene is used, and someone is allergic to peanuts normally to be allergic to that food, but it's nothing more than, I say, in this classic production. What effect the genetically modified organisms have on nature, i.e. Is there any possibility of transforming genetically modified organisms into weeds? Science has answered these questions. No product is placed on the market that is not based on science and tested by science, i.e. In order for the product to be registered for registration to be necessary to know and attach research, literally structure of the organism. What gene was used and how does it work on the plant, how does it affect human health? Is he toxic by himself and is he allergic? Where does the gene go around, can it spread to unmodified plants? What's happening to him in the ground? How it affects water and how it affects other insects, birds, fish, etc.? It's a very sad line for me when opponents of genetic engineering use arguments will be corporate monopolys over seeds and the production of genetically modified food. First, we forget that the seed is the cheapest link in the chain of production, and let's remember, here I repeat that x times, corn. Does someone today sow corn from the past, or their own seed? It is perfectly normal to use new seeds every year, to buy these seeds and believe that there are no hybrids we would still be far more hungry today and the world would produce far less food. Therefore, we are also addicted to someone who will produce these seeds. It's not made at home. After all, I'm going to give the freshest information now. They're all just full of newspapers, because our farmers are whining we're gonna have to sow our own seed because we don't have the money to get it, which means they want it too. Therefore, it is necessary to change the seed, it is necessary to take the quality seed, it is necessary to take the finished seed. So what role do big corporations play here besides delivering quality seeds? On the other hand, is it not perhaps the concern of geneticists themselves who have had to invest for 10, 15 years in producing a new variety, a new hybrid, new wheat, and today genetics can very quickly know genes, and know what quality it wants to repair? It literally caricates the gene, conveys that wheat gene in what sense it wants to make a selection. So why would that be an argument? Or I'm saying, and colleagues have mentioned that many have indicated that genetically modified organisms are a threat to biodiversity, and that it is not taken into account that far more plant and animal species are destroyed in South America, India, Africa, where forests are cut and burned in an effort to quench hunger. In order for it to be better instead of helping poor occasional food deliveries, it may be more effective to feed them permanently through education and the application of the exact science of molecular chemistry. It's precisely because it's created precisely this GMO panic, etc., selected rice that has far more vitamins than it normally has classic rice that would save many children's lives today is not put on the market because it's simply a genetically modified organism. But should two evils be chosen less? Is this how you save thousands and thousands of children, and maybe, I say, it's because of some allergy at some point, maybe which child dies, but not from allergies, from vitamins, but from something else. So I think it's very important here that we take care that the way we produce is not always a guarantee of quality. We have good genetically modified production food, we have good conventional production food, and to claim that only organically produced food is healthy is very harmful. I'm just going to give you an example of spinach and nitrates and nitrates. Let it be wrong in organic fertilisation, let the mineralization factors agree, and it is possible to obtain harmful spinach with organic production, harmful salad that is not suitable for consumption. So I don't think that we should focus exclusively on what and how to put on the market, but I think that we should make sure that food is healthy, that food is properly marked, that we give people a choice to choose what they want and what they can pay for, rather than shining fear and fear to charge. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-29-0.u41578	Thank you. One correction. Ms. Representative Mariana Petir.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-29-0.u41579	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Mrs. Chuhnil said this was a controlled selection. So that's not true because when we talk about selection we're talking about improving quality within a species. When we talk about genetic modification, we're talking about mixing genes of different species, so we're talking about somebody playing God and he doesn't know how it's going to end. And secondly, it's important to point out, so it's not just one profession that's most important here, so here we should give room for opinion not only to agronomists, doctors, biologists, bioethicalists, because this is about a multidisciplinary issue that can certainly have consequences for our lives.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-29-0.u41580	HDZ representative club Mr. Dragan Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-29-0.u41581	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen. In fact, we have seen that this amendment and the addition of the law, as well as when there has been a debate on basic law, is always an opportunity to reopen this broad debate on whether the scientifically harmful impact of GMOs on human health has been proven, how reliable research so far is, why food containing less than 0.9% of GMOs does not have to be particularly declared. Why is it exactly 0.9% and I don't know 0.8% or 1.2%? Whether this decision has been taken on the basis of scientific research or simply a political decision and a compromise that the conservative European Union still had to give in under the pressure of the global market. Is the GMO issue just an economic question, or is that an ethical question? But ethically and with two totally opposing views that each other almost rules out. So, on the one hand, in response to the growing problem of the population and the problem of hunger in the world, and on the other hand, one contrary opinion that it is a rough intervention in nature. So the public attitudes as we can see and here in the assembly are extremely divided. What should be said when we talk about Croatia and GMOs, that the Republic of Croatia behaves in accordance with the most conservative views of the European Union whatever that means. It is important to note that the first laboratory for genetically modified organisms for the control of GMOs, food, livestock and soybean products, which we consider to be extremely important, is established and accredited as part of the Institute of Public Health. Because when we had a few years of contamination and the occurrence of these cases of analysis that we did in the Republic of Croatia were not relevant in court proceedings and therefore, we had to do these analyses abroad. That's why the design of this lab is extremely important. In fact, when it comes to this law, the question of what damage to human health can be produced by genetically modified food. In fact, science and profession did not give final answers. But what is known and what the results of scientific research testify about is that in the nature of conventional plants, GMO plants can be contaminated with plants and that in this sense GMO really poses a threat to plant genetics and the preservation of biodiversity. This is why the HDZ Club considers it necessary to seriously review the chapter on the co-existence of traditional and GMO crops and we have made it the same with the HSS Club and in the form of amendments. In fact, even in the European Union, this area is not regulated uniformly. Moreover, Member States also have exceptions, i.e. the possibility to regulate this area on the basis of their own assessments. Co-existence is a very hard-to-control mechanism that prescribes the law, which would, with certainty and reliability, prevent the contamination of traditional crops of GMOs. It is not necessary to say what impact this might have on the sustainability of organic production, or organic production, is not particularly possible in the conditions of agriculture, as is unfortunately in the Republic of Croatia today, that we have a large number of properties, that the properties are fragmented, that a large number of owners are etc. So it's certain that it all makes it impossible for these things to be kept under control by avoiding the possibility of contamination between traditional crops and those containing the seeds containing GMOs. Secondly, we need to make ourselves clear. Namely, as a country that prefers, so in its image that we are a country of healthy environment, tourism, rich water sources with a view to large organic production, etc. So there we have to see, and at all, what it means is a stronger representation of GMOs in production. So, in that psychological sense, and in terms of preserving this image of ours, that is, one tourist country, ecologicals, organic production, etc. When it comes to food containing GMOs as a percentage above 0.9% and which must be declared, it is, however, when it comes to the system in which things are controlled. So the consumer simply has a choice. If something is declared, if that food says it contains genetically modified organisms, then it is simple for the consumer to price and because of his prejudice or lack of prejudice or otherwise. So he just has a choice. However, in the event of co-existence, there is no right to choose and the situation is not under control. The law is trying to create correct frameworks. So in all these regulations, the protection against contamination is not guaranteed. And I say first and foremost because of our agricultural production structure. That is why the HDZ Club proposes to delete from the law provisions governing co-existence. It is certain that with this amendment and this attitude, we will not solve this problem. We can have a situation that in our neighborhood I do not know from Bosnia and Herzegovina, Serbia etc. that they have fields with such cultivation and that we simply cannot protect ourselves to the end. But in some ways, by introducing the law itself, it is a guarantee that this possibility is much less, that it tries to minimize itself. On the other hand, the club also supports the changes and additions in the part where we comply with European Union legislation and also respects this part of the fact that there has been a reform in the Sanitary Inspection System and that it has now moved from the state administration to the Ministry of Health and has jurisdiction over GMO food. It is also intended to welcome these amendments to the inspection system, so that there is the possibility of collecting the mandate on the spot for perpetrators of the offence, as well as to re-enforcing the same offence, giving a protective measure to prohibit the carrying out of activities from three months to one year or to a legal or natural person and the punishment for attempting to breach in accordance with the provisions of broken legislation. Also, during the debate on this law, it is also necessary to take into account the fact that 18 counties in the Republic of Croatia, as has been said here, have been declared an area free from genetically modified organisms and, in this sense, the proposal and this one of our amendments that the decisions of the counties declared free from GMOs become valid and also excludes the possibility that the Government of the Republic of Croatia is introducing GMO reproductive material into the environment in these areas. And here, at the end of the HDZ Club, will support these amendments and additions to the law by submitting together with the HSS Club and these three amendments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-29-0.u41582	Thank you. Individual debate, Mr. Representative Jerko Roshin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-29-0.u41583	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. I don't know if any of you ever planted me, and then he took off those traps, and then all your hands smell for hours, and that lasts one pleasant smell, it's almost perfume. ... Pomidore, pick me up. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Well, we've been looking for the word tomato, tomatoes, tomatoes and stuff, so I've stayed on the pomidors, because I'm also being lured, as they say, a moving salad or a moving scarf, but you know what it is. In any case, it's just as hot as it is when I remember when I was a kid, and then I got two grains of salt in the summer, and that's great in summer. Water goes to your mouth, right, Ivanka? But more and more often we eat some other kind of pomo, with beautiful names, let's say by Monte Carlo they look great, inside it's wood and water and without any taste. Things change. I may have laughed at my old people when they said it was worse and worse, and I came to this stage to say that food is getting worse and worse. However, the world’s great hunger certainly urges the need to address this problem, to be as hungry as possible, to ensure as much food as possible, but whenever there is a need for something to grow and a profit that can be done in advance. Well, I think there's also one dose of profit in this, not just one dose of concern for the hunger of one big part of the world. In fact, we're more and more witnessing the loss of trust in a lot of things that come globally these days, these last decades, so we don't believe in Wall Streath any more, but we think it's been generated by some and then spread like tsunamis all over the world for a particular purpose, maybe to drop the value of real estate so that those who've saved the money on the side use it to buy it. We don't even believe that any pig or bird flus are just so random natural phenomena anymore, it's as if they're being launched to sell some drugs, facial masks and stuff like that. We simply lose confidence in doctors who send you from one to the next, so that this time a lot of commercials go forward, especially in pharmacology and release medicines that are given and medicines that are unloved. And even now, unlike drugs, you're advised... , and it's actually just one more expensive type of treatment in a different way, so you think they're also accused of drugs just to make the comopathy... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So there's one big growing mistrust about all these things that happen, and so on about GMOs. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And isn't that even one... upside down that someone, the healthy, delicious seed that I remember from these pomo, or cherries, in which there was still meat, so we tried to avoid eating it, so that someone makes some supplies of some quality seeds, so that at the moment when the crisis with GMOs rises to a higher level, they suddenly use it for one big profit. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Many things doubt because the question of ethics has been brought to a very low branch and when we talk about the seed, which Zdenka mentioned, then this seed is often manifested as a seed of evil, not as a seed of good. I would have had no scientific knowledge of GMOs, but of course from the general culture I know what it is, how it occurs, what it intervenes, is apostrophe at this point in time, the question of ethics. I think that the issue of GMOs in this case is very important one ethical question, manipulations with genetic material, but also when we talk about genetically modified organisms, we know that man is genetic, that man is the same organism, and that these genetic modifications of man, there is no colleague Vac, who last time on the subject of genetics and potential racial approach warned me of possible different interpretations of my statement, but the fact that genetic modification of organisms does not stop and that in some way we are entering a minefield that we don't even know is a minefield and that we don't know if we're going to step on a mine today, tomorrow or when, because all of the changes that occur are manifesting their consequences much later. That is why I am a supporter of a conservative method in anything, and we have also had a recent debate in the House on another subject where intervention is also about what God has created or nature if someone does not believe in God. I do. And it seems to me that in a certain way we are resting more and more and more to take the role of a dear God in order not to adjust things to ourselves, rather than to adapt to what we find in our environment. The law which is the subject of this debate certainly represents one thing I would say is a good adjustment to the obligations that come to comply with some world. The law incorporates modalities which GMOs at their lowest level of danger, especially with the two amendments I had the opportunity to read, in terms of co-existence, i.e. the non-resistance of GMO crops and conventional organic farming of agricultural products. It is certainly an important national strategy to bring this up by its own court. But it's also very important what we all advocate is that man has the right to choose. So what today with 18 counties seems to me to exist, to leave this freedom, to determine whether the counties will be a GMO free zone, a free zone, a relieved GMO crop and all the risks that GMOs bear to themselves and that at least in certain areas of Croatia they can safely say that these dangers do not exist. On the other hand, I would like to point out that Croatia has these advantages of quality and good food, even in quantities that are not even used today in the dimension in which they might be. That food can be our oil, it's just a question of whether we'll have enough people and whether there'll be people interested in taking our oil out. And I think that right in the world of GMOs food, what today on world markets and shops would sell with 30, 40% more expensive than normal food, normally under quotes, or GMOs produced, would be a big hit in the world, more and more people in this way are fed, more and more shops with such food are opening up, which means that people everywhere in the world still vary one and another quality of food. Unfortunately, there are those who are hungry, people who are hungry need help. There is, as counterpart Doric said, there is a smaller and greater evil, let us choose less evil which may be, but we are aware that we do not have to afford all evil if we are not forced to do so. I'm surprised only in the debate, especially from my colleague Holly, who is extremely interested and represents all the ecological positives, in my court, who tends to act more as a politician in her debate on behalf of the SDP club than an honest advocate for this because, I have the impression, because she talked more about the government than the GMO and the GMO problem, and she said in a way that it would only end up coming that the government is not capable, and I think that the issue of GMO nutrition is extremely important and that it should not be so politicised. In any case, I support this law in addition to its amendments, along with those amendments of HDZ and HSS clubs as something that ensures a guarantee of a minor danger to experience the application of GMOs in the area of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-29-0.u41584	Thank you. Replica, Mr. Representative Miljenko Doric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-29-0.u41585	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, I just wanted to replicate here even though there is no colleague Holly here, I don't believe she did it in some kind of evil intention. She truly believes that this technology is inferior to what provides conventional, or ecological agriculture. So let's not accuse each other, let's try to convince each other, that's the password I answered. So let's try to convince each other with arguments.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-29-0.u41586	Replication response, Mr. Representative Jerko Roshin.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-29-0.u41587	My colleague Doric thinks the same thing that you do, I said in my speech that I see with my colleague Holly an exceptional interest and effort on an ecological life, and that is why I am surprised that she spoke more politically on behalf of the club than she would have talked about in the interest of the topic we discussed. So it's not an objection to a colleague but to her speaking on this occasion.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-29-0.u41588	Ms. Danica Hursa. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-29-0.u41589	I would like to thank Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. I would introduce the problem of GMOs to three levels. First, because of the lack of knowledge of the problem, the first reaction of each of us is the desire to defend ourselves and protect ourselves from the unknown. I'm firmly convinced, here we are today, and we're proving that our public doesn't know enough about the problem. The second level or step is logical, so we should try to get to know the problem and understand with the help of course professions and sciences. The third level is, of course, leading to relevant knowledge, to determine whether we're going to try to regulate co-existence with the newspaper or if we're going to ban everything together and push it away from ourselves. Where are we like a country compared to these three levels? By my assessment, we've jumped over and we're still skipping the second level where, like I said, we should get to know and understand the problem. So from the first level, we jump to third position. In that third position, as we can see, there are no unclassified ones. We share on those who are for GMOs and those who are against them. After 1998, in which we passed the initial law and bans of the Croatian Assembly on GMOs, we started to draft the law in 2005 which, with the help of a number of other sublegal acts, arranged defence and protection against something we had not met because neither the state nor the scientific community had done enough to educate the public. In fact, scientific research at GMOs in Croatia is prohibited. I'm not 100% sure, correct me if it's not true. So in this situation, the public finds themselves in different ways, and most of them remain at the first level that I talked about where things are mystified because of ignorance, the fear and mistrust of the unknown remains. As a small country with many neighbours, we cannot ignore the fact that GMOs exist. As a country, we may wish to ban entry into our country, but we must bear in mind that our first neighbours may host GMOs and then what? Europe tried to meet GMOs. In many major EU countries, neutral and independent laboratory and Polish experiments were conducted with GM food and crops. The task was objectively to assess the risks and effectiveness of GMOs in the field. The result, and here I will convey Dr. Simic's attitude and thoughts, a researcher of the Osijek Agricultural Institute, he says, "The results have shown neither GMOs as risky as environmentalists, nor are they as effective as the multinational biotechnology companies propagating." And before I could finish, I'd like to ask the legislator a few questions. Did the Council for GMO Government of the Republic of Croatia discuss the draft law? Secondly, did you provide a 30-day legal minimum deadline for a public hearing under this bill? Third, why do Articles 8 and 9 of this bill extend the deadlines from 5 to 10 years? And the fourth thing that can be considered a business secret, for example? The term is referred to in Article 13 of this Law. And résumé. I, like all representatives of the HNS Club, expect the decided attitudes of our country's profession and science regarding the problem of GMOs, especially about GM crops. So long as this position is gone, I am giving absolute advantage to organic crops, by the more we are a land of preserved soil and huge surfaces, which, if put into operation, can feed their own population and achieve the exports of products that are sought in Europe and the world and pay well. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-29-0.u41590	Thank you. Mr. Agent Tonino Picula, he's gone, he's losing his word. Mr. Representative Bruno Kurelić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-29-0.u41591	Dear secretary, colleagues and colleagues. At this time when attention really falls, it's hard to talk about this problem, and even after your exposure, say too much too much. It is difficult to defend some of the thesis after the presentation of Professor Doric, because they are the product of his scientific work and therefore look, his view of these amendments to the law, but I can also say that my path will be medium somewhere and that I will try precisely because he said that many will have different opinions from his, and as a medical practitioner, he will present his opinions. I particularly liked it in that part of Mr. Roshin's discussion, a discussion that stems from following up on this issue in the public in the people that this issue surrounds. Simply honest and trying to relate, i.e. to give your critical reference to the ethical problems of GMOs. What do you briefly say about GMOs? The transfer of genes, therefore, of inherited factors between... animals, plants, bacteria or viruses to another organism, most often the plant changes the hereditary basis of a particular organism, a new organism is created in which the material that does not naturally exist, but now will remain there forever and will be taught to the next generations. Tonight, in this debate, in these previous discussions, I heard both the concept and genetically modified food that I absolutely disagree with. We can only modify the organism, not the food. Namely, the gene acts only within the body, not as a spice in the food. So there's only food in which there's genetically modified organisms. In the light of the arguments that are for and against the introduction of genetically modified organisms, the basis of knowledge so far is free to say that those who point to the risks of the introduction of GMOs are far more credible. All those who promote the introduction of genetically modified organisms under the premise that this will solve the problem of global hunger, and that this will create diseases resistant organisms, which each year carry a large part of the crop, create organisms that will be resistant to temperature extremities, an organism that will have a shorter maturation period, which increases the number of harvests, have often proved to be unwarranted. Those who cite the risks of introducing GMOs and its harmfulness around them give far more acceptable solutions. The example of Gotfield Walker, who was the first farmer in the German state in Hessen, authorized to sow GMO corn at the end of the 1990s. After... cow and part of the new herd that was born with deformations as a result of feeding GMO corn, tests in an independent laboratory showed that his country where corn and cows were found toxic as well as the organs of his dead cows. At the time were very popular research by leading Russian biologist Irina Ermakova, who showed great harmfulness to living organisms as a consequence of feeding GMO soybeans. I won't give any more examples. It is interesting to note that lobbys that are propagators and supporters of the production of GMOs are usually after publication a powerful machine for public relations to black out such research, not that the accuracy or inaccuracy of such research tries to fertilise new research that would refute these knowledge. Today's knowledge and the level of technologies that are being created today by genetically modified organisms will not be solved as I have already said to the world's hunger problems. So far, knowledge raises doubts about the widespread use of genetically modified organisms. And what's behind that if not huge power that could only belong to a small number of companies that would own patents on genetically modified organisms, and their possible monopoly position on the market. And since we have to feed, the market on which food made of genetically modified products will dominate brings boundless profits. Following this period of just over two decades, science dealing with genetically modified organisms has enabled a handful of private global agricultural industrial companies to ensure a firm foothold and patent rights to global production of such basic food products and cereals as rice, corn, soybeans, and soon wheat. And then there's a part of the saying, former American Foreign Minister Henry Kissinger, control the food, and you'll be controlling people. The dominant problem, in my opinion, of amending this law, is hidden in the fact that by adopting it, but in the meantime there has been an amendment, there has been a wide open road to introducing GMOs to us. Why? So I believe that... this bill of law they probably heard bees buzzing and flying from flower to flower, that winds blow and that it also genes to say so vividly fly. What will bring us, then, the parallel radiation of genetically modified crops, traditional crops and organic crops? There is a potential risk that genes embedded in some form may be transmitted to unmodified specimens of the same species. Genetically modified organisms could in nature suppress unmodified organisms from both Croatia and thus reduce biodiversity and have other highly predictable consequences for the eco system. Now, these were the reasons I put out here, which instructed me to vote against this kind of amendment to these legal proposals. But now there have been amendments, so I must finally say that I did not study these amendments in detail and then choose to vote. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-29-0.u41592	Thank you. Mr. Representative Dragutin Bodakosh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-29-0.u41593	Thank you very much. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, respected secretary of state, colleagues and colleagues. The topic that we are talking about and only those who have probably something to say and thought that they should certainly be important for us and for humanity, for people, and that is why these GMOs and food from them are also having to say liquids today and modern agriculture, but as we see here today because we stayed so late and is also a topic of heated discussions. Whether these are medical, political, ethical, religious, are related to this production but also to the consumption of this food. How harmful the effect on the health of this food is is that we do not have a precise definition and that is precisely why there are so many dilemmas. But that's why a large part of the population reacts differently to that production. In the vast majority, whether because of ignorance or not I don't know exactly because it's not yet so defined is not approved for the production of GMOs. According to some data, 75% of our subjects are against GMO food and do not want to consume it. Similar results are found in other countries of Europe. For example, 76% of Poland is against the ban on cultivation but at the same time it is approved to grow GMO food. America is more safe for GMOs than Europe. I was in America ten years ago, and I had a chance to see some of the GMO cotton plantations, etc. Therefore, there is one different view here than in Europe. Europe has, here, been mentioned, more conservative and certain that the name "GMO" itself is one of the significant places for food to be placed and therefore this food is often sold more normally. Croatia currently does not allow the cultivation of this food of GMOs imported, and if imports are not allowed to contain more than those approved quantities and if there is a particular need to be marked. The liberalisation of America is much greater than Europe and Europe is fighting right here and with all this stuff that this GMO is not prevailing. I have also recently read that the European Commission will call on the Ministers of Agriculture of the Member States of Europe to approve trade in some varieties of GMO corn. It will say that it argues that approved products do not pose any risks to humans, animals, the environment. We have approved several says of corn culture, but at the same time Austria, France, Germany, Greece, Hungary and Luxembourg have accepted security clauses that have chosen the possibility of a complete ban on GMOs. Environmental activists and farmers also insist on a complete ban on such products. The question is why Europe does it and what is it exactly. Why does that seem? Well, because there are certain risks, there have been mentioned here the risks of allergy, the possibility of toxicity, the unwanted transfer of resistance to antibiotics, pesticides, herbicides. The frequency has been increased, it is justified to fear that the number of allergies is increased precisely as the genes responsible for the production of protein are found in these parts of work around GMOs and there may be certain allergies to these proteins. Same question of toxicity. Sometimes by transferring genes other than the desired properties, they can transmit unwanted properties. For example, the properties of the incentive to create and secrete natural toxins which can be harmful for consumers. It's also a question of resistance, antibiotics, herbicides, pesticides that normally in such food if we consume it can be problematic for people. However, we should be particularly concerned about the impact of GMOs on the environment, biodiversity, stability of the eco-system. Just through what we've been saying and creating possibilities, creating some super weeds, modifying the food chain and stuff. However, there is a normal and well-being of GMOs. They are also described in the literature as improving organoleptic properties, duration, poisoning processes etc. which certainly gives one better quality of maintaining such food. However, it seems that from all of this they are not accepted enough to allow GMOs to enter both our fields and thus Europe to have one greater incentive. For this reason, I think that Croatia is certainly not a suitable country to introduce GMOs because we have relatively, here it has been highlighted, larger and small parcels on which it would not be profitable for such production. We are not in parcels, size or Europe, and especially not in America where it is much more and more useful to be used. And I also think that the issue of environmental pollution, changes in systems and structures would be present. Not to mention that if our tourists and our people were to be told that we feed GMOs by the end of all the resources we have for food production, that would be very bad. And that is why, in Article 12, where GMOs are referred to as conventional and organically grown food, which regulates the general conditions for what they were, I do not believe that this is a guarantee that there will be no breakthrough of GMOs in conventional organic farming, and that is why I believe that we should, as those countries I have talked about, vote in the negotiations and the possibility of a complete ban on GMOs, and not resolving this issue only with these proposed amendments. And finally, Mr. Roshin has left, but I would still like to tell him that Mrs. Holly, we also consider her a great supporter of the preservation of the environment and of the health of the people and of the adoption and of the newspaper and of the development in which she participates in both her own and her own and her being and the example. And who cares how she does it would be good to ask her in person. I wouldn't talk about it on her behalf. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-29-0.u41594	Thank you. Replica, Madam Representative Tatjana Šimac-Bonačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-29-0.u41595	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Bodakoš, you mentioned a short time ago GMO free, i.e. a great demand for GMO free food. We are also in discussion today, tonight we have heard that 18 counties have been defined without GMOs, diet without GMOs or genetically modified organisms. Also, the main branch, we are a tourist country, so the main branch of our economy is tourism. More and more tourists are looking for exactly GMOs free, i.e. increasingly looking for... , villages are revived and rural tourism is strengthened. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thus, tourists from their midst flee from GMO food. Imagine, I thought of stones on one side, a symbol of integrity and purity, and on the other side GMO food. We are a small country, our mission is to protect and preserve and in fact such a healthy food could be and should be the brand of our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-29-0.u41596	Replication response. Mr. Representative Dragutin Bodakosh.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-29-0.u41597	Thank you very much, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Well, exactly, colleagues Tatjana, what you're saying is that we're fighting and fighting for these resources that we unfortunately don't use to produce food, that's our country and our ability to produce both in the sea and in the rivers of food that is safe can be the most correct, which can be as such and presented as the people who come to us, and we can see that we can certainly live well from tourism, and also, if in an adequate way, we can enable our farmers to produce, and we can satisfy them to make better quality and better products and work and live. And that is why we believe that Croatia does not need GMO production because it has enough of its resources and capabilities, and knowledge to produce organic quality food that will be placed on the market and appreciated and sold. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-29-0.u41598	Mr. Representative Dino Kozlevac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-29-0.u41599	Dear Vice President of the Parliament, Your Honor, Secretary of State. Here it is late, I don't think we have anything new to say about this problem anymore, but the problem, not the problem, but the subject and matter, is such that it challenges the attention of both citizens and politics. As far as GMOs and genetically modified food are concerned, I'm going to read an interesting attitude right away, one conclusion I took off the Internet, so I haven't invented it, but I totally agree with it because I'm real and I don't think there's anything to add and taken away. However, for a definitive conclusion on the impact of genetically modified food on human health, we will have to wait. In genetic modification, there is nothing but a priori in itself bad, but genetically modified food should not and should not be introduced without precautions precisely because there are many misunderstandings. The spirit was released from the bottle as many times so far in history and it's impossible to bring it back again. Therefore, there should be no illusions about mankind’s future without genetically modified food, but it is necessary to prepare as well as possible to welcome that future. I think that's what's real. Humanity is growing, people are growing, food needs are growing, hunger is present in the world and genetically modified as one mechanism is there. However, genetically modified food is one technique, technology, and there is Dr. Doric and home in the area. I have to say that's one thing, and you'll probably agree, of the most significant achievements and discoveries in that part of science. It is indisputable that genetic food modification is causing major debates in biotechnology, that debates and debates, both political and ethical, and religious, and many things have not been clarified to this day. You'll agree that science and scientists, we have scientists and pro and vice versa. The arguments are counterconvincing in a way that, here I have had the opportunity to read a study conducted in America that proves that the percentage of allergies, poisoning, bowel diseases has increased. We also have research to support genetically modified food. The fact is, she's spread out in America. America has already passed a regulation that no longer marks it in stores, or in the sale of genetically modified food, virtually evens it with conventional food. It is also the fact that the pressure of companies dealing with food production in such a way, as it is both quantities and seeds, etc., to conquer new markets. However, I agree that Croatia is not an interesting market in this form. It's probably Asian countries, Africa, Asia, etc., but we're interesting anyway in our percentage. The fact is that scientists and science, if they haven't properly communicated it with citizens, with people, I don't think it'scommunicated. So today in Croatia between 60% and 70% of people answer the question and priorities against genetically modified food. But also almost 60% says there's no information, so let's just say he doesn't know what it's about. And no one said today about a prejudice, prejudice that Mr. Roshin, a colleague of Roshin spoke before. I've had a chance probably because I live in the border area with Italy, so I probably wouldn't say genetically modified, you're home experts than modified food, so when we met vegetables in the markets in Trieste over in Italy, I have to tell you that people were building according to modified food on that. Because that food we saw looked pretty ugly to explain it. One of the peppers that's normal there is the pepper of a kilo. The pomidors are huge like pumpkins, etc. So the food where people said, see, it's modified, it looks like plastic, it's artificial, and we basically said it was artificial food. Unfortunately, this food is around us today, and there's more and more food and there's been an atmosphere, and I'm not going to tell people that food produced biologically at home is proper food, proper food is clean, especially if it's biologically produced without artificial fertilisers, etc. and so much closer. And it's created meaning in the final and priori assessment and attitude genetically modified negative, artificial. Who knows what was done there. Food this produced at home, produced in our gardens, in our fields is the right food. What would that password say? "It's homey." But that's what she's made of. Now, where are we in all this? Croatia, given that it is not only a matter of Croatian and Croatian citizens, is conservative in terms of genetically modified food. We practically fit into that, in that part of European to say. And all that we prefer is a healthy diet, homemade food, biologically produced, pure, and we thank God for God's sakes and fields and parcels. Fortunately, the only thing good is that we haven't polluted them too much with the dirty industry, etc. With what we are, but generally we have a clean idea that Europe today is free to come to Croatia to summer at sea, eat biologically clean food through agro tourism, through various forms that are developing from Istria to Dubrovnik and more and more and more inland in the continent, and this is a practical convenience, one opportunity where the city, a good part of Croatia's citizens are already making one quality income, not to mention farmers who produce the same food. I have to say when I said before about the citizens that a good part of the farmer is against genetically modified food, but when you ask people why they don't distinguish what counterpart Cuhnil said, I think she's an agronomist and she talked about everything that's going on, that's what you and your colleague Doric were saying. People don't distinguish whether a mixed species is animal with a plant, or whether it's modified in a way that's been modified for ten, fifteen years. So it all created one resistance to genetically modified food, and normally in this situation, it is now unfortunately a policy that must listen to what the citizens say, as we say and find the best possible solutions in this situation. In this situation, I don't think it's good to have genetically modified food, and neither in this situation can it exist or co-exist in co-existence with conventional means farmed food. In the future, we will see if people are convinced, and how years and times go by what I said at the outset if knowledge, standards and values prevail that this food is right, good, that it does not affect people etc. And all the information we have today, and I'd say fears, then perhaps we'll open ourselves up to that kind of farmed food. So there's no need for us to go there in this situation. I absolutely support the amendments that will be made to this bill, because it is now very much changing the proposal. I will not say that I will be against this proposal now with these amendments normally provided they are accepted. I am pleased that Parliament has also come to the opportunity for the ruling majority to rightly influence certain legal solutions. Unfortunately, we have almost always been able to accept what is proposed. However, we will likely now be able to influence together the ruling majority and the opposition on the proposal made by the government. So here he is, I probably didn't say anything smart about it. I don't get into the professional part at all, but it looks like the same nuclear energy story. You'll agree that she's probably if something doesn't come up in the future. But when you remember again on the other side what she's wearing, it's the same debate. But once tomorrow around genetically modified food, if we're going to have knowledge, and there's management, and that's where I end up. The role, scientists and science to communicate with citizens is a scientific discovery, in fact a revolutionary discovery that will probably eventually allow for mankind to grow and feed more and more every day. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-29-0.u41600	Thank you. Mr. Representative Miljenko Doric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-29-0.u41601	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I'll be very brief. I applied for an individual debate because I couldn't respond to the correction of the wrong quote when some colleagues made certain remarks on my exposure. I didn't want to rephrase to anyone about the content of what they were saying, because I think the differences between us are the result that we don't really know much about these technologies and so we're learning together and we're probably going to go through some time, I'd like it to be shorter, get to the best solutions. We need to see from this debate a lot more communication with citizens. I completely agree with the colleagues who talked about it, absolutely much more because I would just like to say that politicians have to drag them forward, not wait for the people to push them forward. Therefore, we must be the ones who will be brave, who will know something more, who will get to know more in detail certain mechanisms, technologies, economic branches and then clearly propose them into our programmes and development projections. Maybe just two details. It has been said that my comparison between a car and a genetically modified organism is inappropriate. It is inappropriate today in the 21st century when every student of physiology knows more than a doctor 120 years ago. That's groundless. However, I called to the end of the 19th century with the appearance of the first car, with problems that doctors and society had at the time whether to accept or not to accept these new technologies. So it was all about knowledge, knowledge of clear problems and possible difficulties that could be caused by such a new technology as that train that was moving at a speed of as much as 20 kilometers an hour or a car that appeared a little later. A colleague objected to me and said this was a highly harmful technology and compared it to an atomic bomb. I couldn't possibly accept that. The atomic bomb is the abuse of nuclear technology, as well as in genetically modified... It could be abuse. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The bioweapons will probably be created by that very technology. But that's not the basis of what we're talking about today. We don't want to abuse technology, we want to use it for the benefit of our citizens. And we need to look for solutions to do so without having any adverse consequences. I would like to finish here with one piece of information, you heard two or three weeks ago the European Union, America, Japan and some other countries invested billions and billions of euros in one of the largest research projects of all time. It's nuclear technology. Not about the nuclear fission we used so far, which was harmful, which contaminated the environment, etc., but about the nuclear fusion project. So from an atomic bomb I was told was harmful, which I agree with. We've come from this technology to a solution that will permanently solve the energy issue on this planet for thousands of years. I hope it will be over a period of 20, 30 years, and then our problems are solved, with that technology that we rightly had 60 years ago, then rightly feared, today we can't and can't think. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-29-0.u41602	Thank you. Final review, Secretary of State Ante Zvonimir Golem. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-29-0.u41603	Thank you. Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen. I know it's already moved, but let me answer a few questions and explain the clear points again. First and foremost, I have stood as a promoter in front of the Croatian government, it is that these changes and additions to the law do not in any way enable the co-existence of GMOs and organic farming, but that it sets only the legal framework, that it is the minimum that we will in any way comply with the European Union, but definitely in no provision he has as such prejudged. That was the main reason. Why? When he... in the Parliament, when different formulations have been given in the same way that we are ready to accept the changes that we will come forward tomorrow when we vote on the amendments. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] What is to say, however, is that there was a very big debate in the public, sometimes this debate and perhaps even a clear misunderstanding of what is in the law, because here tonight it is mentioned that Article 6. The government shortened the deadline to 15 days, which is absolutely not responding to the truth, but is where it said that within 30 days, it is 30 days, the longest, and the government has put on this proposal but cannot be shorter than 15 days. So it's a completely different meaning that we're told we wanted to cut deadlines. On the other hand, I would give an immediate answer as to business secrets, where we are in the basic law, so we have a business secret register in GMOs not to be entered in the data marked according to this law as a business secret. Now we're changing and we say in the register we have to type in the data that's marked as a business secret. Therefore, these amendments and additions, here only these two examples show that when a legislative proposal is looked at on a superficial basis, then a category can be given, but definitely this legislative proposal does not give right in any way or enables GMOs to enter nature. When it comes to the way the European countries have dealt with it, it should be said, so the Croatian legislation is just trying to agree on one situation as to how, for example, it solved for us close Austria which in the same way, so also respecting all European conditions, as we respect them, has made it possible and created the situation that we have, as we have now 18 GMOs free zone in the area of 18 counties, and tomorrow perhaps the entire Croatia as a GMO free zone. Not wanting to get into it, science should absolutely say, but as a doctor I can afford and say this, science also today has done very much in the area of malignant diseases, but has not yet given an answer to what is causing malignancies. I can only leave for one big public debate that will be needed, because in accordance with this proposal, we, as before the Government, have put forward a proposal for the co-existence to be resolved by a special law, but we have accepted the fact that instead of the law, it is also a national strategy on what this House will bring. But what has to be said, and then it is implemented in accordance with all the regulations and that is the answer to this question, means also the GMO Council, and the minimum legal deadline for public debate and all others, all other regulations which would in some way affect what will happen to the co-existence or co-existence of GMOs and environmental models. In such a way, just one more answer. The deadlines of 5 to 10 years are the clear deadlines of harmonisation, as there are therefore in the European Union Directive, and what can be considered a business secret and why it is listed here, we know that one part of such a system is used in the pharmaceutical industry, and in research where we are obliged, if there is something that is in the course of clinical trials business secret, we are therefore obliged to preserve it as such. And we say everyone has the right to understand the data. Clearly, we must protect the business secret there, but according to this proposal, we have asked it to be included in the register. In this way, I thank everyone for the debate, and I believe that those who may have pleaded today that they would not vote for this, or perhaps they felt that this could really be something, because it is not sufficiently clear what this legislative proposal is making, that after this debate it will also support this legislative proposal, because in fact the whole debate is also focused on the fact that there is much and much to be debated in Croatia about GMOs, but there is no way that this legislative proposal to amend and supplement the government provides any input into the nature of GMO crops. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-29-0.u41604	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. I'm interrupting the session. Resume tomorrow at 9:30. We are starting with a debate on a proposal for a decision on a list of companies of particular national interest, and afterwards on a report on the audit of financial reports and business of political parties and independent representatives for 2008, and a possible report on the irregularities made to remove the audit of the State Audit Office for 2007 if there is any proposing of the Minister of Finance and State Secretary from that portfolio. So if not, then perhaps the proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Penal Code, the SDP Club of Representatives, and therefore, the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Social Welfare of the IDS Club, the Proposal for a Law on Special Taxation of the Club of Representatives of the SDP and the Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Scientific Activity and Higher Education of the SDP Club of Representatives. That's more now, already a bit of a theoretical, academic possibility. Somewhere around 13 hours is scheduled to vote on so far discussed agenda points and those on which we will continue to absorb during tomorrow.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-29-0.u41605	Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on genetically modified organisms. It was an emergency procedure, P.Z.E. Number 448. The Proposer of the Law is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The amendments were submitted by the Committee on Legislatives and Joint Clubs of the Representatives of the HDZ and the HSS and the Club of Representatives of the HDZ. I'd like to ask the proposer's representative to manifest himself. State Secretary Mr. Ante Golem. First, the indication of amendment 1 to Article 11. HDZ and HSS representatives' club.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-29-0.u41606	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-29-0.u41607	It becomes an integral part of the bill. The second amendment to Article 12 shall also apply.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-29-0.u41608	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-29-0.u41609	It becomes an integral part of the bill. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-29-0.u41610	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-29-0.u41611	It becomes an integral part of the bill. Therefore, the Committee on Legislatives, amendment to Article 1.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-29-0.u41612	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-29-0.u41613	It becomes an integral part of the proposal. Article 2 second amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-29-0.u41614	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-29-0.u41615	It's okay. Thank you. For the purposes of this Regulation, the
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-29-0.u41616	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-29-0.u41617	It becomes an integral part of the proposal. For the purposes of this Article, the
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-29-0.u41618	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-29-0.u41619	It becomes an integral part of the proposal. This Regulation shall enter into
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-29-0.u41620	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-29-0.u41621	It becomes an integral part of the proposal. Article 15
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-29-0.u41622	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-29-0.u41623	It becomes an integral part of the proposal. This Regulation shall enter into
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-29-0.u41624	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-29-0.u41625	It becomes an integral part of the proposal. In accordance with Article 19 of the
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-29-0.u41626	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-29-0.u41627	The Commission shall adopt delegated acts in
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-29-0.u41628	It is not accepted because the HDZ amendment has been accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-29-0.u41629	This previous one becomes an integral part, and this one becomes a 20.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-29-0.u41630	It is not accepted because the amendment to Article 20 has been accepted HDZ and HSS representatives' club.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-29-0.u41631	You're pulling back?
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-29-0.u41632	In a way, we're pulling back.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-29-0.u41633	You are withdrawing this amendment. Therefore, everything except this in Article 20 has been adopted by the Legislative Committee. And we have a representative of the HDZ Representatives Club on Article 1.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-29-0.u41634	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-29-0.u41635	It becomes an integral part of the proposal. Please join me, I am voting on the Final Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on genetically modified organisms. Please, let's get involved and vote. Score. This final bill was adopted by a majority of 77 votes in favour and 1 abstention and nothing against. Ladies and gentlemen, the continuance of this session is Monday 2. 11:00 p.m., 9:30 p.m. I ask the Committee presidents and the Committees to call before then the committees to discuss the agenda item, and this is what we have listed today, therefore, a debate on the Proposal for an Agreement. Okay, thank you. Good morning. Ladies and gentlemen of the council and MPs, we apologize for the little delay, here we are now back from Mirogoy. We're moving on with the session. ... Yeah, okay. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
