ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-20-0.u30096	Thank you very much, Mr. President. We have prepared here the final form of this law after the debate. I will remind you that the debate on this law began sometime at the end of the 7th month, that we have respected the proposals of the parliamentary clubs to conduct two readings even though we hold that it could have been adopted already after the first reading. However, the discussions that were held afterwards and several round tables involving experts from different profiles, not only representatives of cheerleading associations, but also people with experience in other countries that have successfully struggled with these problems have also resulted in some minor amendments to the law. But I'm sure you'll agree that the law is truly enforceable. There's been a lot of talk about passing this law. The public hastened us to pass this law caused by events in stadiums, but despite stadiums. The final proposal of this law is to protect fans, and it is our duty to guarantee them safety at all sports events. I will also remind you of the last derby that we had the opportunity to watch in Split where it once again proved to be time to deal with everyone who comes to stadiums not to watch games, but to cause riots. In Croatia, we have two extremes, hooligans that violate our country's reputation, and on the other hand, we have fans who are reported by all the world's media, so I will remind you of the World Handball Championship, from which in all the world's media reports on Croats as the best fans in the world are placed. And that kind of cheerleading actually is what we all want, both athletes and fans. So I am convinced that this law will have one quality solution. However, I want to avoid any illusion that after the law is passed, there will be an immediate order in the stadiums. And the countries that fought more successfully took half a year and years and longer to deliver the laws. I want to tell you that apart from this law in preparation and the first presentations have already begun there is the Ministry of Education through Croatian school sports alliances where programs for education of future generations and those who are already starting to come to football games, because we want to see those who are coming to watch the game at stadiums. Very often it's mostly football when I'm talking about this problem, and if you've carefully looked at the footage then you could see that during some riots on the field you could notice that most hooligans, not fans don't watch the game so during the naked video you could notice that it's part of the so-called. Fans completely turned from the stadium itself. And it was quite clear that they didn't come to the stadium to watch the games. I'll do it one more time because I think it's really important to repeat the statistics that are a serious warning and the real reason for this law. And so far, this is 4217 criminal charges, in the accounts of injured 324 persons, injured 54 police officers, material damage to 38 buses, 31 official vehicles of the MUP, 141 cars, 35 trams, 7 railway cars. I'll repeat the material damage even though they're not the most important ones, even if they're big ones. The damage done to the Republic of Croatia is far greater than those that can be expressed in numbers, so I will say that so far the clubs have paid 800,000 euros in fines, together with a representation of over 2 million euros. I will also remind you of an event that is not known much, which is that recently the hooligans almost burned the people alive in the car by throwing their torches into the car. I'm going to list some of the changes that have been made precisely by your suggestions that I believe have significantly improved the law. I'd like to remind you that you've been warning about facial masquerade. I think it's quite clear why disguises are forbidden. However, at the suggestion of the MPs, I think it was a representative of Lucin that there is a certain change that we are proposing, so that a face masking provision has been left out to cover up identity as an illegal behaviour. So facial masquerade is an illegal behavior only if it's done with one of the other illegal behaviors. Words or other specificities have been deleted to remove the possibility of an incorrect interpretation of the provisions relating to showing or encouraging hatred or violence based on racial, national, regional or religious membership. Also, police powers apply to persons who go to sports competitions, not as previously stated. So we've figured out how to leave out those who wear cheerleader labels or citizens who happen to find themselves there. This avoided the possibility of sanctioning a person who accidentally has a cheerleading mark, and in reality does not go to a sports competition. The police are authorised to ask officials who run the competition to interrupt a temporary or permanent sports competition if they threaten the safety of viewers or competitors. We want to highlight the difference in police authority when it comes to the threat of violence from the situation, when there has been an illegal behaviour of the viewer, but there is no danger of their safety or the safety of the competition. And also measures to take a passport that has caused a number of debates, I think we've managed to simplify it here with exactly the same result. And that's that it's not necessary to take a passport if we commit them to reporting to the police station 30 minutes before the competition. It's absolutely certain he can't make it to the game or he can't get out of the country if the game happens outside of it in 30 minutes. The data collection on persons and events related to sports competitions in international police cooperation can then be exchanged only data on the measures imposed by caution, penalties, security and safeguards, and not on registered persons not subject to a judicial decision as set out in the draft law. So this time, this refers more precisely to those with whom the police already have experience and have more tangible evidence. The sports alliances will be able to prohibit the maintenance of a sports competition at a sports facility that does not meet the conditions laid down by this law, which is a respected proposal from the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities. You'll notice some other changes that may be less important, I wanted to draw special attention to these. State Secretary Buconjic will provide further explanations on some other amendments to the law. I am convinced that together we will pass quality law and that we will be able to see less riots in stadiums from at least the second half of the year. We cannot be tolerated by violence in stadiums and stadiums, and we can only talk about fighting violence in schools or domestic violence. I think tolerance to violence should be zero tolerance. I suggest you also propose amendments, to draw our attention to some other failures by debate, and I believe we'll have a good law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-20-0.u30097	Thank you. Correction, Mrs. Gordana Sobol. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-20-0.u30098	Well, I'm going to correct just one incorrect quote from the Vice President who has now said in all that final part that some others are, that we're going to find some other changes to this bill than that first proposal that doesn't matter so much. But Madam Vice President, you have completely skipped what you are now introducing with this bill of law, which is a license to sell alcoholic beverages and it definitely cannot fall into irrelevant matters.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-20-0.u30099	Thank you. Before we go any further, I'll let you know that until now, six clubs and 10 MPs have arrived for this item of the agenda. According to our account if there are no further applications, we could finish the debate by, say, half one if we could have a vote. Of course, it's impossible to predict exactly how much a replica or correction will be, but we're counting so we can finish it by half-one, so I'm asking the clubs to let the MPs and the MPs know that there's going to be a vote somewhere around half-one, so we'll see. Here, thank you very much. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? Yeah. On behalf of the Justice Committee, Madam Representative Ana Lovrin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-20-0.u30100	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Madam Vice-President of the Croatian Government, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. At the 24th session held on 17 March 2009, the Justice Committee of the Croatian Parliament discussed the Final Proposal on amendments to the Law on the Prevention of Disruption in Sports Competitions as an interested working body in accordance with Article 73. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. Following the opening presentation of the applicant, the committee members made the following comments. It is proposed to delete paragraph 2 in Article 4 as this paragraph proposes stricter conditions for persons located outside the stadium, i.e. outside the sports competitions, than for those who are in the sport competition. It is also proposed that a clearer definition be made of a person who goes to a sports competition to define it in the legal text. It is also the opinion of the Committee that some of the proposed provisions do not provide legal certainty, i.e. contribute to legal uncertainty and pose a risk to citizens, for example. Not enough precise concepts of starting, coming to sports competition, travel etc. The Committee also considers that the provision of Article 3(4) should be complemented by a way that, when setting criteria for the identification of a minimum number of directors, i.e. the conditions for certain technical devices required and the equipment of stadiums required for the purpose of implementing this law, which is left to the independent regulation of sports alliances in order to obtain some approval or approval of the Ministry of Internal Affairs. After the debate was held, the Committee on Justice unanimously decided, with 7 votes to propose to the Croatian Parliament, to pass the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Prevention of Disruption in Sports Competitions with the following amendments. This is the case in Article 4(2), in order to delete paragraph 2 above, that the current paragraphs 3, 4 and 5 become paragraphs 2, 3 and 4 and that is because the illegal behaviour is described and covered by paragraph 1 of Article 4, and paragraph 4 of that Article states that all the illegal behaviours in the stadium may be achieved during the period from the departure of the journey, the duration of the competition until the return from the sport competition, which considers that the whole of that paragraph is consumed and paragraph 2 and thus avoids the illogicality that paragraph 2 prescribes stricter criteria, so that the citizen outside the stadium should not own or consume alcohol regardless of concentration, therefore, and in the stadium itself that the concentration of 0,8 grams per kilograms is permitted. The second amendment to Article 8 of Article 25 should be replaced by the words: "a person who declares himself or under the circumstances is obviously going to a sports competition". This amendment clearly determines the person who goes to the sport competition and in Article 32 paragraph 6: "the person to whom it is" is, therefore, that the organizer of the sport competition is obliged to make it impossible to enter the sport competition for the person who has been given the measure of the restraining order. Here it is proposed to replace this by saying: "a person he knows or is obliged to know that the measure has been imposed" since there are a number of sports competitions of greater or less importance throughout Croatia, larger or smaller clubs and that the organiser or club is obliged to prevent it if he knows or is obliged to know or if he is in accordance with this law and is informed. Here, along with these amendments, the Committee proposes to the Croatian Parliament to pass this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-20-0.u30101	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the HDZ Club, Mr Vedran Rozic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-20-0.u30102	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Madam Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Well, first of all, as a prelude to this law, I'd say a few words about fans and cheerleading because there's no sports performances especially in football if there's no fans. We all know that through cheerleading to one club it is expressed whether this city, one region and without cheering, all of our football or any other encounters are poor and through cheerleading if we watch when national species are encouraged we see that our fans around the world either in European or in world competitions recognized by our characteristic uniforms and that they regularly received the highest commendation for that kind of encouragement. We also remember the beginning of the aggression in the Republic of Croatia when the fans' groups first rose up to defend their homeland and that during that time they were not only on the battlefields but I remember working at the club that if there were some big derby or game team to jump out of the battlefield, watch these matches, encourage clubs or team and then return to the battlefield again. In addition, however, it is certain that a positive uplifting of its clubs, which in one normally large majority, because the majority of fans express, comes to competitions to encourage their club or team to win the team. However, there is also a small part that jumps out of legal behaviour, and therefore it is necessary for political factors, which is the Government of the Republic of Croatia and our Parliament to pass laws to prevent these deviant behaviours of smaller groups of fans and in some way to let them know that there are laws and that they will be in charge of maintaining order and law that they will strictly implement these laws and that all these types of hooliganism will finally be reduced to the lowest measure. Here, therefore, on 15 July 2003, the Croatian Parliament adopted the Law on the Prevention of Disturbs in Sports Competitions, which began to be implemented in practice after the entry into force. During the implementation, certain implementation difficulties have been identified and the Parliament adopted the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Prevention of Disruptions in Sports Competitions on 9 June 2006. The effectiveness of the law in practice confirms that from the beginning of the law, from 9 June to 12 December 2008, police have reported 4 thousand 217 persons in their implementation due to various forms of illegal behaviour in sports competitions, of which 2 thousand 143 persons are not subject to the provisions of this law. The need for the adoption of this law confirms the following data for the same period. 324 people were injured in the fight, of which 295 were minor physical injuries and 29 serious physical injuries. During the measures, 54 police officers were injured, 51 of which sustained minor bodily injuries and three serious physical injuries. The riots also damaged 38 buses, 31 official vehicles of the Ministry of Interior, 141 personal cars, 35 trams and 7 railway cars. The final proposal for this law, which is just ahead of us, is aimed at countering and preventing these illegal forms of behaviour of this small part of the cheerleading group and should therefore certainly be supported without delay. In fact, it can be said that there is a need for a change in the behaviour of groups of fans, fans' groups to start gathering families at sports resorts, peaceful people who want to enjoy sports, and this law can be the beginning of this road by its repressive measures. In addition to amending and supplementing this law, which goes in the direction of preventing hooliganism and illegal behaviour in the country through increasing sanctions on the new powers of police and directors, the obligations of the organisers, means all persons involved in the sport competition, effective measures that prevent persons who are prone to Hulaginism from going abroad, it was inevitable to comply with the provisions of the law in breach of the law, other positive legal regulations and opinions of the Constitutional Court, and, in this direction, in these amendments and the additions to the laws, the differentiation of fines has been carried out, in accordance with the provisions of Article 33. Infringement law, those provisions of Article 35 have been deleted in accordance with the opinion of the High Criminal Court and brought before the Constitutional Court by citizens. Following all of this as a conclusion, it is necessary to adopt all proposed amendments and amendments to the law, and in particular on its consistent implementation by all relevant ministries, to achieve the purpose of eradicating the worst forms of illegal behaviour in sport competitions. hooliganism on the very facilities where sports competitions take place, both in the narrow and wider zone of these facilities, and up to the safe trips to competitions in the country abroad which are attended by Croatian teams or sports clubs. Finally, the Croatian Democratic Community Club accepts the Final Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Prevention of Disruption in Sports Competitions in Second Reading.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-20-0.u30103	Thank you. The SDSS Club and Mr. Representative Ratko Gajica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-20-0.u30104	Mr. President, Madam Deputy Prime Minister. I'm going to say right away that we're going to support this law because, let me put it this way, we need to do something urgent. Given that this is an important question, and to put it this way, the complex question is not so simple that we can expect this law that we're going to support, it's going to cause all the problems that I want to point out here, or what we're looking at on the whole thing, consisting of, say, four levels of responsibility for this question. The first level of responsibility, that's this attitude towards theater and sanctioning the wrongdoers. I think I believe that this is how it's given in law, is a good solution. Here you have identification and ticket control, you have video surveillance, you have inventory when you enter, you have at the end of the misdemeanor proceedings, you have therefore quite good, to me it seems to be an effective assorted measure to find the perpetrator and to bring him to justice. It is, of course, a great responsibility, what we would say to the repressive authorities, primarily the police and the directors, and when I sum up all of this together, I repeat this level of responsibility in this law is well-formed. The second level of responsibility for which I cannot be shaped in such a good way, is this responsibility of organizers, clubs, associations, alliances, etc. However, the clubs and their alliances are somehow central bodies that should not be for repression, but for the whole event and for all events of sports competition, take responsibility. And that means that their role here is very important, too, and that their responsibility for what's happening on the ground and what's happening in the event of me saying, important, perhaps more important, because it's not just sanctions. I know it's not possible in the law to quite simplify the equation that comes down to this, if there's a mess, there's no event. But it seems to me that we should be made aware that in the extreme line this law and what we would like is going in that direction. If the organizer, if the clubs, if the sports alliances in a series of such events cannot guarantee order, then it must result in no sports competition of this particular one, there will be no events or it will be without the people who are here to make a mess. In short, it seems to me that the responsibility of sports clubs, the responsibility of sports alliances, this law is not sufficiently highlighted, and it seems to me that they are quite out of the fishing net here. After all, they are organizers, but they are also the ones most commercially benefiting from these events, they organize it in the end line not only for fun but also for work. The third level of responsibility that can be connected here, which I cannot say directly put in this sense responsible for these events, but certainly it is important that this is a question of the role and responsibility of educational institutions. Of course, you can't have decent people, especially you can't have decent young people if we don't start by raising them for that kind of behavior and we need to know that there are some values that we have to stick to as a criterion. Of course there's always one part of the hooligans that's been said here a little while ago that don't stick to any rules, but I'm not talking about them here, I'm talking about the mass of young people who have to get into their heads that there are some values that society in general must stick to. They must pick it up at school, they must, of course, pick it up on the street and in their family. But largely, or above all, in school or in the family and then in school. And if we get a large number of those who impose decent behavior, which imposes respect for these values, then those hooligans will be getting smaller and their space for hooliganism will be getting smaller. And I mention it because at this level of responsibility in educational institutions there is not enough attention in relation to these values, let's say, such public behavior. Or my responsibility, no matter how much I'm in the public domain. Of course, you can't regulate it by law, especially not by this, and you can't handle it from Tuesday to Thursday, but I'm very confident that the segment of education and education must see the problem behind this and see the work and task behind it. And level four, level four, level four responsibility for what we're talking about, this is a question of public space, of public mood, of social mood. First of all, political and media moods, social moods, above all political and media moods. As much as yesterday and as in the last or the last event, you had a public, say, media message in the stadium going on something completely different, something unacceptable, something that is hate. The one who carries it says, and the atmosphere is fantastic. Of course, it is such a drastic excerpt, but the one who sends an event to us who are not there must take care of what he says, because everything he says carries a message. He's got a message. As far as political space is concerned, we are witnessing that politicians, for some of their calculations, find a hundred excuses to justify some young people there by turning their behavior into a mess. Misdemeanor, of course, is to justify it, but hooliganism is not a disorder and cannot be justified. I'll stop there, too. What we're talking about right now, and I said what we're going to accept is a task that we can't solve just by implementing this law even if we consistently carry it out at the smallest point. It's just that on all these things that I've mentioned here, there's a lot of work to do at all levels of responsibility, and it seems to me that we're going to have more inconvenience because there's still a lot of work in this thing, not just the police and not just the directors, but a lot of people in society, and I'm afraid we're still going back to this. In spite of everything, I'm saying, I'm just saying it now because of the fixed reserve so we don't think now we're going to be easy. I say there's still a lot of work to do, despite everything, we'll support this law because it would be a greater shame if its adoption were delayed.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-20-0.u30105	Thank you. On behalf of the HNS Club, Mr. Representative Zlatko Horvat. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-20-0.u30106	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Madam Deputy Prime Minister, Secretary of State. Well, first of all, I want to say that it's good, very good that this law has entered the second reading process, and I think it's one very good decision, and it's seen that the promoters had enough time to consider the objections that were made here at the session of the Parliament, but also to consider the suggestions of the cheerleading associations, the fan groups that had a lot of objections on this first proposal, there were also mentions of the Constitutional Court and I don't know the court in Strasbourg. So I think it's in this... a lot of things removed. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] As a club, we already had some reservations in our first reading when it comes to the provisions on alcohol. However, I think that this addition, this amendment and the provision to allow alcohol concentration when arriving and staying in the space of sports competition so that it is considered an alcoholic state above 0.8 grams per kg in the air, i.e. in the blood, that it is a provision that has now made the difference between those really real fans who go to the game, do not go to the theatre or to a concert between those hooligans who because of the alcoholism and make riots and make problems. So, I think that provision has been struck and that it will not cause any problems in law enforcement itself. Also this new provision relating to the distribution or consumption of alcohol during sports competitions that are not high-risk and which as we see in the material is accepted on the Croatian Journalist Union proposal I think is a good provision and that the provision that puts the competition, sports competitions in the Republic of Croatia is at a level and according to criteria such as that in the countries of Western Europe. Therefore, it should not be afraid that it will cause some major problems. Of course, if that alcohol is poured, or beer is probably in some open paper packaging that is not dangerous to the environment. I think those are the provisions that cleared up some of the things from the first reading that were controversial at least as far as the HNS Club is concerned. Also a provision on, we had an objection to that provision on the withdrawal of passports to fans who would travel abroad and have a ban on attending sports competitions and it is a good provision to give up the withdrawal of passports and to actually introduce a measure of reporting to the police station. However, a stay measure remains for those fans who have been told to stay at the police station. I think that measure is of course necessary. But looking at the practice there should do a lot of things right in police stations, that they are willing to take such fans under quotes that could then and in these rooms of police administration and police stations cause problems, have their own demands, so they should adapt both spatial and other conditions not to solve such things. I would also like to mention the provision that the police will propose, please suggest this to the officials who lead the competition to suspend the competition temporarily or permanently if there has been an unlawful behaviour in a larger extent. I think that should put this provision, not that police officers can suggest, but that they can ask the official person to suspend the competition temporarily or permanently if there has been an illegal behaviour in a larger extent. Namely, the proposal itself does not mean that the organizer or official must accept it. So, the police should be given permission to ask for such a competition to be terminated, not only to suggest it. I am sorry that some of the remarks that were made in the first reading of the distinguished representatives of Lesar, Doric, Lucin, Mrs Lugaric were not accepted. However, regardless of which the HNS club will support the adoption of this law and we will vote for this law. But Madam Deputy Prime Minister, you know that well, so the law can be best written. However, if there is no strength and will to implement it, then, of course, that law has no purpose. This law is more rigorous than this so far, and so far, the law has also had many things that could prevent various illegal behaviors. However, there was no obvious strength or will for him to be conducted in practice. So this is where we should avoid this thing when we pass such a law that is well written, which has observed the remarks of the first reading. But that in practice, we have both the strength and the will to have it truly consistently implemented. I think personally that when it comes to these cheerleading groups that the vast majority of these members of such groups are really great guys, they're great girls. However, they are often victims of some handfuls or a group of hooligans from their midst who then harass them and other viewers. I mean, that's unfortunately so we have a situation, that maybe a few hundred hooligans are practically harassing all the other viewers and all the other members of such groups. I can tell you an example. I am the vice president of the football club “Vartex” from Varazdin, and there is a fan group called “Why Spons” who are really very good, extremely good at cheering for their club, following it on tours, putting on a great decoration at the game. But there are no pyrotechnic means to be used. There's no conflict with the police, with the directors. No knives or boxers at the game. So there can be such a group that quite correctly cheers, which follows its club and is looking forward and that very often with visiting fans drink together or hang out before or after the game. So there are opportunities like that. I look forward to the day, and I hope that we will welcome him when both Dinam and Hajduk fans will sing together on Jelačić's beach or on the Split coast, and I know that at this point it probably sounds romantic and very unrealistic. But sometimes such romantic ideas come true, so let's hope that's true in this case. So we must have both the will and the strength to enforce this law. That's where we need not only the help of the judicial authorities. Here we also need help from the Croatian Football Federation and all sports associations and the Croatian Olympic Committee. We need the help of the association of the family, and of course if all of this could finally end with this kind of illegal behavior that the whole of Europe is talking about, and the Prime Minister of Great Britain Brown is referring to the behaviour of Croatian fans, which really ruins Croatia's reputation then and in other fields, and not just sports. So let's all work together to implement this law in practice. We'll, I say, back him up again, vote for him, so let's hope we can make it this time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-20-0.u30107	Thank you. On behalf of the SDP Club, Mr. Representative of Shime Lucin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-20-0.u30108	Mr. Vice President, thank you very much, Madam Vice President with your associates. Here, after a little longer than we planned, is the final draft of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Prevention of Disruption on Sports Fields. Surely this is one of the few laws with the Golf Act or the Agricultural Land Act that has recently seized a lot of public attention. But unlike these other laws, this law seems to have experienced radical changes. I would dare say if we had a little bit of an analysis of our legislative activity that a little bit of a law like this has experienced changes from first reading, from first reading to second reading which ultimately doesn't have to be bad. But I will remind you, so on my suggestion when the law appeared in the assembly to go in two readings it was rejected. After that, the proposers themselves agree to do two readings, and the conclusion was that we would do the first and second reading at the last session. Here's the next session we got that bill. Why does it matter to me? Well, that's important to me because the de facto way laws are passed is a lot of talk about the content of the laws themselves. Now, what characterizes this final proposal in relation to the first reading, that is, the bill. Well, it's characterized by the next one. All what the proponents have been suggesting about the proposal as an argument for the validity and quality of the law is now lagging behind in the final proposal. Now I wonder what are the arguments today that this law is so high-quality? This is an interesting situation because if you followed both the media and if you listened carefully to the presentations during the debate on the bill, so alcohol and passports and measures, and that I am now not counting everything, yet what was taken down was the power of law, it was listed as a major shift and as what should contribute to the repression of riots in sports competitions. I definitely hold that we should have gone the English way. I think the English model and English road one that guarantees stability and fewer conflicts and riots both in stadiums and around stadiums. When I talked about it two months ago or I don't know how long ago, then the promoter came to me and said that English laws are too rigorous, or that law is too rigorous, or that there are both prison measures and that the penalties are great. If that was the only reason we didn't go through the English model, then we could simply reduce those penalties and adapt them to our terms and then they might not be so rigorous. Why do I think the English model is much better? Well, for a simple reason, because the English model makes the owners of stadiums, sports clubs and alliances responsible for security in the field. We simply now have a situation that the state must pay, that the state must pay a large number of police officers who work and conduct security on the ground. I'm not up for it. I think the police must ensure, guarantee the safety of citizens and fans outside the field, around the terrain, on their way to the field, and that the organizers, or owners of the stadium, must bear it on the ground. Now why didn't we do it? So I will be free and say so for a simple reason because in Croatia politics is too much in sport, especially in football, because politics is interested in ownership of stadiums and because someone does not respond that stadiums must have high standards of safety and that only such stadiums can be held sport competitions. Because if that wasn't the case, I don't know why the proposer, let's say, since it says that the M.O.P. worked mostly on this bill, the M.O.P. actually wrote himself this type of law, and it put a lot of money into it. I don't know why hundreds of cops should be squatting there in the stadium. Yeah, we're gonna knock out the gentlemen of the football league, but you're gonna pay us nicely. You know how many captains there are, you know how much that cop costs. You will collect huge money from tickets, transfers, commercials, and the state will protect you. Inadmissible. A team before Croatian sport, especially football, especially stadiums go towards privatisation. And tomorrow, when we have individuals, societies that own football clubs and other sports clubs and stadiums, will we serve them security? Here, you've got security services, you've got line service, so go ahead, guarantee security. And that's why I think de facto this type of approach to this problem and I repeat it from two months ago would also have a greater effect and make them more efficient. De facto, after all, I don't think we need this law at all. Why don't we need it? Well, we don't need it for a simple reason because if you want a big majority of incidents, fights, jackals don't happen in stadiums. They happen in time before the game and in time after some games on the way to the stadiums. Then we don't, we don't have the biggest clashes in the stadiums. We say when they play Hajduk-Dinamo we have somewhere in the Root or somewhere around Plitvice or I don't know where we're at. But that's why there are other laws and everything is the same for me, stoned by a fan of some kind of bus or attacked with a pole train, or someone who's not a fan. That's why there are other mechanisms and other laws to deal with it. So that's why I'm not very optimistic, and I'm not very optimistic in this sense that we're going to achieve greater results with these changes and additions. The SDP club will also propose to this High House and the conclusion that this is still a problem which, as the vice president in the introduction, cited and carried certain victims with it and all too much and too much cost you riots, etc., etc. Let's say in a year, one analysis is made and that this House of Commons is analysed and that according to that analysis, it approaches in a certain way in whether it requires an amendment and an addition to the existing law, because that's the only way if we have to keep this type of law alive because if we bring it in and forget it now, there will be nothing left of it. Now, what's been kicked out of the law, I don't think it's that bad, but I'm more concerned about some solutions like this. Let's say, the question of alcohol. I'm not sure it's good for the police to take that part of the job on their own. Why would the police be the one to give permission to pour alcohol at a stadium or at any rate? He is not in the police department to assess in the first degree security, or the degree of possible disturbances at a sporting event, but rather it should be an organizer because tomorrow someone will call the police. And what, you let the stadiums drink alcohol. So, on the one hand, police should give permission to drink, and on the other hand, they should control that they do not drink over 0.8%. It seems a little weird to me. I mean, if it's already allowed to drink 0.8%, then why do you even need that article about the license and where the games will be allowed to drink and where they won't? That's interesting. By the way, fans say that as for alcohol, Prime Minister Sanader saved them because if he hadn't drank that cup at that game and had not caused that media attention, he says that this change would probably not have been introduced. I'm not inclined to believe it, but I say what's said. Now, I'm going back to those stadiums and those organizers. What I'm also worried about, or I don't know exactly how these things are, and that's what I'm interested in how many stadiums in Croatia meet some minimum safety requirements? Let's just say, I know there are stadiums that don't have their sectors drawn, and there's no sitting places drawn. Now my question is how are you going to pursue someone if you have a map from some sector, so you only have that variant east, west, north, south. Why am I saying that? I'm saying this for a simple reason because I think this law should have clearly laid down minimum standards so that someone could get a license or permission to hold sports competitions at that facility because then you're de facto solving a large part of the problem. I mean, it's been a year for a few things days, but these things could actually be categorized in a certain way, they could all be listed and then say ok here's a year and a half, so do it. I can't imagine that there aren't any rooms in the stadiums where a court judge can stay, so if the stadium doesn't have room for a criminal court, he'll be on duty in court. Well, I guess at least they have some sort of administration space, some executive room, I don't know if you want a locker room. It's very important that the criminal judge be in the stadium. And that's unthinkable for me because then most of the clubs or stadiums will get away with not having enough space. So this is all about having to prescribe stadiums on sports grounds, stadiums, halls, etc. I think we have to make the organizers of sports competitions responsible. You see, I understand the intention of Hajduk to perform a ceremony during the Croatian derby but I don't understand and I can't accept that instead of not knowing 100 or 500 kilos of confetti to throw tons of paper, I can't understand it. And I don't think that would be left to me just for the football alliance to punish. That should punish this country's system. Look, if you don't know how to make a party moderate, then don't even make one. In my opinion, they're listed why the organizers are responsible. We'll have the torches at the stadiums by the time we make the organizers responsible for the baklad. So it was never clear to me, you have the directors, the security guards at the entrance, searching everyone who comes in. Now I could still figure out one, two, three torches to get through but to be the whole bouquet, I don't get it. I logically conclude who could have brought in those torches. I'm sure the police didn't bring them in, I don't think so. So it's the organizer. Now, no, if the organizer is responsible for the safety of the torches, I assure you there will be no torches and there will be no torches. There are a few other things I have left, so I'll tell you something about them when I get in person. It's about the directors. Where the organizers were made responsible. But I'm interested in who differentiates, who shares the job of security and directors. We know what security guards are. Therefore, a security guard must at least have laid down and licensed for certain tasks. Now, I don't know on the basis of which regulations at least I haven't been able to find it in the law to license myself or who sets up the directors because if at the entrance the directors and security guards are doing a good job or reacting to the beginning of the announcement of a riot and disorder then 90% of the work is settled because it was actually stopped at the beginning. And lastly, please, if it's in any way possible to throw out that formulation of police prevention in custody. Well, I don't know what kind of prevention it is when someone's being brought in. It reminds me of that old system when some high-ranking official comes to some place then the police are trying to prevent local drunks or I don't know who she's bringing in. Don't call it police prevention because it's not prevention and it's not police. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-20-0.u30109	Thank you. We have one correction, Mr. Niko Rebic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-20-0.u30110	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear fellow Lucin said that as far as this law is concerned, we don't need it, because mostly riots occur outside the stadium of the jackas in the streets, parking lots that I hold to be mostly incorrect because we all remember in Split Highduk-Dinamo when the fences collapsed, when there were injured police officers, in Kranj, so I don't list a series of examples when the chairs were broken, when vandalism was coming. So, even as a group, we became afraid and trembling in Europe. So I keep absolutely incorrect and that it happens outside the stadium just riots and not in stadiums. This law is also needed to stop even as a country in Europe our fans who sometimes act like a natural disaster and ruin our country's reputation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-20-0.u30111	Thank you. It is Mr. Shemso Tankovic's turn on behalf of the National Minority Representatives' Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-20-0.u30112	Thank you. Mr. President, Madam President, dear colleagues and colleagues. The National Minority Representatives Club will support this law because it offers many changes that can help us all. When I tell all of us I would especially point out us because I belong to this group that we are in love with sports and not only football, basketball, but all sports and all events, everything that happens around sports for us a group of lovers and I believe that many of us here this law is very important. It's important because in the last few years, we've received certain yellow or maybe red cardboard. Croatian sport got yellow charts from FIFA, fines are huge and God did not let what happened to the English with Heisel happen when they were suspended from any European competition for four, five years. That's why I find this law very important. This law is our message, our decision that we want to change some things and that we want all those who love sports to actually come to stadiums and look forward to these events. I don't know if any of you remember moments, I was a student at the time, when we were on the Zagreb stage no matter where you belonged, but we were fiercely defending our pets, arguing with fans of other clubs, and as far as I know, there were never any incidents. Perhaps few Dalmatians were temperamental, so they expressed more strongly, but verbally, their love for Hajduk, but I stress these were the wild moments that I remember very, very much. I took part as a representative in two committees, in the Committee on Human Rights where we discussed this law and also in the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure, etc. and in those remarks and technical details and amendments that these clubs have drawn up, I am not going to talk about them, the legislator will likely be obvious about these amendments. So once again I say, the example of England is very impressive and today you who love English football can watch direct transfers of the Prime Minister and you will see. There's a lot of families out there that come to those stadiums. So that's also when you look at it we concentrate on a sporting event, possible marginalities, they're just peripheral details that can also contribute usefully to the sport event itself. National minorities are particularly interested in the credible application of this law in practice. I say credible application, because the previous law, too, certainly had many elements that provided for a more quality application, but probably in many situations we could not experience that everything that was defined by this law was being applied in practice. Why do I say that minorities are particularly interested? In many sporting events, we witness verbal insults by minority members. I will now concentrate on non-ethnic minorities and religious minorities, although some other minorities can be mentioned here, but this time I will not say them out loud. We don't even react to some games today, when they hear a call for opponents of gypsies, gypsies, etc. And it's as if it's become part of folklore and no one's even raising their voice about such insults. Many media and media outlets have an additional effect on xenophobia towards others and different ones. So just over two weeks ago, I had a chance to listen, watch TV broadcast, where there was a direct cry of "Serbs on willows" and what wonders the reporter conveys about the wonderful atmosphere in the stadium, and he says, "What a wonderful atmosphere, we all enjoy these events." If it were me, I'd suspend this reporter right now, because I'm simply talking about a fantastic atmosphere, and members of a minority community are explicitly offended, threatened, etc. It's the ugliest thing I've ever heard from that reporter. Usually in the media, and usually when we talk about some events, some cheerleading groups are most often mentioned. Torcida, Bad Blue Boys and others, and I am once again in love with sports and a man who loves football, I am absolutely certain to say that in these groups we do not need to look for sinners. They're people who love sports, they're people who love sports together, and they unite some club. I just can't believe that inside them there are forces that would consciously go into a destructive destruction. I have to tell you that, like, since I often go to football games, I often go to Maksimir Stadium and I come to pick up an hour, two earlier, and in nearby cafes where I watch members of Bad Blue Boys and they know I'm a Hajduk fan, etc. I've never had any negative experience, because there's just no need for those on me or any of us to show their ability because they're more organized, more numerous, etc. The problem is in some sports club managers, or perhaps even better, with former leaders who want to bring unrest, within these structures themselves, who operate these clubs. And you oak, they want to come out at all costs. Well, here's what we saw yesterday. The media paid more attention to one man who threw out flyers than about all the events here in the Croatian Parliament. Therefore, gentlemen of the media, you are very much responsible for what may and may happen. So I have to say I love these group cheerleaders, because these cheerleading congregations are usually those who give a ton of these sporting events. The problem may be to a greater extent to the so-called. The quiet majority. The problem is, perhaps to a greater extent, that so-called. The quiet majority. The silent majority that no one even attacks. It often contributes to getting these herostrates another prominent note. Again I mention a football game in front of 60,000 viewers, thank God immediately I tell you, this game was not held in Croatia, there was a poster, a stone wire of Srebrenica. And 60,000 people applauded that poster. Sixty thousand people. I was appalled. As I was appalled here when I heard "Serbs on willows," yet the majority applaud, applaud and in some way express their support for these herostrates. So once again we say we will vote for this law, it can enable us to take a quality step in Croatia and to be the leaders of positive changes in sports events in Europe and the world. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-20-0.u30113	Thank you very much. On behalf of the IDS Club, Mr. Representative Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-20-0.u30114	Your Honor, Mr. President, Madam Vice President, Your Honor, Mr. MPs. I absolutely agree that we should prevent riots, but with the riots and what Mr. Shemso was talking about, in us often, I dare say a fascist rampage on the ground or rather on the ground. She can't run one of the stands for home, and the other stands to suit her. And so 30 minutes in one half-time. It's for me... It's not patriotism, it's fascism, it's not Mr. Gajica's debauchery, it's Ustashaluk. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The same thing, gentlemen, is true for someone's concerts as much as individuals listen to both MPs and ministers. And as much as I think this law should extend to events at certain concerts. Can't happen to sing about Jasenovac and Gradiška's old, the Ustashas of Kupres, can't start a concert with a greeting for Dom. He can't. And it can't happen that at those concerts it's "Kill, kill a Serb!" As well as at the football games of Mesic, Racan, Caine, Janez of this or that. And once again I'm going to say, it can't go through, it's not a waste of time, it's gentlemen of the Ustashale. We all know, on the other hand, that such messages are very financially profitable. For example. One singer buys an apartment no less than 10 million kuna in those penthouses at the Zagreb Station. And what they're going to say is that these messages can fall to fertility so I don't say income land. Okay. If a man paid his taxes, why not, if you don't have to ask him where he got the money from, but also to suggest if you say hello to home. That's the essence of the whole story and that's the essence between the rest and this law. Croatia must ban this behaviour in stadiums, Croatia must prohibit this behavior at concerts, as I also wish to believe the city of Pula must prohibit such an attempt in Arena. On the other hand, when I'm talking about the Arena, Istria is offering the Arena for Davis Cup in the 7th month where we should play Croatian tennis team and Americans and I think it would be a terrible tourist promotion. It is a brand for Croatian tourism and surely such promotion would bring far more to Croatian tourism than all of Bajs' incentives. And Thompson then come to the arena as a viewer and make his dream come true there, and by the ticket, without, but by the ticket that someone will pay him or he will pay. Secondly, what a man must ask himself is how, in the world championship, there was no incident in handball held throughout the Republic of Croatia. There were some incidents along the stadiums or halls but not in the halls. Why does that happen permanently in football? So because it's football, I'd even dare say something more than sports. It's a sport over sports as I experience it. But that's as Mr. Rosic said, among other things, the polygon and the expression of certain political messages. Let it be clearly and politically negotiated. But one more time I'm going to say that mouthpiece can't go through. All in all according to the wrongdoers and whether or not the fans of the state have to be clear, it has to be decoded, the state has to be precise. And I don't think that kind of behavior should be tolerated. England did not tolerate such behaviours that had an equal or far greater problem than Croatia, so the Republic of Croatia must not do so either. The English have managed to put an end to it, which Croatia must end up with, and I say it can. If necessary, in the end, both Mr Bilić and Markovic must even pull players off the field, if it is better to lose three points than to give us Mr Brown, i.e. Great Britain is stopping access messages because I don't know racist scandals against their players. And I think we're doing well because we didn't or didn't translate what actually meant "To the House Ready!"". Secondly, there is also a need to ban an additional cheerleading attachment. Mr. Rožic, if I'm not mistaken in front of the club, said HDZ that our fans were tearing down a state structure in the '90s, and that's true, they were sending a message through the stadium, they participated in the defence of the Republic of Croatia. But today, they no longer have anything to tear down in the stadium, they can only destroy their idols. And outside the stadium on the street, maybe some others. So I personally consider who we are proposed, necessary, useful, above all good. However, a fundamental question has been raised as to what kind of practice will be, how the law will be implemented tomorrow. Now that depends on the government, and I will say once again, the Croatian government will come to the test after this law. Hooligans, terrorists, I don't know Fascism, we have nothing to talk about. They should be defeated. If it doesn't go differently, then that policy should also be stepped down as a German does. So you can't imagine that in Germany at a concert or what I know about a football stadium, someone would run for "sieg heil" just like they're running for home ready. Or "kill, kill, kill Jews" as the "kill, kill a Serb" can be searched there. Or “kill Angela Merkel” as Mesic is being scanned there, I don’t know Caina etc. It's football, gentlemen. I'll say more than a game one more time. It's a polygon where I don't know how to show passion and some relationship to power and social values. It's sports over sports. But once again, it must not turn into a polygon of splendoring failed ideologies. If so, then the state should be ruthless to these individuals both to fans and organizers and sponsors and to the leadership of these teams and not to list further as well as enough is howling in our stadiums towards dark-road players. I agree with Mr. Lucino that the police should secure all the way to the stadium, and that opportunities in the stadiums should be left to provide the organizers. When we organize, say, party gatherings for all of us, we're responsible alone if something happens to someone there. At football, they see that they are outside or out of the system. Well, he can't afford a chance at the stadium to provide a couple hundred cops in a full warship. Sometimes seeing in soccer stadiums outside the stadiums was only seen in Croatia once. '98. in those big Zagreb protests. But unlike Mr. Lucin, if I get it right, I think we need one of these laws and God forbid it's even more rigorous, that it's as rigorous as the one in England, so if we need to take away people's passports. So after what happened in Prague, should individuals be tolerated to repeat it again in one Vienna the same day as before in Milan, Udines, etc. etc. Let's not be kids. But clearly, there are stadiums to be arranged. Who in this country will do that in front of bankruptcy I don't know. It wasn't supposed to build halls, let alone build stadiums. All in all, what I particularly welcome are Article 21, 22, where a fine of 1,000 to 10000 kuna or a prison of at least three days to a maximum of 30 days will be imposed on a natural person who tries to enter or enter among other things, points out in a sports object a transparency, flag or other thing with features that show or promote hate or violence based on racial, national, regional, religiousity. Either Article 22(1) or (2) shall be punished by a fine of 4 to 20000 kuna or a prison sentence of at least 20 to 60 days, among other things, by the one who sings or casts songs to competitors or other viewers whose content shows or promotes hatred on the basis of racial, national, regional or religious origin, Article 4(1), etc. etc. Here to just a few, look at a few provisions. Article 2 of illegal conduct within the meaning of this law is considered drunkenness, let's say more than 0.8 of alcohol in the blood for that I am. In Istria, we were replaced by a man who had one date with two alcohol spills, which I don't think is right, because he broke his private car, not the state. Then, here is the attempt to enter, introduce or highlight transparency, flags or other things with text, image, sign or other features that show or promote hate or violence based on racial, national, regional, religious, singing songs or throwing out messages whose content shows or promotes hatred or violence based on racial, national, regional, religious membership. That's what I was talking about "kill, kill a Serb", "kill, kill John", "for a home ready", I don't know "hu, hu, hu gypsies" etc. Today, Prime Minister Sanader is in Belgrade. Croatia must not forget clearly that it was a victim of aggression, and we know that tanks towards Vukovar and other cities came from Belgrade, Novi Sad. But today there is a history that is not forgotten in some way economically needed to start building or establishing certain relationships. Croatia and Serbia will meet again in the European Union, certainly never again in the SFRY, the DFJ, the Kingdom of SHS or as it is called, although some form of stronger, closer economic co-operation would certainly be of interest to all. And we will see with what results Sanader will be returning from Belgrade today or the next day. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. I absolutely don't mind. I would if it hadn't been possible, because at all the stadiums in the world, it exists. You can't buy a can, you can't buy a bottle of beer. But everywhere you can buy a glass, this beer in a glass in that plastic one, whether 3 or 5 dcl. And I also think that here after Sanader's found me, it absolutely doesn't tang with that champagne in "Arena," that these caterers might need to be prescribed in some way, i.e. how they have the behavior of VIP guests. Because we know that with great sports meetings go these caterers that have good wine, beer, and not to add any more. Article 12 of the protection measure is due no later than half an hour before the start of a certain sports competition to join the competent police station. I find such a solution correct. I generally find the law correct. Article 21 of the fines of 1,000 to 10,000 kuna will punish those who in some way offend as I have said to other national communities, according to religious, national, racial or other belongings. For the end, once again, the law is useful. If he had been even more rigorous, we certainly wouldn't have missed it, because over time it would have proved that these solutions simply failed to regulate all behaviors. The IDS Club will vote for him as well.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-20-0.u30115	Thank you. First, at 10:50 a.m., it's past the time to report for 10 minutes to discuss. Second, we have four corrections and then the vice president came forward. So it's hard to predict when we're going to vote because of the corrections and the like that that can be numerous. The first amendment is Mr. Agent Niko Rebic. Please concentrate on the correction.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-20-0.u30116	Thank you. I thought Mr. Cain had changed his mind and I can see that he's still calling on Pula City Headship today to ban one singer from performing. So, unfortunately, the president of the country stands for it. But I claim here that they are breaking the law, they are violating the fundamental human and constitutional rights of the citizens of this country is the right to work is a fundamental human right and while at the same time they can come from abroad singing to that arena we would defend their citizens. What I want to point out is I don't think Cain can just change... [[The speaker is off, you can't hear it.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-20-0.u30117	Thank you. This is a fellow correction of opinion because none. I warn you to correct the allegations, not the different opinions we have. Please, we have a correction to Mr. Vedran Rozic's incorrect quote. I'm stressing again, a correction, not a correction of opinion.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-20-0.u30118	Here, colleague Cain is always this eloquent. I would correct it because he listed one of my allegations where he quoted me as saying that I said that cheerleading groups first jumped to tear down the order, then they... But that's not true because that order collapsed on its own. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I said cheerleading groups among the first jumped to defend their homeland against large-serb aggression.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-20-0.u30119	Thank you. Mr. Boro Grubisic also corrects the incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-20-0.u30120	Mr. President. Comrade Cain, in your presentation, you declared fascist children from 15 to 20 years old in the stadium saying that one of them was yelling, "For a home!" And one, "Ready!". It's a very sad claim. ... Wait a minute, let me fix you up. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] You were still talking about Mr. Thompson even though he doesn't belong to sports stadiums, and I must tell you that fans or listeners at a concert are not fans but listeners. Or maybe you'd like a nice Bren with "Catch, Chuck." And third, you were talking about Mr. Brown who condemned some mumbling in the stadium when she played the English team. It did not protest and expressed regret over the action of the English government in India and the torture of Gandhi and others. So don't argue like that.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-20-0.u30121	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. Our Rules of Procedure stipulates that the MP may be given a warning if he does not stick to the subject under discussion in his speech. I'm going to say that we have a lot of examples when there's a topic that's being discussed, and then you move on to another topic and then you try to make a connection to that first topic. I think Mr. Cain did something like that. But I don't have the opportunity to because you can talk about space problems because that's because we belong in space too. Well, then, then, there's always a connection that can be made and it's very difficult. I'm asking you to really stick to the topic that's being discussed, and then maybe there'll be fewer of these corrections, replicas and the like. We still have the correction of the incorrect quote Mr. Frano Matušić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-20-0.u30122	Thank you, Mr. President. First, I want to correct the incorrect quote of fellow Caine in which he said that in Germany it is not possible to see someone saying hello to "Sieg Heil!" And how he can run "kill this guy or that guy." I don't want to justify anything or defend it, God forbid some extreme ideology or extreme party. However, this is possible in Germany, because of the democracy they have, it is possible that they also have neo-Nazi parties that demonstrate their ideologies where they demonstrate them. So that's not the exact quote that you said that it's not possible to see that. I don't want that to happen in Croatia, but it happens in these democracies. In these democracies, they are known to be the ideologies of criminal, dictatorial fascism, Nazism and communism. Well, speaking of fascism and Nazism, you're also talking about the consequences of the communism we've felt... [[The speaker is off, you can't hear it.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-20-0.u30123	Thank you. On behalf of the promoter, Deputy Prime Minister Djurdja Adlesic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-20-0.u30124	Thank you very much. Mr. President. Here, I'm glad we're going back to Croatia, back to our law. And on behalf of the Croatian Government's promoter, let me thank all the club representatives who have spoken and supported the law so far. Thus, the right decision to implement the law is shown in two readings. I must tell you that, apart from the representatives, I am not polluting with my colleague Lucin, they have requested two discussions and clubs and the Croatian Helsinki Committee and sociologists with whom we have consulted to make this very improvement that has taken place. The law is really sensitive, as the Gajica representative says, incurs human rights, and it was quite difficult to come up with a quality bill. The amendments you've sent so far are mostly how much we've been able to read in the bench seem acceptable, so I believe we'll find a common solution and perhaps some more vagueness. It was interesting for us to listen to how some law seemed lighter, let's say, to my colleague Lucino, while fellow Horvatu's law seemed much stricter, so it depends on the angle from which you look, it's perfectly normal, but we'll try to answer the questions that remain open to you. You are right to ask questions about the conditions at the stadium for law enforcement. After consulting with the mayors, the Mayor of Zagreb himself was at several of our meetings. We've made this decision on the deadline for setting up stadiums that have been supported by some parliamentary committees, and that's a year's time. I must tell you that this is exactly the deadline, here to make a little joke, believe it or not suggested the Mayor of the City of Zagreb because of the Public Procurement Act that he wants to respect in the arrangement of the stadium. So I'll try to answer some of the remarks you made. I also thank you again for your support, so we are convinced that the law that lies before us is enforceable and that is what is most important. We are prepared, of course, after one year to inform you of the quality of the implementation of this law itself, because some of these measures really require interventions in infrastructure, and most of the measures can be implemented immediately. With the amendment, I just want to answer some of the remarks made by MP Lucin, where he talks about how it is not necessary to hire the police, but also the protective companies or more to avoid overloading the police. I believe that he, as a former interior minister, knows that more than 60% of the officers involved in the insurance game are not in the stadium, but is in the cities right now, following their transport and their movement around the cities. We can't expect security companies to take over security for citizens outside the stadium. So, unfortunately, we can't respect that part, and just as his clubmate, Mr. Josipovic is asking for stronger intervention and greater police responsibility, so I believe you'll agree in the club. I would like to say to Agent Cain that this is not about giving up the travel ban on those of whom there is already a record that some of these acts have been committed. The travel ban remains, however, is now being implemented in another way. Not only by taking passports, of course, they were able to travel to some of these countries with ID cards, but also by reporting to a police station. It seems to me that it is proposed, I'm glad you accept, that this measure is actually stricter. The fact is that here many will find only measures of repression. I remind you that the Ministry of Education with the Croatian School Sports Alliance is working on a whole package of measures that has begun to represent. It is certainly one way that is more complex, which is longer than the repression, which will certainly give better results in the long term, which is the return of decent citizens, citizens who are just because of the hooligans, their return to the football stands and sports competitions. Education is therefore the path we have prepared, I believe that next week we will present it to the public the Sports Federation is already working. I'll only give you one more piece of information if we really show how much some of these games cost the state budget. Now that we're talking about cutting. Last time I read it, I said the average price was about a million kuna. The last match held in Split sucked a million 594 thousand 591 kuna out of the state budget. With 232 police vehicles used, 989 police officers. In addition to quality preparations that start days earlier, with more rigorous measures I am convinced that in the end we will have good results, but don't expect us to get too crazy to the extent that we even work on the Catering Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-20-0.u30125	Thank you. We're moving on to an individual debate. The first representative is Dragutin Lesar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-20-0.u30126	Thank you very much, Mr. President. My colleagues and colleagues, Madam Vice President. The law is called and we've been having this debate all along about preventing riots in sports stadiums, and we all know we're actually talking about riots in football stadiums. We took the World Handball Championship as examples that we could organize and that we had cheerleading groups that could cheer, not cause a mess. I would remind myself that basketball can be organized, that there are international games without riots, scandals and problems. Both water polo and many other mass collective sports, team sports in Croatia have both domestic and international games where 970 policemen or 300 vehicles should not be hired. That's why I'm extremely sorry, especially for the events between the first and second readings, which are not Mr. Markovic and Mr. Stimac here, the president of the Football Federation and the president of the United League, because perhaps they could if they wanted to answer many of my questions. However, they are gone and, as far as I know, have not been largely involved in the debate in this law so far, as a roof football organization, because they felt it was none of their business. In the meantime, they may have read some of the provisions that they could be fined, so when this law is passed they may have an interest only when the first sentence is received. What changed between the first and second readings? We had one case on Po man, and would give such an example whether it occurred in Maksimir, City Garden or in Cantrida, which proved to us that the Croatian Football Federation and the Association of First Leagues in Croatia do not want, is unable and is unable to assume part of the responsibility in carrying out the consequences, first making the rules, and then sanctioning those who do not adhere to the rules. There was a naive disciplined judge, and he measured Heiduk 200 thousand kuna and one game without a viewer. By emergency procedure, and even if there were no complaints, that decision would have been changed, because whoever dares to punish a football club to play without a viewer. Please be nice in Croatia. In the discussion of first reading, both the government and the Parliament tried to find solutions to prevent riots. There's a scene going on between that and the situation at the football game, and it's like nothing happened. There was even one statement from the football club's leader that the destruction of which the director's office had taken place. So who ordered that redistribution service? Whose name were they working on? The Turkish Football Federation or Liverpool or the club of the organizers of the match. He says it's not my fault, it's the directors' fault, the director's office. And it's passing, it's passing in Croatia. That's what the football league is about. And the fact that even a football player, a club player, is lighting a torch in the field. And it's passing, it's normal. You told Mrs. Adlesic that this game cost a million and 600 thousand kuna from the state budget. How lucky we are that we don't have 10 games like that in one season or half season. Imagine if we had 10 derbys in six months. 32 million a year would only pay for police interventions and follow-up services so people could watch a football game or end a regular football championship. Well, I'm all happy that we only have two derbys a year because we save money and God forbid it doesn't exist anymore because it would cost us if, imagine, I have 5, 6 strong clubs that the Croatian Football League gets quality and that the average number of players at the football game goes to 15 grand. We're still handling this with 1,500 viewers on average with 900 cops. But imagine 15 thousand people coming to football stadiums. Well, then the insurance game would go to 2 to 2.5 million kuna. But the Football Federation believes that the problem must be solved by the police, the government and the Parliament, not by them. And it's very simple. As long as the Croatian Football Federation does not take over the same rules from the UEFA, we will have no effect on the full extent of this law and the government will continue to make sure and try to convince the public that it has done everything in the power of the executive and we in the Assembly will further claim that we have done everything we can and we will have the same consequences. How long are we gonna have to worry when our football club or team is going abroad, what's going to happen? How long will we have to worry that UEFA can ban the football team from competing as part of the UEFA for the rampage of our fans, not fans, but hooligans and not mass but 200,300 of them? So long as the Croatian Football Federation and the First League Association assumes their responsibility and does not apply the same sanctions as in UEFA or FIFA. They don't need to invent anything unless they have a translator in the football league. I believe the government will find so much money to translate UEFA rules into Croatian so that they can integrate it into their own rules. And as far as the bill itself is concerned, allow three warnings. Article 2 of the amendment first provides for the possibility that it is not illegal if someone has up to 0.8 prominences. Okay, but now in paragraph 2 it is prescribed that illegal behaviour is possession, consumption of alcoholic beverages on arrival only in the sport competition and when returning to the sport competition, and Article 7 allows for the pour of alcohol up to 6%, so beer is the simplest. Now, this article 2 in Article 2 is kind of not working out for you. It can't be an illegal behavior if someone drinks a glass of beer on their way back from a football game because it's not illegal behavior. And here it says that every possession and every consumption of alcohol and on the way back from Zagreb to Čakovec is illegal behavior. This provision should therefore be aligned with this, but not with paragraph 1 and Article 7 in order not to be contradictory to each other. Furthermore, I welcome the changes you have made in Articles 8 and 9 of the amendment and have made it appropriate to clarify that the fan is the one who goes to the sports competition, and not who declares himself as a fan or wearing cheerleader features, and I particularly welcome this change in Article 9 where the police must request an end to the sports competition if the conditions laid down in this article are met. In Article 11(5), you undertake not to sell a ticket to anyone who is prohibited from access, but then there should be an obligation by the court to prohibit sports competitions by providing sports advice. If it is, I apologize, but otherwise this measure cannot be implemented. And I end up with the next Mrs. Adlesic, change the Sport Act, prepare changes to the sport law, make sports alliances co-responsible for the state of sports, especially football fields, with too much money. They don't have a recession and a crisis like you have in the state budget because when they need to sell one player, and they're all more or less managers and earning huge money and a football alliance doesn't have any financial crisis. Football clubs don't have recession or crisis, and they don't have to do rebalancing. Make them co-responsible for this. Where the problem is happening, we need to start solving, and the state and the police on the side just need to help them, then we'll have initial results. Too much irresponsibility, cremation, people who have too much money in football and an irresponsible relationship to the state of it. I feel like, I hope you felt that way, too, that they hit us with our slapping behavior precisely because of the case in Pomljen between the 1st and the 2nd readings, don't let them slap us even after the adoption of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-20-0.u30127	Thank you. Replica, Mr. Representative Arsen Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-20-0.u30128	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Our colleague Lesar, as far as Croatian experiences are concerned, is mainly about football competitions and you have noticed in some way the indifference of the alliance towards these events in the stadiums regarding cheerleading. Also, in fact, this law could be freely called the law on preventing riots on foreign sports grounds because in fact the only new and effective measure is to report to a police station before these foreign matches. All other amendments to this law will not essentially prevent what is happening in Croatia because such behaviours have been punishable even under the current law without these amendments, therefore it is important that only this political will and desire to prevent such things. Of course, it's not good actually, but it's not good that it's just a few games with this number of viewers, even though you've argued it with a smaller separation from the state budget. But if the clubs had already forgiven several hundred million kunas, then two games more with a million kuna would have even been justified investment for such a forgiveness of debts. Finally, in Croatia, they are only at football stadiums and related to football games riots. But if they do, they shouldn't just stop at it because the hooligans will then both other ways and other games how to show some of their frustrations. For example, in Greece there's a game... is high risk if you play both water polo and women's volleyball and any sport unless the riots happen at football. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-20-0.u30129	Answer to the replica Mr. Representative Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-20-0.u30130	My colleague Arsen was well reminded of the law that allowed for the best privatisation and, in fact, the forgiveness of the great debt that football clubs had primarily profited from the football alliance. But unlike you, I'm not afraid that the hooligans in Croatia will move to other sports sites because I know the experience so far shows that other sports alliances have taught them their own rules and regular sanctioning clubs that did not adhere to them and work extremely well and on prevention, organisation and sanctioning. And that is why I believe that right at football and football stadiums we must and the only place we can win the battle is without support, we will do nothing about the active participation of the Croatian Football Federation. The ones you're afraid of going to basketball, handball or water polo were created in a football stadium. When we make order there, there'll be no one left to be afraid of. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-20-0.u30131	Second replica, Mr. Representative Ivica Pancic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-20-0.u30132	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Lesar, as the law is being implemented in Croatia, has best shown this game you were talking about, Hajduk-Dinamo, although it could have happened in Maksimir as well. After the sentence was imposed, what was the first reaction to the club's management? That they're not responsible. Why is that? Because we taught them this behavior because the political will and the willingness to object to the leaders, mostly football clubs, were gone. And is this one, is this new law going to solve something on that plan? I'm afraid it won't. Because once again after such a new game, whether in Maxim or in Man it will come again, and after the mildest sentence the answer is not our fault, it's someone else's fault. And this law really doesn't know who's responsible after all. Is that the organizer? What if the organizer meets all technical conditions and ticket counters and video surveillance and needs the number of security guards and what happened on the Human. Security companies act like they're not responsible for anything. Five torches can be entered, but it can't be 555 without the security company saying we're not responsible. In the end, some individual security guard will be responsible. And the whole story in Croatia comes down when a question of responsibility is asked who is responsible, eventually becomes the responsible police. And this whole circus is being paid by Croatian taxpayers they pay the police to introduce order, in the end the police are responsible for everything that happens and someone else collects a big profit and puts it in their pocket. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-20-0.u30133	Replicate response, Mr. Representative Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-20-0.u30134	You are right and it turned out to be an absurd situation that this statement that the organizer of this game is not responsible is not true because this is the Croatian Football Federation confirmed, they started from not being responsible when measuring the penalties. That the monks were responsible. But let's put it this way, if it's not the organizer, the director's office, and those torches probably come to the stadium a day early or in the bags of some club officials. Because they have to court these cheerleading groups because they live out of it in a media promotional sense. Let's declare that the situation in football stadiums is not responsible for either the Croatian Football Federation, or the association of first leaguers, or the police, and it can only be third, fourth, let's declare that Balthazar is responsible, Dr. Balthazar, we will find some chemical new formula to bring order to us and we will continue to tolerate this gentlemen in the football alliance with a pretty big budget that probably now and this debate is watching and laughing at us, laughing at us, as they do all the time, laughing at us today.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-20-0.u30135	... If Professor Balthazar, because it could be a prank, there's a restaurant called Balthazar, then it wouldn't be clear. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] State Secretary Ivica Buconjic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-20-0.u30136	Thank you very much. I've been listening to careful debates, and it's about to see which provisions most controversy and discussion leads to, so I'll just try to give you some clarifications might help in further discussions in terms of clarification or understanding of certain provisions why they are proposed as they are. I, of course, have no intention of releasing anyone here in advance of responsibility or making him less responsible, but I am obliged to say that and that is the answer to one of the MPs, I don't know who asked why the MUP as a promoter did nothing between the two readings. I don't remember who said, together with all those whose law concerns between two readings held a round table, or a cheerleading seminar where the Croatian Football Federation and the Croatian football team fans club were organizers. This seminar was held for two days and was attended by experts, sociologists, representatives of fans' associations, representatives of UEFA, representatives of FIFE representatives of the MUP so that we also came up with certain solutions that proved to be good and practical on which to consider in any case the amendments to the law. All that time between the two readings we consulted on other actors of this issue concerning this law. Depending on who the angle looks at this problem, someone is focusing on hooligans, someone is focusing on the organizers. However, this law as far as I'm concerned, so I'd say four factors, they're organizers, they're fans, they're people who attend sports competitions. They're security guards and security companies, but there's also property owners. So far, the object owners have been the least spoken of in your debate. However, I will tell you that there are thoughts and ideas about strengthening and responsibility of the owner of sports facilities. I said it might be an attempt to avoid responsibility, or transfer responsibility to others because we know who are the owners of sports facilities. These are the most common units of local self-government. And I was clear that the organizer must enter into a contract with the owner of a sports facility, that this contract is a two-sided legal business and that the contract requires rights and obligations for both organizers and owners and cannot be based on the ownership of a sports facility only on the owners of sports facilities, i.e. in the end on units of local self-government. I'm telling you this because we were really trying really hard to assess the role and importance of these four factors in sports competitions in a way that we weren't really one-sided in terms of unwarranted burdens on one of the factors and that we were free of the responsibilities of another. That's why I said it in the last reading, unfortunately no longer here today, but so far, the public has talked a lot about this law as a law on fans in a colloquial way, and I point it out again. This isn't the Fan Act. This is the law of those who act savagely in stadiums and if there were no savage appearances, there would be no need for such a law. This Regulation shall be binding in its entirety and directly applicable in all Member States. I will immediately say that this provision may not be the most difficult and we will consider changing it or eradicating it. However, for your information, most of the most difficult incidents occur just as you arrive at sports competitions, i.e. on departure. And that car burning happened not on, not even in the circle of a sports facility, but somewhere between Split and Zagreb. The wrecking of trams, the breaking of personal vehicles, the most severe physical injuries of visitors tend to occur on arrival and return from sports competitions. We wanted first of all to sanction behavior during that period to ensure that those attending sports competitions came to stadiums sober. Control and pouring alcohol in the stadium can be controlled because the organizer can also control who comes to buy drinks through the distribution of alcoholic beverages. But the police have the most work to do, the most obligations and the most officers we hire as a rule right now in monitoring cheerleading groups, so-called. Cheerleading groups when they start from the White monastery or Osijek in Zagreb or Split, and there are the highest obligations, the most jobs and the biggest costs. For this reason, we had the idea that through this second article of the fourth, we would have made it impossible for these fan groups to prepare themselves under quotes, sharpen and grind until they arrived at the stadium and then continue to commit incidents and criminal acts and offences at the stadium. I'm saying, maybe we didn't make the best of it. Therefore, we will consider this paragraph 2 of Article 4 because it was our real desire and intention to make this article, and otherwise by some other changes we ensure that visitors come to stadiums sober because practice has shown that there are fewer incidents in stadiums than when they arrive and return to the stadium. What Mr. Lucin said, I've already answered why the cops are squatting. The police must follow other laws, meaning not only by the Law on the Prevention of Disturbs, but we must engage both police forces and outside the stadium under the Law of Infringements because we must protect public order and peace. And according to a number of other laws, the Road Traffic Safety Act and other laws that regulate or sanction illegal behaviour not only at sports sites but also in every public place. And as I said, that's the main problem, and that's why we've also directed a blade against this illegal behavior outside the sports fields. And as I said I'll repeat, we've been thinking the same thing about how to force the organizers first of all to take over the obligation to ensure peace and order in sports competitions. We did not accept this initiative to make object owners more drastically mandatory and more responsible because we know who owns these sports facilities and it is not right for local self-government units to be overrun by additional burdens. And what Mr. Lesar said I said in the last reading, too. In order for this law to be effective, it is necessary to amend the Sport Act in order to ensure civilised behaviour at sports courts and at games. The law on sports is the law of parenthood. The Sport Act regulates relations in sport between clubs, between national alliances and we want first of all that Sport Act to be more quality and responsible defined relations between clubs and alliances because it can definitely be done much more to ensure peace, and then the police will have much less work and obligations under this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-20-0.u30137	Thank you. Mrs. Representative Gordana Sobol. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-20-0.u30138	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, actually, I'd just like to use a few sentences to refer to the provisions of the laws that are actually in this second reading, so in this proposal of the newspaper law, in relation to what was not predicted and whether in the law that we discussed in the first reading. In fact, it refers to this part, and it goes through several articles. I have also prepared amendments to these specific articles, and concerns the problem of drinking alcoholic beverages at sports facilities during sports competitions. In fact, if we observe the current law now, then it is evident that the consumption and distribution of the sales of alcoholic beverages of each type is prohibited regardless of how much alcohol they have other than naturally juices or soft drinks, i.e. non-alcoholic beer. It now turns out that here we are already in Article 2 through Article 4 in the first paragraph of the first indent of the first full, therefore expelled possession or illegal conduct is considered to be possession or consumption of alcoholic beverages. Therefore, it is now not available in Article 2(1) of the first indent. In fact, paragraph 2 has been inserted into which I will actually use the word senselessly in some way says that illegal behaviour is considered to possess or consume alcoholic beverages in the period from departure to arrival in the sport competition, i.e. in return from the sport competition. So it turns out that during the sports competition, you can, let's just say, pour as much as you want when it comes to alcohol. Yeah, well, it turns out that it's consistent with what you kicked out of Article 2. What I'm trying to say here, the secretary of state has now tried to explain why they went to sanctions on how to get to the stadium, or on their way back, but I would say that out there has forgotten the basic point that should be our guide when it comes to this law, and that is whether it is appropriate to tie alcohol to sports and sports competitions at all. That's what this is about. So, are we, in fact, now with this law, allowing one part of the alcoholic beverages to be sold during sports competitions? Of course, that one article later builds itself up in a way other than a decision will be made when it comes to high - risk competitions. I consider it an advocate and in view of the problem of drinking alcohol both in Croatia and the problem of alcoholism in Croatia that it is totally inappropriate in such a law to introduce these provisions and allow it to pour alcohol, the truth up to 6%, and that means translated beer during sports competitions, regardless of whether it is high-risk, medium-risk or low-risk. I will take this opportunity by my colleagues and colleagues to warn all of us that the problem of drinking alcohol and alcoholism in Croatia is a completely neglected public health problem. Could it ring our alarm to know that we have 250 thousand registered alcoholics in Croatia or that about a million people have problems with excessive alcohol consumption in Croatia? Or maybe you should encourage us to think about the fact that when it comes to boys, entering the world of alcohol starts with drinking beer, not wine or some kind of noodles, drinking beer. Or perhaps the data that in Croatia as well as in other countries is that threshold when children meet alcohol the year they meet, they are getting lower and today in Croatia, boys are 12 years old, experimenting with alcohol, and girls are 13 years old. And then, as a state, we go through a law like this to put provisions in there to allow alcoholic beverages to be poured in sports competitions. Does that mean that, for example? Were there inappropriate behaviors on these handball events? Well, there was no beer, no wine, no anything, except of course in the vip boxes, which is a special problem, but it should also be resolved to apply the provisions of the law. So I'm warning you that with this proposal I don't know what was caused? Is that the Croatian Football Federation? Here it is said in reason that national sports alliances will make decisions that are high-risk, low-risk games. My colleagues and colleagues, these national sports alliances, but in all order, not only football, but should also send a message to everyone that alcohol cannot be tied to sports in Croatia. True, I might be saying this right now in the wind because we're witnessing an advert to the beer industry that directly indicates that drinking beer if you're young, that it's very cool and directly connects alcohol consumption in this case with sports beer, with sport, with cheerleading, with this, with that. So I wanted to kill with these few sentences to warn all of us that this is how we're raising one industry, in this case it's the beer industry and that we're bringing alcohol into our sports facilities. My colleagues and colleagues, I can't change my attitude, I think it's binding any kind of alcohol to sports competitions and enjoying sports that it's completely inappropriate. This is what I'm saying as a person who's at the head of a sports club who's fighting precisely for children, our children through participation in sports, by playing different sports to get them as far away as possible and from what can bring alcohol consumption. Unfortunately, if you go to look at what Croatia actually did in general to suppress alcohol, or alcoholism, then you can see that this kind of addiction is actually completely neglected when it comes to any national action plan, any national policy. We have different policies and actions when it comes to drugs, here we have now and when it comes to smoking, but when it comes to alcoholism, which ultimately, when compared to other addictions, causes a terrible lot more problems, not just for the individual, but for the family, for the environment closer or wider, that we have completely ignored, then it turns out really not to be surprised that through this bill, and we want to prevent riots from bringing these provisions in. I appeal to the legislators. You do not have to adopt the amendments that I or someone else have suggested, but return to those provisions that you had in that first bill of law, which was therefore not allowed to pour alcoholic beverages and that the concentration of alcohol was allowed by 0.5% and, of course, I appeal to all of you colleagues and fellow MPs to really fix this, or improve this bill. Here's a thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-20-0.u30139	Thank you. Replica, Madam Representative Tatjana Šimac-Bonačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-20-0.u30140	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Gordana, you've said well, you've well noticed what this proposal is about to bring in such provisions that we should certainly all be against. Why? This is why if hypocrisy, on the one hand, we are talking about sports against addiction, alcohol is one of the strongest drugs, with a view to reminding you that the age group's limit is getting lower and lower, and that is why it is an alarming, alarming area that we really need to consider with great seriousness precisely because such alcohol leaves such a young organism with lasting consequences. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-20-0.u30141	Replication response, Mrs. Representative Gordana Sobol.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-20-0.u30142	I'd like to thank my fellow MPs. So, what I'd like to do is repeat or warn again, or maybe complete my exposure. Aggression associated with alcohol consumption is far greater than any other addiction. It seems like all of us when we pass laws like this we forget. Aggression related to alcohol isn't just happening in the family circle, it's happening on the street, it's going on at the bar, it's going on somewhere not some sports stadium. When we talk about the problem of alcoholism, I should say, when I said it was a public health problem third in a row. So, in some problem Croatia is facing in this public health sector, the problem of alcohol and alcohol consumption is in the top third place. I'll take the chance to say about these, I said not 0.5% wrong before, but 0.5 alcohol in the blood. So it's been proven that the blood alcohol level of 0.5 permeates to 1.5 permeates already causes serious disturbances and depression of the brake centers in the brain, and now with 0.5 compared to that first proposal, we increase it to 0.8 promil, which I find absolutely unacceptable.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-20-0.u30143	Mr. Representative Arsen Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-20-0.u30144	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. We will remember when this law was first read in the assembly there were so many ministers and so many government representatives present that it would still be missing only Minister Schuker so we could say freely that the budget was being discussed. So, so much of this topic is potential as important, so much of this bill has been potent at that point as important that it has gathered more representatives of the government than about any other law other than the budget and the vote of trust or mistrust. He was the minister of justice, I'm not sure if he was the minister of education but he was certainly the secretary of state, of course she was the vice president of Mrs. Adlesic and now it's all over at the Ministry of the Interior again. Of course, there are two kinds of fans. It's one that when they see a cop then they're sorry they can't make riots out there and there are those other ones that I belong to when he sees a cop, then he's glad because he expects to protect him from those other people who do the mess. What actually changed in the meantime? So, we can say that Mrs. Adlesic, unfortunately she's not here, but I'll say it anyway, she failed to win with this law. At best, she pulled a tie on the home field which is not some particular success because all those provisions that were conducted by the big debates were eventually thrown out of this law. This law has one good thing, therefore, and this is that it will manage to prevent riots operating outside Croatia because it was not under the law so impossible to go abroad but only to domestic games. It's the only and biggest really good thing in this law. The other good thing about this law is that it has shown that despite the great political will to go to first reading, the urgent procedure has gone to second reading and some provisions that were also of constitutional law have changed questionable. What needs to be pointed out, so personally, I think that we should change the provision that speaks of the possibility of being misdemeanors in the stadium and putting it as a liability because I don't believe there's any kind of sports competition organizer who organizes high-risk matches and not too many of them who don't have a room where he could be a criminal judge. Therefore, I think it would still be good if it were an obligation rather than a possibility in law. Also, I don't think it's true that it's correct to link any event at the Hajduk-Dinamo game to the amendments to this law. All the illegal behaviors that were there are also punishable under the current law. Therefore, it is not necessary to associate it with these amendments to the law. I repeat, Mr. Lucin said on behalf of the club that we do not need these changes in principle, and besides this part of the abroad, nothing will really change much unless there is a political will to make these others, therefore not these hooligan things but these verbally hooligan things about fostering hatred, intolerance, etc. That they don't stop. So, I think we should give the police the authority to break up the game and not just suggest we break up the game. I have a fence here if in international competitions and if such a provision is not defined differently in international alliances, and that it temporarily interrupts the game unless, of course, the organizer warns fans of inappropriate candiding or something like that. Because I'm quite certain that the football union leaders will not react to such facts. Television commentators unfortunately do not respond to such facts. So it's the only state we have left, it's the police, and I think we should give the police that authority. It's a word, two about the riots in the football competitions of the other one. True, Croatia currently has the biggest problem of riots in football competitions and, of course, events related to football matches. But before they were the biggest riots in Croatia. So when that more or less managed to reduce it to one let's say a better level than it was before then these riots moved when we were visiting our clubs abroad, then of course they had their own other implications and now this law might somehow prevent it. And where will these hooligans express their frustration and discontent? I'm afraid that's when it doesn't start happening at low-risk games, that the police will, of course, pay attention to that too, that it doesn't start happening in other sports, etc. As far as some other amendments to this law are concerned, I regret that Article 2 has given rise to insults by other specialities. And the promoter explained this fact that it is not exactly defined what other specificities are so that the police in some way succeed, do not enter into this arbitration, but there are other regional specialities and are not exactly defined in Croatia as to what regions they are, and then it turns out that it is inappropriate to run at the game of Hajduk and Dinam if they are offended by each other. On a regional basis, let's say that if you play Hajduk and Sibenik or Hajduk and Zadar, or I don't know Dinamo-Inter Zapresic that such an insult is not illegal because they are from the same region. Therefore, I think it would be good to keep that other speciality, so let the police feel free to arbitration in whether it is true or not. After all, it will eventually be decided by a court that comes to such a case. As for alcohol as non-consummated alcohol, I don't have any excessive fear. I don't see any reason why it should be a restriction and that it can't be in the stadium. Also during that debate of 0.5 prominences and zeros, some have suggested that 0.8 borders where a car can be managed in some European countries is so. So, I don't think it should be that rigorous, that this provision has been increased up, but I don't think that's some big problem because it won't solve the problem of alcoholism that people with one, two or two beers won't be able to make it to the football game. And, of course, in the end this part of the VIP solemn lodges, so it's quite certain that the prime minister won't make riots in sports competitions, if he drinks a glass of champagne, let him still drink September wine, just that of course things in the country are better. And as for the scandal and what Mr. Tankovic said, I think you should always react when such inappropriate scandals occur because of course not the primitives, it's our fault that we kept quiet if we kept quiet. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-20-0.u30145	Thank you. Mr. Attorney Gordan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-20-0.u30146	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I'll just have a few sentences about the law. The fact that in the five years of application of this law that has been in force so far we have 6 thousand 429 reported offenders, 4 thousand 217 of them were misdemeanors, i.e. detainees, 4 thousand 217 have been reported in violation, 324 have been injured, and 32 of them are more severe. In those five years, 54 police officers were injured, destroyed or damaged 38 buses and trams, 31 police vehicles, 141 cars and 7 railway cars. So we had one law that tried to define this topic and ultimately ensure that we had a secure situation at sports sites and on our way to them, but it was not a success. I highly doubt that even after we pass this law, the situation will be much better. What makes me think that? I think because this is about a broader social problem and because, with the responsibility of the state for solving this problem, responsibility is not taken over by other participants in the overall sporting event. In particular, I mean sports clubs, at the end of the day, and sports alliances. If Croatian clubs have paid 750 thousand euros in fines over the past few years for the poor organisation of certain sports events and all of course in international competitions, in Croatia there are no or no fines. It is clear that the Croatian Football Federation does not pay enough attention to this problem, as well as the Association of First Leagues which is the organizer, first, second and other Croatian Football Leagues. Because if the president of the First League Association says that the event at one game was fantastic because so many torches were lit, because a choreography was made that wasn't agreed with the police before, which, according to police statements, was an additional cause of uncertainty, or a possible problem at the game, doesn't make any sense. If people who should be responsible for carrying out security in stadiums, because not only are the police there to ensure the safety of the viewers, but also those who organise the event, if they are the opposite of doing certain activities that lead to uncertainty, normally something is wrong. I'd say something rotted in the state of Denmark. We need to ensure that, with the police, other factors in the organisation of sports events take their part of responsibility. Which is why for the event organization in the Croatian Football League when we have a problem in a Croatian derby, which is why the head of the Football League says it was fantastic, if we had a problem both from the organizers and even from the participants of the competition. Even some football players wore torches and promoted tossing pyrotechnics into the stadium. Normally, in such a situation, the police are very difficult to deal with, which is present today in Croatia, because, of course, neither the Football Federation nor the First League bear their share of responsibility for the organization of the event. I think there should also be a law that might not know if this is one relevant law, it's probably the law on sports, that defines that they're responsible for what's going on or at least co-responsible for what's going on at the stadium. Because I don't see why they would pay fines to international organisations, and in Croatia when you make a failure in the organization, no one punishes you. Eventually, they try to put pressure on the next game to play in front of an empty stadium, and then press through the association, through the alliance, and eventually give up such punishment. I don't think we're gonna get too far with that. As far as the law itself is concerned, I welcome some things that have been changed since the first reading. I don't think anyone really drank a beer or two or a glass of black wine after lunch will be affected by the risk of acting more riskyly than it would have been without a glass of black wine. And normally if you're able to take part in traffic with a certain percentage of 0.8, I don't see why that wouldn't be possible at the game. But what I don't welcome in law is that you can quite widely interpret coming to the game, leaving the game. Whoever finds it, that's what I was saying in the first debate, who's going to find out if someone who happened to be in a bar by the stadium, maybe a fan, maybe watch a game at the Plaza in the cafe, drank over it, might have a higher concentration of alcohol in the blood, but has no intention or drive, no intention or go to the game. And then he's legalized by a police officer, and he can arrest him on that basis, and he's committed a man's violation of this law. I think that whenever you can extensively interpret some limiting norms, or sanctioning norms, that we must have more precisely defined what it means and who can be sanctioned because by that logic, someone who goes on a trip to the sea accidentally from Zagreb to Split when the game is on the train with fans can be qualified as a fan and eventually the police can bring him in and keep him during the game. I don't think that's clear enough in the law, I think that these things should be more precise when we're talking about concrete examples and concrete cases when they're subject to certain sanctions. And finally, I will say it is impossible to solve the problem of fans and not correct behaviour in sports stadiums of fans and improper behaviour in sports stadiums without the Croatian Football Federation and the First League or other sports associations, other alliances taking up their part of responsibility. It is not good when, on the other hand, certain leaders of the alliance are being investigated when our fans are making a scandal like a scandal in Malta and on the other hand they make ambiguous statements during some of the events in the past. At the end of their activities and as the leaders of these associations, they should know that they are responsible because fans watch what they do and what they say. And that's why I'd like the law to change, too, the Sport Act, to bring part of the responsibility into sports alliances so that everyone who's interested can take part of the responsibility for what's going on in the stadiums today. Whether it's football, handball, water polo or a bottle. It doesn't matter, but if you're responsible for a particular sport, you have to take responsibility for what's going on at the sports courts. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-20-0.u30147	Thank you. You see, my colleague, you say something, you use a figure called something rotten in the state of Denmark. Now he reminds me immediately how I am in '81. He got a year in prison because I said something was rotten but not in Denmark, but in another country. That's why you need to sanction well. Mr. Representative Sima Luchin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-20-0.u30148	Thank you very much. Well, I must say, I'm sorry that there is no Deputy Prime Minister, since in her second presentation, she mostly referred to what I was talking about. I must admit that I was surprised by her statement and her instructions to me, or us in the SDP, that me and my colleague Josipovic agreed on something. I don't know, maybe we don't know that, but we're your SDP Democrats and we're a democratic party. We are allowed to be able to think differently, not only but also to speak differently and to propose, but also to vote, and not to bear sanctions for it. So I'm surprised that the lady who's politically defined as a liberal wonders that in one party, two people have a different attitude, but good. As far as this law is concerned, I don't think he's gentle or he's sharp. I think this law is unnecessary, because this law defacts nothing. Why? And that this law has one big, big trap. By this law, let's say when Hajduk and Dinamo play in Zagreb, all of Croatia is your football stadium. When you take the Dubrovnik boys to football in Zagreb, from Osijek to Zagreb, the whole of Croatia is because they belong under this law from Dubrovnik to Zagreb. I don't know why, when there are many laws in Croatia, from criminal, criminal, etc., that I don't list them all now, the Transport Safety Act, where they can be sanctioned. So, he's from the moment he goes to the game until he gets to Zagreb and until he returns to Dubrovnik, for instance, he belongs under this law. Now I think there's this kind of law, and I don't know if there's a single European country, that sports Arena becomes the whole country when they're derby. Someone here was saying, lucky we don't often have that sports derby and that high-risk game. Someone here said football is more than a game. Interesting how these television commercials that are advertised for beer have become an integral part of our vocabulary here in the Parliament. Football may be more than just a game for us in Croatia, but in all normal countries football is a game around which big business revolves. And we need to know that. Now, as brewers and brewers are tied to football, that's one special story, that's one special story. If I were bad, I'd say the brewers had an impact on the creation of this law. Because I don't understand why it's allowed to be at football stadiums and sports courts and others because there are sports where you don't drink, say, no beer. Let's say tennis is probably drinking champagne I guess or on... Why, for example, is not put if not up to 14, at least up to 12%. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Well, Croatia is a land of famous wines. Why can't I, say I go to a drinking game, never have a beer, I'd drink kids' wine. Now, I have the right to doubt and I can suspect that this law pleases not brewers because as far as I know, beer is only up to 6%, only some bevanda and bad wine can have, even bad bevanda has more than 6%. So, perhaps, the thinker, I'm not against a glass of beer and a glass of wine, but to think about not being just a beer. I can't agree to the side of those who say that a glass of beer is enough to make me don't know any mess and someone to fight. I don't often go to sports meetings but I'm often at different concerts and at concerts where large quantities of beer are consumed. I've never been in my 30s and a few years to go to these concerts where, like I said, drink a lot of beer, I haven't seen anyone get into a fight, but everybody loves, hug and kiss afterwards. And it's only interesting at football games they fight. There's supposed to be a little bit, you should be a little worried. So, I think we need to get back to the starting points, we need to get back to the stadiums, stadiums are martial arts, are the key solutions. Because until we solve this problem, all of Croatia will be a sports arena during each derby, and that is inadmissible to me. There's been a lot of talk about how many cops, whether the police hire in relation to the organizers, etc. We want to join the European Union and hope to cross this Slovenian dam and get there as soon as possible. However, there are certain standards in the European Union just when it comes to police, when it comes to sports competitions. That's where the extra police work is paid. Because it's crazy to say that you have some kind of stock company or you have some private who has some kind of sports club that, for example, insinuates millions of dollars per derby. And that, at the same time, taxpayers, citizens of this country, the Ministry of the Interior must spend millions to secure them. It's crazy. So they should book that money on their own. There's a standard. I know there's a rule in the Ministry of the Interior that's been established and priced. Watch it, let me say it too. When we hired, let's say when the cops were hired at some concerts, the invoices were neat. Some have even been paid, which will surprise you. But I've never heard of an extra insurance invoice being sent and charged by a sports club, especially a football club, because unfortunately today we don't talk about sports competitions. We're only talking about football competitions here. Maybe that's not so bad. One more thing I want to say. I think the fines must be bigger for the organizers. I don't know how much they have to be in accordance with the law or not, but I need you to find a model for me. They have to be bigger. Because if someone at a game makes five million kunas, then brother, if you didn't secure that game, nobody gets hurt, so when you pay half a million I'll ask you. Someone here said that football alliances and different alliances pay huge fines, etc. I would make there a responsible natural person by command responsibility, because if he had to give out of his pocket that money, not from sponsorship etc. I assure you that we would speak differently and that we would behave differently. And what I also think, I think what I need to say, which is, and that ultimately leads me to that idea once again, and the idea that this law of this type doesn't need us. I don't think we should regulate this space. In fact, not in this way, which is that there's nothing about this Prevention Act. So far, in Article 36 of the current law, we had one thing that was good for me, which says that, apart from guardians of the educational institution, schools, universities, etc. They're informing, informing how you want to talk about the bad guys on sports grounds. Now we're removing it from Article 17 of the debated law with strange arguments that there are no necessary and adequate programmes. Come on, so let's do, I guess someone in this country can make some kind of program. I see even space here, let's say that through different workshops, they engage and fit in the cheerleading groups. Why don't they talk in schools I don't know or colleges in some workshops about violence. It's the most effective means of prevention. And I don't understand why it was simply found out that there were no adequate programs and then the police, or the Criminal Court, would give up notification. I would still keep in the loop, despite the fact that there are no adequate programs. And lastly, I think this idea, or those who represented the thesis that the law should be changed, and the law on sports or sports as you wish, that maybe it's a space to define some kind of relationship in terms of the situation on sports grounds if not this law. I end up repeating that until we can resolve the situation on sports grounds, we will not have more significant success on this plan. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-20-0.u30149	Mr. Representative Joseph Leco.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-20-0.u30150	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, honourable government representatives, colleagues and fellow MPs. And before we discuss the essence of the matter, I'd like to say a few opening remarks or points of view. I absolutely advocate that in every legal way, riots are prevented at sports events because no one or any reasonable man wants to go to a sports event if he expects riots from the participants of the event or expects an inaccurate, use of imprecise police powers. It's not good for either of us. The other thing I'm trying to say is that both wrongdoers and criminals need to know exactly what they expect when they're doing something. In other words, I would like to say that the law must be so precise that it does not leave much discretionary will to the police or to the judge for violations. In my opinion, this law, this bill has several solutions that require the Parliament to resume, that the police and that the Criminal Court will be well-intentioned and will not abuse its powers. Such formulations do not guarantee that we will succeed, nor that the procedure will be to put it that way. And the third thing I want to say is that this law has not been settled, or in my court has not properly resolved the responsibility of the fans' association, the responsibility of the insurance companies that participate in the maintenance of sports facilities and the order in the sports events of their natural obligation is not precisely determined by the responsibility of the organizers of the sports event, sports competition or the responsibility of the clubs that participate in the organisation of sports events. For broad or incorrect definitions in certain provisions, I will start with Article 2 or Article 4 respectively. That's what I was talking about. According to the second point of view, the second paragraph is considered to be the possession of beings in the period from departure to entry into the sport competition. In other words, it is illegal to own behavior in a car with which you move in front of your house alcohol whether you carry it from Split to Zagreb or you put it to drink while driving. It's illegal behavior. Such a provision allows the police to treat this offence entirely for other reasons, although we certainly know it is not a violation. So that's very imprecise. counterpart Sima Lucin said that then the whole of Croatia and even wider becomes a sports field, a sports field. Such a provision certainly does not strengthen legal certainty or the rule of law. When it comes to alcohol, a practical problem arises. The practical problem is how to determine at a high-risk game and there are 50 or 100 thousand fans that they are not alcoholic. I assure you, an average man who drinks half a liter of wine has over 0.8 spills of alcohol, and for a normal drunk like that you won't see anything in his behavior. What's the police's ability to find out? So you'd have to measure, you'd have to prove it. So it's the law actually naked form, the offer of yus, you can't possibly implement it. When it comes to punishment, of course I am that punishments are prescribed and applied, but when it comes to measures being imposed for perpetrators of the offence, then I think that measures are more punishment than punishment itself, and that is not the purpose of this law, nor should it be insisted on. Let us say that Article 32, which is new, stipulates that a judge may impose a measure, a protective measure of banning the presence of certain sports competitions. I don't know what the legislator thinks, if as much as I as a mere average citizen know, say sports competition is a competition in football of the first football league, and in this competition there's a lot of games and a lot of cars as it is said in a sports dictionary, it means whether a judge can impose a ban only on that football competition or just for individual clubs or for all sports competitions, or even chess. It's not my norm, it doesn't open up safety for the citizens who go to the game, it gives them the fear of going to the game. I repeat, who's reasonable to take the risk of the police checking if there's alcohol in your car, you're not drunk, you haven't been drinking, but you've done an illegal act, and then he can tell you this measure. And now to go to transitional and final provisions, which I think is very important, in article 24 of the supervision of the implementation of this law is carried out by the Ministry of Interior and other ministries under their jurisdiction. Why am I stressing that? Since Article 25(2) provides that the rules and criteria for the equipment of a sports facility, so stadiums, halls, etc., ticket control and counting devices, video surveillance and other criteria will be a minimum number of directors, etc. prescribe within 6 months the organizers of competitions, associations, sports alliances etc. It's public authority. So they will determine what criteria they are that are allowed to hold a sports competition in that scope. Do the ministries have such trust in the sports alliances to confirm to them that they will do well? And the whole law says they're not doing it well for now and they're not taking care of security. Therefore, here it should certainly be introduced into the provision that supervision of law enforcement will be given by these ministries and that it will give consent, that it is necessary to agree on these general acts on the rules and criteria for the equipment of sports facilities, sports alliances, that they will be given consent by these ministries. Without that consent, those rules do not bind anyone because they can change every day. In the end, I would like to say that it is left to the sports alliances that have established their own criteria whether stadiums and sports facilities meet the conditions for them to determine whether these facilities meet the requirements. Well, it's really absurd in the very request because whoever you said prescribed those terms themselves, he will also check that he met those conditions, so if I find that he didn't meet them, he will prescribe that these objects are not similar to the sport competition. It's really absurd. There are several solutions here, but here, I just wanted to point out this one in the end. I think this deserves at least delaying the vote on such a law so that the Government of the Republic and the Proposer can study proposals that have gone both in the form of amendments and in the form of discussions, so I intervene with my amendments if he really wants to have a logical law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-20-0.u30151	Thank you. Two replicas. First, Mr. Representative Ivica Pancic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-20-0.u30152	Thank you. When you spoke about the vaguely defined responsibility between the organizers of the sport competition, the insurance company and fans, that is, the association of fans, it is quite accurate and I underline this importance by stressing that the legislator may have had to adopt proposals and the Croatian Football Federation where, in addition to the organizer's responsibilities, it was incontestable to further determine the responsibility of the security company in the event of certain events that are contrary to the law. Because according to the story we could actually see at the Hajduk-Dinamo football game that has been repeated before, it seems that security companies are not particularly interested in doing their job the way they should, and according to the information that I have, they are neither interested in bonuses if they do a good job nor accept punishment if they do something bad. They're taking the sheets that work the way we're witnessing, which is why this law is on the agenda. The responsibility of associations for the behaviour of their most extreme wings should also be determined. Only when that circle is closed, including the state institutions, can we say that we are on a good path to make some of this happen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-20-0.u30153	Mr. Representative Shimo Djurdjevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-20-0.u30154	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. The time has passed for the creation of the Croatian state when Dinamov north with "Bad Blue Boys" cheered at the words "Hajduk!" And south, "Dinamo!". Today we are in such a situation that we must pass this law and of course I will vote for it. The proposer among the two readings has included attitudes, taking into account attitudes and us in individual discussions and committees, as well as fan groups, and we consider that this is a good law, and I recommend that we all vote for it. Why would I give my voice to this law? The provision on alcohol has been amended in a way that illegal behavior and possession and consumption of alcohol before and after the game i.e. competition. With regard to alcohol already in the case of alcohol, the blood alcohol concentration is increased to 0.8 grams per kilogram of weight. It's allowed to sell alcoholic beverages at those sports events that aren't high-risk. The provisions on the withdrawal of the passport to the fan have been deleted but a new Article 32a has been added, which defines more precisely the implementation of the ban on going to some sports competitions. For security reasons, police may request an end to the competition if their assessment is that fans and competitors are at risk. It's a minor provision when it comes to masking. For example, the Croatian coat of arms on the face or on the body Croatian flag is not a form of disguise. A proposal has been accepted that national sports alliances can prohibit the use of a sports facility, a stadium unless it meets the requirements laid down by law. Sports alliances, that perhaps I would personally suggest that the roof body of Croatian sport can do so and that is the Croatian Olympic Committee, why not if the professional alliances have missed it so far. Since Croatian athletes in the right sense presented Croatian sport and Croatian state mainly in the era of recognition, and this is what they do today very successfully, it is important to introduce order in our stadiums and that is. enable those and competitors and viewers to follow sports events in peace. Sports historians and athletes always say that sports culture is part of the common culture of one person, one citizen, one man. I therefore invite all colleagues and colleagues to support this law for the benefit of athletes and those watching sports. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-20-0.u30155	Thank you. Mr. Representative Mile Horvat. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-20-0.u30156	Dear Mr. Vice President, Your Honor, Secretary of State. First of all, I would like to congratulate the proposer on this second reading. So this enables a repeated broader debate on this law. It was at one point even given the seriousness of the topic and the casual and in any case the number of debaters shows what an interest this text of the law is, or a sociological phenomenon called incidents in sports stadiums. First, I'd like to say a few words about the context in which this law is passed risking that something has already been said again. So, after all the incidents and incidents seen and incidents of violent groups on sports grounds, it was really necessary to pass these amendments to the law. First of all, this kind of prevention.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-20-0.u30157	Hey, guys, why don't you just race around and fight over the riots in the stadiums? Let's not think it's some other law, fighting riots somewhere else.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-20-0.u30158	Thank you. So, first of all, we think that this kind of prevention is necessary for creating a new cheerleading culture and for the new kind of social hygiene on sports grounds. We have no doubt that everyone in this home, all colleagues in this home, in the Croatian Parliament, is unacceptable to every expression of hatred for different sociological, social and ethnic groups in stadiums. In such a context, it is particularly unacceptable for us to show this much hatred for members of the Serb community. It has already been said here several times that it becomes at the end of a non-orna finding that the chanting like "Kill, Kill a Serb" or something else already seen in the stadiums and unfortunately the other seen in the stadiums has become part of the cheerleading folklore. We finally know that every bid comes to the game and passes after the game but remains, one general dilemma remains with the community, bitterness and remains one question of what kind of message from such stadiums and from such sports events sent to the Serb community in the Republic of Croatia. We think the message here is very clear. Unfortunately, the message is first Serbs, don't go to stadiums, second, don't participate in the sports life of clubs, you probably don't even belong in club managements with these parolees. It remains in any case to believe that these young people are often unaware of the dimension and implications of any such public appearance. But what's worrying is that the overall social problem is getting bigger by not sanctioning such behavior more concrete and quality than club management and even the alliance. And I think it's also a very bad message and the behavior of certain politicians who don't respond adequately in a situation where they attend such scenes. In particular, it is a question of what is the role of the media in preventing such behaviour, especially in subsequent media condemnation and commentation of such behaviour. Besides, that's what you see on TV screens on TV broadcasts. But we must be aware that there is something else, that there is another behavior that is not seen on TV screens. It's behavior, it's incident situations that happen at lower levels of sports competitions, in a bar, in some local games. I have an example that happened last year that might be more graphic about how the situation is possible and how some deviating thoughts are caused by small conflicts in the middle. In a municipality in eastern Slavonia with the majority Serb population, children aged 10 to 20 had a congregation of football club supporters who were from the neighbouring country. A group of guys, members of the big first-year-old team of neighboring town with bats, had just physically demoted the rooms and broke literally those children in such a way that a girl about 15 years old ended up in traumatology in Osijek with a fractured skull. I don't think there's much need for comment here, but again, the question is, what is the message of such a behavior? We're making the conclusion that the message is, you can't be a fan of some other country's club. I think that such a message is not acceptable to the future, it is not acceptable for some time to come and where we see ourselves, if we see ourselves at all in some kind of European integration. Such examples of reckonings, physical reckonings, and extreme situations are quite local and we haven't talked about it yet. I say that's what you don't see in the media and what the media doesn't make available. Generally speaking for the safety of the people themselves, people of goodwill, therefore honest fans who, out of good intentions, come to follow certain competitions, sports games, we must adopt this law as it is, bring and allow it to begin to be implemented in part as soon as possible. And finally about the very text of the law I would say some kind of our thinking. The very text of the law from the first and second reading could be analysed and challenged in various parts. In parts of the drasticity of sanctions, it could also be discussed in areas where both very high and strong powers of law enforcement authorities are established, even talk about certain restrictions on the freedom of fans. However, in total speaking for everything we have said so far, I think these expected effects of this legal text should be significantly greater and that they should eliminate any imperfection of such legal text. And finally to conclude, we have two suggestions that we think are essential in nature, and that is, above all, I would agree with colleagues who are trying to put some focus of responsibility for incidents in stadiums to switch concepts to clubs and organizers of competition. I totally agree with that. I think that some kind of legal responsibility should be more elaborated in this text, in a formal sense, because we should not forget that one who has a potential danger to others is the basis for specific types of objective responsibility. I also have to say that I believe that clubs today come true with these events of sports competitions big business, big money. It is quite correct to find that those with their club budgets, the club budgets are not likely to be subject to recession measures, so if they make extraordinary profits from these events, I think they should also have an extraordinary responsibility for organising such events. And another kind of suggestion that we don't think is defined is the question of how we see this law being implemented at local level, so how will local clubs, local sports societies, adapt the provisions of this law in terms of and part of the security and equipment of their facilities, to meet the standards that we are expecting here without questioning their financial extension. All in all, we think that the importance of this law is too great, we do not want to go further into formal real shortcomings or any possible corrections and improvement of the quality of these standards, but we simply want and we want to make our contribution to this law and this idea to co-exist as soon as possible and to finally introduce a certain order in the stadiums and to establish a certain social, sociological and cheerleading hygiene in the stadiums. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-20-0.u30159	Thank you. We've got four more reported, so we'd like your attention. We have a vote behind that. It is next to the honourable representative of Perica Bukic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-20-0.u30160	Thank you, Vice President. Honored representatives of the government, colleagues and fellow MPs. The new bill on the prevention of riots on sports grounds has been causing controversy for months, but despite the indignity of mainly cheerleading groups or some psychologists and sociologists, the fact is that violence among young people needs to end. The first bill resented repressiveness and limited human rights and freedoms. However, taking into account all the objections in the new bill, strictness criteria have been lowered, so fans should now have 0.8 alcohol spills in their blood instead of high-risk games, and some will be available to fans at the stadium. As we have already heard in our colleagues' presentations for years before the great sports competitions of beer is creating a symbol of competition, a way of cheerleading. Regularly for weeks before the start of the championship, the media is swarming with ads that go away with patriotism and encouraging the home team with beer. Time has done its part, so as hard as it is to separate cinemas and popcorn, it is equally hopeless and by law try to separate fans from beer. But that's not only the fans' fault, but also the ones who create the image of the real one under the quotes of fans, with a can of beer. To ban such a thing now and to expect that repression will not have the opposite effect. The ban on beer in the stadium would give a large number of dissatisfied fans who, because they are not wanted in the stadium, drink beer in tents so-called. beer... and similar spaces, and then they go on a hike through the city. The key to wild crowds and cheerleaders is not in alcohol, but in various forms of dissatisfaction. The reason for this dissatisfaction, as we have witnessed dozens of cases of beating up minors who have been going on in the streets in recent months, is obviously not in cheerleading beliefs or beer, but also a reflection of the overall state of disturbed moral values and unsettled family environments of these young people. Analysis suggests that there are mostly younger people involved in riots in stadiums who are not the first infringements of that kind, and the traits of violations that seem to be overlapping. All such fans regularly possess sticks, boxers, knives, pyrotechnics and are often influenced by drugs and alcohol. But those violences do not only take place in stadiums and stadiums, but most often and most often, as we have heard on arrival and return from sports competitions. However, it is mostly a small number of the same fans, and the fight against their violence must not be a punishment for everyone else. In its final form, the law did not move away from the idea of preventing the violence and savagery of individuals in stadiums but rigorous measures and penalties should not include the entire cheerleading population. In fact, the law is not and cannot be a repressive means, but only measures in the fight against riot groups and should be interpreted exclusively in this way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-20-0.u30161	Thank you, we have one replica, a distinguished representative of Gordana Sobol.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-20-0.u30162	As a former athlete, colleague Bukic, as a top athlete, you should know that in the current law, the prevention of disorder is a ban on alcohol consumption, except for non-alcoholic beer, on all sports facilities. How come so far, has it caused major riots of fans who have been denied that beer? Or that means that, in fact, so far, this provision of the law has not been respected and that until now, beer has been poured neatly, alcoholically, or I don't know any other possible drink at sports facilities. So to say, that the ban on drinking beer, because it's a beer, so up to 6% alcoholic drink, is going to cause further dissatisfaction and potential riots of fans, I don't think it really fits the truth. What I stand for, therefore, as a parliamentary representative, it should be for all of us. Okay, through commercials, beer and success in beer sport, or alcohol, we can't ban these ads, we can't ban them. But we can say that in sports facilities, during the duration of sports competitions there is no drinking, they had 2%, 5% or 10% alcohol. So I think that we sitting in this home should be trying to promote sports as a healthy way of life, but if it's a healthy way of life, then there's no drinking alcohol with sports. I say, I'll mention handball competitions haven't lost a bit of hold and cheerleading by not having to pour or beer.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-20-0.u30163	Thank you. The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative of Perica Bukic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-20-0.u30164	Thank you, Vice President. Dear fellow Members, I am sorry if you understood it in a way, or if you did not listen carefully enough and ultimately present the representatives of the ministries. The biggest problems happen regularly, so before the competition itself and these are mostly high-risk games and all these options prohibit alcohol being poured. You saw in the bill that that's the way it is. As an athlete, of course, I don't support alcohol or alcoholism. And you know there have never been such examples in my sport. But we are talking in general about a problem that is present, which needs to be fought and which is in part, I will repeat most of it before and after the game and at high-risk games. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-20-0.u30165	Thank you. Let's move on with the individual discussion. Dear Representative Ivica Pancic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-20-0.u30166	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen. A few words. If the laws in the Republic of Croatia were respected, this law would be absolutely unnecessary. They're right cheerleading groups that say why you're keeping us out of society. Indeed why. Fans should be like all other citizens of the Republic of Croatia. Those who break the law, regardless of the stadium or outside the stadium, at the game or I don't know where to answer. And it should be worth everything. No matter what, I repeat again, at football or any other stadiums, halls, swimming resorts or ice rinks. Either for all those who go to concerts or Thompson or concerts U2 or visit folk clubs. The law is there to respect itself. And simply because there is no political will and yet let's underline it has no political will to solve the problem of violence in Croatian sport. And the political will would also be reflected in the willingness to resent cheerleading groups. We'll all agree here it's a small number, an extreme part of the fans who create problems. Therefore, the solution to this problem would be minor. It also implies a willingness to clash with sports clubs management and primarily football clubs. And that's often not politically opportunistic. And that is why it is not good for me as parliamentary representatives or members of the government to often raise the presidents or members of the administration, noting their so-called. or real statehood, commitment to the creation of a state, or something like that. As a Dinamian, I always think it's an anti-region club in the former state. But I admit that club had a five-point star in its coat of arms. They all wanted to be or if we're talking about Hajduk too, why not admit the big star was in the middle. And why, because all the presidents and members of the administration were tied to the regime. Because they felt that regime-related relationships could better achieve some of their interests. And when we talk about these things, it's not just about the Dinamo Star game that happened. Let's also remember the crying games, the massive crying for the former president of the state. So all I'm saying is, just to say, let's not use that argument that the presidents of the football or other clubs.../The speaker went off and turned it on again... does that exclude me from those who mind me reminding myself of those times when they might have cried too? Ha, I don't know. It's history. It's your history. I was young enough, so I didn't experience it that way. Maybe if I was your age, maybe I'd cry, too, but I didn't. So let's not highlight the presidents of football clubs or football-related people, their managers like those above the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and above Croatian laws. Why? Because they make very good money at sports, at the resales of players. And who's paying for it? Among other things, Croatian taxpayers pay, and when do incidents happen, who is to blame? Well, it's the police's fault. It's everyone's fault, but it's not their fault, as we've had the chance to hear from the President of Hajduk. And that would be the same if the game was played in Maxime a few weeks ago. Let's put our hands on our hearts and admit it. And for that reason, I believe that the proposal of the HNS of the Football Federation was also to be accepted, when, if it was on this trail to close that circle of responsibility and all the entities involved in the organisation of the sport competition. At least they say they insisted on it, so there's no excuse later that some things can't be done. On the other hand, I ask whether the government is ready, or competent state institutions, to be ready after the next match as in Split, no matter where it is played, whether it will be able to transfer responsibility from one entity to another. Or there is an answer for such and similar things that are likely to happen in the future. I believe that in particular, I would draw the end, in Article 25, knowing that the Regulation on technical conditions would apply, i.e. trying to find the lowest denominator for meeting the formal conditions, that consent to the rules required by the sports alliances would be given by the Ministry of Internal Affairs. Because we know how the criteria for the organisation of European matches are established I don't know which UEFA organizes and how these standards are lower, so probably knowing the practice of our clubs and sports alliances, they'll probably go to the lowest possible standard that will then turn good intentions into a mere form. It is also important to see what to do with this alcohol spill, i.e. the 0.8 limit if it is said that I do not know whether it is true that European countries are thinking about reducing it to 0.2. But that's not even the point. The point is that sport should send a certain message first and foremost to the younger generation, one that gathers on these sports grounds. And it's not good for sports playgrounds to make liquor stores or bookies. Because if we're gonna bring the sport down to it, drink beer and bet on it, then it's just better if there's no sport like that in Croatia. And I'm done. So if we were to apply the law in this country, the special law wouldn't be necessary, and this first bill of law has suffered significant mitigations, which is why we won't now, we won't get into the reasons. But many say from the sports environments that this law will be just makeup that won't solve anything at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-20-0.u30167	Thank you. It is up to Madam Representative Ingrid Anticevic-Marinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-20-0.u30168	Thank you, Mr. President, for the honor of the government. If the old Latins had a saying in a healthy body a healthy spirit, then we can rightly say that in a sick state is sick and sport. Is football more than a game or less than a game? We often ask ourselves what is so magical about football that it carries with it so much cheerleading passion. Why this high emotional excitement of the crowd falls on fertile soil and the incentive is often for violence by groups and groups of fans. Of course, all fan groups have one particular impatience in all clubs, or in all countries one club against another. However, there are additional specificities in Croatia. What kind of a fan relationship is that? Perhaps he was quite understandable when the Dinam fans in that famous game between Dinam and Red Star made it clear what they thought about the then state and the lawkeepers. Today, however, the question arises as to what kind of impatience it is and why the impatience that surpasses the necessary cheerleading passions between, say, the Dinam fans and the Hajduk fans. In fact, it will be difficult to calculate, nor will this law be able to do so on its own with extremes on the ground. Because for years, extremism in Croatia has been tolerated, and from some politicians it has been supported. Psolences, provocative inscriptions, posters, destruction of the stands were part of the cheerleading passions, or events on sports grounds. After the riots often initiated by fans, they inevitably followed statements of politicians and convictions in public, and sometimes, just sometimes by punishing them. Sometimes we didn't even have a reaction from politicians. Sometimes even they were at these games and they didn't leave such events. The problem therefore, even after this adoption of the law if it will be adopted, and so far with the existing law, the problems remain. Neither such violence was drastically less, nor were they these problems in general we can say differently. Why? Because here they were telling their colleagues how many ministers were gathered here to discuss, or prepare, the concept of the law. However, what is crucial and what, speaking on behalf of the Šima Lucin Club, particularly apostrophe, is the key to everything. Did the state, however, wonder where such aggressive behavior came from, for it is nothing else, that is, on these sports grounds, that is to say, the destruction of that destructive energy. If we agree that each political concept had its own vision of the place and the role of the individual in society, we can conclude that this modern age proved only to be a destructive genius. Which is why persistent denial and persistent in some way deafening about the need to learn and why deny these social learning theories, say no to aggression, direct energy into positive, not that it somehow erupts with such destructive behavior. This requires training system, education system from the earliest age. No one has learned democratic behavior. Learning about democracy, learning about tolerance, learning that it's different, that it's our wealth, not our negativity. Now, we're missing that anyway, but I'd say that knowingly, in some ways, it doesn't want to be systematically in our education system because that kind of behavior in case the country gets into some crisis comes in as a single stream and a spring where it comes up with such lowest passions. So, still for the political system, they stay as one oasis of reserve behavior if it doesn't go the way we wanted it to. So the only explanation that is too high and logical is why it does not go vigorously to suppress such aggression and this one positive learning and one tolerance. And here, let me finish, as Professor Smerdel warned, especially in the process of passing this law, we must not interfere with the mind of which the powers are conferred, this must take care of the protection of human rights. If we're going to ban the hooliganism that's emanated even this far away, just the notion of 1898 from Patrick the hooligan, the Irishman who killed an English cop. So, who was given the authority to suppress hooliganism, were not given the authority to treat anyone hooligan or fans. Therefore, these conflicts, recognised by the ruling or not, show unequivocally that citizens have lost confidence in the state, its institutions and its representatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-20-0.u30169	We have one correction, Mr. Krunoslav Markovnović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-20-0.u30170	Thank you, Mr. President. So I would just correct Dr. Ingrid's incorrect diagnosis of the state and say that she should know well that we have sick football, sick administrations that are actually raising fans in every way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-20-0.u30171	And lastly, Mr. Representative Boro Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-20-0.u30172	Don't waste my time, please. Mr. President, it is my last, but the sugar at the end, colleagues and fellow MPs, representatives of the government and the ministry. I have to say that the fans involved in this Law on the prevention of riots in sports competitions and all those going to sports competitions, and most often this refers to, to say younger age groups, these are our children, these are our students, these are our citizens. I can't forget, I'd say massacre on the Maksimir road in a peaceful protest of those who wanted to change Croatia's name to Dinamo in '99. years and years when a man can't help but regret the behavior of the police and others who have committed one repressive act against young people. At the same time, these disciples and those of our citizens, our children, are equal before the law to all other citizens. So says the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. If we forbid alcohol consumption, then it would not be recommended to take it even in the VIP lodge. They drink wine for up to two pick-ups. So there's no one, and if it's allowed up to 0.5 for driving, then I agree that it can be consumed in sports competitions. There have also been a lot of words here about what belongs to or under Article 4 of the provision of what is illegal conduct in the sense of this law? Well, in paragraph 2, he says it's a facial disguise to cover up an identity. I wonder if many fans of other countries when they drew their flag, the national flag on their faces, would they belong in this category? So they cover their identity with their national flag. Furthermore, this was about what caused it and what kind of songs and sayings, throwing at the stadium is causing religious, national and other hatred? So we heard from fellow Caine here, which is all. I even heard a statement that it seems to me from the prime minister some time ago that the aria "In battle, in battle for its people" is actually a theatre aria, not an aria for stadiums, which worries me, especially such a statement worries me. We all know that our athletes have celebrated the Republic of Croatia worldwide. Far more than many who sit here, including me personally. We know that Goran Ivanišević performed and performed at Wimbledon with a Croatian tricolour around his forehead, with a Croatian coat of arms on the tricolour. We all know how many our athletes are and how many of them are worn by our fans, "To fight, to fight." Here we have athletes who can testify to both water and football players, etc. What's so ugly about that? When we were banned and we were banned from songs in that Yugoslavia, "Get up Bane", "Vilo Velebita" and the others, we sang them. Now I can't hear them anymore. Every repression, gentlemen, every repression and repressive law does not give birth to the depression of those to whom it applies, but produces a counterproductive effect. We can't almost get to the edge here, to say bannings, bans on verbal delinquents, almost to the edge of re-proclaiming verbal delicacies. Are the kids who are 15 years old, here says Cain, yelling, "For home ready!" Fascists? Well, they don't know what, it's been a while, they have nothing to do with it. But I have to say, speaking of which, Mr. Cain, then you'd have to wonder who's responsible if it reminds him of where our families are, where our school is, where our home education is, where we end up with tolerance. Gentlemen, without democracy, there is no intolerance. And vice versa, without tolerance, there is no democracy. Something Mrs. Ingrid Antičević said about the social state and the social state, about the reasons for the rebellion and the discontent of our fans. Well, it's not just about the national charge. It's about social status and social status in the state. We've banned, let's say the state banned me from protesting at Mark's square. This has become a forbidden city like the one in Beijing. That's how we got away from our people. We thus brought down dignity and importance for ourselves. So anyway, the one before the law was good but it wasn't implemented, it wasn't applied. And now this law is in vain trying to play us, we can make as many laws as we want. No one in the stadium can shut their mouths. There aren't enough cops to stand by every fan and watch what he says and yell. But the police have instruments, they have tools, they have files, they have footage, they have every opportunity to detect, expose or bring in those that are actually the main factors in creating riots on the ground. So, according to them, individuals should go. We can't tell all the fans and that such an unmanned woman to say in some way a mob. We can't even them all. The responsibility for the situation in the stadium or sports resorts is neither borne solely by the state nor able to allocate so much money nor should so much money be allocated to the repressive apparatus. What do clubs do, what do sports alliances do? Do they educate these young people? Hajduk? Dinamo? Mr. Cain was against being more "for a home" then "ready" but he wasn't against one yelling "Kill a load" and the other yelling "Kill a purger." He didn't mention it, so I guess it's no big deal to him. And I'm scared. Why don't we at our schools teach about the three-day Kingdom of Croatia to Dalmatia and Slavonia and tell our children that we are one, that there is no difference. Yes, but they're negligible. That's why if someone throws a torch into the stadium, in the field and we say here we'll punish. You can punish them a hundred times, they'll throw them away again. But if the club doesn't take action so he doesn't buy from his money to pay the fines and UEFA and the rest of them, he doesn't buy a net of protection, so he can put a torch on the north side. ... I'm loud enough without it. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Why are you interrupting me? Don't you like that? So, there won't be any torches in the stadium. That's why I'm gonna be like all of you here for this law, but I think so. ... I mean, there's no point in this, a family position, one educational component, one education in schools and other places. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] And without a change in the overall state and state of affairs in the country, there will be no improvement. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-20-0.u30173	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. They'll decide when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-20-0.u30174	We're going to vote on the debated points. Please establish the quorum, so please engage to determine the quorum. He's 87, but not all of them got involved. There's probably more. I can see there's more. 103 has a counter, and 87... Guys, please, let's get on with it. We're going to the vote. Final draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the prevention of riots in sports competitions, second reading. The debate is closed. You've been assigned a review of the amendment to the bench. I ask the Secretary of State at the Ministry of the Interior, Ivica Buconjic, to declare the amendments submitted. An amendment to one of Gordana Sobol's MPs.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-20-0.u30175	The amendment shall be accepted in part in a way that the amendment to Article 4(1) is not accepted and the first subparagraph of Article 4 is not accepted. And in relation to erasing paragraph 2 is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-20-0.u30176	And ladies and gentlemen, MPs, some are taking the bell as an incentive impulse for an even greater marble. They're being stimulated by the bell. Mrs. Representative Gordana Sobol.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-20-0.u30177	Mr. Vice President, Secretary of State. So you've basically accepted the third part of my first amendment in which I'm actually going to say almost and a little pointless item erases what's okay. Because it's working, can you be so drunk when you come to the stadium, or when you're leaving? It's illegal behavior. And during the game itself, you can drink as much as you want. However, I will still request the vote of these other two parts of this first amendment, where I have actually asked that the article, in paragraph 1 of the first indent, be re-introduced to the provision on the prohibition of consumption and possession of alcoholic beverages and in the second part therefore to return 0.8 of the allowable to 0.5. Because compared to the first reading of this law, I think it's really absolutely inappropriate that you've thrown out a ban on consumption and alcoholic beverages at games, or at sporting events, and I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-20-0.u30178	Thank you very much. Mr. Representative Andrew Hebrang.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-20-0.u30179	Mr. Vice President, we propose a hand-to-hand vote for the efficiency of Parliament's work.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-20-0.u30180	Thank you. I am voting on this part of the amendment that the government does not accept. Who's up for that part of the amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. Second amendment by Ms. Marija Lugaric and Milanka Opačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-20-0.u30181	The amendment shall be subject to this law in accordance with the rules on strong alcoholic and alcoholic beverages, the Regulation on beer and additives and the Wine Act.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-20-0.u30182	Amendment accepted. Right?
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-20-0.u30183	Yeah.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-20-0.u30184	It becomes an integral part of the law. Third Justice Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-20-0.u30185	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-20-0.u30186	It becomes an integral part of the law. The fourth, representative of Ivo Josipovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-20-0.u30187	It is not accepted because this issue is regulated by the adoption of part of the Sobol amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-20-0.u30188	Comrade Josipovic, here you go. Retracted. The fifth also representative of Ivo Josipovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-20-0.u30189	The amendment is not accepted. Therefore, it is not acceptable to make an expression in a visibly alcoholic state since Article 4(1) subparagraph 3 clearly provides for a limit of 0,8 grams per kilogram of alcohol in the blood, i.e. the corresponding amount of milligram in a litre of exhaled air. Furthermore, it is not accepted that the monks are now authorised to determine the concentration of alcohol in the body by these amendments.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-20-0.u30190	He's a colleague of Josipovic's.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-20-0.u30191	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State. It is a provision on which the applicant insists, which is completely pointless and inapplicable. Do you really think that at the entrance to the stadium, when 50, 60,000 people enter the stadium, the directors will measure alcohol to anyone entering the stadium? If you think it will, I'm afraid you don't have a picture of what things look like. I'm asking you to vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-20-0.u30192	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. The sixth also representing Ivo Josipovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-20-0.u30193	The amendment is not accepted, because we have legally arranged for the director to use physical strength in the performance of his duties only if he cannot otherwise refuse to attack himself, according to viewers, to competitors and other persons, and the attack aimed at destroying or damaging parts of the sports facility and its equipment. And that authority should not be extended to other situations, as advocate Josipovic suggests.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-20-0.u30194	Comrade Josipovic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-20-0.u30195	It's about a situation in which someone doesn't want to when they've been instructed to leave the sports field. In such a situation, you do not allow the director to use physical force even though this is about resistance and thus you put him in a position to be held accountable to the law if he uses force or on the other hand that the directors can do absolutely nothing to him. And that provision seems rather irrational to me. I'd like a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-20-0.u30196	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. The seventh also representative of Ivo Josipovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-20-0.u30197	The amendment is not accepted because the amendment concerning this previous amendment 6 has been rejected.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-20-0.u30198	Retracted? Thank you. Eighth also representing Ivo Josipovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-20-0.u30199	The MP has withdrawn the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-20-0.u30200	Okay. Eight.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-20-0.u30201	The amendment of the congressman Gordana Sobol?
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-20-0.u30202	Amendment eight, let's see representative Ivo Josipovic. Retracted.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-20-0.u30203	Dragged yes, yes.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-20-0.u30204	The ninth representative of Gordana Sobol.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-20-0.u30205	Sobol's ninth amendment is not accepted because the applicant's intensity was to allow, exceptionally stressing exceptional, the sale of drinks with a concentration of alcohol of up to 6% in paper or open plastic containers at sports facilities and in sports competitions not marked as risky since such practice is also in almost all European countries.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-20-0.u30206	Comrade Sobol, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-20-0.u30207	Of course, since you didn't accept my first amendments, that first amendment, part of that good part then, of course, you couldn't do this either. However, I would once again like to warn that we have a problem and we will have a problem with the consumption of alcoholic beverages at sporting events. I have warned in the debate on this bill that you have completely changed the intensity of this law in relation to the first reading in one part, or what you would like to achieve, which is to prevent riots in sports stadiums. If you claim that allowing alcohol consumption cannot have a negative impact on both increased aggression and potential riots, then I really think that you are wrong and I really ask that this vote be heard because I believe that in this way you have actually completely offended the idea of the law that you had at first reading because you allowed the sale and consumption of alcoholic beverages, in other words beer to 6% of alcohol in sports competitions. I find that really unacceptable.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-20-0.u30208	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 10th Justice Committee?
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-20-0.u30209	The amendment is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-20-0.u30210	It becomes an integral part of the law. 11th, representative of Ivo Josipovic?
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-20-0.u30211	The amendment is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-20-0.u30212	It becomes an integral part of the law. 12, also representing Ivo Josipovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-20-0.u30213	The amendment is not accepted. In view of the fact that, under Article 28 of the Law, the police have the power to prohibit the maintenance of a sports competition if there is a pre-becoming illegal behaviour that threatens the safety of viewers and competitors. Then, if such a threat threatens during the sport competition, the police will ask the officials leading the competition for a temporary or permanent interruption of the sport competition. A new item has also been added that the police will propose to competition officials to suspend competition temporarily or permanently if there has been an illegal behaviour in a larger extent, and there has been no danger of the safety of viewers and competitors. It is noteworthy that according to the rules of sports competition, these competitions are authorised to terminate official persons, judges or delegates. That's why the police suggest it, and it doesn't order it.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-20-0.u30214	A colleague, Josipovic?
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-20-0.u30215	I have to admit that my understanding of the police in the state is that she's responsible for removing the danger, and then everyone else. This is the simplest escape from the responsibility of the police responsible for possible casualties on sports grounds to some organizers or I don't know who they all don't. I'm sorry you didn't accept that. I'd like a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-20-0.u30216	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 13, the Justice Committee?
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-20-0.u30217	The amendment is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-20-0.u30218	It becomes an integral part of the law. 14, representative of Ivo Josipovic?
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-20-0.u30219	The amendment is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-20-0.u30220	It becomes an integral part of the law. 15, representative of Ivo Josipovic?
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-20-0.u30221	The amendment is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-20-0.u30222	It becomes an integral part of the law. I am voting on the final draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the prevention of riots in sports competitions. Please, let's get on with it. Please vote. The result? With 80 votes for, 3 abstentions, 25 against the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Prevention of Rios in Sports Competitions, together with the amendments adopted. The SDP representative club has proposed to the Croatian Assembly a conclusion that the Government is obliged to submit an analysis of the implementation of the same law to the Croatian Parliament within one year of the entry into force of the Law on the Prevention of Disruption in Sports Competitions. Secretary of State?
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-20-0.u30223	The conclusion is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-20-0.u30224	Thank you. I am voting on the proposal to conclude the SDP's Club of Representatives. Let's get on with it. We can vote. The result? 109 votes for, 4 abstentions, nothing against. The proposed conclusion has been adopted.
