ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-08-0.u35908	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen, MPs and counsellors. The purified agenda you got on the benches. The announced items of the agenda now continue to work and move on to - Proposal for a Law on protection against domestic violence, first reading, P.Z. Number 386 Proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the first reading of the law shall apply to the adoption of this law. You received the materials by mail. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Gender Equality and the Committee on Family, Youth and Sports. You received the reports at the session. Does the proposing representative want to further explain the proposal? Yeah. State Secretary at the Ministry of Family Affairs, Defence and Intergenerational Solidarity Mr. Stjepan Adanic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-08-0.u35909	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen. The purpose of the proposal of the Law on Protection against Family Violence, which changes the existing 2003 law, is to prevent, sanction and combat all forms of domestic violence, by applying appropriate measures to the perpetrator and by easing the consequences of the violence already committed, by providing protection and assistance to victims of violence. The adoption of the Law on protection against domestic violence in 2003, and in particular through the implementation of a number of activities of the central government and public institutions, prescribed by the National Strategy for Protection against Family Violence for the period 2005-2007 as a teaching strategy to protect against domestic violence for the period 2008-2010, has made a significant shift in public sensitisation in this form of highly unacceptable behaviour. This certainly contributed to the adoption of a protocol in the case of domestic violence. We are getting knowledge of the implementation of the existing laws of those national documents and protocols, with the non-compliance of certain provisions of the Law on Protection against Family Violence with the Criminal Law, prompted the need to adopt a new Law on Protection against Family Violence. The proposal for the adoption of a new law is further motivated by the need to improve the work of all bodies and serve and strengthen their legal and institutional position in taking measures towards timely and appropriate protection of victims of domestic violence and the need to comply with international recommendations. The domestic ministry reported 7000 478 perpetrators as a result of a violation of violent behavior in the family from January 1st to June 30th 2008. In this comprehensive and overall number of these cases that I listed, 64.89% of the victims of violence were female. The most common offenders in these cases were husband over wife in 27.49% of cases, father over daughter in 19.59%, son over mother in 12.44% and extramarital partner over extramarital partner in 5.29% of cases. The bill contains a series of newspapers compared to the existing law. I'll just list some, for example. The definition of domestic violence introduces a new concept of economic violence, along with existing physical, mental and sexual violence. And the news is that violence is seen as stalking and harassing through all forms of communication, including electronic and printed media. According to the new bill, a family member is also considered a foster child, or user, located in a foster family. The obligation of social and health institutions as well as other competent authorities to provide all necessary assistance to victims of violence is prescribed. The court's obligation is to report domestic violence in which children are victims of violence to the competent social care centre for the purpose of taking measures to protect the child's family. It is also given the authority of a police officer, this is very important to point out, that it gives authority to a police officer that in the event of direct life-threateningness, persons exposed to violence by violent persons from the apartment, house or other living space. So it's no longer allowed and it can't happen that the victim of violence is taken out of the house, so children who go to kindergarten there are children, but the bully who caused the violence to be taken from the house or from the other living space where they live together. The competent institutions participating in the implementation of this law undertake to provide statistics on domestic violence, the family ministry, defenders and intergenerational solidarity. And with the Ministry of Family, Defence and Intergenerational Solidarity, an expert commission will be established to monitor the implementation of the law. It is very important to note that these statistics must be delivered twice a year by all competent authorities, courts, state attorneys to our ministry, the family ministry, defenders and intergenerational solidarity. More fines have also been prevented for the initiation of domestic violence that are in line with the prescribed penalties in the Criminal Code. As you know, the lowest penalty is a thousand kunas, and the highest penalty according to the law is 50 thousand kuna. The news is also that the maximum penalty that has been up to 60 days so far is rising by one-third compared to now to 90 days. We also prescribe another novelty, which is that a fine is prescribed for at least 3 thousand kunas to all official persons. They're social workers, educators, psychologists, scientific workers and others who don't report violence in the family. And what is important for the end highlighted before your debate that we did not ask for additional funding in the state budget, we did not burden the state budget, but the ministries implementing this law, primarily the Ministry of Health and Social Care, the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of the Family, the defenders and intergenerational solidarity in their regular activities provided financial resources for the implementation of this law. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. President, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-08-0.u35910	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? Yeah. On behalf of the Legislative Committee, Mr. Representative of the Committee, Emil Tomljanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-08-0.u35911	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. At the 64th session, the Croatian Parliament Legislative Committee discussed the Proposal for a Law on Protection against Family Violence submitted to the President of the Croatian Parliament by the Government of the Republic of Croatia by an act of 19 June 2009. The Legislative Committee supports the adoption of this law and gives the following two proposals to the text of the proposal. The first is that in the protection process means more social care centres, as well as family centres with special emphasis on the protection of persons with disabilities and elderly people. The second suggests, at the same time, to be complemented in a transparent way by individual institutes, such as economic violence, i.e. deprivement of the right to economic independence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-08-0.u35912	Thank you. On behalf of the Committee on Gender Equality, the chairman of the board of Mrs. Gordana Sobol. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-08-0.u35913	Thank you. Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. At its 23rd session on 7 July, the Committee on Gender Equality discussed the first reading of the proposal for a law on protection against domestic violence. The applicant's representative introduced the draft law. The current Law on protection against domestic violence has been in place since July 2003 and during its application there have been significant positive developments in the area of prevention and protection against domestic violence. However, it saw the need to supplement the law and to achieve a higher level of protection for members of families exposed to violence. Some provisions could not be applied because of lack of clarity, and it was necessary to amend them also because of a lack of compliance with the new Criminal Law. The proposed law prescribes some newspapers. The purpose of the law includes prevention, sanctioning and curbing of all kinds of domestic violence, an extended circle of persons belonging to the family, an extended definition of violence, the introduction of a concept of economic violence, the level of penalties for perpetrators of violence are tightened and all procedures under this law are hasty. In the follow-up to the debate, the Ombudsman commented that the proposed definition of family is too narrow because it does not include children of ex-marriage or spouses as well as persons in adolescent relationships. It also proposed to include in the definition of domestic violence in the child’s exercise of his right to meet and associate with family members according to the decision of the competent authority. Some members of the Committee are of the opinion that violence in adolescent relationships can be subjected to peer violence, with which representatives of the Association of the Centre for Education, Advisory and Research disagreed on the basis of their research into violence in adolescent relationships. The Advocate General for Gender Equality held that the implementation of the Law on Protection against Family Violence still lacks quality cooperation between competent authorities. She also warned that there is a lack of quality statistics on the reporting and processing of domestic violence. In the debate, the most recent cases of multiple murder have been questioned by the proper and timely handling of all authorities. Furthermore, it recalls that at the time of the adoption of the current Family Violence Protection Act, the Republic of Croatia was among the few legislations that envisioned a whole series of safeguards in cases of domestic violence. However, in practice these safeguards were rarely pronounced. It is also indicated that the inability to implement a mandatory treatment measure is not yet subject to the necessary regulation. It is noted that the system that provides for victims is inert and slow while victims of domestic violence need help quickly. It has been suggested that advanced education of police officers dealing with domestic violence problems so that they can recognise violence and that there is a single database of domestic violence is missing and that the psycho-social treatment of perpetrators of violence has not been revived. It is said that certain tragic cases of domestic violence do not need to be generalised but it is necessary to establish those responsible for the failures and to prevent the recurrence of errors. The problem of educating women victims of violence who return to violence has also been highlighted. It was noted that the efforts made in the legislative section, so the Law on Protection against Family Violence, the Protocol on Conduct and the National Strategy contributed to sensitizing the public to the existence of a problem of domestic violence, which was not long ago a taboo topic in Croatia. The applicant's representative expressed the view that all comments made will be considered when proposing the final draft law. After the discussion was held, members and members of the board decided to propose to the Croatian Parliament the conclusion that the proposal for a law on protection against domestic violence was adopted and all objections and suggestions are addressed to the applicant. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-08-0.u35914	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the SDP club, Madam Representative Gordana Sobol. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-08-0.u35915	Thank you. Mr. President, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. On behalf of the SDP club, I would like to say that we actually welcome what is ahead of us today after still a little longer waiting for a proposal for a new Law on protection against domestic violence. I must remind you, this law has been in force since mid-2003. During its application, it has been shown that it needs to be completed, that some things need to be clarified, but it should be said that this bill was practically already completed in 2007. At that time, the National Strategy for Protection against Family Violence was also designed to adopt the law by the end of 2007. But here we are now half of 2009, now this bill is ahead of us. The basic reason was, in fact, that the law was pending. But I'm saying we're sorry we haven't discussed this before. But the law is here now. One small criticism to the promoter, which is not, in fact, to say in the light of the law, gave the French data, namely inside is the data until half of 2008 and now we have already passed half of 2009 and I think it was worth giving the latest data available to the MUP, which refers in a numerical sense to how much violence there is in Croatia. For the past year, the data suggests that from January 1st to December 31st 2008, 16 thousand 885 requests were received for police intervention to protect against domestic violence and police intervened in all 16 thousand 885 cases. So that's the data for last year. When you look at the data for years before that, so for years back then you will see that depending on the year to year there would be similar data that actually points to what I think we all know well, and that is that domestic violence, therefore the violence that appears in the family circle of violence which is unfortunately both in Croatian society and that we, regardless of the existing Law on Protection against Family Violence and the Protocol on Treatment, and already another strategy of protection against domestic violence has been adopted. So, we still haven't found a way to significantly reduce these black numbers that concern domestic violence. Recent cases, two days ago, this terrifying and tragic event that happened in Ozlja points to the fact that we have not finished our work, or that obviously everything we have written in the laws and what we have written in our strategies, and I am stressing in particular what we have written in the protocol for dealing with domestic violence, still, where we should, therefore, not live in the field. I will agree with those who will say, therefore, that one or two, or three or four cases where there are indications that there are failures of the competent services are not those who need to generalise the situation, but they always, I would say, again and again that the situation is not exactly what we think it is and that we are obliged to ask again and again of all those who, in one way or another, have contact with victims of violence, are obliged to act exactly according to certain rules, because Croatia has adopted them. It refers, of course, to the police, because whenever it comes to violence, including domestic violence, it always comes to us somewhere, first to the police, so, not only when it comes to police, but also when it comes to all those services from the welfare center, from healthcare professionals, from workers in educational and educational institutions, therefore, all those who in one way or another can come into contact with victims of violence should know because it is all written down what they do when they come to know that there is some form of domestic violence. On this occasion I think it is also worth reminding of the prosecutor's report on gender equality, we recently had him here in Parliament at the debate and we adopted him, she also particularly addresses the issue of domestic violence. And what we strongly agree with as a SDP club is exactly the part where it indicates that at local levels there is still a lack of understanding and recognition of domestic violence as concerns each member and member of a community. On this occasion, I would particularly like to warn myself, I will now say to future committees that will be established at local level, these are gender equality committees and each county is required to establish them under the law and there is a possibility at the level of cities that, according to both the protocol on treatment and the local commissions which are therefore established in the counties, i.e. the county parliaments have a strong obligation to discuss the issue of domestic violence in their area and not to see it as can be seen from the Ombudsman's reports that only certain committees discussed this issue at their meetings, round tables or so. However, today in Croatia, we have come to the stage that domestic violence is absolutely no longer a private matter, but that domestic violence is something that is absolutely unacceptable and that every community has to take special care of especially those who have certain legal obligations. When it comes to this new bill of protection against domestic violence, the one who carefully reads this bill and if you went to compare it with the existing Law on protection against domestic violence, then you should say that the largest majority of what is written in the new bill exists in the current Bill of Protection against Family Violence. This law adopts certain improvements, certain improvements in terms of clarity of certain provisions and facilitates compliance with those provisions. But what may be the biggest newspaper that the law introduces is, in addition to extending family members who enter the definition of family is the provision to introduce eco-category, economic violence, or conduct if someone is found to be exposed to economic violence within his family. When we talk about different types of violence as defined in the proposed Article 4, as the SDP Club, we support the opinion of the Advocate General for Gender Equality who believes that, too, she seeks to put it into the bill that Article 4 should be precisely worked out, so all of this here is numbered to be numbered by points. Why? Because when police act and make certain decisions, they are then called for, for example, Article 4. And so in later analyses and statistics, we can't see what kind of domestic violence is most often expressed, whether it's physical violence, whether it's psychological violence, and now we have a category of economic violence. So this would make it easier in later analyses, therefore, in a statistical sense that we have accurate data on what forms of violence are most common when it comes to Croatia and we pray in front of the SDP club that... Until the final reading of the law, it is clear whether it is possible to follow the comments and suggestions made by the Ombudsman because this would not make it particularly difficult for the police to work as well, for example, the police. It may only be written in accordance with Article 4(1), (2) or (3) for a particular type of violence. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] When we talk about protection measures, Croatia was then very advanced in 2003, in comparison with many other countries, introduced a category of individual safeguards, especially in that part there were newspapers related to working with perpetrators of violence. So, this is primarily about the psychosocial treatment of bullys and the obligation and the mandatory treatment of different types of addiction. This occasion should be said as a warning in fact and see what can be done in that part, which is that there were major difficulties in implementation and currently envisaged safeguards. First, when it comes to psychosocial treatment because it was then waiting somewhere until 2006 for the competent ministry to adopt certain regulations until a few days ago in Croatia only three or four cities had people who had permission to do psychosocial treatment at all. We are a few days ago, according to the information we have that network has been expanded in some way throughout Croatia. But another problem is that you can't get as much data as a person is covered by psychosocial treatment at all, because if you take the MUP statistics, so the police will then see that for the past year, for the past year, the police have proposed 4607 measures of psychosocial treatment of violent people. The data provided by the attorney's office last year shows that 56 people were in a psychosocial treatment system. Therefore, because of the inability to conduct this treatment, we cannot, of course, expect the courts to express such measures to a greater extent. And otherwise, when you take the police statistics on how many measures they have proposed and how many measures the courts have said then you see that in about 30 % of the court accepts the police's proposal when it comes to those measures that are in police jurisdiction, which we consider absolutely too little. The problem of the measures relating to the protection of treatment against addiction remains because even after six years, the Ministry of Health did not adopt a regulation on the implementation of this measure. The courts can't say, the police may not know how many proposals they make, the courts can't say because the ministry, the health department's competent authority, didn't pass the rule. And I ask on behalf of the club to warn the ministry in this regard that, at least after the adoption of this law, it will be passed by a regulation. Related to the protective measure of distance from the apartment. Violent. The safeguard measure existed and exists in the current bill, only being put into protective action and in almost the same way as it is now. When we talk about the distance of the bully from the apartment, the house, or some space he lives in, we have to ask ourselves how many cases that measure will be implemented in the first place. We don't believe that in a much larger number will be spent than it is so far, because unfortunately it's still much easier, and that's what we have in the current law, and that's much easier for a new law enforcement officer to come with the victim to the apartment, help her pick up her things in a plastic bag in peace, eventually take the kids and escort her to some shelter. So, what we've had so far in the law, so the possibility of getting the bullys out of the apartment or house we'll also have in this law, but we claim that unfortunately still, and it will be in the future, will be much less pronounced measures to get the bullys out of the house because it's much easier to escort a woman and her children to a shelter. And that remains a problem...
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-08-0.u35916	Thank you. Time!
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-08-0.u35917	And, of course, we're left with the possibility that maybe even as a society, we can identify ourselves to this problem and try to go to some future that's exactly what we're...
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-08-0.u35918	Thank you!
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-08-0.u35919	That a lot more thugs leave the house than the victims do. As a SDP club, I didn't say that, we'll support this bill in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-08-0.u35920	It is now up to the distinguished representative Jeljana Kalash on behalf of the HDZ Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-08-0.u35921	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Dear representative of the Proposer. Dear fellow MPs and MPs. I will speak today in this High House on behalf of the HDZ Club on an extremely important proposal for a law for Croatian society and have begun their presentation very concretely. Every fifth woman living in a relationship survived physical violence at least once. Every fifth woman at least once. Let's try to display this statistical barometer with concrete numbers on specific cases. I'm asking you here right now not to mind me using you as an example, but my goal is actually to sensitize everyone. In fact, 35 female MPs sit in the Croatian Assembly. According to statistics, at least seven MPs could have been victims of domestic violence. The parliamentary debate is followed by the 15th female journalist today. According to statistics, at least three of the journalists present could have been victims of domestic violence. The individual debate of the MPs on the Bill of Family Violence could take up to ten minutes. Every ten minutes, at least one woman is exposed to physical abuse by men. These are, MPs and MPs, data that monitors global statistics on domestic violence. I believe that, like me, this data has shocked you, but we can approach this problem differently. In the Croatian Parliament, there are 118 representatives of the male sex. According to statistics, at least 17 MPs could have been the perpetrator of domestic violence. The parliamentary debate is followed by at least 10 journalists today. According to statistics, at least three of the present journalists in the Parliament could have been the perpetrator of domestic violence. The individual debate of the MPs on the Bill of Family Violence can therefore take up to ten minutes, as I said and still every ten minutes, one woman is exposed to physical abuse by men. Violence in each individual case is a violation of fundamental human rights, and it is precisely the most widespread form of domestic violence. Therefore, it is of paramount importance to talk about him publicly as we do here in the Assembly today and as different institutions and experts do, but also individually, which should be done precisely by those victims who face a bully on a daily basis. The law on protection against domestic violence was passed by the High House in 2003. By passing the law for the first time in Croatian legislation, explicit domestic violence has been qualified as an infringement in a comprehensive way, unlike the applicable provisions of family law. Without clearly established laws concerning the issue of domestic violence, without official statistics on victims of domestic violence, without serious research on domestic violence, and especially without the contribution of the media that should report on the problem of domestic violence systematically, covering its various aspects, not only by bringing individual cases in the black chronicle, without all the above all, this numbered violence may still be a negligible and underrated problem with an incomprehensible high level of acceptance and tolerance. However, in Croatia, and this is particularly important to stress, many positive developments have taken place in terms of protection and sanctioning against domestic violence, as well as in the handling of all competent authorities. The police, the judiciary, the welfare centers. Since 2003, much has changed since the law was passed to protect against domestic violence, since domestic violence has been possible in Croatia several years ago as an ice dream, therefore. Only a dozen percent were visible on the surface, reported and sanctioned in society. And all that huge 90 percent was hidden among the four family walls as a private matter. Until a few years ago, only a small number of victims spoke, opposed, and reported a domestic bully. Until then, most of the domestic violence in which the victim was subjected to various forms of continuous abuse remained unreported. In this regard, it must be borne in mind that women are far more concerned than other victims and other crimes, there is a conflict of two interests, the victim's interest to punish the perpetrator and to satisfy her desire for justice, and also the interest not to be marked, embarrassed and rejected in her midst. Reports on cases of domestic violence show an increase in the number of statistical indicators. They are a sign that a wider society with state administration authorities has been involved in the problem of domestic violence. More than 17,000 applications were submitted last year, and as many as 50 per day in Zagreb. So far, the abuse problem has been referred to as a woman's problem, and the focus has been on methods of helping and supporting women victims of violence. But the perspective changes and the problem of violence is recognised as the biggest problem of men. Because in 95% of cases, they're violent men. And it's important here to say that contrary to the entrenched stereotypes that husband abusers are not just uneducated social cases. The questions that are now being asked are why men abuse women, why are they violent? Can they be helped to stop the violence? When men stop being abused or women will no longer be victims, but we certainly must stress that this law protects not only women, female victims but also that in most cases the perpetrator of the offence was the husband over his wife in 27%, father over his daughter in about twenty percent, son over his mother of 13%, and an extramarital partner over an extramarital partner in about 5%. A number of newspapers have been introduced in this bill of law that we still have on our benches today compared to the 2003 law. However, it may be one of the more important to mention the expansion of the definition of domestic violence and the introduction of the concept of economic violence, which involves the depravation and withdrawal of money, non-payment of alimony and other forms of control left by women with no means to live. Violents often prohibit education or employment from long - term victims, and these are mostly women who are completely uncompetitive in the labour market. It has so far been a poorly-recognized form of violence, and it has appeared in many forms. For example, the victim’s husband denied money for a normal life, to go to a dentist, a doctor, whether the money itself was earned or not. Or the bully's husband blackmailed his wife by threatening to give her money if he didn't do what he asked her to do. There was also a paradox that, after a mighty conviction for the violent husband was handed down for domestic abuse in the women’s appeal proceedings, she complained that she would have nothing to live on if her husband went to prison, a paradoxical situation. I would like to make it clear that the victims of domestic violence need to be trained for a normal life, and that is precisely one of the objectives of the National Strategy for the Prevention of Family Violence for the period 2008 to 2010 in which the usual measures highlight the assistance of victims after leaving the abuser. The new strategy also strengthens measures so far that encourage the employment of victims of violence, and encourages employers to take them into work. It is a very common case that just the economic addiction of women is one of the most important reasons why they suffer violence and that they do not decide to report and leave a bully. And that is why the women's employment measure is also the strongest support for their self-restraint. And for the end. In a daily newspaper, I recently read an article about Petra, a mother of three who has 70 percent disability from a marriage. Her ex-husband, of course, had a reputation in society, and she and the kids were bruised by the body. She suffered because of the children that they had a father. And her father abused her mother. He was a director, and now he's already retired and his age continues with torture. Her mother suffers just as much as she does. After her husband’s last attack, in which she suffered a concussion and a fracture of her neck spine, after which her mother also told her that she was ashamed to leave her violent husband because Peter had chosen him herself and had sought help. She's stopped the abuse. Her children were her priority. She wanted to give them safety and quiet life and it wasn't easy for her. She was scared. She's changed six cities and who knows how many jobs. He'd always find her. She lived in exile, and he would always find her. He was screaming about killing her. She reported it to the police and told him she couldn't kill her when he had already killed her, figuratively, of course. Today is Petra saying herself as a phoenix. She rose from the ashes, and he was the abuser behind bars. Ladies and gentlemen, none of us in our lives can choose the problems or circumstances that will affect him. But certainly each of us can do at least one thing – choose the right way to react to these problems. And therefore, because of all the women who are going to get the strength to rise up like a phoenix from the ashes and stop their agony over their children who are victims of violence and whose care we need to take priority, because of the harsh and clear commitment that domestic violence is not a private matter to be kept silent within the four family walls. For all these reasons, the HDZ club will support this proposal to protect against domestic violence. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-08-0.u35922	We have two corrections to incorrect allegations. First is the distinguished representative Marin Jurjevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-08-0.u35923	The incorrect claim by counterpart Kalash, who interprets the statistical data at Croatia's level about the number of violencees among the male population, is trying to apply it to the number of men amongst the MPs of this House, arguing that based on these data it can be concluded that there are 17 thugs here. At least a representative sample should be considered. That's not how statistics can be interpreted or some statistical data because it will lead us to the wrong conclusions. There could be zero here, and it could be 17, it could be more, it could be less violent. But you can't do it from that data using this group without doing research on some representative sample.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-08-0.u35924	Thank you. Let's move on. And another correction, the esteemed representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-08-0.u35925	She says a colleague invites all ash women to come out as a phoenix. The role of the state is not to turn a woman into ashes. It's incorrect, there's no call from the ashes, so it's an invitation for everyone to get in the state of the ash, and then we're going to pop up like a phoenix. The role of the state is to prevent all these pains, all the hell that women endure, but it is primarily seen in numerous legislative proposals, and also in the Law on Medical Insemination, which simply continues to be considered by the woman's body as a polygon where it will demonstrate power over the woman's body, and then we marvel at these consequences, Mrs. Kalash.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-08-0.u35926	Thank you. It's no longer a correction. Thank you very much. Let's move on with the debate. On behalf of the HNS Club, the esteemed representative of Danica Hursa. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-08-0.u35927	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, respected by the legislator. At the very beginning, I will say that representatives of the Croatian People's Party club will support this proposal for a law on protection against domestic violence. An important law on protection against domestic violence has been applied, as we have heard since 2003 and during its application there have been significant positive developments in the area of development of prevention and protection against domestic violence. By passing this law for the first time in Croatian law, domestic violence has been explicitly qualified as an offence in a comprehensive way, unlike the applicable provisions of the Family Law. Also, this law provides for more effective and sustainable protection for vulnerable family members exposed to violence compared to the situation found. During the application of the law, therefore, the need for its completion was recognised. People exposed to domestic violence are most often not familiar with their rights prescribed by this law, but also with other regulations. Some provisions of the applicable law have been shown not to apply for reasons of insufficient clarity of the provision or prescribed jurisdiction in the course of the proceedings, or the prescribed provision was more referenceable, which has created doubts in the application of the law. For example, in the application of the law, it is not possible to apply compulsory treatment safeguards or, for example, that the protective measure of mandatory psychosocial treatment cannot be properly implemented for the reasons that a set of assumptions need to be provided for its application, including the essential need for appropriate expert staff and institutions which, as we know, are insufficient. The law on protection against domestic violence only through fines and prison sentences does not achieve a purpose. Thus, despite the shortcomings in the current law, its application over the past 5 years has significantly contributed to the success of processing the perpetrators of domestic violence. That's what some statistical indicators are up to, and I'm not going to list them. The previous ones mentioned them. All I'm going to say is that in 2008, in a violation of domestic violence, the police reported 7 478 perpetrators. The domestic violence by adopting this law has ceased to be a private problem, and it has become a social problem. The adoption of the Law on protection against domestic violence has also made a major shift in the area of sensitivity of the public in this form of highly unacceptable behaviour. This certainly contributed to the numerous activities of the central authorities of the state administration and public institutions through the implementation of the national strategies that were in 2005/2007. and this one here 2008/2010. All of this, as well as the non-compliance with certain provisions of the Law on Protection against Family Violence with the Criminal Law, imposed the need to adopt a new law on protection against domestic violence. We've heard a lot about that news from the predecessors. I would just perhaps underline a newspaper that says that an extended definition of domestic violence is being introduced and a new concept of economic violence is being introduced in the family. And in the end, I'd say it's necessary to bring, supplement and amend laws. The problem is most often in law enforcement, but if the application of the law is ideal and this, I personally don't think that we would eliminate violence. So I'm going to underline, emphasize and repeat everything that we all know very, very well, and I say is not a waste and a hundred times I say, no matter how trivial it may seem to someone, we need to establish more interpersonal respect at all levels. From the example of our conduct in this higher home, school, street, family and thus try to cure and reduce aggression in society, school, family and society. To monitor and combat the influence of the media on aggression, and strongly encourage ways of non-violent communication and behavior for me is the task of first order. Society must necessarily deal with causes and prevention, especially education. Violence in the family is a consequence and a reflection of the state of society as a whole. To whine about a bad general situation or a lack of funds is just to get away from problems and it is not and can't be the reason for this much violence at all levels and so on in the family. Proposing stronger fines for delinquents in the family will not solve problems because we usually punish victims, especially when it comes to domestic violence. Or setting up cameras in schools is very welcome, but it won't solve the problem of violence. We need to find the means to send professional people to school who will talk to their children and give them concrete training to prevent conflict. In the family, too. It is necessary to provide professional assistance to bullys to help address the causes of violent behavior. So let me get this straight. It is therefore a task of society, for countries to carry out media campaigns that would raise awareness of the population's problems of young bullies, poor, older and powerless, the problems of disabled people, and I think that, of course, by adopting good laws, we will reduce and combat violence in the family as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-08-0.u35928	Thank you. We're moving on to an individual debate. First is the distinguished representative Vesna Škulić. She's gone. He's losing his right to debate. The second is the distinguished representative Neda Klaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-08-0.u35929	Thank you very much, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Secretary, colleagues and fellow MPs. Well, here's thanks to the application of the Family Protection Act.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-08-0.u35930	Honorable MPs, speak a little louder, because you can't make it that much stronger. Let's hear it.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-08-0.u35931	So, thanks to the application of the Law on Protection against Family Violence since 2003, we have come to a major shift in prevention and protection against domestic violence. For the first time in our legislation, this type of violence has been qualified as an offence in a comprehensive way and has been provided for more effective and sustainable protection to members of the family exposed to violence. Since this government is seeking a higher level of protection, it is also seen that people exposed to violence are often not familiar with their rights, and that is exactly what this law solves. It has been noted so far that it is not possible to apply mandatory treatment safeguards on addiction or mandatory psychosocial treatment that we have already heard during the debate, due to lack of institutions and professional staff. What the practice has shown is that the fine for the perpetrator of violence has a negative effect on the victims themselves of domestic violence, but by applying this law for 5 years has contributed significantly to the successful processing of the perpetrators of domestic violence. In the overall number of domestic violence, women are the most represented as victims. A major shift has also been achieved through the application of this law, because this problem has ceased to be a private matter and has become a social problem. He is now defined as an extremely socially unacceptable behavior. Credits certainly belong to the central authorities of the state administration and public institutions through the implementation of the National Strategy for Protection against Family Violence, both for the period 2005 to 2007, and those for the period 2008 to 2010 and the Protocol on Family Violence. Of course these are documents that are further encouraged to improve existing regulations. The law we have before us offers us a newspaper, which is a broader circle of people who are considered family members, given the Family Law and the Social Care Act. What I think is the special value of this law is a broader definition of violence, so another concept of economic violence is being introduced. It is also a new provision under which social care services and health institutions are obliged to take care of the needs of the victim of the perpetrator of violence to teach all his rights, and the interests of the abused child are priority in all proceedings. But here, Mr. Secretary of State, I would at the same time suggest that, in Article 8, the existing bill behind the word "and the worker of an educational institution" add the words "expert workers of family centres, Caritas, private institutions and civil society associations whose work is part of the work of children and families". This could actually achieve the obligation to report abuse at all levels because the Family Law itself obliges everyone to report abuse. This lists all state-level institutions, local and private institutions when we have a special opportunity to appoint them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-08-0.u35932	Thank you. Dear Representative Tatjana Šimac Bonačić. She's gone. He's losing his right to debate. And now it's the honourable representative of Romana Jerkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-08-0.u35933	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Of course, I welcome all the efforts that go towards better regulation of the problem of violence against women in the family, and this law certainly brings improvements to the previous law. What we've achieved all these years. There is no doubt that progress has been made, it should be acknowledged, we have the Attorney General's Office, we have the Government's Office for Gender Equality, we have changed the Family Law and Criminal Law, we have the Protocol on Conduct, we have adopted a National Strategy, but we need to be fair and admit something else, and that is that violence is still a very serious problem, and as said colleague Sobol is a constant in this society that we still do not have an adequate answer. Everything we have done so far, however, has not been in vain and I believe that in the future it will give the expected concrete result, i.e. the decline of domestic violence. What else we have achieved very important. As one of the predecessors said, we have achieved a greater sensitization of the public to domestic violence today compared to, for example, today. Five years earlier, fortunately, there's a lot less of those who close their eyes to that kind of violence by putting it in some kind of four home walls. Violence is something we condemn, we don't approve, and that's good. It's also good that it's for example. in last year, I think in November of last year on the International Day Against Violence Against Women Current Deputy Prime Minister and Minister Mrs. Kosor signed a contract on behalf of the ministry on co-financing of shelters and counselling centres for women victims of violence with representatives of the county and cities. That's very good. I think a good model of funding has been achieved, some government, some local self-government unit, some donors, but after commendation usually comes a little complaint. So I have to say that the city of Rijeka founded a women's shelter in 2007 and that in the association it is possible that the association that runs the shelter provides professional assistance to victims of family and other violence, but also to minors with risky forms of behavior, including drug experimentation. I would like to stress that the shelter, or association with the ministry, did not sign any contract, that 600,000 kunas needed to maintain the shelter and current monthly costs are set aside by the city of Rijeka in collaboration with the Primorje-Gorski County. And not only that, we asked as a unit of local self-government from the ministry, although other health care and social care, for the shelter, or shelter for women to be in the social care facility, so with other institutions throughout Croatia that provide accommodation services and psychosocial rehabilitation for women and children. Unfortunately on several occasions the answer was negative in terms of that capacity being filled, which of course absolutely did not correspond to the truth. Since 10 beds at the shelter works full capacity, so the shelter works full capacity. So it is not true that in Rijeka, or for the entire coastal-goran county, it is only enough that only the House of Saints is sufficient. Anna. So, this law has good things and I'm not going to talk about them just because I'd try to make a contribution that this problem might try to solve in a maybe even better way. Because the figures are in favor of that, that as I said before, domestic violence does not show a trend of decline. So, what are the shortcomings of this law in my opinion? The shortcomings are in this sense that an effective safeguard that can be determined in the abuser is not provided immediately, so at present, after the violence has been committed. We have also failed in preventive measures to prevent violence from happening, and when it comes to not repeating itself. And I must tell you that I agree with those who feel that repression and high fines are not the best solution. They're still ringing in my ears the words of a domestic violence victim who told me about six months ago to my colleague Sobol and I. My husband beats me, I turn him in, he pays the fine, I come home, he beats me again, I end up in the hospital as a cripple. And he's telling the state money, and he's beating me. So it's not, of course, simple to hear it. But it's real. But for some women, real life is real. Secondly, this law does not solve for me, and it should consider how to build it into the law, is a problem of violence in the relationships of young people. So in adolescence. There are studies that support that violence in youth relationships between 16 and 19 years of age is a serious problem in the adolescent population. Research has shown that 60% of young people have experienced some form of violence in a relationship. That 43% of them committed some form of behavioral violence. After all, even the Ombudsman for children in her report for the past year asked for a very serious approach to solving this problem. And he suggested sanctioning this form of violence through this very law. I think it's an extremely important education for young people to be able to recognize some of their behavior as violence. Of course, the problem we're talking about is really very, very complex and beyond the framework of this law. But we have to ask ourselves, can we help a woman if every entity and every institution cares only about what is in some way within her jurisdiction and duty? If there is no communication between the subjects, if there is no coordination of what seems to be, I believe that helping women who have suffered domestic violence cannot be what is most important. And that's urgent, necessary, as soon as possible, so right now. Personally, I think you should seriously consider forming a single database of people who have experienced domestic violence. Exactly because of the better functioning of the system. In some ways, police and welfare centres and the judiciary and the judiciary should be connected and ultimately civil society dealing with this problem. Of course, taking great care of the protection of personal data. It's possible so I think we've done a lot of preconditions that we could expect a drop in domestic violence in the future. However, what we are obliged to do is coordinate all the entities involved in this problem. That's necessary. One must know what the other is doing, others must know what the third is doing, and must have feedback between them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-08-0.u35934	Thank you. We have one correction to the incorrect allegations, the esteemed representative of Zeljana Kalash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-08-0.u35935	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Here's a distinguished colleague, Jerkovic, said that under this family law violence in youth ties should be sanctioned. The fact is that violence in youth relationships exists. But I don't know how a family law that clearly defines what a family is, could sanction violence, say, between two 15-year-olds. Two 15-year-olds must not be family. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-08-0.u35936	Thank you. We have two replicas. The first is the distinguished representative of Gordana Sobol. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-08-0.u35937	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleague, I answered the line. Just to point out the problem you were talking about the problem of shelter for women and children victims of domestic violence. First of all, I would like to point out, in a way, to invite all competent, primarily competent ministries in this case, the Ministry of Health and Social Care to have a lot more hearing than so far when it comes to co-financing and support of shelters that are being opened in cooperation with local communities. So in this case it is this one shelter which is in Rijeka but not only in Rijeka but in all other major cities in Croatia. Secondly, I would like to warn you, last year you remember we all supported each other at that joint session of committees and autonomous shelters action to address the issue of financing autonomous women's shelters, so those in the domain of NGOs. Contracts from the government level and from the level of part of local communities with those associations have also been signed. However, after the signing ceremony has passed, I must warn that one part of the shelter has lost its support and has no signed contracts with the work of the local community. In this case, I am speaking specifically with the Association Step from the Karlovac County has refused to sign the contract. This is something, therefore, that the town of Karlovac has, for years, supported the work and counselling sites of that shelter, but the Carlovac County is acting in a way that can do what it can for me, and even worse, there is no such thing in the county of Karlova, so it should be taken care of when such contracts are signed to do so.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-08-0.u35938	My colleague, after a while you're on, don't be angry. We have another replica, you can now replicate, the distinguished representative of Biljana Borzana. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-08-0.u35939	My colleague Jerkovic, you spoke of the importance of education so that young people could recognize violence and that when they move into life they would know what is not good and how they should not live. I absolutely think it's very important, and that's why I answered. So we have a problem in Croatia not only is there still a lot of young people who don't recognize the violence properly, but we have another situation, and here I specifically remembered one event when I participated in a seminar in a Roma village where I asked women what you would think first when you saw a beaten woman. They answered what she did. She did something. So this is also one problem in which a woman therefore takes violence as something normal, acceptable, and that she should be punished when she did something that angered her husband. So that's another problem in which the local community you're talking about can be involved. I think it is absolutely the biggest responsibility of the government to regulate this problem by good laws but the local community, individuals who do not close their eyes to this problem, the media and political parties can do a terrible lot to sensitize the public on this subject.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-08-0.u35940	Thank you. Reply to the replica, distinguished representative Romana Jerkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-08-0.u35941	Thank you very much. My colleague Borzan, the problem of violence among the adolescent population is extremely large, it's spoken of a lot, it's written a lot, but it seems that it will take at least 10 years to make us all aware and do something concrete in this sense. And when I say it specifically, then I mean to regulate it by law. We are very often declarative of something, but when it comes to operationalization, then you can see how much we actually have the will to do concrete things, bring too many solutions that are applicable right now. The system is inert and it's a fact. The fact is, for example, there is a greater need for shelter in the Primorian-Gorski County but the system does not recognise it. The system doesn't recognize it right now. It will probably take another 10 years to sign a co-financing agreement with the Ministry, for example, and by then we will finance it, or a local self-government unit, which is fine, we have a sensitivity to it, and we are aware that this is an necessity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-08-0.u35942	Thank you. Let's move on with the individual debate. Honorable representative Nadica Jelash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-08-0.u35943	Dear Vice President, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. In my debate on this legislative proposal, I will focus on only one social group, so on the elderly because somehow I have the impression that this social group in this legislative proposal is marginalized or at least neglected. That the law actually deals primarily with the family in the most basic sense of the word, so the nuclear family. It is a population that is specific, which is extremely sensitive and very vulnerable primarily because of its infirmity. At the same time, the share of this population in the total population is gradually increasing thanks to the fact that life span on the one hand and the reduction of natural growth on the other hand, and we will talk about this other problem this afternoon when we talk about the Law on Medical Insemination, therefore as an opportunity to increase natural growth. What is the situation in Croatia? The demographic picture of Croatia with almost 19% of the population over the age of 60 and 16% of the older than 65 shows that we are one of the oldest societies in Europe. Moreover, according to the United Nations, Croatia is listed in the fourth group of countries of Europe with a very old population and violence against that population is escalating in all forms of physical, psychological and sexual abuse through financial or material exploitation until neglect. The danger of violence or abuse increases if a person is ill, if he is immobilized, if he is demented, lower socioeconomic status, and if there is some problem in this family of addiction, therefore, related to alcoholism and drugs. The consequences of violence against older people can be far-reaching to them from the damage already damaged physical and mental to loss and the little material security that enables them to retire if they are materially exploited until death because neglect and abuse causes a continuous stress that can be considered an additional risk of death. There are many reasons why the abuse of the elderly was only recently recognized as a fact. Elderly victims of neglect or abuse can feel shame and fear and not admit that their loved ones treat them badly. Some may blame themselves for what is happening to them, may be isolated, an elderly person may feel that what is happening to others is not happening to them. Some fear the consequences if they discover their situation, etc., it.. But these are all individual reasons why the abuse of the elderly has long not been recognized as a problem. But there is also a general social problem. Violence against older people is often covered up and shamefully silenced, tolerated because the elderly are increasingly seen as a burden of society, not as those whose past work is in the foundations of society. The elderly are literally the victims of this impertinent time. The direct consequence of such perception of violence against the old is non-reporting. Only one out of 14 cases reported. According to the study centre of the Faculty of Law in Zagreb, the most common form of violence against older people within the Croatian family is psychological violence. It has often been subjected to 5.4% of the older population and an additional 19% is sometimes exposed to it. Most often it's about shouting, insulting, swearing, ignoring, threatening, blaming, mocking, underestimating older people and so forth. Interestingly, more psychological violence than others is experienced by older people who are independent but who help children. In this group of abused persons, women are to the greatest extent possible. Financial violence within the family is often exposed to about 2% of older people, while about 5% of them are exposed to this type of violence occasionally. It is usually about changing the will, stealing money or other assets, selling a house without their consent, abuse of power, opening mail without knowledge or signing documents without their permission. Even 92% of the victims of financial violence are older women. Physical violence often suffers slightly more than 1% of older people and sometimes more than 3%. Physical violence suffered by older people varies from kicking, slapping, pulling hair to throwing on the floor, drowning, throwing objects. The smallest percentage but very worrying, therefore, is a very worrying trend because it is on the rise, the percentage of sexual violence against older people who often experience slightly less than 1% of older people and sometimes 2%. People over the age of 80 are more often victims of neglect while they are somewhat older victims of abuse. The problem is that older people are reluctant to admit that they are victims of violence because they feel fear, shame, and guilt, worry about what will happen to them if they admit that they are abused or their own child who cares about them or, say, a grandson, or simply do not know who to turn to for help. Who are the most common perpetrators of violence against the elderly, to say the same. In 90% of cases of violence against the elderly, the perpetrators are husband, son and daughter. With the husband being convincing in the first place. When it comes to physical and sexual violence in most cases, the perpetrator is a male, so husband or son, and the victim is a woman. When it comes to mental abuse, the perpetrator is, in most cases, a female person, therefore a daughter or daughter-in-law, therefore, the person most often caring for older family members. Financial abuse is often carried out by children, not necessarily materially dependent on parents. In most cases, abusers are men, older women, except they are more often exposed to violence by their husbands and are also victims of their own sons, grandsons, and sons-in-laws than they are of older men. Here, since it is the first reading of this legislative proposal, it would be good to foresee certain forms of protection for older people as a truly specific part of society.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-08-0.u35944	Thank you. It is up to the distinguished representative Susana Bilić Vardić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-08-0.u35945	Dear Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Secretary of State, distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs. In front of us today, the proposal for a law on protection against domestic violence, which the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Resolute Ministry of Family, Defence and Intergenerational Solidarity delivered to the Croatian Assembly for discussion and adoption in the first reading. This law prescribes what violence is in the family, people who are considered family members within the meaning of this law, and the nature and purpose of the illegal legal sanctions for the initiation of domestic violence. Article 14(1) of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia provides that everyone in the Republic of Croatia has rights and freedoms independent of his race, skin colour, sex, language, religion, political or other belief, national or social origin, property, birth, education, social status and other characteristics, and Article 23, inter alia, that no one may be subjected to any form of abuse. In accordance with the above provisions, the Constitution and the Constitution and the Croatian legislation pay particular attention to the protection of human rights, the fight against all forms of discrimination and the prevention of abuse. In view of official data on the state, movement and characteristics of violence in the Republic of Croatia, it is evident that these are the most frequent victims of violence of a female, different age and family status and the most common perpetrators and adult male in the status of current or former spouses, fathers or sons. Violence in any form is unacceptable and especially what happens in the family and most often affects women and children. Family violence is a serious violation of the fundamental human rights of every family member and, in particular, of women most often at risk, and can be seen in a broader sense as a violation of society as a whole, including future generations. The Republic of Croatia has done and is doing much to prevent, sanction and suppress all kinds of domestic violence. The adoption of a law on protection against domestic violence, which has been made in force since 30 July 2003, has also made a major shift in the area of sensitisation of the public in this form, extremely unacceptable behaviour and with all the positive effects of this law. I also agree with the thesis, and many predecessors and participants have reiterated in the debate, that domestic violence has stopped being considered a private problem since then, and has become what I have always believed to be a social problem. The application of the applicable law, which has been in force for six years, has also been followed by national strategies on protection against domestic violence, from 2005 to 2007, as well as the current National Strategy for Protection against Family Violence 2008 to 2010, as well as the 2005 Protocol on Family Violence, supplemented and amended in 2006, by documents brought by the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Resolute Ministry of Today's Prime Minister, Mrs Jadranka Kosor. Otherwise, I would like to point out here the great role played by the central state institutions, so from the resolute family ministry, defenders and intergenerational solidarity, the prosecutor's regulation on gender equality, the government's Office for Gender Equality, as well as numerous civil society associations, led by women's rights associations. Therefore, I am proud to point out that in the Slavonski Brod in January 2005 there is an open and counselling centre for victims of family violence in Caritas, the then diocese of Đakovo, and today the archbishops, whose programme has spent 130 families on average all these years in regular programmes, and 200 to 300 users per year in other preventive programmes and whose programme has so far been co-financed by the Ministry of Family, Defence and Intergenerational Solidarity. Equally providing assistance, support and protection to victims of domestic violence in the area of Brod-Posavina County is provided by the Brod Association, the Women's Human Rights Group or the Women's Group "Brod" which has also become the holder of the project of shelter for victims of family violence in Slavonski Brod. Because the needs and efforts to ensure space for victims of domestic violence in Brod-Posavina County were settled last year when the city secured the space, the Ministry of Family, the defenders and intergenerational solidarity signed a contract with the town of Slavonski Brod, Brod-Posavina County and the Women's Association "Brod" on the joint financing of a safe house, i.e. shelter for victims of family violence in Slavonski Brod, in proportion to 30% of the city, 30% of the ministry, 30% of the Brod-Posavina County and 10% of the associations themselves. Clearly, as part of this shelter, the ministry is funding and consulting. I am therefore sorry, colleagues and colleagues, that I have to point out that one of these two counselling centres, that is, this seminary that has been working since 2005 and which the ministry has funded, will remain without a source of funding. So the role and what I will call for in my debate is the local community, so the City of Slavonski Brod and the Brod-Posavina County, that just as they finance the work of the shelter that they need to help and future work of counselling for victims of family violence. Therefore, colleagues and colleagues, I fully support the adoption of this new Law on protection against domestic violence that improves and improves the current regulation, and all in the interest of preventing all types of domestic violence to the benefit of those who suffer the consequences of family violence. And if it weren't just the women and children of the victim of domestic violence, she said something about it and her colleague Jelash. Let me just point out that in Croatia according to MIP data last year, 3 and a half thousand cases of domestic violence involving parents were registered in Croatia during 2008 and 200 minors were included. But it's mostly cases of physical violence because emotional and sexual parents keep quiet, that children are materially exploiting them, and that they manipulate them in particular. Here is the small contribution of this debate, the adoption of this law that is in the first reading today, and I will support it in the first reading, and I hope that the legislator will respect all the proposals that Parliamentarians and committees submit. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-08-0.u35946	Thank you. We have one replica. Dear Representative Mirjana Ferić-Vac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-08-0.u35947	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. The replica refers to... Commendation of these examples we have already heard of the case... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] in Karlovac, on one systematic approach to victims of violence, on individual county or city initiatives that are successful. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It is regrettable that the ministry will not have for all the centres it has already established and that have justified its existence. But there is something to say about this context. And, Mr. Secretary of State, I think it's one message that needs to go with the debate on exactly this. A large number, in percentages a large number of violence occurs in adolescent relationships, so young people who leave school. What we've been looking for in principle for years is that the school programs contain those contents that young people will refer to what violence is and are the triggers of this violence. Young people know less about it. It's only when some beer happens that I'm talking about violence in a young relationship that comes with a lot of expectations, a lot of wishes, creating a family, children, etc., that's when things start shooting. These are the people who came out of a school system, which in that time of war, which in itself was a time of violence, among the people who observed it did not give them enough education. Prevention is when things happen, so the examples we've heard about the boat group, all the initiative to discover a fine veil above violence, and it did move 15 years ago through women's groups, whether they were party groups, whether they were in some kind of a way to say incompatibility because no one wanted to hear them. But there's been violence and they're about to...
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-08-0.u35948	Thank you. Time!
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-08-0.u35949	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-08-0.u35950	Replication response. Dear representative Susana Bilić Vardić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-08-0.u35951	Thank you very much. Comrade Vac, I think you've replicated the secretary of state, but you took advantage of the opportunity to mention what I mentioned in the City of Slavonski Brod and thank you for that, because I'm going to say what needs to be said here. If the City of Slavonski Ship, first let's just figure out what you were saying about the boat group. I participated and worked long enough in the local community both in Slavonski Brod and in Brod-Posavina County and worked on the implementation. Until the local community secured space, the ministry couldn't buy and solve those areas. But what I would like to say is that if the town of Slavonski Brod and Brod-Posavina County, which is convincingly located in the last place according to fiscal possibilities and all other indicators, can single out and recognize this problem as well, I am also sure that the much richer environments that I know are being set aside for this kind of needs, I am sure that they too will identify and follow the example of these environments, so also otherwise Slavonia must in his budgets connect with the Ministry of Family, Defence and intergenerational solidarity and help victims of domestic violence and its residents from their fields. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-08-0.u35952	Thank you. And two notices. First, at 11.48, she completed the possibility of applying for an individual hearing. 10.48 thanks. And secondly, the meeting of the Committee on Education, Science and Culture of the Croatian Parliament will be held today at 13.00 in the room, the hall of Janko Drašković 202, second floor. Thank you. We're continuing the debate. It is up to the distinguished representative Stjepan Kundić, the first male. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-08-0.u35953	Dear Mr. Vice-President, secretary, colleagues and colleagues. Here, at the outset, I must point out the great pleasure of discussing all my previous colleagues who, with a lot of sensitivity, have a lot of quality from first to last now that I don't list names, have entered this problem. And I'm sorry that we're no longer in the assembly, but I hope that the echoes of your examples that were very high-quality, very stimulating will come to those that need to be reached. So here I feel like I've profited greatly at this point, and I'm hoping for the secretary of state. And not to spoil all that, I'm going to be very dry in my exposure, i.e. I will only highlight eight points of what the secretary said at the outset, as I believe that you esteemed colleagues have practically brought everything out in your debate. Namely, we have a proposal to protect against domestic violence under P.Z.E. 386. The basic question is why a new law is passed, and it is adopted because the proposed law prescribes newspapers in relation to the law of 2003. As regards the purpose of the law, it has already been said that it includes prevention, sanctioning and curbing of all types of domestic violence, applying appropriate measures to the perpetrator, and easing the consequences of the violence already committed by providing protection and assistance to victims of violence. We can also say under two that the provisions of the Penal Code, the Law on Criminal Procedure and the Law on Juvenile Courts apply accordingly. And a new moment is being made for the expansion of the circle of persons belonging to the family in view of other laws that determine family relations, the Family Law, the Social Care Act. It has also been expanded, as is also said, the definition of domestic violence, and a new concept of economic violence is further introduced, i.e. The prohibition of physical, mental, sexual and economic violence in the family is cited. As a fifth, I would point out that a provision is introduced under which the services of social care and health care institutions, and other competent authorities are obliged to take care of all the needs of the victim and to give it access to the relevant services, and the perpetrators of the violence service are obliged to provide adequate information on all his rights. The competent court, when launching an infringement procedure in which a child appears as a victim, is also obliged to inform the Social Care Office of the purpose of taking measures to protect the rights and welfare of the child. Because the interests of the abused child are priorities in all procedures. And now we get to the penalty as a sixth. The levels of punishment for the perpetrator of domestic violence are more severe. The fine is tightened by the provision of the minimum and maximum amount in accordance with the provisions of the Penal Code, i.e. from at least 1000 to up to 50000 kuna, while for the sentence of the prison, instead of the 60-day maximum of the new law, a penalty of 10 to 90 days is provided for. Under seven, I will point out that the perpetrator of domestic violence repeats domestic violence at the expense of a child or a minor punishes a fine of at least 15000 kuna or a prison sentence of at least 60 days. And eight as last. The minimum amount of fine, which is also a newspaper, of $3,000 applies to persons who are obliged to report domestic violence they have learned in their duties, who have not reported it to the police or the competent state attorney's office. As far as the entry into force of this law is concerned, the Law on Protection against Violence in the Family “National Journal” 116/03 ceases to apply. This law enters into force on the eighth day of its publication in the “National Journals”. Of course I'll support this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-08-0.u35954	Thank you. It's the Honorable representative Mirela Holy's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-08-0.u35955	Thank you, Vice President. Although I welcome the ideas behind the bill we are discussing today, I will support this bill in the first reading. After reading this document, there seems to be more room to improve it until the second reading. In my debate, I will look back on one problem, unfortunately extremely often in a domain that should be covered by this law, which I do not think has been properly processed in this bill. In particular, it is the harassment and harassment of members of the family or former members and family members by another member or other member of the family or former family at the workplace of a conditioned victim. After entering the parliamentary procedure, I was contacted by several people who, unfortunately, after divorce and separation from their partner or partner, were exposed to frequent harassment by the former partner or partner in the victim’s workplace. This abuse is manifested as a constant calling of the victim or as a business associate or associate of the victim to the workplace, providing incorrect and offensive information about the victim, i.e. business associates of the victim and sending faxes or e-mails that question the professional or moral credibility of the victim and the like. The fact is that in Article 4 of this proposal, violence in the family is defined as any form of physical, mental, sexual or economic violence, and in particular, I quote: "application of physical force whether physical injury has occurred or not, as well as physical punishment and other forms of demeaning of children for educational purposes, the application of psychological coercion that has caused a sense of fear, threat, anxiety or injury to dignity, verbal assaults, insults, profanity, swearing, calling names or otherwise brutal verbal harassment, sexual harassment, stalking or harassment over all means of communication or through electronic and printed media, or otherwise communicating with third parties, illegal isolation or endangering freedom of movement, damage or destruction of property or attempt to take away economic independence." The end of the quote. However, I believe that more efficiency in preventing the prevention of this specific and unfortunately very widespread form of domestic violence will be achieved by an exact and precise indication of this form of violence in Article 4 of this Law. In this regard, I appeal to the applicants, which is the Ministry of Family and Government of the Republic of Croatia, to include, in the final draft of the law, the harassment of members, or members of the family, or former members, or members of the family in the workplace in Article 4. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-08-0.u35956	Thank you. It's next, the distinguished representative of Brankica Crljenko. Here you go. ... And then he knocks himself out, I think. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] I can trust you, I will accept, but therefore the replica, the distinguished representative of Bodakosh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-08-0.u35957	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. I thank you for believing me because I did. But I would move on to what my colleague Mirela said, that there is a need for improvement, especially in the post-war violence area, I believe after the end of the extramarital community. Why? Well, it's precisely because we see from this that extramarital partners over an extramarital partner have violence in 5.29% of cases. I think that these violence is probably higher and more common, but in this particular segment of the ending and the violence that is taking place, it is often not registered, but unfortunately as we see in the cases, we often read that the most difficult cases have occurred when an extramarital partner I don't know, that I don't say killed or as these cases led to the greatest violence since the end of such extramarital communities. That is why both these findings of women and men in the extramarital community regardless of its duration, etc. And then they make up a family. Perhaps there should still be a little more specific about it because it means that if one part of their life that ended afterwards has nothing in common, and one of these partners, whether a man or woman, commits certain violence against another. As a result, these legal provisions should also, in some ways, define the quality that these safeguards are in such cases, and that is why I think. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-08-0.u35958	Thank you. The reply to the replica, the esteemed representative of Mirela Holly. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-08-0.u35959	Thank you. Thank you, colleague, for noticing that I did not mention the fact of the extramarital community, that is, their interruption, so I would ask, here is the promoter to include it if he thinks about the fact that relations also means harassment in the workplace and, of course, in the extramarital community. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-08-0.u35960	Thank you. We're continuing an individual debate. Now it's our guest, Brankica Crlenko. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-08-0.u35961	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. Violence in the family leads to different consequences. Some signs are clearly visible, most often when it comes to physical injuries. Other signs are less visible and often refer to mental problems. Experience in practice shows that women who do not have clearly visible signs of violence appear to the physician, but often require analgesics, antidepressants and sleepers. In such cases, family violence against a woman is most often involved. A woman who occurs immediately after abuse has the most common signs of physical violence: facial injury, chest injury, chest and abdomen, i.e. parts of the body covered with clothing, haematomas and scratches on the body, extruding, cracks, etc. Violence also leads to a number of psychological consequences. However, the problem of domestic violence tends to revolve around the most urgent procedures. These are the rescue of women and children, i.e. Their distance from the bully. In other words, about removing the consequences of violence. The prevention of domestic violence is understated, and almost not at all talking about the interdependence of violencers and victims and perseverance in the roles that make violence possible. Many claim that domestic violence occurs without warning, even when partners have known each other for a long time. It's hard to believe, and the experiences of those who survived brutal relationships speak quite differently. In almost all cases, the victims testify to the first violent outbursts of their partners as verbal insults, severe squeeze, rudeness, or shamaru that would occur at the time of their dates, or so on. walking. Signs such as a partner’s overly strong reaction to a minor or jealous fallout in a public place tend to ignore or overwrite the love that a partner feels for her. A woman thinks she's got as much guilt on her, that she caused it, so she kind of got what she deserved. As violence grows, the woman becomes convinced that she is challenging even though as her partner's alleged cause of her violence she sees in any detail. It would therefore be untrue to say that there are no warning signs. Violence in the family is a two-way character, which means that although the victim is not guilty of what is happening, he also participates as a bully. The difference is which one of them suffers pain, who's an active puncher, who's hit, who's hurt. However, as long as women refuse to take responsibility for their participation in the family violence they have endured for years, they will remain powerless and completely dependent on men in every sense. Now I'd like to look at not a few things about why women suffer violence. The analysis of this question should bear in mind the fact that many women are captives of their home, without friends or acquaintances, separated from family, without any financial means, property or employment. The constant physical violence and mental torture of their partners are beginning to identify the victims of violence with everything their jailer respects. Why are they staying? Mostly because of the kids. Many women are afraid to lose their children, since when they leave they have no means of survival. Others remain because they believe that children need a father, that he can afford them things that she could not and are willing to sacrifice for the sake of their welfare as they see it. Then, because of the negative attitude of society. Some women remain in violent marriages or relationships because they are convinced that no one will believe them anyway. Women victims of violence need support and help. They need to make decisions together to save them. However, violent men are deliberately working to isolate them from everyone. Some women stay because they believe in love, romanticize their relationship, and hope it will be better. They believe that a partner loves them, except he can't show it or show it the wrong way. Some of these women, or many, think that they are the only ones and stay because they know no case of those who have managed to save themselves. They don't know of any case in which the bully was punished, except when he was convicted of murder, but the victim was then late. They don't know the laws, and they don't know if the law protects them or who they're going to turn to. Many women remain in such relationships for the sake of rearing, believing women, as well as persons from extremely patriarchal environments or marriages in which they themselves witnessed domestic violence against their mother or victims of abuse, most often under the influence of traditionally patriarchal or religious teachings remain with their husband at any cost, deeming it their duty. Now she would say something about sexual abuse that is one of the most traumatic experiences in a woman's life. Sexual victimization involves a wide range of unwanted, forced sexual contact, from sexual harassment to rape and incest. Rape is part of the order of crimes that are least reported and very common at the same time. Women are still fighting in all the countries of the world for believing and not blaming them for rape because they are still viewed as being wanted. All this affects the number of rape reports. It is clear that rape is not a sexual act, but an act of violence and proof of power. The rapist's goal is not to achieve sexual satisfaction, but to gain power and domination over a woman. In a raped woman, feelings of helplessness and shame are so strong that they appear as an obstacle that makes it impossible for a woman to seek help. Due to a violation of domestic violence, police reported 7478 perpetrators by 30 June 2008. In the overall number of domestic violence of damaged persons during this period, the share of female victims was 64.89%. The most common offenders in these cases were husband to wife in 27.49 cases, father to daughter in 19.59 cases and son to mother in 12.44 cases. The increase in awareness of the presence of domestic violence in Croatian society is seen in several aspects. In creating a legal framework for the action of the repressive system, the priority and coordinated response of state services to reported violence, the development of a system for protection and support of victims of violence, the introduction of new services to increase the safety of family members, the media attention received by cases of violence, the education of experts for more effective work in the field of family violence and the provision of stable sources of funding. In order to combat domestic violence, multidisciplinary and cross-sectoral cooperation is absolutely necessary. I support this law, although I once again emphasise the need for greater involvement of related institutions in preventing domestic violence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-08-0.u35962	Thank you. We have one replica, but I'd like to ask before that all MPs and MPs reporting for the replica. The replica refers to something that is fundamentally exposed, and something that I would like to add. So I'm asking you to look back on that, and look back at the basic exposure. Dear Representative Mirjana Ferić-Vac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-08-0.u35963	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. In this analysis, I agree with a whole series of elements, and I don't want to measure who's been dealing with these problems for how long, because it doesn't help things. However, there remains an open question that I have not heard yet, which is the responsibility of employers, so to speak, in the environment in which women are involved in their work. A woman who once passed.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-08-0.u35964	Your Honor, I just said hold on.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-08-0.u35965	This situation... But we haven't heard anything about it yet. It's very important, too. [[The speakers speak in the same voice, of course.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-08-0.u35966	You can't do this thoroughly, I'm sorry. I mean, it doesn't make sense, because then the replica exactly prescribes this, the Rules of Procedure. Thank you. Let's move on with the debate. It's time for the distinguished representative, Jeljana Kalash.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-08-0.u35967	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I would also like to point out once again what many of my colleagues have already mentioned in their discussions, which is that domestic violence is not only physical abuse, but also the application of physical force, but every form of physical, mental, sexual or economic violence. We've already talked about most of these proposals, but no one's mentioned so far that based on this bill's proposal, for example. you can get a three-month sentence in prison. So, stalking and harassing sms, e-mails, through the media, by giving false testimony, and by defaming the victim according to this new law on preventing domestic violence in the first reading there are reasons for serious punishment. Penalties for such acts, but even for domestic violence at all, go up to 50 thousand kuna or 90 days in prison, and so far it has been 60 days in prison. Today, we also mentioned the need to sanction violence in youth ties, and we talked about this yesterday at the Committee on Gender Equality. In fact, the violence between a girl and a young man at an early age, I believe, cannot be considered domestic violence, because the two of them do not make up a family. Of course, there are exceptions, but mostly in most cases they don't make up family. I've been looking for some examples of laws that are practical in other European countries, and I've come across one term that might be appropriate, which is violence in partnership. So I suggest that we might actually be able to regulate such youthful violence that does not fall within the framework of the Family Law as violence in partnership. In the event of violence between young relationships, a special law is needed among adolescents, as it is a much wider area and often refers to peer violence, hence violence among young people. Something about statistics, and I've already mentioned some of it in the context of my discussion as a representative of the HDZ Club, and some MPs may have misunderstood me. In terms of statistics, I spoke about the possible number or victims or perpetrators of violence regardless of the social category, including politicians, presently representatives of the Croatian Parliament, whether journalists or any other social group. However, it is clear that over 80% of the violence against women is being committed by their partners. A significant number of women killed, like the case of two days ago, a double homicide in Ozla, more than 45% of women were killed by their partners. When asked very often in the context of psychosocial treatment against victims of violence, when asked how long this violence lasts, 72% of women respond to this violence for years. When asked how often violence occurs, 52% of women say it is daily. The question arises why do we get such statistics? It seems to me that the answer is that many women do not know the laws and do not know whether they are protected by the law at all, nor do they know who to turn to at all. Therefore, in this presentation, I would very much like to welcome the newspaper carried with it by Article 8 and Article 21 of Article 8 of the Law, the health worker, the professional... social care psychologist, the social worker, the social educator and the worker of the educational institution, of course, often refers to persons who are in the educational process, therefore children who are a priority in the care of this law, are therefore obliged to report to the police or the municipal state attorney to commit violence in the family referred to in Article 4 of this Law for whom they have learned about the performance of their duties. Moreover, even for such cases, there are criminal legal sanctions unless such a application occurs. Since Article 21 of the fine of at least 3 thousand kuna will punish the persons referred to in Article 8 that I have already read, who do not report to the police or the municipal state attorney to commit domestic violence under Article 4 of this Act by carrying out their activities. I feel that this bill of law that we have on the benches today also offers responsibility for non-compliance with safeguard measures. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-08-0.u35968	Thank you. And now it's the honorable representative Goran Heffer's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-08-0.u35969	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Well, I'm going to point out an interesting fact in the introduction right now, which is that if I'm not mistaken for the 11th in an individual debate, they've only been one or two colleagues so far.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-08-0.u35970	You're second.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-08-0.u35971	It's one of the indicators that women primarily experience the problem of domestic violence as their problem even though I'm going to tell an event. Maybe it'll look like an anecdote. In fact, the issue of domestic violence has been dealt with in Vukovar-Srijem County through our party for about 5 or 6 years. And the first tribune on the subject organized on the day of the fight against domestic violence in September with the visit of counterpart Milanka Opačić and Dr. Flander, on the radio show when we opened contact for the citizens, first came a woman who was very negatively generally speaking about the subject of why we even bring such a topic to the public because it is something that does not exist. That was the first one. And there was a man who said why he was only talking about violence against women, because he was the one who was exposed to violence in the family. So there are different cases, there are different views on all of this, but it's definitely a problem of domestic violence, a problem men need to talk about, because he's a social problem and they need to be solved by both men and women. I have to say in the introduction, I absolutely support the law. So I'm giving him full support, of course I'll vote for him. First of all, what I am particularly interested in is that children are really put in the first place as the most important part of protection against domestic violence and I welcome Article 6(4), which says that the interests of a child exposed to domestic violence are priorities in all procedures. So I'm going to talk about that part, about this most vulnerable category in a family that's already exposed to violence with a sharp tone of the sentence spoken by any parent, to those most drastic methods. In that sense, I welcome the expansion of the concept of a family that has been extended by this law, because when we talk about children, then the family is just not really parents, because we know that the growth and development of a child are affected by a lot and the wider part in the first row is to say grandparents, but there is other relatives. And if a family is not in that classical form, then there can be guardians, etc. So in that area, I'm very glad that part is officially expanded. I also welcome this new bill, the further introduction of the category of economic violence. Previously, here's a colleague of Crljenko's pointed out the reasons for women, let's say, if they're thrown out of domestic violence, they stay in that family and they suffer that violence. In which one of the very important reasons is that one economic part is in fear of the rest, so without the economic grounds for further life that women, which, if there are children in the family, is very often overcome in that part of being said it's easier to endure a few ugly words that I don't say kick or anything else, so I won't at least be hungry to say so. But that's wrong. What we see very often. I have to say in the middle where I live it's a pretty common case, it's so-called. macho guys who drive expensive cars, wear fashion clothes, expensive watches, chains and other society, the environment knows that their family lives very often in very scarce, cramped not to say inhuman terms. It's a special kind of violence. If we add that to the fact that a good part of such macho boys at home as they say from recreation occasionally fakes the real pater familias in terms of physical harassment, so as not to say the abuses in terms of fighting, etc. This proposal therefore, when the concept of economic violence is introduced, there will also be legal elements through which such situations can be sanctioned. I particularly welcome the introduction of urgency as an important element in solving these cases because often this element of urgency is the key element that contributes to one permanent or one complete solution to this problem. I don't want to say too much exploited by a recent case which was drastic, which has already been mentioned several times today by the reader said he announced, so there was possibly some kind of announcement given or unsaid that it would happen. This is already a matter of prevention in such situations, but it is important that, according to each application, at each hint, such possible endangerment of any family member and especially children should act urgently. And in this context, I expect that all of these others who were mentioned above will, above all, be teachers in schools who are in contact with children, who, at the continuation of physical education, see a child that I do not say in sports clothes or undergarments are able to see the physical signs of possible violence, and now it is necessary to encourage such people that they point to what may be happening in their families. Of course, I don't need to say that I welcome the tightening of the punishment of a bully. So a bully needs to understand that he can't behave like that. But the issue of tightening the fines can often be reflected on the rest of the family. Therefore, it is necessary to focus the punishment on the bully without the family pulling the same weightier consequences from that punishment. But I'm going to point out here another particular kind of violence that I didn't at least find here that could be shaped and that's the kind of violence that arises in so-called. In a situation where a marriage union is broken down and there are children who, by decision of the institution, are properly assigned to care or to one or another parent. So, in a situation like this, it's very common that a guardian who takes care of a child creates one bad picture, not to say that he stegmatizes another parent in such a way that not only by speaking but also by other forms of pointing out bad things in that other parent creates a child and a psychological burden, and often he can be accompanied by the punishment that by this economical, therefore by cutting off certain things in his life. This is a special form of violence because a child can withdraw from it a consequence in extreme psychological development. Often, such parents do not care about their relationship with their children prior to the break-up of a parent who is singled out of a family, whether the relationship may have remained that good because the child does not have to be involved in the disintegration of the marriage community, or it may fall apart for various reasons. They don't have to be hard words at all, and don't give God physical accounts, etc. I therefore support the Advocate General's proposal for children who proposed to include in the definition of violence in the child's exercise of his right to meet and associate with family members according to the decision of the competent authority, which would be good if this context of the family included indeed what we said to the wider family because often children suffer more than parents who are singled out than perhaps grandparents who are parents of that parent who is singled out. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-08-0.u35972	Thank you. We have one replica. Honorable representative Branko Crlenko. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-08-0.u35973	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I'm going to look back on that part of your esteemed colleague's debate about economic violence. Namely, the Autonomous Women's House of Zagreb has done one study on a thousand subjects and the results of this study are devastating when we talk about economic violence. The study has shown that women are financially worse than men and that they rarely depend on a partner, which is why they are forced to suffer violence. Even 79% of women do not receive or earn less than the average salary in Croatia. Unlike them, the profit of the partners of the surveyed women is much better. Besides, of the women who live with their partner, only 4% of them own the apartment. On the other hand, the partner is the owner in 16% of cases and 4 times more often. They're 15% living in a partner's parents' apartment and 6% living in her parents' apartment. Most of them even 47% live in a joint apartment. The rest lives in a rented space. Research thus concludes that the problem of violence against women will not be resolved until the material status of women is improved and the effectiveness of state institutions is increased. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-08-0.u35974	Thank you. The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative Goran Heffer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-08-0.u35975	Dear counterpart Crljenko, I also expect that the material status of women will be improved primarily because of the adoption of the Law on the Prevention of Discrimination because it is one of the elements that was often the reason for women's harder employment, in the harder maintenance of jobs and in the extreme wage difference. Another thing I expect to improve the material status of a woman is the Family Law because women live in the belief that in the event of a falling marriage, they will be left without material resources. They won't run out of material resources because whoever was married to them if they have material resources will be obliged to say taken care of. So I expect that through Croatian legislation, this element will be strengthened and that women will have more reasons to, if they are in this kind of danger of domestic violence, to say publicly, or to give it to the court and to solve this issue because this is a much worse variant to suffer for such pro-zaic reasons. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-08-0.u35976	Thank you. It is now up to the distinguished representative Milanka Opačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-08-0.u35977	Mr. Vice President, colleagues and fellow MPs. When we passed the Law on the Prevention of Family Violence 6 years ago, then many of us responded to the adoption of that law, they said that it was excessive and unnecessary because of the existence of the Penal Code, there is also an Infringement Law, but I think we were right when we brought it anyway and today's changes in this law are acceptable. But unfortunately, this law as well as many laws in Croatia and many strategies remain just written down as good ideas on paper and implementation is extremely bad. And this law falls into that category. The law strategy that some solutions provide has some measures, but in creation people are still unprotected, in fact many things still do not work. So, with these amendments to the law, much more should actually be done at the concrete implementation of the law itself. When it comes to safeguards that are in fact the most qualitative part of this law, then it should be said that almost no measure is applied as it should be applied. You have, for example, a specific one. The treatment of drug addicts or alcohol, therefore treatment of addiction over the past year has been proposed by the police, but unfortunately we cannot get any information in this House, no indication of how many such measures have been imposed and how many such measures have been taken. What I know is part of the problem lies in what fellow Sobol said there are no regulations by, so competent ministries. However, the same problem lies in the fact that we do not have enough capacity in those institutions that they should be treated for addiction. And so, for example, to you. The psychiatric institutions of course give priority to psychiatric patients and then there is no room for treatment of addiction and what I know most of those who have had a certain degree of treatment on addiction could not do so because the hospital simply cannot or will not receive them because of the capacity completed. There's another measure, it's a distance from the state, so the distance of the bully. The fact that this measure does not work in real life tells us that we continue to resist seeking financial resources and opening up so-called. Safe women's houses. The moment these women's houses become men's houses, then we'll be able to say that we've spent this measure in our lives. Because all these years we've been trying to say that whoever's a bully has to get out of the family, and we're still opening houses where only women and children are staying. I have not heard of any other men who are located in an autonomous women's house or in any other safe house in Croatia. This means that this measure is not applied in reality, that men continue to be abused by most families, and that still women and children at three in the morning are looking for a place to settle, and then if a safe house is available to them somewhere, well, if it isn't, then they look and look for the head of the place. What about the protective measure of mandatory psychosocial treatment? We have definitely had a problem in Croatia for years with mental health professionals, we have a lack of multidisciplinary teams, which can do psychosocial therapy with troubled families. In the last year, police proposed 4 thousand 607 such measures, so 4 thousand 607 perpetrators, but we don't have any data as much as the court has taken, so it's for... psychosocial treatment. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We have one piece of information, and that's the information of the Psychological Assistance Society, which says that last year they only had 56 of them. So out of 4 thousand 607 perpetrators who were supposed to go to such treatment, only 56 are. came to the treatment in the society for psychological assistance which also had a major problem with the lack of money. I will say that only in the last budget rebalancing 4.5 million kunas have reduced the means for preventive programs designed for children with behavioral disorders, so it should be said that children with behavioral disorders are not what the Holy Spirit would say but have become those who live in an unhealthy environment, live in families that are not a good example and therefore children manifest themselves in their behavior. Unfortunately, here we have, in the past rebalancing, downloaded considerable resources on preventive programs that will not give us good results anyway. A lot of problems could be solved by the state if it had a different relationship with associations. There are associations that do good psychosocial treatments, they have good programs, however, and associations find themselves in trouble every year to go to a tender for funds for their work as well as those associations that were formed yesterday that basically do nothing, which have virtually no projects or programmes, have no history to say so behind themselves and the results of their work and I think that the state should focus on a number of such associations as according to partner associations. Therefore, they should be state partners, they should have some permanent sources of funding and thus the state would help themselves, but also citizens, so that a part of the professionals involved in associations provide certain support and support and that they can therefore do psychosocial treatments. I'm sorry to hear that, for example. Nor now in the law that will come into the parliamentary procedure, that is, but we will be discussing it soon is the Health Activity Act, I am sorry that the law did not take advantage of the opportunity to regulate the position of clinical psychologists in the health care system. I'll just tell you that in the health care system is therefore increasingly less psychologists who can work with victims of violence. We have an example. Only one children's psychiatric hospital in Croatia, that's the one in Kukuljević, where more than 6 months of waiting for any kind of doctor talk, let alone more serious treatment. So we only have one polyclinic to protect children, it's a polyclinic founded by the City of Zagreb. A polyclinic in which he works, so several multidisciplinary teams, and I must say, it's the only institution that has won the world award for the best multidisciplinary team in working with children. Unfortunately, that polyclinic is now waiting up to six months for psychosocial treatment, and you know a child who waits six months to get someone's help then we're definitely late for helping that child. Therefore, it would be good if, with the opening of polyclinics on this one, at least regionally. Unfortunately, we have lost five years to do anything in this direction and perhaps another polyclinic can be opened in the area of Slavonia and one in the region of Dalmatia. And I hope that the idea that was born in Zadar for the opening of a polyclinic will still bear fruit, so the opening of a polyclinic at least for the region of Dalmatia. We also have problems with the information of people who should be very informed about the reporting of violence, so I will say that in one study it has proved that the largest number of pediatricians still do not know that they are required by law to report an abused child and thus help him. And in the end, I'd like to say where the key problem of the state is. Besides saying that the problem is that we don't have enough teams and professional people to work with our risk families, the problem is also a very early discovery of risk families. So we don't react promptly, we don't detect risk families in time. In doing so, we can also help children who are in these violent families and who are growing up. I was here a while ago in a discussion about criminal sanctions for minors talking about the case of a child, a boy who said, for example. That he's in business, he's done it as an occupation, so he beats the kids in the neighborhood. And then when he comes home, he talks about it with his father, and every time his father asks him how many kids you beat up today and what it all looked like. So as long as we don't detect such a risky family and help that child, we won't break the chain of violence. Unfortunately, such a child growing up in such an unhealthy environment can only be a bully tomorrow and may tomorrow be someone who will be the beneficiary of all these services prescribed in this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-08-0.u35978	Thank you. We have one correction to an incorrect quote. Dear representative Neda Klaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-08-0.u35979	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Here I would correct the incorrect quote of Mrs. Opacic who says things still don't work because they're just on paper. Mrs Opačić, I must indeed say that the Government of the Republic of Croatia is making extraordinary efforts, not only in the area of legislative regulation through amendments and amendments to the law, national strategy, protocol on conduct, but also in efforts through the opening of certain institutions, for example family centres, and also through associations in civil society. And I must really say, lastly, that associations have become a very important and respectable factor both at national and local level. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-08-0.u35980	Thank you. Now it's up to the distinguished representative of Gordana Sobol. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-08-0.u35981	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues, secretary of state. I have reported for an individual debate because I would especially like to point out the problem that the secretary of state spoke about at the beginning, I am on behalf of the club, but my colleagues and colleagues have not touched that part in their discussions, and this is the problem of saying measures and implementing measures away from the apartment, house or other residential space when it comes to the bully who conducts domestic violence. In fact, I'm afraid if you've been reading recent articles that are related to the adoption of this Family Protection Act, then I'm afraid that a false impression is being created that something completely new is being introduced now with this provision, so what has not been in the current law and that in some way as I would say we're turning the board in Croatia, or that we're moving, as my colleague Opačić said, turning women's houses into men's houses, but I'm saying it's not like that and it's not standing. In fact, I warn you that we are a protective measure away from the apartment, house or other living space, not that we had, but also in the current Law on Protection against Violence, so in the applicable law. It is a measure, however, applied naturally after the court, following a final court ruling and it does, in relation to the number of requests by the police, when the courts are concerned, say about 30% in the cases. This shows data among other things and for the past year when police suggested 377 times that, therefore, for 377 violent persons to give a protective measure away from the apartment, house or other living space. And according to police data again, it was in 109 cases or to assume that the courts in 109 cases made such a point. What's new, and I want to particularly apostrophe because I'm afraid it's only actually further potent, that still women and their children will be the ones who will have to flee the houses or apartments or living space they've lived in in the middle of the night. Namely, in the current law, you have under protective measures stated protection of persons exposed to violence. Now in this proposal, the law excludes this from protective measures, but therefore a special article is drawn up. A special article that says that, this is Article 9, "in order to protect a person exposed to violence will issue a warrant to the police to send a person exposed to violence into the house, apartment or other living space for the purpose of taking her personal belongings and personal belongings from other persons who have left the area that is necessary to meet daily needs". My colleagues and colleagues, it says in a new bill, and I argue that it will be what will mostly be implemented in most cases, as it has been so far. So, you victims of violence that are in every way traumatized in your own family, you're even pulling them out of your house or apartment, or we're pulling them out of a house or apartment where they live, and worse still, you're sending them to shelters, women's homes, shelters for women and children of victims of violence that are often and far from the environment in which they lived until then. It's like we're not thinking enough, because then in that new environment now, in some other county, not just in another town, some other county, you have to make arrangements with another local community for those kids to go to kindergarten, go to school, and what happens when a year goes by when women and their children stay in those shelters? So my intention is to further warn the promoter. There is still time to read another way to see how we can strengthen this measure and, in some ways, to make it more potent, to go on our way to say more distances from the bully's apartment, not for the victims. Now I want to remind you that we recently had a law on police powers. The Committee of Government, Mr. Secretary of State, knows this, has made a proposal to the ministry to add a new article in police power that would just read: “Departing from the apartment, house or other living space where a police officer can then, in order to protect a person exposed to violence, away from the apartment, house or other residential space of a bully” that I do not read everything anymore. That measure is why would it be desirable and good? She's in effect right now. So she does not wait for a court ruling, but it takes a maximum of 10 days and then in those 10 days all competent institutions do their jobs and see how and how they will proceed. Unfortunately, in the MUP, the ministry in charge did not accept such an intensities. But I believe, or I would rather not give up on it, so to try to read this law another reading, see what else we can improve in the Law on Protection against Family Violence, but to see if later changes and additions can be made and through this Law on Police Powers further strengthen the intensity because it is publicly going somewhere that we are going to work more in some future to see that the bullies are the ones who separate themselves from, and from their apartments, houses or other space, and not that the victims of women, unfortunately in the largest number of cases of women and theirs, in most cases, underage children have to flee in the middle of the night and look for shelter who knows where. Here's a thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-08-0.u35982	Thank you. Now it's the honorary representative of Luke Denon. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-08-0.u35983	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. At the beginning of my presentation, I will say that I strongly oppose any abuse that I am, and otherwise it's my philosophy and way of thinking that I'm particularly disgusted by what times in the paper I read that they are the worst form of sexual abuse, and that's what rapists are then punished by a few months or I don't know until one year. I'd punish those guys for life or 40 years. Why do I say that I am sharp or that I am against domestic violence, any violence, especially in the family, and why I wanted to stress it at first. Because I would try to get through my debate a little bit removed, one aversion to do from this whole day, the whole morning debate that is talking about the proposal for a law on protection against domestic violence. But here I am, listening very carefully to very rare are colleagues who said it was the Law of Violence in the Family. Everyone said it was the Law of Violence against Women. I feel like we've passed this law just because the weather is what it is, so we've passed such a law just enough to wash our conscience, and it won't work exactly the way we imagined it would stop the abusers in the family from continuing to be violent. This last thing my colleague said, colleague Sobol just confirms it. He says that women and children will have to leave the apartment and that they will have to leave the apartment in some conditions of night or I don't know what kind of forgetting is that this law makes it very clear that domestic violence, although statistics are not reliable, is said to be 64% of the share of female victims. That means out of 64 women, children are victims of these violence. The other 30 and something, 36 out of 100, who are those victims? No, I'm sorry. You put underages here in those 64. You put it all on. What's that, like, 30 or so? If you haven't put it on, are these men who have suffered violence in their families? That's not what a colleague says. It says that out of these 64%, 27% of the cases are fathers over daughters, 19% of the cases are sons over mothers, 12% of the cases are extramarital partners, etc. etc. So it's obvious there's violence on the other side. But on the other hand, it's hard for someone to talk, because that's what it is, it's not polite for a man in the house to say that a woman called him an ox and that now it's some kind of violence. It seems to me that even no one will report as violence. But if here's the law in these times that are stressful, where we're fighting for survival, which are the way you're being taken by chance, then your lady you've been living with for a very long time, so you come from a stressful meeting or from a stressful job, so you don't have the money to pay the director, so she says something and you tell her one goat. She can sue you and you need to move out of the apartment. That's what this law says. I think this is the kind of banalization of domestic violence where two-thirds of the bullys are women, violence against women. One third of us ignore that it's me one can grow into a witch hunt and one hash that won't be well received. Tell me, I told you at the beginning that I'm an opponent of all violence and that rapists should be put away for life. If I were adversaries of violence, I'd be adversaries of physical violence, and I wouldn't be misunderstood if I were advocating violent men. But I don't support the provisions of the law that say verbal attacks will be insulting, cursing, calling ugly names either in some other way or otherwise harsh verbal harassment. That rough verbal harassment I don't know what it's all about. Perhaps then the male part of the abused should, when a lady or someone also calls you a monkey in stressful conditions, that at the same time you can throw her out of the apartment, or call the police who will then do so in a way that the protective measure is a distance from the apartment, which is something in my opinion the most controversial in this law, or some other residential space can be applied to the perpetrator of domestic violence that has committed violence against a member of the family, etc., if there is a risk that without implementing this measure, the perpetrator could commit violence again. And then Article 2 of that same article states that this person is obliged to leave the apartment, house, etc. immediately. with the presence of a police officer. Now. So a police officer will find that, without implementing that measure, he could commit violence. Who again? The police officer will determine, yes, let's get out of the apartment right now, I'm assessing whether you could do violence again against any male or female. Now, it seems to me that these laws that deny that there are other sides where men can be victims of violence, and that there are more and more so they don't go to those houses, go somewhere else, go to hotels or somewhere else, and it's interesting that in these legal provisions we've determined what a family is, which is bullying in the family, which is what blood relatives are, extramarital partners. We've got it all figured out. Please, and why, when we're so tolerant and we're already writing a law, we didn't put people here who live together, and they're not all that, and even in such communities they happen, or they're possible that there's also violence in something, over someone, and these are homosexual partners who are actually, there's more and they live together. We forgot them here because they're obviously not violent or they can't be violent. So they can't talk to anyone. And when we write the law, then let it be for all the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, but let it not be just for some. And let it be, I'd say let it be fun, let it be not just a witch hunt and a hickey, let it be fun and be objective. My colleague also mentioned that there is another category that does not belong in this category. Unfortunately, they're not mentioned anywhere, and that's what you're not going to believe, there are also fathers in this country who pay child support neatly, but are inability for some reason to see their children. Most of you, colleagues and fellow MPs have been given because they founded such fathers and associations, we have received a letter showing where this problem is, and is it when someone is defending someone to see their child also a kind of violence? I think so, but it's not here. And it's common for children to separate from mothers, and then their fathers, that's how they're taught to put up with it and not even show up as people who are abused. But this verbally, I don't think it's going to stand, that it's so undefined, that it's going to lead to one chaos, and that for every stupidity you can say in the house, if the relationship and the atmosphere in the house is different, you can be thrown out of the apartment. I'm asking whoever wrote the law, I don't understand it, as much as it is a constitutional category since it's private property, so maybe it should also see what private property means when someone can get kicked out of their private property overnight. And I just can't understand, I'm really telling you that in a country that's a predominantly Christian-Catholic country, where people go to churches, I can't imagine such people being able to go behind a mass or behind something, behind lunch and do violence in their family at night. Obviously, we simplify the concept of what violence is, that what we should do in both prevention and education is much more to make this violence not happen, but to these measures that are put here.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-08-0.u35984	Thank you. We have three replicas. First is the distinguished representative of Gordana Sobol. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-08-0.u35985	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, at first I'm going to say actually that I'm sorry that unfortunately my clubmate was talking about one law that was almost the same law already in force for six years and thanks to what law, which was then referred to both national strategies and the protocol on the conduct and actions that everyone worked together, regardless of the political option that we belong to, so that after applying those laws, after the family violence between us and this law was first pulled from the four family walls outside, it turned out to be, sorry, but I have to say it, as if it had fallen from Mars. Nowhere in this law, not in the present, nor in this one is the matter of protecting women from domestic violence. It's about protecting against domestic violence. That all the data we have is statistical, and I'm asking you to take, in addition to what it says in these arguments, a report from the state's attorneys for the past years that particularly address domestic violence where they point to you when it comes to domestic violence, how many women's sexes, unfortunately, I wish that wasn't so, but unfortunately that's the case. And I would really ask that my colleague Denon, that the problem and these kinds of violence, family violence, don't observe through that this is a law written for women, but I would also suggest that you look at all the Council of Europe campaigns that have been done in the past few years and all the international conventions that we are co-signors and conductors, they talk about banning, discrimination and banning violence against women including domestic violence.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-08-0.u35986	Thank you. But I only have one sentence to say. The esteemed representative of Luke Denon has the right to express his opinion and his views and forgive, and you have no right to object to him. Thank you very much. I have to protect him. Your Honor, here you go. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-08-0.u35987	I would rather not answer this replica of my colleague because, by my own act as you have spoken this replica, it seems to you that I have fallen from Mars, that we are accidentally in some relationship, I could interpret it as violence, so that in any case, especially since it is rude to replicate in this way, since you know very well that Luke Denon, who fell from Mars, is one of the beginners of the Committee on Gender Equality, one of the people who in one county would have turned in some way and at least talk about these things, at least talk, because at that time it wasn't even talked about domestic violence and violence against women. And when you're saying that I'm qualifying this law as violence against women, it's not true. I just said that my esteemed colleagues talked so much about this law, and he has a different name, and I'm saying that here it says that two-thirds of the violence is against women, which is sad and tragic, but that one-third of you have been silent. Who commits violence against that third. You didn't say a word of it. Because of gender equality, it would be important and important to say that there is also one third that also suffers violence.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-08-0.u35988	Thank you. Replica, distinguished representative Marin Jurjevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-08-0.u35989	Thank you. Okay, this one, let's get the tension down a little bit. I think that fellow Denona has touched one topic, I think and thinking about which we can discuss in one way or another whether someone will take it wrong or not, but I think we should start from the fact that this society is really traditional, now I think in a bad sense, a masculine society, a society where husbands often act like males. So, really, if we take a grouse of domestic violence, that indeed the victims are mostly in most cases, so you could say almost and exclusively women, children and those weak. It's a society that in social turmoil, in a society where a part of the population in quotes solves its difficult situation by beating the house they arrive at, so it's domestic tarzans, domestic thugs, who treat their frustrations in this way. It's the fact that we're facing unfortunately and with the most tragic forms of this violence that Luka mentioned, it's sexual violence. So scary things happen behind walls, and it's time for that door to open up, to sort things out, and that's why it's also the urgency not to let the thugs live with those who are being abused, to move on, because you could talk from an example I personally know, where they're really hard to get away from the bully's house and that there's a lot of confirmation, evidence, medical examinations, going to the hospital after beating up was not enough to get that bully who. ... [[The speakers speak in the same voice, of course.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-08-0.u35990	Thank you. Time.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-08-0.u35991	That is why I feel that we must take care of this by respecting the possibility.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-08-0.u35992	Your Honor, your time has run out. Thank you very much. And we have another replica, Honorable representative Goran Heffer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-08-0.u35993	Thank you very much. Dear colleague Denon, he was right. I was talking about a special kind of violence and I see him as such, because I've contacted a lot of people, I've talked, I've also had a personal life experience related to so-called. It's a shit family. In fact, if we talk about it socially, then the fact that in Croatia, as a result, and in the rest of the world is an increasing number of divorces. Very often these divorces are to say for purely non-violent reasons. Very often in these marriages there are children who, of course, are in care centers, and by a certain procedure assigned to one parent. In addition to all those obligations and social care centres, they do their part of the job in terms of defining the meeting, to the material contribution of other parents, etc. The fact is that it's being followed, so the living conditions and everything else. But you know what's not being followed? For example, there was no conversation with the child, there is rarely conversation, there may be a place to talk about the parent’s relationship with another parent through a conversation with the child, through the preservation of some level of humanity in another parent, regardless of the quality of the child’s relationship and that parent’s prior to the breakup, so during the breakup, etc. You have a lot of cases to get the child away from the guardians of another parent. You have many cases that a child literally suffers because of the parents of another parent, so because of grandparents, etc. Is it not a special form of violence, if the guardian does not take care of it, often defends, and often punishes a child if he mentions the name of another parent, etc. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-08-0.u35994	Thank you. The reply to the replica, the esteemed representative of Luke Denon. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-08-0.u35995	I thank my colleague that you have here and your replica of my exposure confirmed that violence is, of course, much more pronounced than this law has been established and that in any case, it was my intention, not least, that it is the most violence against women, that unfortunately the most violence in the family is against children, which I am threatening, but that there are other forms of violence that this law does not foresee, and these people are surprised because they have no one to address. There are also a lot of men who are experiencing this violence, but as my colleague Jurjevic said we are men, so it is embarrassing in this patriarchal society to report. Unfortunately.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-08-0.u35996	Thank you. And it is up to Commissioner Ingrid Antičević Marinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-08-0.u35997	Dear Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Why does a man beat a woman? As well as why doesn't the employer pay the worker? They do it because they can do it. It was a long way from this, I would say, however, one unique debate about it becoming a serious social problem, since then, since the 1990s, when we SDP women talked about this problem, when we got the answer that Croats don't beat women. Even today, what detests fellow Denon as a man who preaches lovingly is what he serves, and one of his closest ones, to whom he should also show the greatest humanity as a man and a woman’s relationship, as a man’s most human relationship with a man, can treat a man in this way. And they were careful about those delusions just like they couldn't commit a crime in a defense war, that money wasn't property, etc., and so nearer, where these definitions came from the highest state level. Today, it took 10 years, in 2000, in 2001, when the equality of men and women rose to the constitutional level. We passed a whole series of laws, so this law that is specific, it is specific to the exact form of domestic violence that should be the safest place for women and children. They're showing statistics that it's become the most dangerous place for a woman. But since then, apart from this one verbal readiness of all political options, aside from sensitizing the public that this is a serious not family problem, but that it is not only a social problem, but a political problem a couple of excellencies. That's less talked about in days. Because it's the source of the source precisely in the structural inequality of men and women. And that's why the answer to power is. In fact, no one here said that yesterday one man killed two women. That three days ago another man killed one woman. And that it's no longer a controversial situation, because in all almost perfect systems there can be an excess. That violence and that of men against women has escalated. They're not Excessors anymore. It's one serious thing that something's wrong. Seriously in the state. That violence escalates, violence of every kind. That this is what lies basically, that society has become anomic. That it is not related, that it does not have a unique solution to fundamental values, that this is not just an economic crisis, but a crisis of institutions, but a crisis of morality. And that something that culture of legality and culture of violence is almost nurtured is only verbally condemned. Well, we've had one message from the ashes here now. I believe it wasn't from some bad intentions that came about. But we need to create here the confidence of an individual whose country is persistently trying to contain. It scares him to look for what belongs to him. We must affirm the duty of an individual not only of law, but of an individual such as the duty of a state and of a people when he is attacked to defend himself, therefore not only of law but also of duty. To make it an individual's duty to stand up to the violence of anyone from whom it originates. So not as brave as let, not as something to be tolerated. In fact, the women did not know what was happening to them until recently. There was no concept, only women feminists in Bogota in 1981 defined this term. He was a stranger to us. We talked about it in the '90s, so that the United Nations would now declare the day of violence against women, and given the terrible fact that the Dominican dictator killed three sisters, Patrius, Minerva, Mary Teresa Mirabel. For what? Because they were activists against that regime. So it's a duty for both men and women to oppose every form of violence, not to need a special law for that. It is the natural right of man to oppose any form of violence. And that's why you talk today on the basis of this debate and like enjoying this system and us women. How many women were beaten? Staying only on statistics and saying that these or those official work is small and too little after all this time. In particular, women need to rise up, stand up against this violence, shake state and social structures. Because what happens to women doesn't take the day off so a man doesn't kill a woman. Isn't that a political problem? And what's your political problem? These are important and important questions. But why is that happening? Violence against women isn't just physical, sexual, psychological. Economic violence is something that is terrible. We have women in the store today, they're 21st century slaves. Spiritual violence, but the worst is structural violence. It includes, it is particularly dangerous because it includes invisible and subtle obstacles to the exercise of fundamental rights. These obstacles are simply reproduced in the very social tissue. Or in an unequal division of power that produces inequality between a man and a woman. Such laws still exist. These laws were abolished in 2003, 2004 again in force. After this, we will have a debate on medically assisted insemination, where the state and government of the female body continue to see as a polygon for the domination and exercise of their political power. The same questions here have not been asked. Here's a question of inequality at the disposal of the body and its parts of the human body. In 1978, it was allowed for a man to have part of his body. Women aren't allowed to do that today. Not until she's married. So if he has a man with him or in an extramarital community who will eventually be able to vouch for it. That's embarrassing. It is also embarrassing that men under a legal obligation are not involved in the obligation to raise children. It is somewhere in the Western world in the countries of Scandinavia such legal provisions no longer exist, because they are not necessary. Men and women are equally involved in family life and are completely equal in public life. That's why there's a little violence. That's why there's violence if there's any chance an immigrant does it. There's no violence with them. There's no anxiety, no nervous people, or very little. Therefore, the state should imagine what laws it adopts and whether it deliberately or intentionally even extends places where violence can take place. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-08-0.u35998	Thank you. I still have to intervene here with one word. It's a lot and it's too much at least one victim but to tell from this pay phone not to go through the day without some husband killing his wife. At first, it's not true, and I don't think it's a good idea for us to bring out such dramatic messages from this pay phone. Please. Please, nice. Now we have two corrections first and then three replicas. First, the esteemed representative, Željana Kalaš, is the correction of the incorrect allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-08-0.u35999	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Here, in the woods of incorrect allegations and menacing women, I will only correct three incorrect allegations. The representative obviously did not listen to the exposure or even a colleague from her own club who mentioned the case from Ozlja. A colleague says, quote, "No one mentioned that one man killed two women yesterday." That's not true. Both the HDZ club and the SDP club and another colleague from your club talked about it and you obviously didn't listen like you're not listening right now. Secondly, you said that the government is responsible for the man beating the woman in the Republic of Croatia and that the problem is structural inequality that this government advocates. You mentioned the United Nations. Of 192, it seems to me that the United Nations only 16 countries have a female prime minister. You didn't vote for that woman the other day. Therefore, it is not true that Croatia is not promoting structural equality. And this particular woman, the current minister, has fought against domestic violence.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-08-0.u36000	Thank you. We have a second correction to the incorrect allegation of the esteemed representative Carmela Caparin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-08-0.u36001	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I'd like to correct the inaccuracies of a colleague who says that this law of the state scares women. If no one else this government has passed so much law, a national strategy, so much sensitized this public in the fight against violence against women that I don't think you can say it and I think this is the kind of debate that scares us in this country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-08-0.u36002	Thank you. And now the violation of the Rules of Procedure is the distinguished representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-08-0.u36003	In no word did I mention that this law does so. I was talking about practice.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-08-0.u36004	Please, it's not a correction to an incorrect quote and don't do it. You as an excellent lawyer know first that you have to specify which article and everything. You're nothing, you're not holding on to it. Please don't do this. ... Please don't throw it away. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] It's a kind of violence. And now we're going with the replicas. Honorable representative Goran Heffer, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-08-0.u36005	I'm as aware as anyone else that the problem of domestic violence is primarily the way a woman is a victim and a man is a bully. We've seen this from statistics that it's common. But I have to say, this kind of starts now and ends in a way that makes a woman a man or a man a woman. Here, May 20, 2008 says a 35-year-old woman beat her husband and neighbor to a policeman who tried to calm the situation down. That was May 20th. On January 22, 2009, a drunk 57-year-old woman from the rat was sentenced to ten days in prison for domestic violence. More specifically, because on two occasions she broke into the house, attacked the householders, and the last time she beat her 66-year-old husband with a stick. According to the police report, the woman was then brought in for sobering, when she came to her senses and beat him again and was then sent to prison. I know this is a laugh, but the fact is that we're starting to create a stereotype of debates in a way that really some colleagues like colleagues like Denone react that the problem of violence is universal. Let's not just project it in a way that they're always women. That's why I pointed out at the beginning of my debate that we had a case of reporting to a man who said he was a victim of domestic violence. Let us consider that violence should be dealt with in one systematic way, not first and foremost affecting who the victim is, who's a bully because it's possible. Never forget that possible violence is mutual. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-08-0.u36006	Thank you. The second replica is the esteemed representative Mirjana Feric-Vac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-08-0.u36007	Mr. Vice President. A colleague of Antičević-Marinović mentioned 25.11., she mentioned in fact... No, it's not the only document, so the increase in violence is present. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We also witness that the Council of Europe is working on a new convention, the Convention against Violence against Women, which will include new elements somewhere, and so on. violence from honors that are increasingly common in European Community countries, or in migrant circles in European Community countries where even physical accounts and killings occur if one nation's representative decides to marry another nation's representative. I've been dealing with this problem since I was 70 when I was a migrant and lived in a neighborhood where our women asked for help. So, in the 1990s, when we started talking about it, there was already a question of how women who get help would be helped in a certain way to get out of the chain of violence and to get hired. How will they limit that chain of violence to perpetuation? And here I think we need to pay very good attention to the anti-discrimination law and the new labour law that follows us because it's a new path without data protection, for example. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-08-0.u36008	Thank you. Reply to the replica, distinguished representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-08-0.u36009	My colleagues, your work of those from the 1970s and later, or the end of the 1970s and the beginning of the '80s when this problem was only at first well known to me and it is quite clear that you are particularly and sensitized to this problem. I was present myself when my husband killed his wife in front of me, it was still in the former system. So, something that is almost all systems that have done very little except on this normative to improve the situation because the very facts show, of course, that there are both women and there are people, that is, men and women are violent but statistics show that this is violence in the far-fetched power of men over women because they are physically stronger and then demonstrate. But wherever physical and not mental power in a society dominates these things are possible. Equally, as long as there are natural differences between men and women, it is often a conservative argument that not all people can be equal, not everyone can earn equally, not everyone can have access to these goods or social cakes that are shared. So based on these natural differences, they often happen, or they are the basis for discrimination and violence, what we are discussing today in part. Therefore, suppressing the natural difference between a man and a woman is irrelevant. We're people first of all and all the laws that come out of it, from biology are discriminatory laws. And one of these is this, uh, almost Law on Medical Aided Insemination, which we can already call an abortion law.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-08-0.u36010	Thank you. We'll tell about him in the afternoon. And now it's time for the replica of the distinguished representative Romana Jerkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-08-0.u36011	Thank you very much. I think fellow Anticevic, you're right when you say that the state needs to take care of its citizens, but that it rarely does it halfway. And that the infrequent measures and laws we make are unspeakable, in fact so little it takes. I don't really understand why very often of 10 we make 8 and then we miss the other two key ones and the final ones. For example, it's an alimony background that's a phenomenal idea but it's never actually come back to life. Today we have 80,000 children in Croatia whose fathers do not pay child support. And another thing, this law is good, there's no dispute about us supporting it, it needs to be improved, anyway. One more example should be related to what I said earlier, a unique database. Imagine how much she would make it easier for the system to function. Imagine that a woman who was once introduced to that register, so once she says what happened and doesn't have to repeat it at the welfare center, doesn't have to repeat it to a lawyer, doesn't have to repeat it in some civilian association she asked for help from. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-08-0.u36012	Thank you. Replicate response, distinguished representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-08-0.u36013	But you mentioned colleagues to the alimony fund, it was also one of the great stories, it caused several headlines and then it happened nothing. It's still a hard way to get women for a child together to make sure they pay. In... The material opportunities and the troubles and the simple deafening of all those who were to help and should be wrong is amazing that children simply do not have, have to go to school, that their wife cannot buy books, the necessary equipment, that is something, I think few of us advocates to whom such women, generally women with children have spoken, have not met. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And that nobody's doing anything about it. So it's a matter of structural nature. How is this a powerful state, every kuna, lip or pair of individual citizens to charge. Of the big companies, we know that in millions of dollars, but what a citizen owes, the state doesn't lack an inspector, it doesn't lack a tax officer, it pays for it neatly. Because she's interested because she will, and this... He's creeping around our courts. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Why basically? Because she doesn't care because she doesn't care about the weak, because she's weak to the powerful and powerful to the weak.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-08-0.u36014	Thank you. And a replica of the esteemed representative of Brankica Crlenko. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-08-0.u36015	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I will look back in one part of my debate, you have actually mentioned children as witnesses to family violence. Children are unfortunately often witnessing domestic violence, precisely because a bully does not pay attention to a child. It does not matter to him the consequences of this violence on a child, or the fact that children are witnesses of domestic violence, in fact, to the greatest victims of this violence. The consequences that this leaves on the child are far-reaching and often leave a deep mark in the psychosocial development of the child. It is therefore important that women who have endured violence take responsibility for their participation in domestic violence and interrupt this vicious circle for exactly the reason to protect their children.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-08-0.u36016	I also thank the reply to the replica, the esteemed representative, Ingrid Antičević-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-08-0.u36017	Of course it's a special form of psychological violence against children when children see their father as a rule beating their mother. And that's something that's particularly sanctioned. But it's dramatic for every conviction that by 2002 it wasn't a crime, which a man abused a woman, but possibly a woman was in that criminal law, until we changed that thing was an objective condition of punishment, so it was particularly sanctioned that the children suffered psychological violence. And you'll allow me to ask that the biggest victim, after all, is the one that's been hit. But the story should be circled by us having to get out of that victim's position, out of the victim's position after all, as well as the people, but also as an individual, or an individual. To stand up to violence. Because moaning over your oppressed position is not worthy of a single woman, let alone one nation and one individual living in Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-08-0.u36018	That it would be even if it wasn't enough of a grandmother then not even Grandpa. Thank you very much. Does the proposaler's representative want to take the floor? Yeah. Dear Stjepan Adanic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Family, Defence and Intergenerational Solidarity. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-08-0.u36019	Dear Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen. Here's a very short one. I'll say this law rests on three important pillars. The first is prevention, the second is sanctioning, the third is the suppression of all forms of domestic violence. Based on the 2003 Law on Protection against Family Violence and the two strategies we have adopted from 2005 to 2010 as well as the protocol on the treatment of domestic violence, these results, and strategies, these laws, these protocols have produced very good results over the past six years. However, we want more, we want better, and that is why we are passing this new law, a proposal for a new law that is likely to be confirmed in the second reading. From all your discussions that were here and will not be repeated and there were many, encouraging and good proposals. We will study all these suggestions well, well and in order to protect the victims of domestic violence. We'll believe we'll propose the best possible solutions. For now, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-08-0.u36020	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. We will vote when the necessary conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-08-0.u36021	Proposal for a law on protection against domestic violence, first reading. I am voting on the following conclusion: "The proposal for a law on protection against domestic violence is accepted. All objections, proposals and opinions presented in the debate will be addressed to the applicant in order to prepare a final draft of the law." Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. The result? I find that with 108 votes for and 1 abstention, the proposed conclusion has been reached.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-08-0.u36022	We move to the second item of the agenda: - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on drug control, first reading, P.Z. No. 392; Proposer of the Law is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. In the case of the adoption of this law, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading of the law shall apply, Articles 144 to 150. You received the materials by mail. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Family, Youth and Sports and the Committee on Labour and Social Partnership. You received the reports at the session. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Dear Ante Zvonimir Golem, State Secretary at the Ministry of Health and Social Care. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-08-0.u36023	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear ladies and gentlemen. Allow only in a few short lines to present to you a proposal to amend and supplement the Law on the control of drug abuse. In this proposal, the amendment and addition of the mains of the proposal relate, therefore, to the regulation of the area of substances which can be obtained in any way or process. This has so far been resolved in the Republic of Croatia in a number of ways, in the jurisdiction of several ministries and in accordance with not only CARDS projects, but also our compliance with European Union legislation and taking over a certain part of the good practice that exists in the European Union, in the Republic of Croatia, we feel that it is also necessary to regulate the market or control of the precursors' markets in a unique way, as well as to ensure that this control of the precursor market is managed in a model that is otherwise a modern model in the European Union countries, and that a similar model exists in the Agency for Medicinal Products and Medical Devices where medicines and medicinal products are equally controlled and treated in the Republic of Croatia. What to say is that according to the proposed proposal that you will discuss, the jurisdiction over the control of the Precursor has taken over the Ministry of Health and Social Care, which so far had only one part of the jurisdiction. Other competences were within the Ministry of Economy, and within other offices, and jurisdiction would relate to supervision and inspection, to the establishment of a database and the register of imports, exports, transport and transport of precursors that would be taken over by the Croatian Toxicology Institute. According to the Chemical Act, which is also in the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Health and Social Care, around all chemicals and dangerous chemicals, the register as such is carried out by the Croatian Institute of Toxicology and, accordingly, it is proposed that the same applies and does not prevail. The second point and the main point of this amendment is the possibility of destroying a part of the drug before entering the power of the solution or before making a solution, and it is therefore a matter of confiscated, withdrawn drugs which, in the present part of the criminal procedure, should have been preserved, archived, which in several cases resulted in certain additional costs and certain difficulties, and therefore, according to this proposal, it is possible to destroy certain, therefore, necessary evidence-based actions on the court's order that this drug can also be destroyed. And thirdly, as much as it may seem cosmetic at some point, the same important thing, that the concept of intoxicating drugs is no longer used in the law, because there is also a large number and large spectrum of drugs that are not intoxicating and which do not belong to the categories of intoxicating characters, but to say only drugs, which could all be placed under the same legal provision. Here, for further discussion and for every question we are here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-08-0.u36024	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? Not that I can see. I'm opening a debate. First it's the clubs. And as usual, at the head of the clubs, on behalf of the IDS Club, the esteemed representative Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-08-0.u36025	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, I signed up in time, so I'm first. Secretary of State, gentlemen of the Parliament. Yeah, I don't know, no, in this House, I don't have anything to do with this coalition. The IDS will vote for this bill. Today, however, I read a text saying that heroin addicts spend about 2.5 billion kuna a year on those opiates. If we add that to marijuana and the rest, over 3 billion kuna. So, a day turns around about 7 million kunas in the drug industry according to Mr. Sakoman's statements. Or there's 10,000 people on heroin a day, it seems to me that this number is somewhat unrealistically small, but let's just say it's correct. And so, just to quote or read his statement that in Croatia 10,000 people, including 5 thousand registered, failedly treated addicts each day take heroin. They spend 40,000 doses of heroin each day, according to an estimate of experts with several thousand occasional consumptions. One dose is 100 kuna, which means we spend 4 million kuna on heroin in the day, and each year the heroin market takes incredible billions and 400 million kunas.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-08-0.u36026	Your Honor, a moment. It seems the mistake of saying that the Committee on Education, Science and Culture is scheduled to meet at 13 o'clock is not 13 but 13.30. So I ask the members to respect it and be there at 13:30. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-08-0.u36027	All right, that's all right. He goes on to say that there's nothing better with cocaine, that addicts and occasional cocaine consumption spend 3 million kunas a year and 95 million kuna. 34 thousand people in Croatia each day take three, four doses ranging from grams to five grams, and the number of occasional cocaine consumption on weekends, according to Sakoman, goes up to 10,000. When the annual consumption of cocaine, heroin of 2 billion and 555 million kuna adds to the consumption of marijuana to which addicts spend 300, 400 million a year on weekends, the figure is 3 billion kuna that addicts pay for destroying their health. So, on the other hand, we see that the police manage to confiscate only 152.5 kilos of heroin in a year. That's only 5% of what's on our market. In 2007, not 5%, but 2.5%, cocaine only 26.6 kg etc., and the age in which young people first start to consume grass, ectasy etc. It's about 16 years old. Now, 18 thousand total registered and heroin addicts, 2,000 of them have died since the '90s. To date, 2,000 addicts have been cured, thousands of drug addicts are now in prisons, thousands of addicts are now in communes, 6 to 7 thousand addicts are now in the treatment process, 5 to 6 thousand once-treated addicts are back on the road, 10 thousand people are taking heroin daily or occasionally, and cocaine addicts have 3 to 4 thousand people, and 10 thousand are occasionally consumed by cocaine. 100 to 150 thousand people occasionally consume grass, 50 thousand people occasionally consume different types of drugs. Here's a quote from today's paper. I think it's probably the most realistic display of our everyday life. It's clear I'm against legalizing that we understand any drugs. The other thing is if someone for one gram of something takes a year in prison, but anyone who deals needs to go to jail. Someone's gonna say he'd get the money then he's got to deal for himself, but he doesn't have a mother. He should be sanctioned if he gives that drug to another. There goes the budget rebalance. I'm not going to talk about who brought it now, but one item I think should be entered, which is drug testing in schools, I don't know colleges, prisons, etc. etc. And it's everywhere and on every possible occasion, because I repeat 18 are thousands of registered addicts in Croatia, which is a black figure probably not even God himself knows. How much their treatment costs, how much their rehabilitation costs, what it costs to keep them under surveillance in some closed facilities, police, prison programs that need to be dealt with otherwise. But what is certainly most tragic is that from the 1990s to today, 2,000 young people died of drug abuse. And this year, if it's like that somewhere around 150,000 people will die from an overdose or whatever it is they call it. Therefore, those who deal with them should not be grieved, should not be spared, should not be tattooed. They need to be declared war. How? By testing kids for drugs. If I have to say so, then let's start with us here in this House. So all schools need to go through these tests, colleges. I'm sure that's what you'd do under the quotes most intensely if I didn't say the death blow to the drug market. We've got another OIB. Someone said we threw 150 million kunas. If it can be controlled by those who are unfoundedly rich and thus the money is not thrown away. Otherwise, what do we do? Maybe it's a missed project, too. And where those three billion kunas are washed, at least three billion kunas, maybe four, maybe five billion kunas. Which is three, four or maybe five percent of the budget. So much money de facto, in this business, turns to what the annual budget of the MUP is. The money's clearly going to a normal job expansion, going to that construction business. It's legalized. It's all been seen before in one Italy, which I know America. There we are today. Only Croatia is a small country of only four and a half million inhabitants, and 18000 registered addicts will say that the black number is perhaps 70, 80, and more than one thousand people. And then we come almost as much as one, two percent of the total population of the Republic of Croatia. In high schools, maybe 20, 30% of young people experiment with some psycho tropics and so clearly that's what every parent fears the most. Police on the streets, we defend the nation. Let us help mothers, fathers, restore faith in these difficult times. We fight this evil. If that happens, at least the people will say something, and that will strengthen the authority of our police and society and institutions as a whole. Someone needs to be clearly trusted to do their job. I want to believe the police are doing this, but they need what I can offer and another hope to our parents. That's what I'm gonna end up with, that speech of mys, the address. The IDS Club will also support the Law on the Completion of the Law on the Prevention of Drug Abuse in the First Reading. So, once again, let's step up the work of the institutions. I don't expect anyone in this game to be more employed, but I expect everyone to approach it with a lot more agility than they've done so far.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-08-0.u36028	Thank you very much. Now on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the CNS, counterpart Goran Beus Richembergh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-08-0.u36029	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State. The problem we are facing today in our discussions by discussing changes and additions to this law could actually be called the subject of one of the most devastating monsters in any modern society. And the figures that official statistics indicate call for an alert. Every human life of course lost calls for an alarm. However, the fact that we are growing the number of consumers, the number of dealers testify that the social action obviously does not have the same effects as we want. If the drug market is part of a gray economy that in some way undermines the economic stability of this country, the other one is destroying the substance of so young people, then it is time, as counterpart Cain said, to declare war on all those involved, namely the drug mafia system in the region, especially those parts of it that operate in Croatia. Since the price of drugs is generally lower and lower, the availability of drugs is increasing and higher, then these official figures or approximations of how much money a car actually on a drug market of three, four or five billion kunas speaks of terribly large figures. Because if it's possible today in the yard of some elementary or high school for 10 or 15 kuna to get some kind of drug, then that means that it's become absolutely available, or it's getting close to every child. Of course, this is not a topic on which we can comprehensively, metrically, fund-raisedly conduct a debate now on all elements of prevention itself, promotion of healthy lifestyles. It's the same as suppressing, until the prosecution of those who carry this drug mob system. But we should take this opportunity and underline the fact that the effects in the persecution of drug dealers in the Republic of Croatia are no better than they were in previous years, and that the number of addicts, i.e. consumers, is growing. It is not true that the equal number of dealers serves a much larger number of users, but is expected to increase that number. I'm afraid as a society, we're satisfied if there's an individual case being estradated and if the newspaper on some case is cyclically publishing information, we get the impression that it's always working on something. But it's just not like that. It's a public secret that police are reluctant to engage in conflicts with drug dealers because the courts are letting them go. They let them defend themselves from freedom, let them go with certain less financial penalties, mostly those who are murderers, and dealers are murderers, but within hours of their arrest, they're on the loose. It is on the one hand messages to parents and all members of society that the excommunication and isolation of such people lasts briefly and that their children, that our children are constantly exposed to these murderers, and on the other hand the messages to them that if they are caught, it won't take long. It is not the first time to say, if it is said that all elements of the fight against addiction should be synchronised and it is of great importance that on the one hand, the police, on the other hand, are more strongly involved in this problem. Let's not forget that besides the addicts who are registered there are a very large number of people who occasionally do so. The salon's way of consummating drugs. These are people who have a lot of money, these are people who supply drugs in a non-classic way, so not with classical dealers, and these are people who hide or keep their addiction in a very tight circle of people. These don't include statistics. It's everyone who doesn't do enough to stop that market. In this respect, these amendments and additions to the law do not go directly to key problems, nor can they be addressed by this law. But these attempts to control the transport of chemicals, i.e. production, storage, use of those chemicals or products in the chemical process that are drugs and can be misused, are as welcome as the proposal to immediately destroy the quantities of drugs seized. It's just crazy to store such dangerous substances and wait for our judiciary to give a final verdict in order to destroy the seized drug. If it's illegal production, trafficking, possession, then there's no obligation to make such a thing, so a substance that's illegal in itself, which is almost completely illegal, which only in medical procedures can be partially and strictly controlled legal. So if such a thing is in the beginning illegal, then there's no reason to guard it for one minute, but it needs to be destroyed immediately. In that sense, the HSN club will support this bill. I would like to remind you that a few days ago, the media transmitted one piece of information, that an Italian television house, although it was a fraud and a trick, cited a number of Italian parliamentarians on the shoot and that during the make-up, a sample was taken that was subjected to an analysis that showed that 1/3 of the actions of the Italian Parliament's members consumed drugs. And what do you think the Italian Parliament is the only one in the world? All those ideas that go towards expanding the circle, above all occupations where drug testing would be introduced as mandatory, even on the basis of the fact that such testing is conducted and in cases of some schools or all schools should be extended with the idea that all those who exist are subject to it. Some of us, some of us, are working and reacting precisely so that we can be reasonably suspected that it's not really natural. Therefore, it would be a good idea to show by example that we are ready to undergo such tests, that in this way we give support to the idea of curbing addiction everywhere, in all zones, in all layers, and that no one is protected, or politicians. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-08-0.u36030	Thank you very much. Next comes the debate on behalf of Croatian Democratic Community Representatives Club, distinguished counterpart Carmela Caparin. Here you go, colleagues.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-08-0.u36031	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Secretary of State, colleagues and fellow MPs. One depression, I wouldn't test myself because I don't consume it and there's no reason for anyone to force me. That should justify why someone should be tested. The Croatian Democratic Community Club discussed amendments and additions to the Law on the control of drug abuse and, of course, every drug debate shows us in some way in the information provided by the Croatian Institute for Public Health on the number of registered addicts, which is 26 thousand. It can certainly double, perhaps triple, and we don't know it ourselves, but the real picture is that 70% of addicts depend on heroin. Today we witness new trends in drug use, less and less the use of heroin and substance of the opiate type, and more synthetic drugs and cocaine. The cocaine addicts think they don't have a drug problem. This may be the case with those previously discussed in the inner circle. During the weekend, young people consume synthetic drugs whose manifestations are sometimes difficult and difficult to detect, and the treatment must be changed entirely by new methods that are so different, which we have used so far. But for every registered junkie, dear friends come 9 to 10 alcohol addicts, and this is the same problem of our society that we have to name here, and these alcohol children start drinking already in the 13th, 14th year of life. Now let's think about those commercials and beer they say is food, and I think it's alcohol. There are 20 to 24 million registered addicts in the world. Last year, 113 young people died of overdose in the Republic of Croatia and 150 in 2007. And this information about a small number of deaths is really encouraging, but still unsatisfactory. From last year to today, four tons of drugs were burned. So it's not true that the Ministry of the Interior, that the police are doing nothing, that no one is doing anything in this country. It is still done, and do not forget that we are on the Balkan route and that the problem of addiction is not only the problem of Croatia but the whole world. After this data we're talking about how... , reduce supply and demand and control everything, and so also control the market... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The proposal for this law concerns precursors, chemical substances used under control in the production of intoxicating drugs and psychotropic substances listed in the UN Convention, and their control of existing European Union, models and standards. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We have a large number of precursors, for example, I'm going to tell you the lysergic acid produced by LSD. chlorochloric acid, anthranyl acid, piperdine, and they serve heroin, amphetamine and other drugs. A large number of precursors require a unique information database on the transport of precursors to run this law by the Croatian Toxicology Institute. The Croatian Democratic Community Club welcomes the decision to establish a single control over precursors in the form of a resolution body, as this has so far been divided between the Ministry of Health and Social Care, the Ministry of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship, and the Office for the Prevention of Drug Abuse. Precursor control shall include supervision and authorisation of all types of precursors. The manufacturer shall submit every three months to the Ministry of Health a report on the type and quantity of the produced substance, its purpose, its sale, and its sale to the buyer, the user, the accommodation and the state of supply with a specific procedure and authorisation. Article 51 of the existing law is amended and allows the process of destroying the drug taken before the power of judgment or a solution, i.e. three years before the expiry of the criminal application, i.e. After carrying out the necessary evidence actions on the basis of the court's orders, and on a proposal from the State's attorney. Remember how long it took to provide security and attention for such a large amount of drugs. And finally, with the proposal so far, we approve of the change in the term drug intoxication, because many drugs are really not intoxicated by their nature. The Croatian Democratic Community Club accepts such a law, especially this part of the section relating to precursors and which is regulated by this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-08-0.u36032	Thank you very much. HSS Representatives' Club, representative Marijana Petir.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-08-0.u36033	Dear Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Secretary of State, MPs and MPs. The Croatian Peasant Party Representatives' Club will support the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the control of drug abuse. I would like to say in the beginning that drug abuse with all its accompanying forms, both in terms of supply and demand, remains an almost insolvent sociopathological problem, both in Croatia and in the world. The moral crisis of modern civilization, the demented system and the rejection of traditional values, the crisis of marriage institutions and families in which parents tend too much to strive for power, personal prestige, money and hedonism make more and more children and young people feel unhappy and lost. The abuse of drugs, unfortunately, continues to retain its growing trend with us in Croatia. Such a trend in drug abuse persists in the world and it is logical to take into account both the impact and the situation of the international drug scene in preventive and repressive action under national circumstances and the reasons. Although the world invests considerable resources for the design and development of strategies and programmes that would put drug consumption within the limits tolerable to society, to date it has failed to stop the growing trend. A thorough disseminating of this issue could conclude that the world, with its organisation, system of value and quality of life, is often the opposite of the demand and the supply of drugs, but unfortunately the quality and implementation of the control programme itself. Following statistical indicators and the epidemiological state of abuse, it is evident that in Croatia we have nearly 26 thousand unfortunately young people with clinically diagnosed addiction disease. It is worrying that in Croatia as a result of drug abuse over 100 young people die annually in recent years, and the latest official data available for 2007, the number has reached as much as 150 where direct drug overdose has resulted in death. Certainly, with the presentation of statistical indicators, we should keep in mind and a dark number that is not handled, in the judgment of the real situation, so that, taking into account weekends, consumers and those experimenting, the number of people who in some way manipulate drugs is increasing by an additional 40 or even 50 thousand, which gives us additional weight and concern for the overall state of drug abuse. According to the internationally standardised judgments of our experts dealing with this problem, direct and indirect damage from drug abuse, money spills into the system of crime and, of course, secondary crime of drug addicts, treatment and the rest in Croatia more than 2 billion kuna per year. For example, in 2007, more than 7,000 and 500 people were treated for drug addiction. For the first time in medical treatment, 1779 people came. There is still a problem of too much time range, from the first drug supply to seeking medical attention. That period is five years and over. It is during this period of addiction creation that they develop in consumers and criminogenic factors. Expansion of abuse in larger urban areas has affected smaller cities, almost across the territory of the Republic of Croatia. For this reason, we at the HSS Club advocate that larger funds should be directed towards well-designed, organised and implemented preventive programmes primarily those which deal with organised leisure of young people in order to prevent addiction, but also education and promotion, and improved healthy lifestyles of young people. The education of parents, other educators should be monitored as an integral part of all preventive projects and, of course, all programmes. According to statistical indicators, compared to the work of the state-run repressive system of the Republic of Croatia, the MUP retains a multi-year continuity of people seized and arrested for drug abuse, with a statistically demonstrated increase in registered persons by as much as 22.9% in 2007. The maximum number of criminal applications, which is 75%, refers to Article 173(1). The penal code of possession of drugs, and the rest refers to the more difficult qualified forms of that crime. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The criminal law in the follow-up of a judicial authority shall be dismissed and an infringement procedure shall be initiated which shall, as a general rule, be more rapid and effective. In practice, relative to the submission of applications to competent authorities, the largest number of misapplications for the possession of drugs for personal use is over 8.5 thousand applications. The stricter criminal policy of the courts would certainly have its positive effect in terms of general and special prevention but it should be stressed that the outlook and shorter procedures and consistency that the perpetrator will receive the penalty is also an important factor to take into account. This Law on the Prevention of Drug Abuse, i.e. Amendments, proposed the erasure of the termology of an intoxicated new system of control of the recursors, as well as the reduction of the deadlines for the destruction of stolen drugs in such a way that drugs can be destroyed even after the necessary evidence actions have been carried out, as provided for in Article 190, as possible. The law on criminal proceedings. I must say that this section relating to erasing the words intoxicated and the provisions of Article 5(4) of the Law, which is prescribed that the Customs Administration of the Ministry of Finance shall keep records of customs offences reported in connection with the drugs to be deleted because it is not applicable. Since the Customs Act has changed. We think that this amendment has to go through a series of amendments to the Customs Code, but we think it's a bad thing that this has changed in the Customs Code and that this is no longer a customs offence. Because the Ministry of Finance Customs Department kept records of customs offences involving drugs, and we believe that it was both positive and good. Drug entry should be stopped at the border when it enters the country, thus preventing many later abuses. But I repeat here in your law that changes the sequence of amendments to other laws. The proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the Prevention and Abuse of Intoxication Drugs is also changing the control of the transport of substances that can be used to produce drugs, so-called drugs. The recursor in ways that the current responsibilities of the Ministry of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship, which were related to the surveillance of the traffic of recursors, are taken over by the Ministry of Health and Social Care and we assess this as positive. In addition to the above, we also think that it is good that the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the control of drug abuse is complemented by a provision governing the deadlines for the destruction of stolen drugs. For the purpose of Article 51 is to apply. The law on the prevention of drug abuse is prescribed that intoxicating drugs, parts of plants or substances taken under the provisions of this law or other rules are destroyed by the power of judgment or a solution, i.e. at the expiry of a period of three years from the date of application of the criminal application to the competent national attorney. The practice so far has shown that the application of these provisions makes it difficult to carry out the process of destroying the drugs taken into account quickly and effectively requires long-term insurance of money and storage space for the quantities of drug taken up until the expiry of those legal deadlines when it may be destroyed. We therefore believe that it is good to reduce the deadlines for the destruction of drugs in order to implement the process more quickly and efficiently and analogly Article 190. The law on criminal proceedings complements Article 51 of the law in such a way as to prescribe the possibility that drugs whose storage would be dangerous or linked to disproportionate difficulties could be destroyed before the power of judgment or a solution, i.e. three years before the application of the criminal law, following the execution of the necessary evidence actions on the basis of the court's orders, and on a proposal from the State's attorney. The Croatian Peasant Party Representatives' Club will support the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the control of drug abuse. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-08-0.u36034	Our colleagues and colleagues are moving on to individual debates. The first one was registered for discussion by a respected counterpart, Boris Kunst. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-08-0.u36035	Thank you very much. Honorable Vice President, Secretary of State, fellow MPs. I think this is an extremely important topic, and with the Secretary of State of the Ministry of Health, I think that today the Secretary of State and the Secretary of State of Justice should also be sitting here, as well as a representative of the government's Office for the Prevention of Drug Abuse. As is also an important topic of medical insemination, I also believe that this is no less important subject, even more significant at the moment. But I will focus my discussion unfortunately on the growing problem we face, which is the problem of workers who are under the influence of intoxicating drugs at work. Except that these people are weaker in health and even weaker in psychophysical abilities often endanger themselves and other normal colleagues they work with. Namely, their addiction is not immediately evident to the environment, but the consequences are rarely fatal. Imagine a bus driver, a train driver, imagine a boat, a plane operating under the influence of the opiate. I therefore cite this example because it is precisely the kind of profession that these workers perform jobs that directly depend on the safety of other people’s lives. According to the knowledge I have collected from these professions, even though I do not exclude other professions or other professions, there are individuals who are being treated which is in any case commendable, which is in any case necessary to have the special support of this society. But the problem is that they're just the ones that cover up addiction, they're the real potential danger. Why am I saying all this? So because my goal is to draw attention to regulations in Croatia that are insufficiently regulating the problem of detecting and suppressing or treating employee addiction. Rarely, a company, a company, regardless of its ownership structure, whether it owns a state, whether it owns a local unit or even owns a private company, has its own instruments provided for in the obligation to test workers on addiction. In Western-European companies that talk about addiction as a disease, they have it very often and frequently. The law on protection at work in that part is general and in fact he is not in that part nothing positive can solve and I must say that personally I have never heard of the protection inspection at work ever came up with the idea to check the worker or the manager even in the company whether or not to refer him to that competent health care institution whether he is positive for such opiates. The employer usually does not send and simply does not check and carry out such a type of test of workers because of saving workers. That's why I think we should think about supplementing the Labour Protection Act and this Law on the control of drug abuse. So, those solutions that would have positive effects for those workers who come to work today under the influence of intoxicating drugs. Laws and legal considerations should first of all define a list of professions that would be in the treatment of mandatory testing on certain addictions several times a year, and in particular I think of those professions that I mentioned in a way that depend on the safety of the lives of other persons. Furthermore, the labour protection inspection should be made possible and determined as an obligation to control managers and workers on individual addictions or, as soon as possible, within that competent institution or since technology allows for today's on-site verification. Of course, in any case, it is important to keep an eye on privacy because I speak of addiction as a disease. I think the police should be more aggressive in carrying out driver checks not only on alcoholism but also on opiates, and it seems to me that, with one moment only, what was so exposed to the public, I think that unfortunately, this is being carried out more and more rarely. With all the praise to the police for the detection and capture of drug addicts and drug dealers so far, but I think you should step up your activities in order to achieve better results in the area of drug trafficking, I think that this should be a special role for block police officers who should be more effective in detecting these dealers because usually drug dealers gather around schools where they try to recruit these children and it's not hard to recognize them because they're always hiding something, something they're doing, and I think that the neighborhood cops and normally other police should engage more. That's why it's no wonder if there's no higher score on both the police and the number of addicts from year to year but the drug dealer's also growing. Imagine the fact that there were 41 thousand drug users in Croatia in 94 years and that 10 years later in 2004 there are estimated to be 100,000 addicts in Croatia. It's an alarming number. Of which somewhere around 20,000 registered addicts have been, today there are somewhere up to 28 thousand somewhere moving the number of registered addicts. So the alarm bell certainly rings, enough to ask ourselves where our youth is going but to wonder what our age will be like with that kind of youth. Therefore, I also appeal to the current interior minister and police directors that, in cooperation with the judiciary, which must impose more drastic penalties and criminal penalties because they are the only ones who are more determined to declare war on drug traffickers or drug trafficking. It doesn't make sense that the number of drug dealers, addicts, is growing year after year and the number of convicted year after year is getting smaller. For example, in 2008, I will say only 3,000 180 people, which is 20% less than in 2007, while the police in 2008 filed 4 thousand 655 criminal charges and in 2007. Five thousand 254. The number of prisoners serving drug-related prison sentences was in 2008 a thousand 58 of which are 457 or 43% addicts. I believe that the police action will get better results than any action plans to combat the abuse of drug abuse, and more than 80 million kunas from the 2008 budget alone have been spent by the Government of the Republic of Croatia and separated by giving large financial support to various drug addiction associations or solving the consequences rather than the causes. In my opinion, the media should be more actively involved in the fight against drug abuse, both in prime terms and pages, except sensations and those Mexican soaps of space, to warn about the harmfulness and consequences of drug use. How much addiction does it bring harm to the human organism, the family and the entire community? I see it's time to finish. I have to say that's one big problem, the Croats don't have as Chinese, we have more mortality than birth and I think, and I appeal here to the police that it must be far more aggressive and declare what I already said to the war on the drug mafia as it has declared war on crime and so on, and it needs to be contained in Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-08-0.u36036	Thank you very much, colleague Kunst. It's time to discuss a distinguished colleague named Dragutin Lesar. Here you go, Comrade Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-08-0.u36037	Dear colleagues and colleagues, I think that colleague Goran Beus Richembergh has made an interesting proposal that should not be skipped like this, shut up. In order to prove that we are ready to detect possible intoxicating assets, he suggested that we also have such a test in the House. I don't think we should apply Italian practice and do it on fraud. But I remind you that two weeks ago from the report on the work of the Croatian police we learned that the Croatian police throughout the country have 25 fast-testing devices used in traffic control and that with these 25 devices it was discovered that as much as 35% were tested under the influence of intoxicating drugs, drugs. I thought and hoped that every traffic patrol that has an alcoholic had a drug test on our roads, but obviously that's not true. So I recommend to Mr. Secretary of State if it is in any way possible for you to borrow some of the funds that are intended for early drug detection and in the health ministry's portfolio temporarily lend or donate to the Home Office so that at least 25 new devices can be obtained every year. And by joining the invitation of my colleague, Beusus, I will have a drug-detecting device that works on the saliva, a saw on the saliva, buy, put on the use of the Public Health Office of the Republic of Croatia to carry out a flash action in the Assembly. It's not expensive at all. What I want to say about the proposed law is this. In the light of the law, Mr. Secretary of State, you use the terms adapted... democracy, so you believe that as part of the twinning project CARDS 2000, called the 2004 twinning project, the Croatian word is project or cooperation programme. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I mean, let's not enter into Croatian laws these bureaucratized terms that come from the European Commission because we will really need a dictionary of foreign words to understand the proposals of the law. You haven't explained what it means... one substance that makes a third substance under the influence of the other substance. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The bill mentions a single 1961 UN convention. I'll wait until there are conditions for the secretary of state to hear what I want to suggest. So, in the light of the law, the UN Single Convention of 1961 and '71, which is why I would like to commend the ministry in April of this year in the National paper to publish the signature of intoxicating drugs,... substances and plants from which drugs can be obtained, therefore, cleaned and a good list. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I hope that it includes those substances that the police warned that they had not been before and are in traffic in the Republic of Croatia. But when this convention is mentioned, I just want to remind myself, believe it or not, that in 1961, the United Nations in that single convention envisioned the obligation of the states of the signatories, that any property believed to have been acquired by the sale of drugs was seized, temporarily blocking what we had introduced into our legislation only two and three months ago. It is therefore an instrument that the United Nations predicted in 1961 with the right to seek a blockade and property that is even in other countries, not only on the territory of that country. So this convention gives Croatia the right to seek the blocking of property, dealers in Croatia, on suspicion that it is located in another country. And I promised to cut short, Mr. Secretary of State, and I said that before and the minister, I said to repeat it publicly and that he would take it. Article 54(3) of the existing law prescribes criminal sanctions for those who possess drugs and impose penalties. 54. One is for legal persons, 54. 3rd is for natural persons. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. A fine of 5 to 20 grand for a natural person if found, if found to own drugs, so one joint. Financial punishment of temporary or occasional consumers or addicts at the beginning, which is what we get. We force them to start dealing drugs to make money to pay a fine of 5 to 20 thousand kuna. If they don't pay the fine, it's a prison sentence. Mr. Secretary of State, last week in the Croatian Parliament, we discussed and adopted the Law on Working for the General Goods which we have all praised here in the Parliament and said that this is a far more effective means not only because of less pressure on the legal system and a better solution than the inability to collect fines. And that's a really good solution. And I suggest that until the second reading, you go to the addition of Article 54(3) in a way that you build up the possibility that this punishment can be replaced by a sanction of working on freedom for the greater good, because it is particularly important that those who are at the beginning of hell, at the beginning of entering that black world, do not sanction them with a fine and do not force them to start dealing in order to earn, pay the fine and avoid prison, or put them in prison, which they later get even more educated, in a network, in prison they enter a network of dealers. Believe me, by entering these provisions into this law and in this Article 53 paragraph 3 and infringing courts, judges would stimulate less expressions of this and more work for the common good, thus preventing young people from being excluded from the environment that actually stimulates them to start or continue to consume drugs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-08-0.u36038	Thank you very much. I see that some ideas quickly fall on fertile soil because in one debate we had an idea for testing, now in another we have a sponsor for the apparatus. I think it would be good to work out some kind of rulebook, so let's say four times in a row picks up the quote plate and nothing corrects goes to the test or replicates three times and doesn't answer the subject to which it replicates. Or two days in a row doesn't come for a job, etc... And then we'd have one continuous test service and see what caused all these phenomena. No
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-08-0.u36039	For this test of duty corrections, some other testing was needed, not this.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-08-0.u36040	Okay. We have one replica reported. Dear colleague Branko Crlenko. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-08-0.u36041	Dear colleague, I'll rephrase to you in relation to that part of your discussion that concerns prevention. In fact, when we talk about prevention, we have to say that it's actually an alarming ignorance of drug abuse, except when it comes to the tobacco and alcohol of parents, it's also the result of the failure of state mechanisms and neglect of prevention. In fact, many parents do not even know what the joint looks like today, or what it consists of, or what the ectasy tablets look like. Therefore, it is necessary to introduce parental education, in fact, as an element of prevention of addiction.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-08-0.u36042	Thank you very much. Replication response, colleague Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-08-0.u36043	My colleague, I agree with you. I followed and actively participated in prevention projects for seven years. While the school prevention programmes were financed by both the state and regional self-government and turned to parents, not just the students, there were at least opportunities and places where parents could educate themselves. I think that the later move, which was created the moment the county and city councils passed into the jurisdiction of the Public Health Institute, which is good, remains the unresolved funding of school prevention programs and further education of teachers and experts. And that is why I agree with you that the renewal of these programmes, but also the extension to parents, would be extremely useful and significant.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-08-0.u36044	Thank you very much. And for the debate, a distinguished colleague, Neda Klaric, applied. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-08-0.u36045	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Secretary of State, Mr. Dr. Golem. My colleagues and colleagues. Well, here's the thing, I'd say the same thing about the bill, which is to take action to adapt the EU system to standards, is in our system... The competent several ministries and this Ministry of Health and Social Care, the economy, work and entrepreneurship, as well as other bodies, as the State Secretary has informed us in the opening presentation, and the question is how the supervision of the precursors can be coordinated. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In order to strengthen the control system at all, we need to determine the body responsible for the uniform control of the transport of these substances. This law proposes that the Ministry of Health and Social Care take control of the traffic of all substances that can be used to produce intoxicating drugs and issue all permits for all types of precursors. The exercise of supervision and education, which would certainly contribute to a faster and more efficient adaptation to European standards, would also achieve a uniform control over the precursors. In addition, this law proposes a unique info phase in transport to precursors at the Croatian Institute of Toxicology, since it has these info capacities, but also that the transport records of substances that can be used for the production of drugs are kept at the Croatian Institute of Toxicology. The addition of this existing law introduces the possibility of destroying drugs before that flow, or prior to the power of judgment or a solution, or before the expiry of a three-year period of application by court, and, on a proposal from a State lawyer, if it is judged to be dangerous to keep it. Most countries in the European Union in the area of drug abuse addiction do not know the term, we also heard, intoxicated but only drugs, and in this dimension our regulation would be regulated. These parts of the law need to be changed and complemented because they will improve not only prevention, but also social care measures such as psychosocial rehabilitation, counselling and resociation of drug addicts, which is why I will support the amendments to this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-08-0.u36046	Thank you very much, colleague. We've exhausted all the requests for a hearing. The promoter does not express his desire and does not see the need for a final address. That's why I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met. And now I declare a break by 3:30 or 3:30, some say, and we will proceed with point 3. Proposal for a candidate for election of members of the State Judicial Council.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-08-0.u36047	Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the control of drug abuse, first reading. I am voting on the following conclusion: "A proposal for a law on amendments and the addition of the Law on the control of drug abuse is adopted. All objections, proposals and opinions presented in the debate will be addressed to the applicant in order to prepare a final draft of the law." Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. The result? With 109 votes in favour and 1 abstention, the proposed conclusion was reached.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-08-0.u36048	Dear MPs and MPs, we continue to work on the 3rd item of the agenda - Proposed candidates for the selection of members of the State Judicial Council Proposer of the Justice Committee. This proposal was submitted by the Committee on Justice on the basis of Article 3. The State Judicial Council Act. You received the materials by mail. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. There are no reports to be discussed. I'm closing the debate. Since several candidates have been proposed, Article 231 will be implemented. The Rules of Procedure have a secret vote, and we will talk about the way and we will talk about it when the necessary conditions are obtained. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-08-0.u36049	We are now going to the next point, the motion for candidates to elect members of the State Judiciary Council. The proposer is the Justice Committee. Since more candidates have been proposed, Article 231 will be implemented. The Rules of Procedure are a secret vote. I propose three MPs to assist in carrying out a secret vote. These were in previous elections, Mr. Representative Ratko Gajica, Mrs. Representative Gordana Sobol and Mr. Representative Emil Tomljanovic. Please be the three of you, help with the vote. I am determining a 30-minute break after which we will continue to discuss and vote on amendments to the Law on Medical Aided Insemination. Secondly, we will announce the election results for members of the State Judiciary Council. The vote is over. Ladies and gentlemen, I announce that out of the 153 voters, 117 MPs have received the ballot. 117 MPs voted for members of the State Judicial Council in the order of judges. There are no invalid lists. The votes were received: Nediljko Boban Criminal Court in Zagreb 69, Branko Brkić Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia 70, Katarina Buljan Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia 74, Krešimir Devrić County Court in Zagreb 4, Željko Glusić Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia nothing, Jasna Gushtek Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia 3, Drazen Jakovina County Court in Zagreb 36, Zdravko Jambrović County Court in Zagreb 3, Damir Kontrec County Court in Varazdin 8, Krešimir Kralic County Court in Koprivnica 37, Davorka Lukanović-Ivansevic Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia 33, Ranko Marijan Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia 40, Miho Mratović County Court in Split 70, Marin Mrčela Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia 40, Karmen Novak-Hrgović High Court of the Republic of Croatia, Nena Perin Perin Croatia Supreme Court of Croatia, Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia, Vr. I declare that the members of the State Judicial Council are elected: Ivan Turudić, Katarina Buljan, Đuro Sesa, Branko Brkić, Miho Mratović and Nediljko Boban. 117 MPs voted for members of the State Judicial Council in the line of attorneys. There was an invalid ballot. The votes were received by Atil Chokolić, lawyer in Osijek 66, Anton Etlinger lawyer in Rovinj 4, Artur Fišba, lawyer in Osijek 4, Ognje Frangeš, lawyer in Zagreb 42, Marin Mrklic lawyer in Split 5, Mladen Sučević lawyer in Zagreb 100, Branimir Tuškar lawyer in Zagreb 3. I declare that for members of the State Judicial Council, lawyers are elected: Mladen Sučević and Atila Cocolic. 117 lawmakers voted for members of the State Judicial Council in the order of university professors of legal science. There were four wrong ballots. The votes were received: Boris Wolfman 8, Professor. Michaelo Dicka 8, Professor. Tatjana Josipović 7, Prof. Zvonimir Laus 62, Professor Branko Smerdel 37, Professor. Petar Vejic 43. I hereby declare that a member of the National Judicial Council of the University of Legal Sciences has been elected Professor. Zvonimir Laus, the others did not get 50% more than the votes cast in parliament. I congratulate all the elected members and members of the State Judicial Council and wish them much success in their important and responsible work. I interrupt the session, we continue at 11.30 Monday with a debate on the rebalancing of the State budget. At 9 pm, the Committees on Finance and Budgets and other Committees on the Economy which are scheduled. On Tuesday at 13:00 with the debate most likely, with a third point, the final proposal of the Law on Post Offices, the Proposal for a Law on Electronic Media, etc. ... 10:30! [[You can't hear the intruder.]] 10.30 on Monday!
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-08-0.u36051	We move to the fourth item of the agenda, which is - Final proposal of the Law on Medical Insemination, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 360 The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You received the proposal by mail. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Rules of Procedure. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the The Registrar's emergency procedure unites the first and second readings of the law. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate, Rule 164 of the Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on European Integration, the Committee on Health and Social Care, the Committee on Gender Equality, the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities. You received the reports at the session. The amendments were submitted by the Committee on Health and Social Care, representative Danica Hursa, representative Vesna Pusić, Club of HNS Representatives, representative Zlatko Koračević, Club of Representatives of HSLS, HSU, Club of Representatives of the SDP, representative Boro Grubišić and representative of Romana Jerkovic. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Come on, bring him in. [[The minister is here.]] Yes, Minister, Honorable Darko Milinovic, Minister of Health and Social Care. Minister, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-08-0.u36052	Here's Mr. President, I apologize for being told to go with one point before this.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-08-0.u36053	Yes, yes, that point has already been adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-08-0.u36054	And she's already done? Great. Okay, here, about a year and a half ago when I became Minister of Health and Social Care, I said that in the first half of this term we would bring and propose to the Council of the Republic of Croatia this law, which, as a result and reform of the health system, caused a broad public debate and controversy, and that was expected for reasons why this law is affecting not only philosophical, religious, moral, but ethical issues. The European Commission has done one research and for which we were still obliged, in a way, to pass this and propose this law, is also the result of the European Commission's research where one of the issues where it is illegal to do the process of assisted artificial insemination, and in addition to Azerbaijan, the Republic of Croatia is mentioned. And that's why I can't agree, right at the beginning I'll say it, with those who said at one point better than no law. Well, then when they saw some very conservative, restrictive law, they said the old '78 was better. years, but this one today proposed. And on the other hand, and from the part of the conservative circles, if we talk like that, come the same certain criticisms of this law, and I believe from that position that we are here in the Parliament today I will propose a Law on Medical Insemination, which is supported by the majority of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. Yeah, those who say it's a better law from '78. the best years, as I said, are the European Commission's research. Under this law, it is not true that the freezing of embryos is allowed, but it is true that it is not regulated at all and that there is a wide space of manipulation, and a wide area of manipulation in a country where 4 and a half million inhabitants live is very dangerous, non-regulatory of this can lead us in a few years. And that's why part of it is, I might admit this law, and more conservative than some people expected because we live in a small country of four and a half million people and with a law of '78. We are in grave danger of having a brother and sister in or out of wedlock or any other relationship today without knowing it. It's a law of '78. years and witnesses these last years of all that. Of course, I'm going to say a few words and open up some doubts that have been opened in the last 15 or the last month, but I'm going to say something first about control and how we're going to control the process of medical insemination, so the accreditation of institutions that can, under certain criteria, deal with this, the establishment of the National Register and the National Commission for the Cases of Medical Aided Insemination Procedures. Some have mentioned that a broad public debate has not been held regarding this law and I will say that the law that may be the most in the public debate. This law is spoken of for 15 years, 20 years, and I shall dare say that no government has had the courage to present to this government and I hope to adopt such a law in this House. Which, above all, prevents and prevents what may be most important to us today, to manipulate and traps and the very process of medically assisted insemination. I'll say a few words first of all about the liberal part, if that's what we're going to do, and I have a feeling and I hear what it would say is going to be a debate in that direction, which is liberal, which is conservative, which is restrictive, which is traditional, which is too liberal. So I'm going to say some information, and it's often been mentioned in the media these days how much of a medical insemination is going on. And here I must say that, since the new prime minister, the President of the Republic of Croatia, Mrs Jadranka Kosor, and the vice-president, had a great influence on this liberal part of the law at the time, which I will say in a few words. So, HZZO has been paying 3 procedures so far, and I, like you, have watched a lot of television these 15 days, so we have seen a lady who says that in some European Union countries, referring to some of them, the state health care office, individual countries, paid 3, 4, 5 procedures and that in Croatia 3 procedures, 4, 5, have to be paid alone or if you are more than 38 years old. So let's get it off the agenda. In Austria, national security pays 4 procedures, Cyprus 1, Denmark 3, France 4, Ukraine 1, Slovenia 4 and Croatia will pay 6 procedures. There is no country in the European Union or in an environment that will pay more medically assisted fertilisation procedures than it is under this law and the amended HZZO rule after the adoption of this law than it will be in Croatia. Therefore, the Croatian Health Insurance Office will pay 6 procedures. So I will be connected to this and many European Union countries have limited ages from 38 to 40. So if we're going to talk about the more liberal side of that law, then we're going to say that under this law there's no limit to age for women when they can become mothers. The commission, which will be made up of gynecologists, psychologists and geneticists, will say whether a woman of a certain age, she can be 40, 43, 45, 55, yesterday we read it to me in the paper, one woman if I do not cheat 56 years ago was born yesterday, so by adopting this law Croatia will not limit the years as a factor that will be limiting whether a woman is allowed to artificial insemination and whether the Croatian Health Insurance Office will pay for the procedure. As regards donations in Austria, Germany, Sweden and Norway, the European Union, to which we are often called, we do not have a donation of both male and female sex stations. This law therefore allows the law to donate both male and female sex cells. Of the countries of the European Union and something extended with countries in the environment 29 is a legally regulated donation of a male sex station, four countries do not have and we have a donation of female sex cells in 23 countries and in 9 countries we do not have. I have to say that perhaps at the beginning, but since this first item of the agenda was ahod, I forgot to mention that, we all have to ask ourselves a question when we're talking about who this law is taking care of, whether it's just a woman, whether it's just a man, I haven't heard in these 15, 20 days' debate whether anyone is leading through this law to care about who can't take care of themselves. Who's not psychophysical about being able to take care of himself and that's a kid. Well, on the occasion of that, I must say that we have respected the opinion of many and NGOs and the Church that they are not afraid that anyone would think that I am afraid to say that we respected the Church as well as the Church's opinion, but also Rhoda and other NGOs. But I'm also going to tell you very openly that I may have been asked myself, maybe he'd be a little bit more restrictive, so I'm going to come back once again that this more liberal part is certainly due to the current Prime Minister, Mrs. Kosor. So when we went into the final bill of law, then we took great care of, and took care of the conventions, about the rights of the child, where he said, "When making all decisions and carrying out procedures affecting the child or children as a group, the most important must be the welfare of every child.". That we have aligned it with the Family Law also speaks of the Family Law: the child’s father is the mother’s husband if the child was born during the duration of the marriage or for 300 days from the day of the marriage. And even I will mention the Law on Discrimination of Discrimination, which says: "Extremely from paragraph 1 of this article is not considered discrimination to put in a more unfavourable position in the following cases and one of the cases is to favour pregnant women, children and not to list further. So, when we went to the final draft of this law, then we were very concerned and we respected the opinion of all the interested one more time, and there is no one in the 15 years who hasn't delivered it, of course I'm picking up the profession, there is no one in the 15 years who hasn't delivered his opinion. And you will agree with the shift, and most likely with the fact that there is no law that would be passed without anyone being dissatisfied. Clearly, the Government of the Republic of Croatia tried to make as few people in the Republic of Croatia unhappy with this law. As far as I'm concerned, I don't know whether it's liberalism or conservativeism, whether it's tradition or not, that a child after 18 years can if he wants to, if he finds out that a child who was born is a medically assisted insemination, and that's what the Convention on the Rights of the Child says he has the right to preserve and learn his identity. And if he finds out that he was born in a medically assisted insemination procedure after 18 years, and of course the law allows and if it is some hereditary disease, then we are obliged to regulate this law that, therefore, it is necessary to find out his biological father. And if a child finds out what's right after 18 years to find out who his biological father is. A adopted child, adopted after 18 years, can find out who his parents are. So these are some of the things that I'm going to call the liberal side of this law. I'll say it again. Come on, it's not liberalism. But 6 procedures where no country of the European Union and in the environment has a higher number of paid procedures. I will mention Austria, Cyprus, Denmark, France, Slovenia, Ukraine that have between 1 and 3 paid procedures. The donation of male and female sex cells, not to Austria, Germany, Sweden, Norway, is not to be counted further. Knowing about the biological father of a child after 18 years because we're holding the Convention on the Rights of a Child no one has the right to say after 18 years if they find out that the child was born by that procedure, you don't have the right to know who your biological father is. And so, we have the ability to store both male and female sex cells. We will now move on to a part that will likely cause more debate, and I am ready here to explain why we did not allow the freezing of embryos and why this law does not provide for the medically assisted fertilisation of the marriage community. - It's a cover-up. - It's a cover-up. For me, for the Government of the Republic of Croatia, where this law was unanimously adopted, the embryo means a human being, and even according to the SDP proposal proposed here in the Croatian Parliament, it is said after 5 years that the death of the embryos is allowed. This law does not accept and does not allow dying, because for us it is a form of euthanasia. So that's why you don't freeze the plugs. It's a human being for us, a human life, and that's why we've decided, part of it, that we won't allow the freezing of mattresses and storage for a period of five years. And after the law proposed by the SDP, we allow the death of the embryos. It is often mentioned that in Italy, their Law on artificial insemination fell in the Constitutional Court. Yeah, I know that. But we didn't allow the possibility of freezing the mattresses. In case we have a embryo today that we need to transfer to the woman's body tomorrow, so the next day, that woman gets flu, temperature, are not optimal conditions created to make it more likely to develop or bleed. And in that case, that's why the law in Italy fell in the Constitutional Court because they wouldn't allow it. So, conditionally, we allow the freezing, freezing of the mattresses but only in that part if that moment came an unfavourable period, a disease or some other circumstances of a woman, that it would not be optimal to transfer that embryo. In that case, we allow for the freezing of the mattresses. And when a woman is at an optimal stage to transfer that burden that these three embryos are being transferred. Why else, survival allows storage of both male and female egg cells. The survival of egg cells after defrosting is 65%. And what is often unargumentedly discussed in the Croatian public, and I will now read you the relevant information. Frozen embryo after defrosting, now I ask you to hear and understand this well. So the frozen embryo after defrosting has a chance to develop further 15 to 18%. We're not letting you say we're freezing the mattresses. But let's just let the law make it possible. After three years of defrosting, the chance of him implanting is 15 to 18%. It therefore becomes expert opinions and relevant experts from them and I got this information and it is not to reject that I am also a gynecologist. I don't do the subject, though, but I do know something about it. Now look at the other thing we allow? Freeze men's sex cells and freeze women's sex cells. Well, after a year, we unfreeze those two cells, we get a setup. This embryo has a chance to develop further is 14 to 15% I'm going to go back to the beginning, so this embryo that's frozen as a embryo has a chance of 15 to 18%, and this embryo that's possible to get with this legal regulation has a chance of 15%. So the difference is 3 to 4%. In order for this law to write and what, we allow after 5 years of death of the embryos, for us it is unacceptable, for me and personally if you want it to be unacceptable that 3% of the difference is then 10 and 15 and therefore we decided not to regulate with this law, or to allow the freezing and storage of the mattresses for a long period of time. One more thing that has caused a lot of doubt is a lot of debate, therefore, and not medically assisted insemination in the extramarital community. So then we said the Constitutional Court would abolish it, so we talked to these legal experts saying that the marriage and the extramarital community is equal to the family law with the marriage community. So once again, I will point out from the beginning, i.e. the introduction to this law, that the father of the child is the mother’s husband when the child was born into marriage. That's what the Family Law says, not in the extramarital community, but in marriage or 300 days since the divorce. Faculty of Law of the University of Zagreb, Department of Family Law, Honored Professor Dubravka Hrabar, the extramarital community is married in family legislation only in the effect of mutual support of extramarital comrades and the arrangement of property relations. For all other situations, especially those related to parental care, there are special rules. So it is not in the Family Law in all rights equal to the marriage and extramarital community. Perhaps the best example, in the extramarital community there is therefore no medically assisted fertilisation, in Italy, Malta, Czech Republic, Ukraine, Germany, Belgium, Switzerland, Poland and some other countries. In these countries, there is no possibility of an extramarital community of medically assisted insemination. I'll tell you about a conversation with a lady who lives in an extramarital community. Well, Minister, I've lived in an out-of-marriage community for six years, and we can't have children, and under this law, I wouldn't have the right to medically assisted insemination. Tell me why. I said it very simply, and I dare say it here and if we're going to talk about the discrimination of the extramarital community, so why do I mention only women, we can also mention men. So, I'm saying that your friend isn't ready to say fatefully to the parent, share for me, just a little bit, so I'm gonna let you finish, in front of the parent say yes. Yeah, yeah. To tell the mother that, or more important to me, I will share before God for good and for evil, and I will swear in faithfulness, good and evil, health and sickness, and I will love you, and I will honor you in all the days of my life. Yeah. It's more important for me to say it in church. But it's equally legal in the motherland, and we know it. Now I've asked a question like this. We will enable either a man or a woman to say that I will not live with you and share good and evil with you all my life, and I am ready to take care of the child. So when I told you at the beginning of this story that this law in some way protects an unborn child or a later-born child that we are legally not creating an informal community that is according to all the rules, let's let me call it colaquetically, a looser than a marriage community. Or, on the other hand, evidence that the extramarital community in all its parts is even with the marriage community tells us that you can't gain citizenship if you live with someone in an extramarital community of 10, 15, 20, 30, 50 or already I don't know how many years. You cannot gain citizenship on this basis, and if you live in a marriage community, you can gain that citizenship. So this is one proof that the extramarital community and the marriage community are not even. So if we can protect the interests of the state that an extramarital community or the status of an extramarital community cannot acquire the citizenship of a single state, but you can do so among other marriages, then I think the Convention on the Rights of the Child requires us to protect the child's position tomorrow, which, once again, is not psychologically capable of taking care of ourselves. So, of course, I've already opened up here a few things that, I'm almost convinced, are going to be a very harsh debate. I note once again that this law is more liberal in some parts of it than many European Union countries, and I do not see that this law is more conservative than many European Union countries and their environments. And that is why I am convinced that most people in the Republic of Croatia, citizens support this law. I think we are with him and we have tried to please him, under quotes, "interests of various groups", but once again, I am convinced or I am almost convinced that this law, that it will do some sort of survey, will support most of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-08-0.u36055	Thank you. And now we have one, two, three, four, five, six corrections of incorrect allegations. Well, let's take it in a row. First is the distinguished representative Milanka Opačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-08-0.u36056	I'm correcting Mr. Secretary's incorrect claim that adopted children at the age of 18 have the right to gain insight into the documentation and knowledge of who their biological parents are. It's only partly true, Mr. Minister, that it's one provision that remains a dead letter on paper. Most of the children adopted unfortunately don't have a registered father, they don't know who their father is. So if you were watching Robert Zuber's story, then you saw that a man's been looking for any knowledge of his biological father for years. He couldn't get it. Therefore, most adopted children are entitled to paper. It really doesn't exist.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-08-0.u36057	Thank you. Let's move on with the corrections. Dear Representative Ingrid Antičević Marinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-08-0.u36058	It is incorrect, among other things, that Mr. Minister, I quote, that they have respected all the remarks of the Roda Association. The Roda Association sent a letter to all MPs, and among other things, they say in this letter to raise their hands for this law means to give a voice for the far most restrictive law on medically assisted insemination in Europe, which, compared to the current state, will at least half reduce the prospects for conception for all persons with infertility, and also deny some parenting, with the health of women.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-08-0.u36059	Thank you. Don't throw it away. You've come to the turn. Dear Representative Igor Dragovan. Here you go, correcting an incorrect quote.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-08-0.u36060	Mr. Minister said, I don't know why he mentioned the SDP bill's proposal, that the SDP bill said that after 5 years, the embryo dies. That's not an exact quote. In the SDP bill last November, the ruling majority said what they thought, with the promise of the same ministry and the secretary of state for the speaker that the bill would come in about 10 days. The bill came after six months and better not have come.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-08-0.u36061	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegation, distinguished representative Miranda Mrsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-08-0.u36062	The Honorable Minister spoke of the survival of the egg cells, and he forgot that from the egg cells that have been frozen in 1% can achieve successful fertilisation and develop the embryo. So that's an incorrect allegation. The profession states that on many occasions. And on the other hand, fertilization with such a fertilized egg cell is the same as the embryo that was returned to the womb of the woman. Therefore, it is not true that survival of egg cells is 65%, a parallel may be withdrawn that 65% is possible insemination. All 1% is possible fertilisation from a frozen egg cell.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-08-0.u36063	Thank you. And now it is time to correct the incorrect allegations of the distinguished representative Marija Lugaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-08-0.u36064	The imprecise statement by the minister that, according to the Family Law, motherhood and paternity can be justified exclusively according to the marriage community, which was used as an argument that the extramarital community should not be classified as one of the criteria for the medically assisted fertilisation procedures. In this regard, the family law of Article 3 of the Introductory Provisions refers to what the extramarital community applies. The extramarital community is defined in the Family Law and has a significantly different treatment if a child is born in an extramarital community, which implies that the provisions of motherhood and paternity can be applied in that sense and must also apply to an extramarital community, which is also in accordance with the Law on the Prohibition of Discrimination, which prohibits discrimination on any basis, and then also on the basis of marital status.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-08-0.u36065	Thank you. And distinguished representative Romana Jerkovic, correction of the incorrect allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-08-0.u36066	The Honorable Minister said this law protects unborn children, which is absolutely not true. I don't know which way. By not letting it freeze. But you can't even agree on that. At one point, you allowed it, and in another, you didn't. I am responsible for telling you that this law does not prevent abuses, and I will also elaborate that in my debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-08-0.u36067	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? Yeah. Let's take it in a row. Let's see what it is. Dear Representative Mimica on behalf of the Committee, and Vice-President of the House, on behalf of the Committee on European Integration. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-08-0.u36068	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. At its 34th session, the Croatian Parliament's Committee on European Integration discussed this bill to the president by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The Committee discussed this legislative proposal as an interested working body. In the debate, individual committee members also made the following comments and opinions. First. The proposed law does not comply with the legal acquis of the European Union, i.e. the Convention on the Protection of Human Rights and the Dignity of a Human Being as regards the application of biology and medicine. The right to medical insemination, i.e. the right to treatment infertility, is fundamental to human law, and the bill of law discriminates and restricts the availability of that right to certain persons, depending on marital status. Secondly, the opinion was also made that the adoption of the law by emergency procedure is not necessary, given the dynamics of the negotiation process and the harmonisation with the acquis of the European Union, and two readings would contribute significantly to the greater quality of the legal solutions. The Committee on European Integrations, following the debate on the Proposal for a Law on Medical Insemination, did not take a position because the opinions of the Committee members on its compliance with the acquis of the European Union, 4 votes were against and 4 against. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-08-0.u36069	Thank you. Next came the Committee on Gender Equality, the distinguished representative of Gordana Sobol. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-08-0.u36070	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Minister with associates, colleagues and colleagues. At the 21st session of June 23rd, the Committee on Gender Equality of the Croatian Parliament discussed the proposal for a Law on Medical Insemination with the final proposal of the law and as an interested working body. In the opening statement, the applicant's representative stated the reasons for the adoption of this law. In the Republic of Croatia, medical insemination is legally regulated by the Law on Health Measures for the free birth of children from 1978. The proposed Law on Medical Insemination regulates assumptions for the exercise of the right to medical insemination, determines the types of proceedings, and the rights, obligations and responsibilities of the participants in these proceedings. The procedures for medical fertilisation to be carried out in order to achieve conception according to the requirements of modern medical science and this law, according to the proposal by the Republic of Croatia, harmonizes its legislation with the legal acquis of the European Union. On that proposal, the Committee on Gender Equality held written remarks by the Ombudsman for Gender Equality, as well as the parents' association in the action "Roda". In the discussion followed by the members of the Committee, they made their comments on the proposed legislative solutions. An objection to the provision of Article 6 under which only a man and woman who are married are entitled to medical insemination, since the Law on Gender Equality, which is an organic law, explicitly prohibits discrimination on the basis of marital or family status. It is. It is. The most reluctance has caused the inability to freeze or store embryos, while the possibility of storage of sex cells is being questioned in view of the lack of equipment of laboratories in the Republic of Croatia. It also raises the objection to restricting fertilisation to up to three egg cells in one procedure, and the question is what will be done with fertilised and not used in egg cells. Furthermore, an objection has been made about the inability to obtain information about the authors of this bill, and it has been criticised that the proposed law is more conservative than the draft law of 2004. According to the board member, the draft law in the introduction lacks an explanation that there is sterility, and it causes a lot of ethical, medical, moral, religious issues. It is argued that the proposed provisions exclude a large part of the population from the possibility of parenting. It has been warned of the harmfulness of frequent hormonal stimulation of women who often lead to severe illnesses, which could be reduced by allowing the freezing process of the embryo. There was also an objection to the very name of the law, and it is suggested that a better name would be the Law on medically assisted fertilisation of a certain member of the Committee, however, raised their moral and ethical doubts regarding the freezing of the embryo. Since conception is considered the beginning of life and for these reasons support the law. Concern has also been raised over the possibility of misuse of frozen embryos. The applicant's representative further explained the proposal. The Department of Family Law of the Faculty of Law gave the ministry the opinion that the marriage of the extramarital community was not even as visible in a series of laws. Furthermore, the bill cannot be called conservative since it brings some important newspapers. Then the bill did not specify the highest age, but was left with the expertise to determine whether a woman of age was suitable for birth, and the information was provided that world experts today favour the storage of egg cells rather than the storage of embryos. According to the applicant's claims, the possibility of manipulation of this bill is reduced to a minimum and the child's right to be put first, and the child who was born after medical insemination of a donated semen cell or a donated ovary, after his adulthood acquires the right to gain insight into the entry of data on conception and donors. President of Gordana Slobol pursuant to Article 51. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament set out an opinion which is deeply opposed to the adoption of such a bill, since it contains discriminatory provisions which are contrary to the Law on Gender Equality and the Law on Discrimination of Discrimination of Discrimination, as it restricts a certain type of medical assistance in view of the marital situation and the implementation of certain medical procedures is harmful to the health of a woman and is contrary to the right of availability of procedures which are least harmful to their health. After the debate was held, members and members of the board mostly voted 7 for and 7 against proposed to the Parliament to pass the Law on Medical Insemination.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-08-0.u36071	Thank you. We now have a Committee on Health and Social Care. Honorable representative of Andrija Hebrang, chairman of the board. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-08-0.u36072	Thank you very much. Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, representatives of the ministry. The Health and Social Care Committee discussed this law as a parent body. The opening argument was tabled by the applicant's representative. The general debate, which followed, pointed out that there are legal provisions that encourage different reflections on the worldview and open a series of ethical and moral issues. The provisions of the applicable law relating to medical insemination are over 30 years old. In today's European Union, there are different approaches and solutions to these problems related to medical fertilisation. Thus, in 19 European Union countries, the donation of an egg cell is prohibited or not regulated at all. In 23 countries, co-administration of egg cells and sperm is prohibited or not regulated. There are equally different solutions to the anonymity of donors, so in some countries, the secrecy of the identity of Austria, Sweden, Switzerland is respected until, on the contrary, in some other countries, it is not regulated, that is, there is no obligation to the confidentiality of the identity of the donor of the sex cells provided by law. This law regulates the supervision and control of the entire system of medical insemination. The sale and advertising of donations by sex cells are prohibited, a positive step is a ban, so-called "no". Surogate of motherhood, as well as receiving both sex cells at the same time. The law allows for the implementation of... insemination, which is, however, prohibited in some European Union countries. It is allowed to donate an egg cell which is also prohibited in some European countries, e.g. Germany, Sweden, Austria, Norway. The doubts in the debate sparked a provision of a law on the ban on cryopreservation of the plot. The key question and the fundamental reason for thinking about the proposed legal solution is the question, is the embryo of a living being a relative man? Science has discovered the entire genomic structure of the embryo in recent years. Including the exact hereditary structure of the information in the nucleic acids of the embryo. Thus, the embryo is also biological, not just a spirit - determined living creature. The freezing or subsequent destruction of the embryo if the embryo is no longer required is not compatible with the fundamental ethical principles. The debate also expressed different opinions to allow for the freezing of embryos in order to repeat the fertilisation procedure in the event of its failure. The Committee prevailed in the view that it is sufficient that the law allows for the freezing of egg cells, since the improvement of the medical fertilisation process can increase the likelihood of successful conceptions and without freezing the embryo. In the opinion of most board members, good solutions and a significant step are the possibility of starting a donated seed cell, a donated egg cell, as well as heterologous fertilisation. The law does not limit the age of a woman who is infertile to medicine, and the Croatian Institute of Health Insurance will pay more attempts at medical insemination than ever before. The agreement was reached in the debate on a well-developed control and control system and the implementation of the whole procedure. This primarily refers to the provision of the authorisation of medical institutions to carry out medical insemination, to establish a national commission for medical fertilisation, and to establish a national registry on medical fertilisation. With this supervision and a high standard of informing marriage partners about all the risks of fertilisation, this law represents a significant and quality step in the legislation that now exists in the Republic of Croatia. Giving the possibility of a child born after artificial insemination to learn about conception and donors after adulthood is also his right to know who his biological parents are in accordance with the Convention on the Rights of the Child whose signature is the Republic of Croatia. In the same way, children who have been adopted have that possibility. However, attention has also been drawn to the question of whether the right may need to be secured before the child’s adulthood, as following the current decision of younger parenthood, it can be ruled out at the risk of a close relationship between parents due to lack of recognition of ancestors. After an extensive debate, the board members decided to propose to the Croatian Assembly, mostly with two abstentions, to adopt the Law on Medical Insemination, by submitting the seven amendments you have on your benches and adopted by majority of the votes on the board. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-08-0.u36073	Thank you. I would just like to say that the distinguished representative of Gordana Sobol, president of the Committee on Gender Equality, said 7:5 is in the vote for, so it wouldn't be wrong in the record. Do the boards want to take a word? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. First it's the clubs. On behalf of the SDP club, the esteemed representative Miranda Mrsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-08-0.u36074	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President. First of all, I am pleased that the minister has respected the change in the title of the law because the Law on Medical Insemination does not mean anything, when you translate into English means Medical Vertility, no one knows what it means, so I hope that the title of the law will change because the minister has been talking all the time about medically assisted insemination. However, the law itself is harmful to women's health and will cause an even greater inaccessibility of this method in Croatia which we are aware of in recent times is extremely inaccessible because in 1999 alone in Petrovo we had 2,000 procedures and now in all of Croatia we have less than a thousand and a half. Not to mention that in some centres that used to be, the centres in which these procedures were done are no longer available, for example, Split, which is now trying to return to those bright days as it used to be. Infertility affects over 15% of couples in Croatia and is a serious health problem. Infertility should be declared a disease. The World Health Organization, the European Union believes that infertility is a disease and needs to be treated and therefore this law must answer the question of how and how to treat the disease and when we treat the disease, then we need to apply the best methods in the world that exist. We doctors, when we finished medical school, we swore "receive non-nights," that means "never harm a patient." This law, the application of this law will definitely damage women's health if adopted in this form. But before I say anything more about the law, let's go from some facts. We're based on facts and not on the words. In the first row in Croatia, 15 thousand children were born with this method and in Europe, believe more than 3 million people. Were those 3 million people supposed to be born? Yes, because their parents and medicine wanted it and medicine made it possible. How's Croatia? In Croatia, we are aware of the depopulations. Croatia will be less half in 50 years than it is. Let me just say that not so far from the year, a year after I was born in Croatia, more than 67,000 children were born. Croatia was smaller then. About 40,000 children were born in Croatia last year. However, it is not only a feature of Croatia, it is also a feature of Europe as a whole. Europe itself is extinct. For example, in France, the rate of growth was 960 in 2.9 and 2004. One, nine. Croatia definitely does not deviate from the average. Europe recognised this and adopted a directive on demographic recovery in which a medically assisted fertilisation of one of the pillars of demographic reconstruction of Europe is said to bring this method closer to all those who need it and that it should be made available to all regardless of the material situation. When we talk about Croatia, then I must say that we were the 7th country in the world to apply this method. Robert Veriga is now 25, 26 years old. He shouldn't have been born to have this method. This law will allow a lot of Robert Verig to never be born again. In 1992, we were the 25th country in a world where the transfer of the previously frozen embryo that we are about to discuss here today. So, about 17 years ago, 18 years ago, and we now forbid it. In 1994, we were the 33rd country in the world where the micro-injection was carried out and in 1998 we were the 20th country in the world where the transfer of blastocyst was made. Croatia has always been the leading country in the area and this law will definitely make us a country that will not be able to make any moves in this area. Definitely, this law will bring great damage to Croatia, its population, and especially to couples who need medical help in order to achieve their desire to have a child. This solution will reverse the success of medically assisted insemination in Croatia, and couples who face infertility will seek help at another foreign centre. Before I move to the very text of the law, I will quote Professor Velimir Simunić, one of the pioneers in this area who said this a few weeks ago, quote: "If he insists on banning the freezing of embryos, the success of medical insemination will be reduced by ten percent, the whole activity will be rerouted and most couples will be forced abroad. This bill was proposed in Italy and Germany, causing an exodus of couples in neighbouring countries.". Is that what we want? Do we want our couples, our citizens go looking for medical help in the world and have experts and equipment and techniques, and experience in Croatia. One of the reasons why this law is passed, why it is so restrictive is that in the 1978 law we have no regulated fertilization with donated ova and donated sperm, male sex cells. However, there is not a single sperm bank in Croatia for five years. Therefore, there is no way of getting married between a brother and a sister, because simply in Croatia and back 5 or 10 years, this method was no longer working because the sperm banks simply died. Every year, according to the evaluations of the medical profession, about a thousand women with or without a partner cannot start on a natural path and leave Croatia abroad to become pregnant. It's about 50 couples a month, over a thousand couples a year. But it's not just that. The problem is, it's all a big payoff. For example, in the General Hospital in Maribor, a medically assisted fertilisation procedure costs 20 thousand kuna. As you know, the success of the method is 25-30%, so some couples need to and more times submit to this procedure, leading to a figure of over 100,000 kunas that some couples must single out. However, these are people, or couples, who want to have children. They're gonna sell the house and everything they have just to get that wanted child. We make it impossible for them by this law. To donate seeds, 500 needs to be allocated, and for an egg station in Prague as much as 3 and a half thousand euros, so one large sum our citizens do not have, but again I say they will sell both the house and the field and the car, all they will sell is that they have that desired child. We're making it impossible for both of us to say something about this law later. We are from year to year further away from Europe, not only do we not enter when we say we will, so we will enter who knows when, but we are also in this area far from Europe. So, for example, it confirms the European Federation's report on human reproduction and embryology, which placed Croatia with only 1.3% of children born with this method at the bottom of a 15-nation scale. In the first place are the Danes, and in the second Slovenians. Let me just say that the man who runs the Slovenian centre in Maribor is the man who taught this method in Croatia. This means that we will simply end this law and that part of our centers to be human waste, but we will have to import human beings from the world. If such a law is passed, Croatia will be the only country in Europe that will prevent the application of this method to all those who need it. And when we say in the law itself, at first I said that the minister also went the other way and he talks about medically assisted fertilization, we plead to change the title of the law because it's a title that corresponds to the true state of things. What's wrong with the law, I'll look back on only three things. First, it's an out-of-marriage and marriage community. In Croatia, it is equally legal and it is practically impossible for someone living in an extramarital community, who does not have that piece of paper, to sign that they live in a marriage community, to not be able to submit to this method. But I ask the question of what will happen if colleagues who work medically assisted insemination simply don't ask if you are married or not, the whole of Europe is doing it. When a couple come to their doctor who will do all this work, no one asks whether you are married or not. What will happen when it is done in Croatia and it is proved that someone is in the extramarital community? Are we gonna lock him up? Are we going to convict him? Punishment? And what are we going to do with their child being born by this procedure? Are we going to punish that child too? Therefore, I think and plead that this article of the law that is definitely unconstitutional is deleted and allows all those who wish to submit to this procedure, regardless of whether in the marriage or out of wedlock community. The biggest problem with this law is the freezing of mattresses. To get back to medicine, there are medics I'm pleading to again that we all swore to the admission of non-nightshare, first it doesn't hurt, and then it heals, and infertility is a disease. As everyone knows, the freezing of embryos has allowed genetic material not to be discarded, but to reopen 20% of the chance of pregnancy in a repeated false transfer. In other words, with one ovulation induction procedure that is an expensive and painful way for a woman, I have friends who have gone through this method. For a male part of the pair, the induction procedure itself is as traumatic as for a woman. For a woman, she is traumatic because high doses of hormone are used, but her partner is also tormented because he must support his wife or partner in his process where moods and events change. Is that what we want a couple to go through more times than let them pass once? I have an example that some of my friends gave it up because they just couldn't psychologically withstand the process of going through hormonal induction alone. And with this law, we simply return people, or couples, to that path again. Here I would remind you that in nature you buy a lot more ova and embryos than during artificial fertilisation, so only 30 children are born in nature from 100 egg cells, and in extra-body fertilisation from the same number of ova you get 60 to 70 embryos that give you a high chance of being pregnant in freezing. The success of medical fertilisation in Croatia today is 28%, and the application of this law will drop by 10% and less. The legal solutions offered will reverse the medical fertilisation in Croatia, and in this we were pioneers, among the most advanced in Europe. It's said to be a problem in destroying the embryos. In this law it is allowed that the embryo can be frozen if it is in the interest of women. And the minister said no death of the embryos was allowed. What happens if something happens to a woman and dies? The cover's frozen. What are we gonna do? What are we gonna do with that cover? We'll keep it forever, we'll unfreeze it, we won't unfreeze it. It is, therefore, hypocritical to say that the freezing of embryos is allowed in the case of and the interest of the woman. That's what Germany had, that in the interest of a woman was allowed to freeze the mattresses. And in Germany, 95% of the embryos are frozen in the interest of the woman. Italy gave up on it. So let's think about it. On the other hand, freezing egg cells, experimental method, is not the first choice in treating infertility. Everywhere in the world, the freezing of mattresses is the first method of choice, and just to say that the freezing of egg cells in Croatia will collect the method by 500%, that it will be necessary to get new equipment, and that the chance to freeze the egg cells to reach fertilisation is 1%. And the third one that is hypocritical, because the law also offers the possibility that makes itself impossible. I'm going. [[Go to the end. Time.]] It makes it impossible for a child to know his biological father. There will simply be no more banks of sperm and then those children will not be born, and as they will not be born then they will not be able to use this right. For all this reason, the SDP cannot and will not support this bill.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-08-0.u36075	Thank you very much. We have four corrections of incorrect allegations. The first is the honourable representative Ivan Bagarić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-08-0.u36076	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, my colleague Mrsic promised not to speak out loud, and that's exactly what he did, and he didn't make any arguments in favour of his claims, so I would correct some of them. He said this law is harmful to women's health. No one can prove by anything that this is harmful to the health of a woman, neither are you an expert in this field nor am I. There's no expert in that field. This is a matter of attitude and conviction. Therefore, there is no evidence that this law is harmful to the health of a woman. However, if you ask me, it might be a little less damaging if it were even more conservative. That's my belief. You say infertility is a disease. Well, I couldn't agree more, but every disease has its own prevention. Therefore, it is not a solution to what you have said, but to the conduct of prevention of infertility. Therefore, it is not a matter of preventing this type of disease in this law, but of other documents and acts, the way of life.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-08-0.u36077	Time. Thank you. Time. Dear representative Carmela Caparin.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-08-0.u36078	Thank you very much. Here I would refer to a colleague who read from this law that this law is harmful to the health of a woman, which is completely incorrect. In fact, it's exactly the opposite. This law allows for less hormonal stimulation than would be done in view of the embryo. So you yourself know what hormonal stimulation means to a woman. The second is incorrect that this law will not be born many Roberts. How many children will be born will be decided by the dear God himself. But you heard from Mr. Secretary's exposure that 60% is survival of the egg cells, and after freezing, there's only a chance of 15 to 18%.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-08-0.u36079	Thank you. Now it is up to the honourable representative, Nedjeljko Strikic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-08-0.u36080	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. At the beginning of his talk, the esteemed representative said that we could talk about this law, that infertility should be declared a disease. Obviously, the advocate did not read the law, so Article 3 says: “Medical fertilization is a procedure that is carried out when the treatment of infertility is ineffective.” To treat something is obviously a disease. All infertility treatment procedures are carried by the Croatian Health Insurance Institute and are treated as any other disease. And that is why infertility has obviously long, long been recognised in the Republic of Croatia as a disease and something that needs to be treated and treated. So it's really incorrect information.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-08-0.u36081	Thank you. And the correction of an incorrect allegation, the esteemed representative Mariana Petir. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-08-0.u36082	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary. A colleague, Mrsic, pointed out in his statement that the marriage and the extramarital community had been leveled by law. That's not true. So it doesn't say in the Family Law either, but based on the demands of the organizations that have come to us we've also asked for interpretation of the Law Faculty and I'll quote. In the family legislation, the extramarital community is equal to marriage only in the effect of the duty of mutual support of extramarital comrades and the arrangement of property relations. For all other situations, especially those related to parental care, its origin, i.e. the birth of a child and the establishment of its origin by adoption there are specific rules. Such an extramarital friend, i.e. the father of his fathership to an extramarital child may recognize or establish a judicial course unlike the premarital fatherhood. In addition, only mates can adopt a child together, and a person who is not married is only exceptional if it is of particular benefit to the child. These reasons are comparable to preventing the aided fertilisation of extramarital mates, because the extramarital community is an informal community, which means there is no evidence of its existence. And that fact of her informality is her key feature. The end of the quote. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-08-0.u36083	Please don't throw it out of the bench. Let's let everyone have an opinion. Dear Representative Vidovic, don't throw it away. And you'll get your turn. Now on behalf of the HSLS/HSU club, e pardon. On behalf of the promoter, esteemed Darko Milinovic, Minister of Health and Social Care. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-08-0.u36084	Just a few words. The World Health Organization declared infertility to be a disease and Croatia, but the Law on Medical Insemination and Procedures does not cure infertile marriage. 'Cause come on, we're gonna say that the woman's infertile because she's got a clogged or there's no eggnog. So she's having a baby with a medical insemination. She's infertile again in the future. And so this is not a treatment procedure, and this is not a treatment, but a procedure that allows infertile marriages to have children. Austria, for example, does not recognize infertility as a disease. I don't know if you knew, but it surprised me, too. Austria does not admit that infertility is a disease. You said in your debate that those who cannot have, unfortunately cannot have children would sell and do and give anything to have that sense of parenting. I agree with you and that is why it was, it was one of the motives that although we are not the richest country in Europe tomorrow in the European Union or in the environment, we are paying, or the State Health Insurance Office pays six procedures. Not a single country. It's because you said that some are ready for anything, and it costs most of the medical insemination. That's why we've been taking this fact to make Croatia be, let's say the leader as much as the state's insurance pays for the medical fertilization procedure. Mr. Dragovan corrected my incorrect claim and said that in the SDP proposal to allow the embryo to die, it doesn't exist, so I'll read it to you. During the deadlines set out in paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Article, semen cells and non-fertilised egg cells should be destroyed and the early embryo released to die. So if you're correcting an incorrect quote, take the law that you've drawn up, take the law that you represented in the House and have the right to do so, and I have the right to do so, or to be against it. So, an early embryo lets him die. Mrs. Anticevic said that I accepted and that we accepted all the remarks. No, of course not. Because if we had accepted all the objections, then I don't know, and homosexual marriages have the right to medical insemination, surrogate motherhood, and this law doesn't allow it. And Mrs. Romana Jerkovic a little for, a little against freezing. No, I've told you in what situation to freeze, but except for these catastrophic situations which is a respected representative, your colleague said what to make your mother die. Well, God forbid, you drop on a Croatian atomic bomb. Then that's what I can say. Then why do we need all the laws? So we're not making the law to make one catastrophic situation is and that's what I've been thinking about. It can happen that we've got three plots and God forbid what happens to your mother. But such a catastrophic situation and in a legal provision to mention it, I don't think it makes any sense at all. Mr Mimica, I must tell you that the European Commission has been positively obvious about this law. I mean, I'm surprised you don't know that because you said that... The European Commission has shown itself positively about this law because the European Union does not determine how a country will regulate its rights, but rather determines a minimum system of control of sex-cell manipulation. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] And the extramarital community, I'm going to come back once more because someone mentioned, the extramarital community has been suggested that the extramarital community, how do we prove the extramarital union? In an out-of-party procedure. So, you get court papers that you're in an extramarital community. That's the same piece of paper you get at the Mothermaker's. So, I'm prepared as an extramarital community to prove in court that I'm with someone in the extramarital community, and I'm not ready to say for 15 kuna one that in the motherhood. So the extramarital community, someone mentioned it, so that's why I'm here. And finally, while you were at it, I thought I wouldn't mention Professor Simunic, the man who taught me gynecology, to whom I am grateful, so you read something from the papers, and I'll read his letter to me when I told him to help me draw up this law, so when you mentioned it, I guess Professor Simunic, my friend and my teacher will forgive me. In conclusion, Mr. Minister, I think the bill is long-awaited and correct, you show the determination and desire for the progress of our health care that delights me. I congratulate you from your heart, and I want you to endure. Think about my comments and suggestions, maybe there's still time and will to get involved, and they certainly won't change your attitude a bit, and our attitude that life begins with fertilization. I even think gamers are life. So, some of Professor Simunić's suggestions, I, of course, included in this law. Many have asked what commission did this law do? As I said, the law, or reform law on the Ministry of Health, was done by the Ministry of Health because we have a sufficient number of people who know the issue and who can pass or actually propose the law. Also, this law was done by the Ministry of Health and People who work at the Ministry of Health. And when you mention the methods of freezing embryos and egg cells, then I have to tell you that the freezing of egg cells is much older, or 23 years in Europe and the world freezes the egg cells and traps much, much, much, much shorter. And Madam Reverend Opačić, the gentleman you mentioned was not adopted, but adopted, and that is the difference between what I was saying and what you were saying.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-08-0.u36085	Thank you. And now we have several corrections of incorrect allegations. The first is Honorable Representative Miranda Mrsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-08-0.u36086	The Honorable Mr. Minister is talking about the SDP bill. The SDP bill's proposal was fair and the bill was correct. I'm asking you what formulation you're going to take at the moment you have the frozen embryo of the woman who died? What form are you going to take? What are you going to do with that cover?
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-08-0.u36087	Thank you. Dear Representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović, correction of the incorrect allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-08-0.u36088	You say, Mr. Minister, when he spoke to his colleague Mrsic on behalf of the club, that he only advocates or calls and talks about some kind of disaster. Just running away from problems or seeing reality on many issues has led us to disaster. The World Health Organisation warns Croatia, Mr. Minister, that in 50 years, they have warned this already 4 years ago, so in 46 years, the number of Croats, or Croatian citizens, will be halved. So every way must be... about that, obviously, it has nothing to do with that. ... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Everybody! [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-08-0.u36089	Thank you. Dear Representative Mirjana Ferić-Vac. Here you go, correcting an incorrect quote.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-08-0.u36090	Mr. Minister said that in Austria infertility was not declared a disease. Well, in hundreds of countries, it may not have been declared, but the World Health Organization has declared it a disease. Does that mean, Mr. Minister, that you will select patients and patients on principle...
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-08-0.u36091	Please, what are you correcting?
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-08-0.u36092	The correction is an incorrect assumption that you take the right to one law, for example, say that tomorrow you will deny someone insulin because they will not... [[The speakers speak in the same voice, of course.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-08-0.u36093	Thank you very much, that's not a correction to the incorrect assumption.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-08-0.u36094	... You're a doctor and I'm interested as a future patient in answering such a question on behalf of other patients. [[The speakers speak in the same voice, of course.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-08-0.u36095	It's not a correction to an incorrect quote, and I'm asking you not to report what's not a correction to an incorrect quote. Don't make us fight. And now she's a respected representative of Milanka Opačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-08-0.u36096	So I am correcting Mr. Minister's incorrect allegations that Professor Simunic has given him support for this law. While you are using it, then you must say that Professor Simunić has warned you of certain things, so he said to you, quote: "It seems to me that there is a need for the existence of a marriage community to treat infertility... in a conflict with other laws and such a provision would direct many to treatment abroad." As he warned you among others and the following: "if you get in... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Allow fertilisation of only 3 egg cells, while the rest should be frozen without the possibility of freezing the mattresses we expect difficulties and weaker results." That's the attitude of the profession. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-08-0.u36097	Thank you. Please, Your Honor, Mr. Bagaric. Dear Representative Bagarić, we can't all talk at the same time, you can't hear anything. And now it's the honourable representative Igor Dragovan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-08-0.u36098	When you called on Professor... Then you should have called on everything he wrote and not just him, but a good part of the profession that wasn't consulted. And my correction is in that direction that it is not only in the letter he wrote to you, but also pointed to the serious lack of law that you propose in this House. Well, for example, where it mentions that the freezing of egg cells is complex and expensive, but it also suggests that one embryo and now allowed wrong storage, which shows that the freezing of embryos is an important thing, that 15 to 18% more chance of pregnancy.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-08-0.u36099	Thank you. Please be peace and order. There's a way to get a word out, and I'm not gonna let anything else happen. And secondly, when correcting incorrect allegations to say exactly what is being corrected. And now let's move on, dear representative Antun Korushec, on behalf of HSLS, HSU. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-08-0.u36100	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Parliament, Your Honor, Mr. Minister with his associates. Allow me on behalf of the HSLS Club, respected colleagues and colleagues, on behalf of the HSLS and HSU Club, regardless of what is said here, to the contrary and in fact the diametrically opposite attitudes to the end, I say correctly the position of the HSLS and HSU Representatives Club. And right away, I want to say a few findings. We agree that the development of medical science and technology has enabled the use of new, significantly more perfect and demanding forms of medical assistance in the treatment of infertility which is not currently followed by the relevant legislation in Croatia. In the Republic of Croatia, medical fertilisation is legally regulated by the Law on Health Measures for the Free Decision on the birth of children from 1978. The need to bring national legislation into line with the legal acquis of the European Union, as well as Croatia's consistency in respect of the Convention on the Protection of Human Rights and Dignity of Human Beings with regard to the application of biology and medicine, requires and requires the adoption of a new Law on Medical Insemination. The club of HSLS and HSU representatives welcomes this initiative to draft a new law, but I must immediately say that this law in the proposed form of our club of representatives will not support it. This law, respected colleagues and colleagues, to this extent has sensitized the professional, political and overall Croatian public, that we must all have the necessary desire and will and determination together, to look at and consider the proposed solutions, but also new proposals and critical considerations, in order to really pass a law that, with the right of medical insemination, will clearly regulate the rights, obligations and responsibilities of all participants in the process of medical insemination, and indeed only with one goal, which is to ensure the right to offspring. It seems to me like it's started, if we're here no matter how loudly we speak, and we stay behind our views behind our buses, and you don't want to hear the other one say something, that we can pass the law, but that it won't be good and that it won't be to the satisfaction of one great majority of Croatian citizens. So this law is really intruding into many religious, many ethical, many philosophical issues, and that is why in the phase of this parliamentary debate we should hear and seek better solutions and answers to so far stated findings in the public, and we could systemize these findings in the public of citizens and professions. This law damages women's health and violates the fundamental objectives of population policy. A significant number of Croatian experts in human reproduction are against the proposed law. Now 650 children are born annually according to all available statistics thanks to the aided fertilisation, and 30,000 couples in Croatia are infertile. The new bill will reduce the number of children born with medical assistance in Croatia by at least 30%. In the spirit of population policy, this means that in Croatia we lose 5 classes of first class. Next, the discovery of donor identities will certainly reduce egg and sperm donations. The law is conservative, but restrictive, because it does not offer the best choice of treatment. It is unacceptable that couples who are not formally married do not have the right to artificial insemination. At the same time, I want to do it again here, the Family Law treats the extramarital community completely differently and evens it with the marriage community, which means that the two legal texts are actually completely out of line. I am of the opinion and I am convinced that the intervention of the Constitutional Court would make these legal decisions unconstitutional. The ban on freezing of embryos and allowing children born with artificial insemination with completed 18 years of information on parents, according to many participants, already start public debates about this law, young couples from Croatia will indeed take to Maribor, Ljubljana, Budapest, Prague, Ukraine or elsewhere, and from that Croatia will have financial and professional damage. Then, it is also undeniable truth that patients treated with infertility, and organisations such as Roda Association, which was spoken of by Ms. Ingrid Antičević Marinovic, are seeking withdrawal from the procedure of this law, and this appeal also according to available information and confidential information has already been signed by more than 5,000 people. Therefore, we could say that public dissatisfaction and dissatisfaction with the decisions of this law have also been shown by medical professional circles that suggest that this law actually improves the effectiveness of medically assisted fertilisation, and that the proposed solutions require a number of technical and technological adjustments and changes, which will certainly lead to a significant increase in the price of out-of-body fertilisation procedures. Finally, respecting the need for strict control mechanisms, strict sanctions of abuse, Croatia certainly needs a modern, liberal Law on Medical Insemination. Croatia must eliminate the important objections that we have, and they could be said like this. The draft law damages Croatia in a professional and financial aspect. Such a bill reduces the number of children born to an assisted fertilisation and is contrary to Croatian population policy. The law damages couples who need medical help to achieve the desire to have a child. Therefore, in order to truly ensure the right to offspring, it is necessary to consider and appreciate the suggestions and professions of both the general public and the association of patients, as well as these parliamentary discussions. I really think we can all do this together. Especially because of that, and I don't think it's prominent enough. Maybe just once in a sentence. That we were pioneers in medical insemination, and among the most advanced and best in Europe. I will also conclude with the words of Dr Velimir Šimunić, president of the Croatian Society for Human Reproduction, the head of the Centre for Human Reproduction at Petrova Hospital, who says the following quote: "The success of medical insemination in Croatia today is 28%, and with the application of the new law will fall to 18% or less." So it's the same finding that absolutely does not talk about Professor Simunic not giving support to the new law. Of course, the Club of Representatives also intervened with amendments wishing to really be considered and to contribute to improving the text of the law, hoping that the text of the law would change before the vote. I want to, and I hope so. But in this proposed text, I will also conclude with that the club of representatives of HSLS and HSU will not support this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-08-0.u36101	Thank you. On behalf of the promoter, respected Darko Milinovic, Minister of Health and Social Care. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-08-0.u36102	So I didn't want to mention Professor Simunic, so I signed his letter. I didn't say he supported it. I said, in conclusion, Mr. Minister, I think the bill is long expected and correct. Which means we've put a lot of suggestions in this bill from these papers. I didn't say he supported it, but I read what Professor Simunic sent to me. If we mention the extramarital community again, we can explain ourselves here by tomorrow morning whether the extramarital community under the Family Law is equal to the marriage community. You said you were prepping for the Constitutional Court to bring it down and I'm assuming you wouldn't. And that's why I have proof or I'm holding that Mrs. Dubravka the Brave who made the Family Law by the way. I will read one more time, "The outsider union is equal to marriage in family law only in the effect of the duty of mutual support of extramarital comrades and the arrangement of property relations." For all other situations, and especially those related to parental care, there are special rules. Well, I think that opinion as professionally as Professor Simunic's opinion has largely been accepted, but we must respect it. What would I say now? She didn't say that, and that's your Family Law Department. But we can't manipulate an extramarital community the way we do in a given situation and how we like it. So now I'm going to answer to you in SDP. when you didn't pass the extramarital community that was even with the marriage community. So, a brief review of our ministry on your proposal for a registered partnership, where you wanted to register a registered partnership regardless of sexual orientation. Well, at that point, it's very important that the marriage community isn't evenly married. And I'm going to read you a comprehensive analysis of the esteemed representative of Lucin, on behalf of the SDP. By extensive analysis, the authors of the proposal point out that both sexes and extramarital ones, I stress the extramarital ones, are we talking about this now, have far less rights than the marriage community. See? Then you didn't say that the extramarital community is equal to the marriage community. When you proposed to this Parliament the proposal of the Law on the Registered Partnership. As far as science is concerned? Well, I am one of those who, in one part of my professional activity and scientist, cannot agree that this law is harmful to the Republic of Croatia. I absolutely don't see where it's even harmful, I don't see where it's going to run. Because from now on, children are born only one to two percent in extramarital communities by the process of medical insemination. But if we're talking about science, then I'm going to mention the Convention on the Protection of Human Rights and the Dignity of a Human Being in application of biology and medicine. The interest and well-being of a human being take precedence over the self-interest of society or science. So let's not like you, now it's important that the extramarital community is even with the marriage community. When you proposed the Law on the Registered Partnership, then it was important to you that they were not in the same position. So we must jointly decide how to interpret and in what situation we should interpret the extramarital community and the marriage community and whether they are even. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-08-0.u36103	Thank you. Now we have several corrections of incorrect allegations, and the first is Ms. Milanaka Opačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-08-0.u36104	So I am correcting the incorrect allegations by Mr. Minister who said he accepted, or the ministry, Dr. Simunic's proposals. You didn't accept anything, because he told you that you should make it possible for an extramarital community. You didn't accept. He told you that when it comes to learning a child about biological parents, it should only be done when the exception is for medical purposes. The third one warned you that it was necessary to freeze the cover, so you didn't adopt anything from his remarks. So, I'm just asking you to start telling the truth here at this pay phone.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-08-0.u36105	Please, no calls like that. Now it's up to the distinguished representative of Gordana Sobol. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-08-0.u36106	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, Mr. Minister, given that you repeat yourself repeatedly on an extramarital community and that in Croatia it is not in the same status as the marriage community, I warn you, Mr. Minister. In the meantime, laws were passed if you did not know the Law on Gender Equality, including the Law on Discrimination of Discrimination, and you received the opinion of the Advocate for Gender Equality which said: "Departing from the fact that the Law on Gender Equality is an organic law", and it was because it was abolished by the Constitutional Court because it was not, and now it is. Therefore, all provisions, in the opinion of the Advocate General, of the draft Law on Medical Insemination with the draft final proposal for a law which does not give the same rights to extramarital couples as to persons who are not in any of these communities, are discriminatory to those persons and couples. And this bill directly in collegiate with the Law on Gender Equality and the Law on Discrimination of Discrimination.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-08-0.u36107	Thank you. Now it is up to the distinguished representative Davorko Vidovic, the correction of the incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-08-0.u36108	It is an incorrect quote by Mr. Minister claiming that human rights are not being violated in any way and is being called upon by law by forgetting that the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia in Article 16 and in several other articles guarantees equality to every citizen. Article 16 states that freedom and rights can only be limited by law to protect other people’s freedoms and rights and legal order, morals and health. Please tell me in what way, from what positions of the constitutional and spirit of the Constitution you are anyone in this country can allow to restrict the right of people just because they are not within the marriage community to exercise the human right to be treated and the right to offspring. From where right you or any of us are entitled to restrict this right which has been guaranteed by the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-08-0.u36109	Thank you very much. Time's over. And now it is the honourable representative Marija Lugaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-08-0.u36110	It is not true, Mr. Minister, that we in the SDP have denied the equality of the marriage and the extramarital community. Namely, after the law you are quoting and which you have rejected, the Family Law was amended, and it was the Family Law at that time and therefore, after that law in the Family Law, an extramarital community was introduced and your argument that it must be in the Family Law was precisely that it must be legally equalized to equal communities. And with that argument, it gave up the special law, and it was then implemented into the Family Law. Therefore, not only are you not telling the truth but you completely misread what happened.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-08-0.u36111	Thank you. We're moving on with the club debate. Now it's time for the HSS club, the distinguished representative Mariana Petir. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-08-0.u36112	Dear Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, MPs and MPs, Mr. Minister, State Secretary, Directors of the Ministry of Health. The area of medical insemination in Croatia is not regulated by a special regulation but has been done within the Health Measures Act for the free birth of children from 1978. Therefore, given the progress of medical science that has happened in the meantime, it is necessary to regulate legislation in order to fill legal gaps and enable infertile couples to assist in parenting. We need a law that will regulate this area in terms of protecting human life and protecting the health of mother and child, which will help infertile couples to realize parenting but will also prevent possible abuses. In the HSS, we agree conceptually with this bill by the Ministry of Health, although we have some reservations because of some provisions that we estimate to open doubts because of indeterminateness and that they should be completed, and I will talk about it a little more later. This topic rightly attracts public attention and especially married couples faced with the inability to start parenting. The desire for offspring is natural and so strong that the willingness of infertile couples to undergo medical insemination can neither hesitate a certain risk nor disappointment over the failings that they know to follow. Many spouses who unfortunately cannot have children along with other natural methods of benefit and medically assisted fertilization to start a child. Many of them testify to opting for repeated attempts despite the pain suffered especially by women because the joy of bringing a living creature into the world is immeasurable with anything else. On the other hand, apart from the desire for parenting, the way and methods that lead to that goal, we must not forget about the most important ones, children. Therefore, this law also speaks of children and the position of us in the HSS is that this legal proposal must be well defined in what way their rights will be protected. The Republic of Croatia, as a party to the Convention on the Rights of the Child, has been among those advanced countries that have assumed the obligation to ensure and protect human rights and fundamental freedoms. Respect, protection and promotion of human rights is a task stemming from the Croatian Constitution and it depends on the safety and well-being of today's population as well as future generations. Children are born with fundamental freedoms and rights that belong to all human beings. However, given the process of physical and mental maturation of children, the need to highlight their special rights to protection stemming from this fact is imposed. This is exactly the starting point of the Convention on the Rights of the Child. The Convention refers primarily to the obligations of adults in relation to the child as well as the obligations of a number of social factors when it comes to child protection. This is the first document in which a child is approached as a person with rights and not just as a person in need of special protection. Unlike the 1959 Declaration of the Rights of the Child, which has the moral power of the Convention on the Rights of the Child, it is a legal act which has the power of the Law and obliges the parties to comply with its provisions and includes the right to monitor the application in countries which have accepted and ratified it. The Convention is a vast instrument of different rights which shows, among other things, that the hierarchy of children's rights does not exist. So all these rights are needed to develop a child into a psycho-physical whole person. Therefore, the Convention on the Rights of the Child is not an ordinary catalogue of the right of the Child but is a list of obligations that the States must fulfil against the Child. The United Nations Children's Rights Committee identified four general principles on which all the rights contained in the Convention are based. One of them asks that when making all decisions or carrying out procedures affecting a child or children as a group, the child’s welfare must be the most important. This applies both to decisions made by the Government, administrative or legislative bodies, and to decisions taken by the family. When it comes to a child, it is primarily necessary to see his well - being, and even adoption as an existing institute is based on the interests of the child. It is also referred to in Article 9. The Convention on the Rights of the Child is the right to live with both parents, or not to separate them from them. The question is therefore how to protect this right in the case of heterogeneous fertilisation provided for in this law, which implies that the child is not conceived from the sex cells of the couple but using the sex cells of the donor. Heterologous insemination also opens the problem of ensuring child's right to identity. In fact, when we talk about children's rights, one of the rights provided by the Convention on the Rights of the Child is his right to identity. This proposal for a law provides for this in Article 10, and in a child when he becomes a full - time adult, he provides insight into the State Registry of Medical Insemination in order to find out who his biological parents are, or the child, is entitled to learn information about conception and donors. The proposed law restricts the use of donor sex cells to a married couple for the birth of up to three children, but since all earlier sexual relations arises, the question arises: What if the donor has children? Shouldn't a child's right to identity be guaranteed even before 18 years ago? As I have already said, we at HSS support this legislative proposal, but because of these doubts that I mentioned earlier, we advocate that the advantages of homologous fertilisation, so to protect the child's rights through the sex cells of a couple. Contemporary bioethical discussions on human dignity in its creation have raised a decisive question about the moral and legal status of the human embryo, and is from a human individual life in the early stages of its existence and development. In fact, it is unquestionable, and what the competent testimony gives human development biology is that the start of a new life, in terms of a new organism with all its inherited properties, begins with the process of fertilization. We are therefore pleased that this legislative proposal does not provide for the freezing of embryos, which also avoids ethical problems that would arise in connection with their storage, and eventually later destruction. The precautionary principle tells us that if we do not have security in what we would like to do, then it is better not to act. In fact, the status of the human embryo causes great debates not only in Croatia but also in the world and unfortunately there is still no consensus on it and therefore to act wisely, in a way that reduces the possibility of harming, and in this sense we see that this provision is also going. We also feel that it is necessary to ensure that married couples have the right to accurate information on medical insemination procedures and all the risks such fertilisation takes, as well as counselling for couples to make the best possible decision. How often it can be understood from the testimony of married couples facing infertility, facing the fact that they cannot begin a child is extremely painful and difficult. However, since there are risks to the health of the mother and child, couples who decide on such a procedure must have the right to full information in order to measure what is acceptable to them and what is not. We also consider it good to prohibit the sale, advertising or search for and supply of sex cells through all forms of public communication, as well as the prohibition of the creation of human embryos for scientific or research purposes, cloning and scientific research on the cover. We also consider it positive that replacement motherhood is prohibited and that insemination by sex is limited to one pair and up to three children. What we would also like to point out is that setting clear criteria in medical practice in this way will help the medical profession, not particularly important, prevent any possibility of abuse. We believe that criminal provisions need to be completed and done in the following segments. The fines are too small in view of the benefits that can be achieved by breaking the law. Penalty is provided for too few violations of the provisions of the law. No combination of prison and fines is foreseen. No penalty for the temporary or permanent withdrawal of a licence for the work of a healthcare professional or an unhealthy person who violates the provisions of the law is prescribed. There's no penalty prescribed for making a false statement. And I want to conclude, human life is, regardless of the conditions and circumstances of coming to the world, always a gift and a world. But precisely because human life is a gift and a world, it is fitting for it to come to this world in a way that protects and promotes its dignity in creation. Human dignity in its creation is not related to the way, condition or surroundings of its arrival in the world, just as human dignity of already born human beings is not related to any external factors, so neither to race, sex, ethnicity, class or social status, but is born to them and is therefore absolutely inalienable to them. At the present level of knowledge of the complexity of the phenomena of life, we do not know until the end why someone is deprived of the possibility of giving birth. We are even less familiar with the effects on the offspring of therapeutic, mechanical, and chemical entanglement in procreativeity. Responsibilities for others i.e. It requires that in these matters man be critical and responsible. Biology as such never gives moral norms, but only facts and data and it always remains indicative. It belongs to man to learn to read these days to reveal true meaning to them, as well as to the consequences in the moral field. Then it's about an imperative that's always for a man. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-08-0.u36113	Thank you. On behalf of the SDSS Club, Honorable Representative Ratko Gajica. Here you go. And let me tell you, in 17.20 minutes it means another 20 seconds, the time for the hearing will be up, and it's registered for an individual 27. Here you are, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-08-0.u36114	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. When it comes to this matter regulated by this bill, then we understand that this is a sensitive question, among other things, a sensitive question, and it seems to me that it should start from the beginning from the next two, three things. First, this is what I said, a sensitive human question and difficulties and drama and the expectation of what else can be said, which people have individually or families as communities. That, therefore, is both an individual and a family issue. It's something that the inner drama that we, when we talk about this issue, have to understand. So, in some ways, it should be appreciated that sensitivity that people have when they want offspring, and they can't have them in, as they say, is neither unnatural, but a natural way. The second thing that we think is important, which is that we should take care of the achievements in medicine, biology, science and profession in general because the achievement in medicine and the ability of the profession to follow it is important to prevent unwanted consequences, to assess the degree of help that can be given to people at the end of the day, as it is said here today, when it comes to illnesses how much the profession can help this issue of treatment and the issue of performing results to go as painlessly as possible, that the patient, in this case, the man who is interested, and the profession is satisfied. And the third thing that we go from when we talk about this is this question of what kind of social attitude the content of this law is if you want and what kind of social worldview we publicly promote with the content of this law. It's all an individual's feeling and the ability of the profession to support it and what attitude we promote. Everything together seems important to me in the assessment of these legal solutions that we've been offered here. And I'm going to say here my own, our obvious regarding these questions that I've listed as important. In relation to this first, the problem that people have, the feelings and fears that people have, the expectations that people, the individuals who care about it have. It seems to me that the most important thing is to understand through allowing freedom of choice. The people in this thing seem to first and foremost need to be allowed the freedom of choice. For them, they should be asked in the basic doubts that this law produces and which we are talking about here and that we are in some way arguing about. They're the subject of the story. Another thing, this question of medical skills. I know less than many of you do. But I think it's quite clear that the medicine has been very advanced and that these questions and, if I may say this job can be well controlled and directed. So that it can help people to the extent that, to the extent that this moment provides very high guarantees that we will have success, that we will have satisfied people and that we will promote a good social one, that we will not, let's just say, embarrass ourselves by the results of encouraging medically assisted insemination. When I say it can help, then I think it can channel back academically hard. You can but do not channel life relations within the population that is concerned and can prevent damages and those medical ones. It's all medically, in fact, that can arise or threaten with this kind of challenge. And the obvious thing about this third one, and this is the question that social attitude we promote with these solutions, I'm going to say this the next way. We live in a time and society that promotes freedom of choice. It's in the laws we've passed. That's what the Constitution says, and we keep talking in this House, starting with that thesis. So we promote freedom of choice. And I'll add one more thing. Freedom of choice as an attitude, as a social attitude, is something that was expected to be, say, more tomorrow. So if we promote freedom of choice, then what we're doing today and what we're doing tomorrow, because that space of freedom of choice is probably opening up in this thing in a bigger range than we have today. And as sensitive as this is, and here we are arguing about whether or not to freeze something, whether to allow extramarital communities, whether to allow a study of who the father is, as sensitive a question is important that we do not prevent this issue of free choice. What I have said as an indication of these key doubts that we have, I have said, because we and the decision on whether or not we support this law will be governed by whether we provide freedom of choice, whether we are making a solution that is acceptable for tomorrow and whether we are making solutions that are driven by what is written in the Constitution and what is written in the laws and what we have so far built as a social attitude. In short. Do we support, say, such modern solutions or do we take a step back? And I'm going to say here an illustration that is rude to say an illustration in which I must apologize to all those who may be able to identify myself in this. But I'll still be free to say it. There are women in my life I can say I have no intention of getting married, I have some other primary life plans. But I want a little girl or I want descendants or boys and that woman, and I can even recognize some by name. It can, it has all the conditions to form its progeny in, say, such an ideal form, to create conditions that it is a progeny of the quality of the first species. I'm sorry to use inappropriate categories, but I can't think of any other way. In addition, we in practice have an attitude and promote the attitude of young people have more children. Young people can recognize again by the name of some who have five, six, and these are abandoned families that out of six children do not have the capacity of sociological, social, pedagogical to produce good offspring. And now I'm completely clear that it's inappropriate to evaluate this law on such illustrations, but I'm just saying that in any of the other things or on any other example, I don't know on what example you don't need to look at it statistically, you don't have to look at it limitedly. Especially shouldn't be looking at it with prejudice, and that's why I've made this question especially potent here. Let people feel free to decide whether they want medically assisted insemination or not. And if he will, and the profession estimates that there are all the conditions I think that this issue of the marriage community and the issue of the extramarital community becomes so that the categories are not in our opinion anymore primary. They're not primary anymore. And I'll conclude that it won't work, it won't work if some of the provisions of the law are, and it probably will, harmonize the freedom of choice and it won't work if some of our people go looking outside the Republic of Croatia. These are the doubts that plague me and the club in the name I spoke. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-08-0.u36115	Thank you. We have one correction to the incorrect allegations, the esteemed representative Mariana Petir. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-08-0.u36116	Dear Mr. Vice President, a fellow representative in his picturesque speech said in a way that there was a possibility of freedom of choice and child creation. So there is no such choice because children are not objects, and also if what he was saying was true, it would be cloning, not freedom of choice, and I must say that no international document is guaranteed as a human right and protected right to offspring, while many other documents speak of the rights of the child, including his life in the family with parents. Children are not things, and we can't do everything that we're technically allowed to do.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-08-0.u36117	Thank you. We continue to discuss clubs, and it is on behalf of the HDZ Club, the distinguished representative Carmela Caparin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-08-0.u36118	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, distinguished secretary of state with associates, colleagues and fellow MPs. The Croatian Democratic Community Club discussed the proposal for a law on medical insemination with the Final Bill. Infertility medical assistance refers to treatment involving the causes of the reduction of fertility and the removal of the health cause of reduction and fertility. The desire of each couple is a child who will happily live in a family with his mother and father. Experts in the Republic of Croatia warn, please, that women delay the birth of the first child to 28 years and already 30 % first births between 32 and 35 years of age. Total fertility is low, and the interval between the first and second pregnancy is 3 to 5 years. The birth of about 35 years of life is on the rise. It's all there for the consequence that our gynecologists warn about the infertility of 15% of couples. At an increased risk of reproductive disease, to an increased risk of malignancies before completion or initiation of reproduction, to late onset of processing and treatment of infertility, thereby raising the costs of treatment we talked about. In the European Union, the resolution of artificial fertilisation is indeed different and unequal, in 19 countries the donation of egg cells is prohibited or not regulated, 23 countries are prohibited or are not regulated by the simultaneous donation of egg cells and sperm. We also heard the example of Austria and the example of Sweden and Norway. After 10 years of debate, we finally have a law that joined the regulation of the field of medical fertilization. Regardless of the cause of the decrease in fertility, the pressure on medical or reproductive assistance is increasing. One form of medical care is artificial insemination resulting from progress and development in medical science and technology. In legislation, moral and ethical and philosophical and religious and social implications are suddenly opened. Is everything that's modern and good? I'm putting it on your mind. Is everything good that provides us with medicine and cloning techniques and beyond? Of course not. One of the ethical criteria is that the embryo is a human being. In recent years, the entire genomic structure of the embryo has been discovered along with the exact hereditary information of nucleic acids. Life begins from conception and there is a moral doubt about freezing at cryopreservation in liquid nitrogen at -196 degrees Celsius or destroying it. In reality, we take a female and male sex station with the aim of creating a new life, and by today's technique we know in advance that the embryo is a human being and that there is no chance in most cases to survive. The Croatian Constitution in Article 21 establishes every human being has the right to live. There is no death penalty in the Republic of Croatia. For us in Croatia, the democratic community is a human being. With the progress of technique and medicine, we will have more and more doubts like that. This law requires the determination of assumptions for the exercise of the right to fertilisation, the determination of the types of procedures for medical insemination with the rights and obligations of participants with clear criteria. If we rely on examples in the world, we become aware of the needs of strict control and ban any manipulation. I'll give you an example in America, there are numerous ads from the World Bank of sperm that offer sperm categorized to race, religion, education, bone structure, hair color, eyes, even ethnic origin, with notice that sperm has been tested on both HIV and hepatitis B and C, on valemia, etc. In California, there's a sperm bank of scientists, please, with an IQ of over 130, then a athlete with an Olympic medal. By 1998, 233 babies were born from that bank. Due to high technology in medicine, pre-implantation tests for genetic disorder are today possible, the PCR method, an example of cystic febrosis, etc., not to list. The Republic of Croatia seeks to comply with this law with the respect and the Convention on the Protection of Human Rights and the Dignity of Human Beings with regard to the application of biology and medicine, the prohibition of cloning of human beings, the Convention on the Rights of the Child, the Additional Protocols in the European Union. Members and members of the Croatian Democratic Community believe that in the process of fertilisation and conception with the help of modern medical science it is particularly important to protect the health of a woman who is faced with invasive methods of hormonal hyperstimulation. Hyperstimulation hormonal means 2 and even more, can be one, enough is one, but more than twice the level of the hormone in her system is raised. Playing with hormones, getting into that cycle is really like a doctor and dangerous. This level of hormone enables the parallel maturation of a larger number of egg cells that are punctured, which is also not harmless, are fertilized, and return to the womb. One third of women have terrible side effects, and hormonal stimulation is not harmless, although it is dangerous in view of the occurrence of cancer. After fertilisation, there are also known complications in pregnancy, such as abortions, followed by stressful situations for both women and men. First of all, it is very important to diagnose the causes of infertility, try to treat it, and if it is unsuccessful and impervious then access medical fertilisation that can be homologous, its own cells of marriage partners, or heterogeneous when fertilisation is carried out to prevent the transfer of severe hereditary disease. In particular, Article 7 of the Law emphasises the right to notify the possibility of treatment with infertility, as well as other means of attaining parenthood. Members and members of the Croatian Democratic Community refer to the adoption and application of the laws in this regard. We ourselves are aware of how many of our children are in our homes, and how many married couples want to adopt such children, but let us also make sure that few colleagues and colleagues change the law that one call in the third month of that parent who gave the child to such a home prevents married couples from adopting him and who are eager to adopt such a child. Article 8 also provides for psychological and psychiatric counselling before the heterogeneous fertilisation process, with legal consent to the planned procedure. From experience, believe me, where artificial insemination was made, and where it didn't work, people like that said that we knew what hell we were going to go through would never go through. The age of a woman is not legally restricted, and this is a really good solution, but it can be determined with the help of gynecologists and other experts. The provision of Article 9 allows for consent to male and female fertilisation to be withdrawn and withdrawn from medical insemination. That's what's been discussed here. Article 10 speaks of the right to identity. In Croatia, the democratic community really supports that child's right to know who his father is. Cases through adoptions. Croatia is a small country and it is very well known from neighbours to, from Bjelovar to Dubrovnik, and it is not true that when a child grows up he will not hear from neighbors that it is artificially conceived or adopted, and that he does not want to know who the father is, either subconsciously or publicly. In practice, it's quite different. He wants to know. In the Republic of Croatia there is a long-standing practice of artificial insemination, but we do not have a single register and we were aware in the past of the manipulation that was happening. Today, indeed, the state registry will allow authorized persons, adult persons, or doctors for all data on the donation of ova or semen cells. The HDZ Club particularly emphasises and places emphasis on control and supervision, the expertise of the Committee on Medical Insemination and the need to be there except for specialists, gynecologists, endocrinologists, geneticist and particularly places emphasis on the effectiveness of the National Commission for Medical Insemination. Special attention is given to the possibility of trading, cloning, etc. Based on the criminal provisions, we think they're small and that they might increase because the manipulations that some are prone to are endless. They may occur if a medical fertilisation procedure is carried out for the purpose of selecting the sex of a future child, if a mixture of sex cells is carried out, if heterologous fertilisation is carried out without verification in the national register, if a medical fertilisation procedure is carried out without the prescribed written consent, etc., etc. Warning all these dangers and thinking of both women's health and men's health and thinking about the insistence of married couples who cannot have children, referring to medical insemination, the Croatian Democratic Community supports this proposed law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-08-0.u36119	Thank you. We have one correction to the incorrect allegations, the esteemed representative Miranda Mrsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-08-0.u36120	Well, colleague Caparin incorrectly stated that adoption of children is one of the methods that we can help couples who can't have a child. The adoption of children is one thing, and when we talk about demographic politics, the restoration of Croatian medically assisted insemination is something else and there is no need to mix those two things.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-08-0.u36121	Thank you. And a hard-earned representative of Gordana Sobol, I trust her, to apply. Correction of an incorrect allegation. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-08-0.u36122	Mr. Vice President, you still looked at me and then you went to write. So I am correcting the incorrect allegations and the claim by Mrs. Caparin that HDZ and through this law special care leads to women's health. Please, colleague Caparin, this law forces a woman to do additional procedures that are extremely painful, expensive, extremely difficult to bear. And you know it very well. And I'm just going to quote that mom who's on the portal, it seems to me "Roda," she said that Minister Milinovic was only to be punctured by an egg cell at the same time that would allow the freeze of the cover.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-08-0.u36123	Thank you. And now it's HNS's turn, the distinguished representative Vesna Pusic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-08-0.u36124	Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the Ministry, colleagues and colleagues. This is obviously a very emotional question and as for some rational scientific analysis, I have to say that it would be enough for me, and it is not common to brag especially if we praise someone who is not from our own club, but to me it would be enough what Dr. Mrsic said, it seems to me that this is an absolutely rational attitude. But clearly that's not a question that we're looking at quite rationally. People have a very emotional view on this issue, they have different worlds, and it is of course good and logical and in every respect acceptable and I, however much I would absolutely fight for the right of the worldview that we represent in the HNS club, would also fight so hard for the right and the opposite worldview to represent him and to be represented by those who have him. But this isn't about promoting one or another worldview or the right to have a worldview, it's absolutely and must be guaranteed and cannot be alienated from anyone. But the law is about the right of the state to favor one worldview against the other. The state in this respect and its role must be exactly what I said on behalf of the HNS Club, which is to enable each individual, each person to decide and live in accordance with his worldview. This is the task of the state, and, of course, it is absolutely and inalienably the right of everyone to have their worldview and to decide, behave and make decisions in their lives. We at the HNS club seem to have 4 fundamental issues to which this law applies or is touched. One question is the positive population policy. Unfortunately, in Parliament, we often talk in public about population policy only in or largely in the form of bans, preventing different types of sanctions, and not speaking in the form of different kinds of incentives or enabling people to have children and decide to have children. The law on medically assisted fertilisation should certainly have that function, so it must play, must function as a positive population policy. So a policy in which a state that allows all who are treated or failedly treats infertility that if they want, they can have children. Many of my colleagues and colleagues who spoke before me and in the name of clubs and in the context of correcting incorrect allegations mentioned a demographic situation in Croatia that is generally known, but here is an opportunity for the state to put itself positively in such conditions. One of the countries that managed to reverse the trend is Sweden. Scandinavian countries in general, but Sweden, in particular, that has reversed negative demographic trend or depopulation by precisely using stimulating, therefore positive methods and care for children, regardless of whether they are from a married, extramarital community, single parents in any form, because they are aware of the fact that this is simply an important moment for the survival of every nation, under the nation, I don't mean an ethnic nation but a political nation, so the population of a country. The second topic, therefore, is a positive population policy, and this must be one element. The second topic to be touched by this law is the question of individual rights to autonomy in deciding on their own family and their own reproduction. It's simply a question of how far does the state have the right to achieve autonomy of a person's privacy? So where does the state make the decision? As you know, they were different totalitarian and there are today different totalitarian states that decide and which school a man will go to, and whether someone will have only one child or be able to have more children, where they will be able to work, where they will be able to live, whether they will be able to travel within their own country, whether they will be able to travel outside their own country. So countries have come up with different ways of intervening in the field of individual autonomy. On the other hand, there are ideas about fundamental human and civil rights, in order to put a part of the decision simply beyond the reach of the state. A man may decide one way or another, but it is his or her personal right and the realm of his or her freedom. And whether someone is going to study this or that or not at all, or live here or inside their own country is a matter of autonomous decision and the state simply has no right to decide. Not one way or the other. The question of reproduction is whether and when a person will have children must be a matter of individual's autonomous decision. So a person must be able to have the freedom to make that decision. What's the job of the state is to allow her to make that decision no matter what it is. Do you decide sooner, later, five, one, whatever you want. It's the role of the state. The role of the state is not to take over the tutorship of a person but to allow the freedom of a person to decide in accordance with his best beliefs, the light of the world and any other factors affecting that decision at some point. The third question, so after the autonomy of the individual and the right to this sphere of freedom to say so, the third question is a matter of medical and ethical, therefore, a question of human relations with a woman. We've heard an awful lot here about the human relationship to the plot from the first moment, but we haven't heard anything about the issue of human relations with a woman who is undergoing an absolutely complicated, difficult, chemically complicated process and hormonal stimulation that absolutely changes behavior. Anyone who's either gone through this process or knows someone who's been through it for any reason knows that. So, which also changes behavior, character, is a great burden for every relationship in which man is in that situation, and a painful procedure to puncture or extract ovaries. So the question of humane relations with a woman is that we put it here on the agenda because it's simply gone completely from the debate and the concentration of humane attitude towards the fertilized egg station. And the fourth question that this law raises is the world-wide question. It's a multidimensional issue, of course, but here I want to underline a topic that represents a world-wide question, and that's what family is thought to be. Are families considered men and women who have married and have children? Or are families considered both men and women living together and having children? Or are families considered single mothers and single fathers? In my opinion, it's all family. As it is known there is all this in society and it would be absolutely inadmissible to stegmatize any form of family. And thank God if people want to have children and if they want to take care of them, so if for any reason it's not two, it's just one person, it still means parental care to a child, and in what way you wouldn't underestimate single mothers and single families where children and one parent are. These are families, from this rise the most normal children as from any other family as is in a family where there are married men and women who are parents can be problems, so of course can be in this one. So, of course, that's where we can differ. So we at the HNS club find it very unequivocally that it's all a family, a married couple with children, a single couple with children and a single parent with children, we think it's all a family but of course it's possible that we're different in that. However, we believe that certainly, we will defend this position that neither of these forms of family should be discriminated against. For these reasons and the basic points, we have proposed a series of amendments to the HNS Club, and I will continue the debate on our behalf to say something about amendments or amendments that we believe should be introduced into this law so that it is at the level of what is expected of it. First, the right to medically assisted insemination cannot be limited to marital status. Therefore, it must have regardless of the equality or inequality of the extramarital and marriage community, and I will not now enter why this is so because an extra guarantee of child care is required in the extramarital. So, regardless of all of this, there are no restrictions on neither the marital status nor the extramarital community, but in our opinion and in this sense we have handed over the amendment and single mothers must be entitled to have children in this way, hence medically assisted insemination. Another problem is the right to see the identity of donors, so the donor of ova or semen cells. Every one of us who has and has children between, say, 13 and 18 knows perfectly how difficult and complicated and sensitive it is to raise and raise a teenager at that age, I'm sure you all know that. In that situation, introducing an extra huge burden you're not actually my mom, or you're not really my dad's so destructive seems especially to me in a situation where it's not about a surrogate mother. The surrogate mother is something else, so it's the woman who gave birth to that child rather than someone who donated genetic material. And because of that fact, give you the chance to have a teenager tell you you're not my mom and my dad even though you are.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-08-0.u36125	Honorable MPs, bring the end.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-08-0.u36126	I'll be right there. So, to open that possibility is so destructive for a child, for a family, and it's clear that whoever's raising you, who's giving you love, who's teaching you life, it's your mom and dad. With these two amendments, we'll propose three more. If they adopt, we will uphold the law, and unless the HNS Club is adopted, they will not support this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-08-0.u36127	Thank you very much. It is up to the HDSSB's distinguished representative Boro Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-08-0.u36128	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President. State Secretary and gentlemen of the Ministry. My colleagues and fellow MPs. Here at the pay phone we hear, almost I'd say, individual cases and dramas that appear in this society, in a country that has 4 million and 350 thousand inhabitants, so one, I can say freely, a small country and where we really care about each of these cases that may be problematic by applying this proposal for a law on medical insemination, clearly with the final bill of law. This matter is very important. I have to say that when I asked about this, there is actually no legal act so far, and this is actually after that attempt or after the debate on the SDP proposal some 7, 8 months ago, and, in spite of our Secretary of State's delay, that a new legislative proposal will be drawn up within 15 days. Now, finally, we have this bill of law before us. When it comes to the infertility of marriages in the Republic of Croatia, then the number mentioned in percent, so 15% does not seem great. However, when it is said to be 50,000 marriages, 50,000 marriages or 100,000 people in the Republic of Croatia want medically assisted insemination to reach their offspring, it is a big thing. 50,000 children are more than just the number of children born in one year. So, for the past year, we have some kind of incrissing increase. Finally, after a long, long time, we have an increase in the number of live births of 43,000 and 185, if I remember correctly. Until then, the past years have been, so in 2007, 2006. etc., were somewhere at about 40, 41 grand. Thank God, and if that trend continued, it would be very good. But can we imagine that 50 thousand so married couples in a year or two will receive through medically assisted insemination in the Republic of Croatia their child, their offspring? How much would that increase be the number of live births in Croatia? Given that the number of deaths in the Republic of Croatia is constant from over 50,000 a year and that we lose each year, let me say, that it would not again be in Slovenia, half of Nova Gradiška, meaning in two years the whole of Nova Gradiška, so one city of 15 thousand people like Nova Gradiška disappears because of more deaths than live births, then I must say, the problem in this situation when Croatia is in the depopulation phase, when it has just reached the very bottom of European tables. In fact, in the developed countries of Europe, there is a similar trend, and they also have a great battle and in all fields, from medical, hence the one we are now discussing, to social and other, in order to increase the number of children in these developed countries of Europe, and so we must take this matter very seriously. When speakers here spoke before me about the fact that so far in Croatia artificial insemination has come to the world of 15 thousand children, then I must say, and as regards the articles of the law, so 10th and 19th, that is, in the proposal of this law, I asked myself, since most of these children started in several centres of Europe, so outside of Croatia. Maribor was mentioned, so Kiev was mentioned before, so Budapest or someone or in Slovakia, let's say 4 or 5 centers, 15 thousand children. I wonder if there are close relatives among these 15 thousand children, whether seed cell donors or egg cells have been donors several times and then in our Republic of Croatia, and if we don't know that, there are close relatives? And what happens if such children in a fertilized age find such a person who has also been created in this way, so that which was brought into the world by medically assisted fertilization anywhere in these centers, and in fact are half-brothers and half-sisters? I don't know if we've actually thought about it. I am personally here reading and listening to the debate today really thought about it, so in this sense I have also tabled an amendment even though Article 19 of this Law option is almost excluded. So I talked to the secretary of state to even pull him out, but we can also discuss the vote, because in those 15 thousand children who were born medically assisted insemination can be such cases. So this is the first time this bill regulates this matter, the medically assisted insemination, and since it applies to 50,000 couples, I think it is in some sense, it has to be said, but the shift to better compared to nothing, to a law that doesn't exist at all. So we didn't have anything before. This is some kind of legal provision, a regulation, that still regulates this area. Here were the world's horizons, and we can use the replicas here, excuse the incorrect allegations, throw all afternoon, like that debate about the government and the prime minister, we can make arguments by midnight, given that there are clearly two different worlds, I would say a little uncompromising and I wouldn't go into it, because clearly, as well as the tastes, we can't discuss the world's horizons. Each of us had said I would have completely uncompromising views about it and each of us had its own opinion and attitude. And here we can say all the time and fly out with replicas and corrections of an incorrect quote, and by treating our worldview, our own worldview is excluding some association and other communities that exist here and are mentioned, not to mention religious beliefs, etc. In that first law that was on behalf of the club, it seems to me that the SDP eight months ago was here on the benches and we discussed which by the majority decision was rejected. There were words and debates about possible manipulations. Here someone said, mentioning earlier that in America there are sperm banks, so seeds cells, and it's as if you went to the market, so you want the genetic material of athletes, actors, high to say intelligent people of any color or I don't know what. I think that trade to say genetic material has been ruled out by this law and we find that justified. It's my opinion that it's also wrong. That is why, since many couples in the Republic of Croatia are nevertheless allowed by this bill to make it possible that this is as stated here to try or get their offspring opinions alone, and the laws are variable, the laws are subject to change. So, situations, opportunities, and everything that we are like other laws can change, we can change depending on the situation and possibly new achievements. So, new thoughts of progress in medicine, medical biogenetics, etc. So there's always the possibility of putting any of the laws back on the agenda here and possibly going on or on about it. There's nothing forbidden. I guess today is about democracy. For, therefore, for this proposal, so as an initial, start-up, legislative proposal regarding this matter I think and because he's what I just said I think, no, I personally think, and the HDSB club wouldn't mind voting for. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-08-0.u36129	Thank you. That's where we closed the club debate, and now we're going to an individual debate. Like I said, there are 27 reported. We're going to work today until we finish that agenda. First in line is Honorable Representative Igor Dragovan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-08-0.u36130	Mr. Vice President, seven months ago, this assembly discussed a proposal for a law on medically assisted insemination, and then we could say that this whole day's debate showed a high level of consensus for the need to pass such a law. And I have to admit that the atmosphere, understanding, conversations, thinking was about to reach that agreement. Unfortunately, seven months later things changed and those arguments that were spoken seven months ago stand and now but the situation with the rulings is much different than then. And also now 2/3 of Croatian citizens support medically assisted insemination. The situation is also now that there are people in Croatia who need this help, but a political decision has been made. Citizens and citizens of Croatia, those who are directly interested in this, and also those who are sympathetic to couples in a married or extramarital community right now, must know that in the ruling party and their coalition, the political decision has been made and that this law will not change in any single line regardless of the arguments, the appeals, regardless of the people who need help, regardless of the children, nothing will change in this law. Also, this current law is the first, among the first, if not the first test by the new Croatian Prime Minister Jadranka Kosor. As Deputy Prime Minister, she said that the government would go to amendments to the law, at least in that part of marriage and non-marriage communities, regardless of how it went at the government meeting. After that, in the media there was a long time, about seven to eight, and ten days of that story. Citizens and citizens of Croatia, today the new Croatian prime minister has failed the test, the test of credibility, credibility, promises and what she has advocated. She invited women to support her. She turned her back on women, turned her back on women with this law of this kind, rigid, medieval and sad that in 2009 in the Republic of Croatia, where we are full of the mouth of the European Union, where we are full of the mouth of entering the European family. Dear Secretary of State, maybe that's funny to you. I understand the parent who needs that help. I understand them. Maybe that's funny to you, but trust me, it's not funny to them. Today they are being called to the European Union. The fact is that in February 2008, the European Parliament adopted a declaration, i.e. a document on the demographic future of Europe in which infertility and the problem have been identified as a disease where all those in the European Union and those who want to become those who help people out of this problem are invited. And that's why it's not right for us to call on the profession, to call on associations, because it's not consulted in the preparation of this law. They're not consulted people who do this job, whom we're all very grateful for because they've raised the level of medicine to make medically assisted insemination at a high level of success. They are not consulted associations that know the best of the problem and that help all those who have this experience to cope with the problem and the process they are going through. Dear colleagues and colleagues, but primarily citizens and citizens of Croatia, it is clear that this law will be passed, it is clear that the arguments of whatever they are will not move a millimeter ruling in its political decision. It is their right to make such a political decision. After all, such laws are also made in certain political decisions, but smart, wise, responsible, those who listen to the voice of people, voters, people who have these problems, then make political decisions that are in the interest of citizens and citizens of Croatia, not in their own interest. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-08-0.u36131	Thank you. We have this correction of incorrect allegations and one replica. First is Honorable Representative Nedjeljko Strikic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-08-0.u36132	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Here, I'll really do a lot of inaccuracies. I don't... Mr. Dragovan to be the secretary of the political party, but don't get involved in medicine, but you didn't make it. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Now I'm going to say, this law is rigid, reverse, medieval. And I'll read to you what the distinguished professor says... who was the head of the clinic when the medical fertilisation was introduced in Croatia says. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I think that the text of the law itself is called the Final Proposal for the Law on Medical Insemination is reasonably written and suggests ways of medical insemination that will be understood and accepted by most of the population in the Republic of Croatia. The proposed law in line with the modern achievements of medical science. That professor... says the greatest authority in the area. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Take it, read it. ... It's not the biggest. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] So... [[The speakers speak in the same voice, of course.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-08-0.u36133	No throwing, please. Thank you. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, in what? Here you go, Igor Dragovan.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-08-0.u36134	Injury of the Rules of Procedure because my esteemed colleague has done nothing to correct me. He just said I'm not a doctor.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-08-0.u36135	I'm sorry, it's not a correction. Dragovan, it's not a correction to an incorrect quote. ... Please, I didn't give you my word. [[The speakers speak in the same voice, of course.]] Dragovan, you have no right.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-08-0.u36136	Dear sir and dear colleague, I'll tell you one thing now. Because your predecessor... [[The speakers speak in the same voice, of course.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-08-0.u36137	Please, you can't argue if I tell you you can't argue.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-08-0.u36138	I'm responsible, I'm the father of such a child, you can't give me lessons here. Therefore, as a doctor, be ashamed... /The speaker has been disabled./...
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-08-0.u36139	Please, Your Honor. Please, I have to say this. I've never given a warning to anyone before. I'm giving you a warning and please, you can't act like there's no... [[The speakers speak in the same voice, of course.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-08-0.u36140	You can give me another warning. You can give me another warning.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-08-0.u36141	Have a seat. You're not worth it. Sit down. I take your word. You can't act like that. This is the Home of Croatia and act in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of this House, not as if this is somewhere on the road. Excuse me. Now let's move on with the corrections of incorrect allegations. Dear Representative Ljubica Lukačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-08-0.u36142	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, it's an incorrect quote from his colleagues when he said the new Croatian prime minister turned her back on women. My colleague, it is simply not true, neither is she, nor has the Croatian Government turned its back on women because no law in the Republic of Croatia regulates women's right to have a child. She wants it, but the right to offspring isn't regulated, and it doesn't say every woman has a right to a child anywhere. By this law, the Croatian Government helps every woman and helps the family, and it would be absurd for the extramarital communities to give birth to children by medical insemination. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-08-0.u36143	Thank you. Again, please, calm down. So what came to you today? Again, the violation of the Rules of Procedure, the distinguished representative Ingrid Anticevic-Marinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-08-0.u36144	The Rules of Procedure, provision of Article 209 have been violated. A colleague spoke one of her own and mistaken opinion, saying, therefore, nothing correcting, but saying it wrong. Saying the law didn't regulate this.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-08-0.u36145	Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-08-0.u36146	Please allow me.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-08-0.u36147	It's not a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Please sit down, don't talk any further.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-08-0.u36148	The lady ignores the Constitution. The constitution has given the right to freedom of procreation, sir. That people are free to reproduce in ways that are appropriate to them.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-08-0.u36149	Dear MPs, sit down. Look, this is already the introduction of a mess here, and please, don't make me take away your word because talking about this topic and getting you out of the assembly to allow others to say what they need to say. We can't do that, so come on, you're not gonna cause a mess here. What's wrong with you? And we have another correction of the incorrect allegations, the esteemed representative Ivan Bagarić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-08-0.u36150	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. This is certainly a sensitive question and I understand that people get nervous about it, but I have to correct...
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-08-0.u36151	Please, what's the correction to an incorrect quote?
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-08-0.u36152	I am correcting the inaccuracy of fellow Dragovan, who said that the Prime Minister had failed women, turned her back on women, etc. So you gave your reasons. And I say it's not because it's not true. It's not true that she turned her back on women, it's actually a struggle. It has changed the paradigm in relation to others and different ones, etc. in Croatian politics, and when it comes to this issue, then Mrs. President made a lot of contributions to freeze the egg cells, so that it can be made... Insemination, which is for me, if you ask me personally, even too liberal. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] However, it is her contribution, and I understand that people are fighting for more and that it is not just a law for one party and for one look. Therefore, let us not insinuate and invent, and indeed sew people up to what is not theirs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-08-0.u36153	Thank you. Before we go any further, I ask all MPs to refrain from these reactions and to stick to all the Rules of Procedure. We brought this Rules of Procedure ourselves, and there's no reason for us to get used to it here. There's no reason to yell. That's why we brought it. If you disagree with him, suggest amendments and additions, but you can't pass the Rules of Procedure, because it doesn't lead to anything. It only leads to chaos and chaos. And now we have one replica, distinguished representative Davorko Vidovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-08-0.u36154	I'm replicating colleagues on the issue that he later somewhat tempered, that the law has affected people who have no children, primarily women and men or people who have compassion for them. That's not true, pal. This law enlists us 4 million and 208 thousand in this country. We're all hit. The law that discriminates against any citizen of this country, on any basis we passed the law is discriminatory and hits me. I don't know anyone who has this problem, nor do I feel sympathy, but I feel for the injustice that seems to be happening. Mrs. Lukacic has just said a wonderful thing. Bravo. Thank you. That's the measure of things. You think you're gods that can determine who's right, who has no right to have a child. People, it's shocking, it's not rigid, it's terrifying. You're playing gods. It's an injury, it's not an insult to women. It's a violation of God's laws, not just the Constitution. The right to progeny is the right of a man, for God's sakes. And we can't argue like this. That's not good. It has nothing to do with ideology, it has nothing to do with politics anymore, it has nothing to do with any attitude, and that's why it's fellow Dragovan, which is why it's a question that every citizen in this country has to do with this discriminatory aspect, and we have to be all against that law.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-08-0.u36155	Thank you. Now respond to the replica, distinguished representative Igor Dragovan. Here you go. So please, Your Honor, stop. When you get your word, you'll talk.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-08-0.u36156	Surely this kind of debate also causes certain emotional tones and that people react because it gets us together and hits us directly together. So that's how I reacted. I've reacted because people who don't want to feel discriminated against in a country where they live on any basis, because if we're willing to regulate this area in this way and this law, how we're just ready to regulate some other areas and I'm afraid of what laws.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-08-0.u36157	Honorable MPs both. Nor did you reflect what the esteemed representative was saying, nor did you respond to the reply. So please just stick to the Rules of Procedure so we don't do it anymore. Take it easy. Come on, guys. So we're talking about a nice thing, about a little boy. Let's move on, distinguished representative Milanka Opačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-08-0.u36158	Mr. Vice President, gentlemen of the government, colleagues and colleagues. A few predecessors here before me said that this is a matter of profession, morality, ethical question, and I think that this is primarily a matter of politics and that this is a top political issue and that it is not good to deny anyone the right to speak and express their views on this subject so that each of us in this Chamber has the right to say what he thinks about medically assisted insemination. Unfortunately, when this law was written, it did not consult the profession, it was consulted afterwards, which is seen from a number of letters that we also received from that same profession, which only later received the law on insight and was asked to post a festum to give its opinion. In most cases, this profession has pleaded against the key things in this law that we all say are problematic with the position of both human rights and the rights of patients in the Republic of Croatia, especially those couples treated with infertility. So unfortunately, the waist didn't write this law. None of us here have asked for things that we believe the Croatian public is not ready to accept, as is the case. surrogate motherhood or other things, and I am sorry that this government did not have enough power and political wisdom to pass a law that is in line with European guidelines and which is in line with the medical achievements of the profession in Croatia. There was an attempt to defend the attitude and article in which only married people are allowed the treatment of infertility. So if infertility is a disease, then you can't tie it to any condition, and at least to a marital condition, so to some status. If infertility is a disease then, gentlemen dear, it is your job to treat this infertility. He also said the minister here in his opening statement that it was for the protection of children and children's rights, because the child is protected and there he has the best environment. And this morning, gentlemen, in this room, we talked about domestic violence, the largest number of children, severe abuses suffered right in their own family by their parents. After all, it means marriage. Well, people get divorced every day. So who tells you that someone won't be married for a year, and when they get a child medically helped insemination, then they'll get a divorce. What are we talking about? Which makes marriage a protection, the best environment for a child. Nothing at all, because it's just every day that reality disproves you. We gave up what we all swear together, and Mrs Kosor's entire political career was based on fighting for more children in Croatia. And that fight is right, because we're a dying country. With all the measures we've taken so far, unfortunately, we still have far less lively children than the dead. In family policy, there is a strong emphasis on the most intelligent policy and the IPO is placed inside, so the medical law on medically assisted insemination is put in place as a mechanism for strengthening natal policy. Now, why is this a harmful law for the number of live births in Croatia? Because, for example, Slovenia has indicators that tell you about how much natural growth was without medical help insemination and how much increase it is with medically assisted fertilisation. Who in this country has the right to give up a certain number of children who can be given medically assisted insemination? So far, we've had children the size of a Makarska. Whoever has the right to give up all that, so all those children we can get through the medically aided insemination procedures, and why we have to keep making mistakes that some other countries have made and correct. The countries that made the mistake were our neighbouring Italy. In that country, a rigid and very restrictive law has been passed that you are now unfortunately passing. And look what happened to them by 2005, and the secretary of state doesn't care, because he made his decision and the law will be passed. Mr. Secretary of State, look at the chart here. In Italy by 2005, there was a permanent decline in the birth and birth of children, thanks to the medically aided fertilization stopping everything that could help couples treated with infertility. In 2005, when their Supreme Court abolished the most rigid provisions of that law and opened up space for what medically it could do, that path went up. Once again, I ask you who has the right to give up a certain number of children we can get from a medically insemination. Many experts who participated in the discussions we organised warned that such a rigid law would only lead to our patients having money for it because it is not cheap, going to some European clinics. A colleague Mrsic said here that only last year, 444 women from Croatia were in medically assisted fertilisation at three European centres. So now only those who can continue to go to some European cities to get so many wanted children or will happen that our doctors will move their private offices into our neighbouring countries and will work there, of course, will pay taxes there. I really don't see why our medical profession, which was not known 20 or 30 years ago, was at the very top of world medicine, why today it makes it impossible for them to do so on the other hand why it doesn't allow our citizens to treat infertility in Croatia, but it forces them to do so across borders in some European countries and that in this way they actually spend money they don't have anyway. What is the function of every state, it is to enable its citizens to exercise their rights in their own state, and that is the task of these governments as well. But you decided on something completely different. It is, of course, disputed and this freezing of the mattresses, and I am sorry that you disobeyed the profession that subsequently sent you your opinions where you and the Croatian Medical Assembly warn you that it is simply a ban and a ban on freezing the mattresses that is harmful to women's health. My colleague Sobol was absolutely right. It's unfortunate that Mr. Milinović is a gynecologist, but obviously he was never on the other side because there's nature that didn't allow him to do so so so that he can really get an egg-cell puncture procedure, hormonal therapy and all the things that women want to get to their child have to go through in the process of medically helping fertilisation. Not an easy procedure, not a painless one. And we, by an administrative decision in the ministry, decide that women are in fact only suffering further without major effects. So her chances with this law are shrinking significantly to reach the child. And in the end, I have to agree with some of my predecessors who said that the whole policy, not only Mrs Kosor, but also Mrs Adlesic, the woman who runs a liberal party, fell into the water at the moment. So their policy and their obviously only a declarative struggle for women's rights has fallen to the exam at this point. Women are, unfortunately, the ones in this process are the most exposed to medical treatment and all that it carries with it. So at this point they're placed in one position that they're both much better at fighting for. Because of what I have stated here because the law is rigid and it will not help to make Croatia much more born medically aided by fertilisation, I will vote against this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-08-0.u36159	Thank you. We have three corrections to an incorrect quote. First is the distinguished representative Neda Klaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-08-0.u36160	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Here I am correcting Mrs. Opacic's quote which says, unfortunately, the profession did not write this law. Mrs. Opacic, that is incorrect, because this law has not only done the profession, but it has respected the opinions of all interested people, because it has been in public debate for 15 years at the end. He contributes to life and prevents manipulations and traps and fertilization procedures. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-08-0.u36161	Now it is up to the honourable representative, Sjepan Milinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-08-0.u36162	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, I also wanted to correct the same assumption as incorrect that it wasn't a consulting profession. Of course, the profession and all the moments and presentations of the minister are also evident that the profession is certainly consulted, as well as the directives set out in this section of 2004 and 2006 speak of this professional work. That's it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-08-0.u36163	Thank you. And distinguished representative Ivan Bagarić, correcting the incorrect allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-08-0.u36164	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. The colleague said that in Italy, after the rejection of this article of the law, that law, etc. It happened and it improved like this and so on and so forth. That's not true. Because the court in Italy only approved the creation of more than three embryos. However, the court has continued to explicitly maintain parts of the laws prohibiting storage, freezing, removal, disposal of embryos after implantation. The article 13 that prohibits any form of selection of the embryo remained in place. ... Please. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] So neither freezing nor heterologous fertilisation is permitted, nor even an egg cell donation is allowed. What am I talking about? Well, that's another thing.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-08-0.u36165	Thank you. On behalf of the Government of the Proposer, the State Secretary, the esteemed Ante Zvonimir Golem, will address it. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-08-0.u36166	Mr. Vice President, I thank you. So first we'll give one explanation. In Italian law, there was a formulation, forbidden to freeze. The Constitutional Court abolished this formulation because during the fertilisation process, it means for storage, but for the sake of the procedure, there is a need for freezing if the plot cannot be returned immediately, but it also said in the same provision but that it must be returned within the shortest possible period. And it was a change. But there's no longer any trap storage. Therefore, that is not the reason. Secondly, I would ask, I believe that the minister is fair and correct, but Minister Milinovic is not calling on the minister because that is not how it is done. At the very least, it is rude to call from Mr. Minister why the minister, if the minister had felt it, once felt what it was so that he could go to it differently. I think that was degutant.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-08-0.u36167	Please don't throw it away. The violation of the Rules of Procedure is the distinguished representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-08-0.u36168	Infringement of Rules of Procedure of Article 213 which speaks of the usual behaviour of all those who speak in the Croatian Parliament. This is an outrageous de that the minister but a secretary of state gives lessons.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-08-0.u36169	Please, what article was injured?
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-08-0.u36170	I told you, I won't say it again.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-08-0.u36171	Yes, repeat which article was injured.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-08-0.u36172	... the one that. [[The speaker is not on, you can't hear it.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-08-0.u36173	What article was injured?
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-08-0.u36174	I said sir. The one who teaches the council's counsel in this way, when possible. Well, that was never possible. Mr. President, this is an obligation for you to protect the MPs and the dignity of the home you are currently chairing. It's your duty.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-08-0.u36175	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-08-0.u36176	And I warn you of your duty.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-08-0.u36177	Please, sit down. So now that you're talking about it, we've had on several sides this time really very difficult words and indiscipline, and right now you're expressing your indiscipline. Please stick to the line. I agree that the Secretary of State may have used some inappropriate words but they are also against a minister who is not using inappropriate words here. Well, don't expect it to be returned. Thank you very much. And now it's the honourable representative Miranda Mrsic's turn.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-08-0.u36178	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President. They say this modernized law, we can put it in quotes if we can call it a law at all, I definitely oppose scientific medical achievements and citizens remain the same as they have so far go to artificially assisted insemination abroad and no one can forbid it. It cannot prohibit them from a state and at least a state that is declared to be intrinsically intrinsic and in practice does exactly the opposite. The interesting thing about this law is that it makes it difficult to make things easier and it actually delegates what it should regulate despite all the efforts of both the Minister and the Secretary of State to convince us that it's different. This law should be a relatively modernised version of the law, which includes in the legal frameworks modern scientific achievements and new legal and social fluids of society, and by the following logic, this more modern law should regulate its area in a more modern way. Unfortunately, as is the case in other things that the HDZ suggests in us is happening vice versa. The new law is more conservative than the old one. And what's the problem with these extramarital communities? Are these abnormally sick people who couldn't raise their own child? Obviously, since this law is discriminatory and de facto forcing these couples to, regardless of the reason they live in an extramarital community. Besides, society and the state shouldn't be interested. If they want their own child, they must register first. Is that something that this country is going in some direction that this country shouldn't go in? There they will sign a paper that gives nothing greater and no less rights than those they have so far but that humiliation is a condition for the state to help them. The extramarital community is equal to the marriage community, and this should finally be respected by the legislator. But we're going to the other side. Imagine yourself as a benevolent donor and a donor of genetic material, donate a part of yourself to help those who are in trouble and are satisfied to go home. 18 years later, two of the three newly created persons take advantage of the right to find out who their biological father and mother is that this law explicitly allows them so they and their lawyer knock on the door of your quiet home and sue you for bad genetic material because the bank made a mistake and did not check whether sperm or egg cells are in order to have health problems and destroy both your life and your family's destruction. Or one day in some desert debate, three foreigners suddenly appear claiming they have the right to part of the inheritance because the deceased is their biological parent. Think about what you're doing with this law. This law definitely gives a lot of authority to the offspring and doesn't protect the donors at all. And who, under such conditions, ever wanted to be a donor, might be even better off asking who benefits from mass giving up sex cells. Apparently some circles that wrote this law. Apparently, this modernized law opposes scientific and medical achievements by allowing the freezing of sex cells but by prohibiting the freezing of embryos and the problem is very simple to express. Frozen egg cells can only be fertilized in about 1% of cases. No matter what the secretary of state's head, I think he'd be smarter off finding information that he could.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-08-0.u36179	Please, no polymizing with the secretary of state whether he smiles or not.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-08-0.u36180	The success of pregnancy by using frozen embryos is up to 30 times greater, which guarantees a much greater chance of the success of the initial and all attempts of assisted fertilisation and much less unnecessary exposure of patients to hormonal stimulation. So it's scientifically logical and mathematically clear that the freezing of embryos is the most optimistic method and yet this law not only allows but forbids the freezing of embryos. The law should be based on sound, verifiable, scientific premises. These premises say that there is a benefit of freezing the embryos because fertilization is far more successful. These are facts and these facts should be respected. It's always a matter of what happens to extra embryos. Excess embryos would not have to be destroyed because smart politics could have preserved any frozen embryo and none of them would have failed due to negligence. Families who want one, two, three children can have frozen embryos and use them in any subsequent pregnancy attempt instead of each time having to go to hormonal stimulation. However, it is easier to ban frozen embryos and thus force couples to undergo longer, more painful, and painful procedures. And lastly, I would pray if the Secretary of State showed up again and asked to answer two or three questions. The first question is that he finally gives us the names of the experts who wrote this law because in 2004 the law that was written knew exactly who was writing and who was responsible for it. And secondly, to give me the article of the law, the minister said in his address to the MPs that if medically justified, a woman’s embryo could be frozen, to give us an article of the law. I've read the bill three times, and that bill doesn't say it anywhere. Is it again a fluctuating law like our health reform, so things will be resolved in walking? And for the end, Italy and Germany have banned the nominal freezing of embryos, but both have a clause that in the event of need and medical justification, traps can be frozen. Germany works in 95% of cases, Italy in more than 90% of cases, therefore it is not the thesis and the reason why it would not allow the freezing of embryos. The law is rigid, conservative, backward and will definitely bring Croatia back to the dark, countries such as Albania and the countries surrounding us, the type of Serbia, Bosnia and Herzegovina. So I wouldn't want to be in this company.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-08-0.u36181	Thank you. We have two corrections to incorrect allegations. First respected representative Ivan Bagarić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-08-0.u36182	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. A colleague Mrsic said this law is what it is and will bring us back to the dark of the countries as these and they are, etc. I think it's completely wrong and wrong. So, these laws and more restrictive, we've seen, there's Italy, there's Austria, there's Sweden, there's many other countries. On the other hand, I don't think it's dark, even though we're in company with Bosnia and Herzegovina, why should we be? It's a friendly, neighbouring country and I live there and there's no darkness at all, believe me. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-08-0.u36183	Thank you. And a second correction to an incorrect quote. Honorable representative of Andrija Hebrang. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-08-0.u36184	Thank you very much. I'd fix the same colleague if it wasn't dark, and the correction is next. The donation of egg cells is prohibited in Germany, Austria, Sweden, Norway and Slovakia, and there is no darkness there. At the same time, the donation of sperm and egg cells is prohibited in Austria, Germany, Denmark, France, Ireland, Norway, Slovenia, Sweden, there is no darkness either. And it's not regulated to donate sperm to nine states, to donate egg cells to ten states, and at the same time to donate egg cells and sperm to ten more states. If it was dark in them, then the whole of Europe would be in the dark, and it wasn't, I traveled through it, you can see around.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-08-0.u36185	Okay, so it's not a bou of darkness. All right. Let's move on. It is now up to Commissioner Ingrid Anticevic-Marinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-08-0.u36186	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. The minister was defending this law when he tried to defend something indefensible and left the secretary of state here to defend him against these attacks. And Mr. Secretary of State instead of defending the settings, although he has an impossible mission, such a law, he resisted his toe to defend the minister from the MPs. Mr. Secretary of State, you and your polemics and so argue with your minister, which is nothing that I give you for the right to perform in such a way, and not here you have fallen upon the MPs. It's not your first time, but no one's doing it. It's you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-08-0.u36187	Please subject, subject. Let's go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-08-0.u36188	Now we're going to go right through the medias. The authorities would like to see this law passed, and it's absolutely evident that it's not enough for them that it's not useful, but it would also want to be harmful. Under this law, I don't know if anyone will be born. We can't call this the Medical Insemination Act. But you must also know, the woman who has decided to give birth, and this can do so in a way that modern biotechnology allows, that it will do so regardless of the obstacles, no matter how much you prevent it and no matter how crazy legal solutions or suggestions are. Just as one cannot prevent a woman who has decided to abortion that any law or obstacle is in it. It's just facts you know better than I do. You also know that Croatia is extinct, that every newborn child must be very welcome. A smart country that takes care of the future, or government, must take care of it. I repeat, the World Health Organization said a few years ago that Croatia, the population of Croatia, will split in 50 years, so it will decrease twice, we will come in half. You also know that many women, many couples, precisely because they are not allowed to do so, go from Croatia to Latvia, Czech Republic, Slovakia and other countries. So is it a shame, please, that we who were after the human reproduction of the seventh country in the world, and the third in Europe that allowed the child to be born out of the test tube? We had a strong developed human reproduction headed by Dr. Simunic, now Dr. Vrcic and the entire team, the team of the world's voices. Today, not to repeat what my colleague Mrsic said, there's no sperm bank either. You didn't even execute what you were from '78 according to positive regulations. you are obliged to refrain because you have denied any means of human reproduction. You destroyed human reproduction in this second term, you started it in 2004 when the law that appeared here was withdrawn while Minister Hebrang, representative of fellow Hebrang, was minister. It's a law that began as a coalition government, was then established, sent to the procedure, mysteriously disappeared. This law, or bill, should also be seen within the framework of the Family Law. The possibility of abuse is precisely because something you refuse to regulate is inconceivable. What is the possibility, or who will prevent something that has caused great public surveillance. Doctors claimed that women in Croatia had given birth to other people's children. Women also claimed that their egg cells were stolen. Who can stop that? Who can stop a doctor from doing that? True, a small number of doctors can do that. And we have this crazy situation that now insists on a change in the Family Law that a re-scheduled formulation that allowed it to be proven and otherwise, that it's not always the mother who gave birth to the child even though it was the part that was related to the woman whose ovary was born to the child contests motherhood to that woman. And we have these kind of mechanisms embedded in our legislation. So the law is already somehow accepting possible abuses. You will not be able to prevent this law from being misused in the first place. As soon as something is possible to do this technologically must be regulated. The smart legislator is still moving forward, accepting something that's possible. But it was important to you to ban cloning five years ago. So, what Croatia is unable to do, at least not at this stage of development. These are serious truth issues and open both ethical and moral issues. That's not at all controversial. But if we go from the point of view of the culture of life, not the culture of death, then this bill would never come to our benches. When there's a weapon factory, there's no ethical problem. When someone kills someone here and there, things from the black chronicle don't ask ethical and moral questions. So when we have a death factory, you don't ask questions like that. When a new life is to be born and in a difficult situation in which Croatia finds such issues are raised. Well, that's crazy, that's stupid, that's not human. We need to develop a culture of life and everything. And so there's only one resolution, what biotechnology at today's level of development allows for something that benefits a person and something that harms him. And that's not the problem if we go that way. So isn't hypocrisy great that research at stem cells and all those other options that serve to treat are allowed. There are no moral obstacles, please nice when the rich need to create spare parts. But when our citizens are looking for a solution to these questions, that's what they're being defended. Of course you've made a certain obstacle, but you won't be able to forbid them. The truth that it will cost the citizens, however, this law will certainly not prevent it. So, you see, there's still a perfect secret here who's been making this bill and what is the profession, which are the experts to see. Commend to them. But James Watson, the man who discovered the DNA structure on these issues, spoke long ago. That these questions should be asked by women who want to become mothers as individuals, not by a group of men who propose the law. He literally says: “My principle is quite simple. Most decisions should be left to women, not to men on these matters. They carry children, and men, as you know, often run away from their own. That way, we'll be more responsible for the new generation. I think women should be allowed to decide. As far as I'm concerned, he says, I think it is better to keep the medical committees composed of men away from the event."
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-08-0.u36189	Yeah, but gender equality? We also have one correction to the incorrect allegations, the distinguished representative Ivan Bagarić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-08-0.u36190	I need to correct my colleague, Ingrid Anticevic, who said it was a crazy law. So there's no crazy law and it's not this crazy law, it's a very good law. And another incorrect allegation when she said that there could be a disappearance of sexual cells I don't know everything, so if there's something detailed in this law, then among other things, it's been elaborated and the storage of sex cells is then bioethical and every other commission and I don't know everything else that will ensure that it doesn't exactly come to what you're afraid it will come. But we have to read the laws of our colleagues. Here you can read on page 19.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-08-0.u36191	Thank you. Now it is up to the honourable representative Stjepan Kundić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-08-0.u36192	Dear Mr. Chairman and Mr. Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. Much is said about the medical aspect of this law, and I will express my view of this law through a purely ethical philosophical and secular question. I remember a good debate seven months ago of that same law when a distinguished colleague, Marijana Petir, was marked to conduct a medieval debate. Of course I don't agree with that, but I can get through a lot worse today. Namely, I'll be back in the old days. More specifically, I'll return to the Old Testament. These days we have celebrated the birth of John the Baptist, who is surely familiar to you, who is the last prophet of the Old Testament and who announced the New Testament. Born of Mother Elizabeth and Father Zechariah. But in the age of parents when they didn't have any chance without the creator to do it. Of course, that's my belief. I believe today that there is perfection in nature that controls a higher power that I believe simply. But you know he went bad for his moral reasons. Herod cut off his head because he protested against his marriage, or because he lived with his brother’s wife. That's one thing. Now I'm going to do another crackdown, and the digression is called when we recently had the Hunting Law where I was very impressed by the debate of the distinguished MP Mirela Holy who in her first sentence when she was expressing her argument said listen, I'm going to be against this law because people are killing animals. I'm against it, if I remember correctly. And she was against that law because she obviously thinks the same thing that there is one perfection in nature and she has the right, if I get it right, that's how she thinks. Namely, what do I want to point out? Respecting the great knowledge and Mr. Mrsic, whom I greatly appreciate, knowing a fellow knowledge of all of ours, do not think that I am coming back here for real, but simply this worldview gives me the right to support the maximum that has been passed in this law by the government and precisely because it is one of the maximum that I can tolerate, I will support this law. And I will one day finish thinking from the esteemed theologian Zivko Kustic, who says God cares for his people for every child. Of course, I am in favour of this law and, of course, of that part of it that it is not misused and that it really gives the Croatian people a chance to increase its numbers. And yet another, here is our dear esteemed Slovenian friends, 15-year-olds, giving him a chance to find out who his parents are under certain conditions. So under conditions I don't know, some diseases, hence our 18-year-old and 18-year-old is a man who also gives him such a right he needs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-08-0.u36193	Thank you. We have one correction to an incorrect quote. First of all, let me, first of all, it's a correction to an incorrect quote. Mirela Holly. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-08-0.u36194	Here it is, I will correct, or partially correct, a respected colleague. I was against that law, not for killing animals, but for killing animals for fun, entertainment and sports purposes.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-08-0.u36195	Thank you. Now we have two replicas. One truth was God after, but okay, we'll admit it. First, she is a respected representative, Ingrid Antičević-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-08-0.u36196	Here's your colleague, your discussion was full of both Bible quotes and your worldview, which is quite fine from your point of view. However, find me a scripture from the Bible that says that reproduction can be performed exclusively by sexual intercourse. Where is that written please? In all editions, you may have one special edition, the one in the leather connection. Now look at this. With what right does the government, the state, the civil government impose a world-class view? That's why there's faith and religious law. Please, as a believer, do they need civil law that prevents him from acting as the civil law allows? The church is, my dear fellow, a church of crosses, not a sword that will punish and forbid. Whoever loves, please, the true believer, does not need the kind of civil prosthesis offered by Minister Milinovic who has escaped.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-08-0.u36197	Thank you. And now we have a reply to the replica, the esteemed representative Stjepan Kundić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-08-0.u36198	... the word propagation. [[The speaker was subsequently activated.]] I don't think that's a very appropriate word in this discussion. That's the first one. Secondly, look, I have a part of the voters I've got my trust from. That part isn't all 85% of Catholics for me either, but that part of me that gave me confidence will support my debate, you understand? I have to, not only speak my mind, but I have to, and that's why I set myself up like that. So, I have to get back to the base, if they heard I was defending their views. There you go. That's it.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-08-0.u36199	Thank you. And now we have, Your Honor, MPs, so let's stop throwing around all the time. Don't pollemize with people in benches. Come on, no more, now we'll forget everything. Now we have one replica, the esteemed representative of the Iron Flego. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-08-0.u36200	A colleague of Kundić, it is true that we should reach out to some moral lessons of the old age, but we have long lived in a new century because if we had not had paved streets, we would not have refrigerators, we would not have planes, we would not have glasses and so on. But astounding is the perseverance that you impose your views on others in an age - old way and limit their freedom. I'll tell you one example. If you go back to your constituency and say it's up to us, it's up to each of us to determine for himself what they're going to do with themselves, and we leave others the freedom of choice to do what they think is most pathetic to them. Then you would advocate a new age-long concept of freedom that has been worth 17th century here at the very least, and then you would advocate that understanding of human freedoms and human rights between the other and the General Declaration of Human Rights and the European Convention on Human Rights, so on that society where we are seeking, and which we are clearly acting contrary to what we say.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-08-0.u36201	Thank you. Replica reply, distinguished representative Stjepan Kundić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-08-0.u36202	I was aware when I spoke this way that I was about to hear a replica like this. However, lasting values are in the Holy Scriptures that I will never give up, and I don't think HDZ rests on that basis.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-08-0.u36203	Dear MPs, but we said you wouldn't be anymore. She said no more. Please don't throw it away, it applies to everyone and to Mrs. Anticevic. And now it's time for the honourable representative of Dragutin Lesar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-08-0.u36204	Dear colleagues and colleagues. But calm down in the courtroom. Dear colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Secretary of State with associates. I first ask myself and to all of us the question, I found no answer to these questions in the light of the law. Why does Croatia even need this law? Who in Croatia needs this law? I expected in an explanation, for example, how many couples in Croatia would want to have children, but can't? How many of them are married couples who have these problems because of the infertility of a spouse and the information that is the problem where both spouses are infertile? And really whether it's a thousand married couples, 5 grand, 15 grand or 30 grand. How many children are born annually in Croatia? How much would you contribute to the birth rate if you made a modern one, passed a modern Law on Medical Aided Insemination? Is it possible that the government doesn't have that information? Or would your data have contributed to a more liberal approach, so they didn't give up on the basis of the law? Secondly, whether married couples especially decide on assisted fertilization from hira, post-modern, for choosing the color of the child’s eyes, height, sex, athletic development, the IQ, or the life-threatening situation in which she has found herself looking for the help of modern science and profession. And my third question to the promoters and defenders of this law is what do you think, respected ladies and gentlemen, colleagues and colleagues, will you prevent women in Croatia from getting medically assisted insemination with donated and egg and seed cells? Will this law prevent women who are not married from subjecting to medically assisted insemination? If there's a good joke at this table down here, I'd beg to be heard by all of us, so we can all laugh. So, and the third question, are you sure that the medical support register in Croatia will be correct? You will not achieve any of this because women and married couples who cannot have children, who want this service of science and medicine, will benefit in other countries. And then your register will not be worth anything or will be completely incorrect or partially accurate, and all the fears you show fall into your water, because Croatia is not an island closed in space, people in Croatia communicate with the whole world and know where they can get this service in a more quality way, or more liberal. You justify these provisions with moral, ethical principles, with the help of the church, and it seems to me that the only reason you are doing this is because you are protecting the health budget. You want to save on money and nothing else. By referring to the personal worldview of each of us, we are making a terrible threat, we acknowledge that we are making laws in the light of the world and thus preventing the right to choose. The law does not force anyone to use science services in assisted fertilization, but gives the right to those whose worldview does not prevent it. And by the way, I did not find in the Constitution that the Croatian Parliament must pass laws according to its own worldview. If we recognize that the laws of such a sensitive area are based on our own worldview and that we are very concerned about those citizens who have different worlds, and those whose worlds of worlds defend the use of such aid by God’s command will not benefit them. Such a law already exists and is the oldest of the laws I know of. Then why do we need another one to ban something? This law, if I understand correctly, prefers homologous fertilisation, prohibits the fertilization of eggs and semen cells. So couples where both spouses are infertile will not be able to use it in Croatia, but will use it in the Czech Republic, Slovakia or elsewhere. The right to an assisted insemination is only women in marriage. And what about the widows who were married, they had one child, they wanted another, or when you talked about it, you just mentioned girls, you didn't get married. I know of widows who wish to have a second or third child. It's a personal light again, I guess. Finally, he says if the attempt to aid insemination fails, the second attempt is all over again. So, harassing women, women who are already in such a difficult situation because of this personal situation where she was found, one attempt at all over again, another all over again, the third all over again, the fourth all over again, until you kill her will or until you turn her away. The child has the right to know who the biological parent is. He has the right to request access to data, to the register. Before that, I suppose the child must even know that he was conceived by an assisted insemination or you will create a situation, a familiarity and fear that all children will suddenly question their parents and seek insight into the registry to see if they have not accidentally begun the medically assisted fertilisation. They say to prevent women from possibly being brothers and sisters. And what does that mean? That anyone who wants to get married in this country and marry a parent must give a DNA report that they're not related to blood, that they're not brothers and sisters. So what do you think doesn't happen in small, closed, narrow environments where unfortunately marriages are made in a blood relative. Not medically assisted insemination, but natural. We close our eyes in front of the fact that we have a historical view of it far more than Croatian medicine could perform a yearly procedure in medically assisted insemination. No one's offering solutions there, and this is where we're going to introduce the MPO gendarmes. And imagine and think about how children will behave when each of them can suspect and seek insight and see whether or not they are,... His parents do that. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] 34 countries of the day in processing and analysis, 21 respects the identity of the donor, 10 is not regulated or not specified, only 3 do not exist there, these are Austria, Sweden and Switzerland. We're back at the top, top of it. In 36 treated countries 14, 14 allowed the donation of both seeds and egg cells, at 10 not regulated, into 8 banned. We always use the most rigid patterns. We sail around the world, on the globe, stop in the ports and always pick up some virus that drags us back instead of in advance. By reading the bump I counted 12 forbidden and 16 times not allowed. A more appropriate name of this law would be the Law prohibiting medically assisted insemination, unless there really is a smarter step in it. And I'm done with the next one. Each of us has the right to its own worldview. And I respect that. And I appreciate a man who lives in accordance with his worldview, but I objected, I object, and I will oppose any one who tries to impose his light on me. The Bible does not give him this right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-08-0.u36205	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect allegation by a respected representative, Ivan Bagarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-08-0.u36206	Thank you. It is incorrect that fellow Lesar that this law can be called a medical ban law as you have stated the aided insemination. Because they have a name and he's what he is. And I agree with you, too, and I'm joining you. I absolutely don't accept that someone else is prescribing my own worldview to me and that I have to respect it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-08-0.u36207	Thank you. We also have one replica, which is the distinguished representative Ingrid Anitčević-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-08-0.u36208	I mean fellow Lesar when you asked the question that it was the real question. Who needs this law? No one. Not from any of the world's horizons or anything else. Why do those who think life begins with insemination? It's a religious dogma, and I respect those who respect it. And I respect that, and I think so. But what right do I have to impose that opinion on the unbelievers for whom life begins with birth? Please, nice. If the state laws are going to be identical to church laws, we don't need someone in this country anymore. Then why do we need the state? What are you talking about? Well, that means you don't trust your own church, but you still have to pass the law, because you don't respect church laws. So you need more of this prosthetic. This is a law that's meant for everyone, so whoever loves it, go ahead. We today, after all, this is the present opinion of the church. She also changed her position on organ donations. Today they're saving lives. So it's not something specific. It has changed in that sense and its own teaching on these issues. So we were supposed to discuss here today whether we're for surrogate motherhood or not, which is one of the biggest forms of self-sisters. Many countries already have that. Well, you doctors know very well that today's 16-year-old girls still have myomes, still as benevolent forms. They're out of uterus. Well, we have 100,000 infertile couples. So is that what you gentlemen are thinking? You say this law was passed on the trail, life begins with insemination. No, I don't. Life starts when we get rid of this pest control.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-08-0.u36209	Please have a replica of you at Lesar's exhibit. Hold on to that, don't make those. You do a mess all the time, you try to impress your clubmates, but it really doesn't work. Don't do this. Do it against you and against everyone else, against the Parliament after all. The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative of Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-08-0.u36210	I promise I won't try to impress my colleagues from my club of representatives. Comrade Ingrid, you have made a very good point about who needs a law like this? But I have to remind you of the next fact. When the bill was discussed at the government, a member of the government left the session and later in public statements advocated the completion and repair of the law. She didn't say that to the government. She said that to the press. Another member of the government has expressed hope that an agreement will be reached when the law comes to the Parliament that all these remarks will be resolved. It wasn't done. And now, indeed, who needs this law in the consciousness that women of Croatia will be forced and forced to use services abroad because of such provisions of the law. So by the law of the kind of friends that she is dear, we will not solve that women will not benefit from what we in Croatia ban, but we will prevent women who are poor from using it, because the rich will go abroad. And we're actually leading a new injustice to women. The poor thing won't, the rich one will. And this law was written by rich people, not poor people.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-08-0.u36211	Thank you. And you don't want to leave the assembly without throwing something away. Now it's the guest of honor Mirela Holly. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-08-0.u36212	Thank you, Vice President. At the very beginning of the debate on the proposal for a Law on Medical Insemination, I would like to say that I will not support this bill for a number of reasons. The first and fundamental reason is that in its essence, this law is extremely discriminatory, it is in stark contrast and negates the provisions of organic laws such as the Law on Gender Equality and the Law on Discrimination of Discrimination and thereby delegates fundamental human rights, and respect for human rights is the basis of every modern, democratic, civil value state, and this is the state we allegedly want to be. There have been a lot of words about the various aspects of derogating human rights and promoting discrimination between individuals and individuals and groups in this bill in the public over the past few days. And the third debate shows that this bill resists people who are suffering from infertility and that this law is supposed to be written. The expert public who is concerned about technical solutions that are contrary to best and most successful practices also resist civil society organisations as well as those dealing with human rights issues, as well as those dealing with family and demographic problems. Therefore, a question arises that the motion for a resolution ministry and the Government of the Republic of Croatia during discussions on parliamentary committees, but did not respond during the public debate. And that's why the government is pushing for a bill like this that really rarely resists the entire interested public. What is the point of adopting such a text of the law because solving one extremely difficult problem for a large number of our fellow citizens and fellow citizens who or who suffer from infertility, but who or who want to have children is certainly not the goal of this law although it should be. In spite of all the declarative commitment to combating the depopulation, and even the extinction of the population in some Croatian regions by ruling all their rhetorical efforts to repair the demographic image of Croatia despite, and a quality law that would regulate the area of medically assisted fertilisation can have a positive effect, however small it is to address this extremely large problem of Croatian society, this bill definitely has no aim to be a positive measure of an innovative policy. And that's extremely sad, because if we don't pass laws to help people of our citizens and citizens solve extremely sensitive and traumatic problems, if we don't pass laws to deal with key problems that we face as a society and a state, or if we don't pass laws to defend the public interest and allow the content of these laws to derrogate fundamental human rights and discrimination why do we bring them? Have we forgotten that we are government officials and officials from the Government and the Parliament here to defend and represent the rights and interests of our fellow citizens and fellow citizens, have we forgotten that our obligation is to build a society of equality that does not rest on discrimination. It was these citizens and citizens who addressed me and appealed to me to do everything in my power here in the House to prevent the adoption of such a discriminatory bill, to speak with their voice. And they and they warn us that this bill rather than the Law on Medical Insemination should be called the Donation Act in Medical Aided Insemination, and since 90% of the text deals with this problem. The reason is that they see it in deliberate manipulation so that everyone can catch the debate on donations and in order to quietly push through the ban on pollution, which is for people who are condemned to exercise one of the basic human rights and this is the right to the family through medically assisted fertilisation of disaster rights. For example, because of the ban on freezing of mattresses, the law does not foresee what is not possible in a case where, for objective reasons, it is not possible to do in a process of transfer of embryos, for example in the case of hyperstimulation when it is too dangerous for a woman and therefore for the plots to be transferred to a woman in a situation where the situation on endometrials is very likely not to occur or, for example, there is a car accident and a woman has to have an operation to save her life. The question arises which is why in these situations, because under this proposal, such interferences are being cast. In other words, for ethical reasons, it is absolutely unacceptable to freeze traps but it is not ethically unacceptable to throw and to use the termology of my colleagues and colleagues from HDZ and HSS to kill the embryos. Isn't that very hypocritical? In addition, what is allowed to fertilize only three egg cells in one procedure? What if these three cells stop developing? When a procedure is passed for women physically extremely painful stimulation in women's ovaries, 20 ovaries are formed but it is possible to use only three ova while others are frozen. Such provisions make it very difficult to fertilize, which should be the fundamental objective of the law but gradually increases the chances that women are suffering from cancer due to unnecessary exposure to hormonal stimulations in later life. Is that how human rights are protected? Discrimination of extramarital couples and women who are not in a relationship and suffer from infertility and who are prohibited from having children best talks on good intentions, sensitivity for fundamental human rights and respect for the Constitution and organic laws by the motions of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Therefore, this law, in the worst sense, testifies to the Government of the Republic of Croatia that all citizens and citizens of Croatia are not equal and equal, if for nothing else and then because of this sad argument, dear colleagues and colleagues I appeal to you not to support this bill.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-08-0.u36213	Thank you. It is now up to the honourable representative Miljenko Doric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-08-0.u36214	Mr. Vice President, distinguished government representatives, colleagues and colleagues. No matter what more people are at the gallery than in the assembly, I'm going to start you off with a few dilemmas that spoke before me and put up these dilemmas and we didn't get answers to them. It was a question to use the expression propagation or not to use the expression propagation. The Bible uses the term "distribute". We can say propagation for humans, for animals, and for bacteria, the virus uses the expression multiplication or replication because of a completely different way of increasing in numbers. So that's one thing. Second, reproduction exists sexually and sexually, known as Darwin. The Bible. They claimed to be colleagues that she wasn't changing. It's a big lie. In the Bible, there is an Old Testament and a New Testament with an enormous difference from eye to eye, tooth to tooth, understanding, tolerance, and help, all kinds of help to one another. Therefore, we must first correct this from the previous debate. I'd still say the next colleagues and colleagues. In every organized society, taxes are collected and used for what. For common good, for development, for health, for education, for science, for culture, for justice, for the military, for the police. I am now going to speak to my colleagues and colleagues, not as a member of the HNS, but as a scientist and a doctor, and I am going to be very far away from some of the things my colleagues from the HNS have said. By the way, you'll see I won't be against the law on Friday. I'll do something else. I'm in biomedical science, and I just want to tell you that in the last 30 years since the current law has been in place, there's been an enormous shift in biomedicine. More discoveries were in the field of biomedicine from 78 to today than from man to 78 years of age, and much more so. Unfortunately, we are not even representing citizens, although citizens expect us to apply these scientific discoveries to make them better both in health services and in industry, in production, in employment, in higher standard. Unfortunately, some of them haven't figured it out yet. When I was a student then science was approximately at the level of organ and tissue physiology, we were made what certain tissues do and what certain organs do. After a few years of finishing my studies, everyone was doing cell biology, which makes cells and how signalling goes between individual cells. Fifteen years after that, no one ever dealt with... already molecular events within the cell and molecular relations within the cell. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It's all happened in that period in those thirty years since we didn't like this law. Today he told his colleague Hebrang that we know the genome of many species. Right, and the human genome we met entirely, so the formula of life from A to G back in 2003. We haven't changed the law yet. What does that have to do with politics? Well, there are colleagues and colleagues. I repeat, citizens expect us to try every new discovery to make maximum and optimal use in everyday life for human improvement. We unfortunately repeat that we do not know and do not want to take advantage of it. When, in my last term, I talked about it, I apologize to those who will now listen to me for the second time on this subject, as a young scientist, went to France, got a scholarship of eight months. At that time, the French minister said fellow scientists for the needs of France in the next year, two, three primarily you will be engaged, primarily and significantly we will only finance three areas, genetic engineering for the needs of our pharmaceutical industry so that we can produce biological products of hormones and everything else, perfectly the way a man produces them so that we don't have to extract from various tissues of animals, which are substitutions etc. Then the semiconductors for the needs of the French electric industry and phyboptic fibers because they couldn't amputate, boost the signal through them and they solved it. After a year, two days goes a new series of goals. We have never set in us any goal of science to essentially upgrade it directly to what we want to achieve in the economy and in the life of this country. So we haven't changed the law in 31 years. It's embarrassing to me as a scientist. Don't use the discoveries of biomedicine in such a long time is something that is contrary to common sense, I can't say otherwise against common sense. There were colleagues and colleagues, periods in the history of mankind when scientific books were burned, including scientists. Those were the darkest periods. We don't burn books or scientists, but we absolutely deny them, and we don't want anything to do with what they've discovered. What they're telling us is that it's possible to do, we've been going around a big port for 31 years. I might pull a parallelism and say that we are going back, as far as I'm concerned, to an early period of cellular biology. If it pulled some kind of parallelism with other professions, it would be a return to the period when a TV was introduced, but which TV, black and white television. When a locomotive was introduced, which locomotive, steam locomotive. When an artificial light was introduced, what, a petral woman. It is a return to that period compared to today's possibilities of biomedical science. This is a law that humiliates science, scientists and the medical profession. That's my responsibility. I won't be against this law on Friday. I'll be out of this assembly on Friday so no one can connect me to this law and its consequences. Thank you very much, colleagues and colleagues.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-08-0.u36215	Thank you. Who answered? It's for the best. [[I'm giving up.]] Now it's the honourable representative Romana Jerkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-08-0.u36216	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Four strong reasons why the Law on Medical Aided Insemination should be adopted. For the first reason, we have an old legislation that doesn't correspond to the progress of biomedicine and even less to the needs. Is this law proposed by the ministry appropriate to those needs? Absolutely not. The other reason is demographic reasons. This law can't be a pillar of national population policy. That's what we agree on. But it certainly can, it should help give birth to more children in Croatia. Will this bill help? He won't. Third reason, the state is obliged to take care of the health of its citizens, we are obliged to do so to prevent couples from going to Maribor, Ljubljana, Vienna, Czech Republic, etc. Will this law prevent couples from going to Croatia for help? He won't. This law won't do it. And finally, we would have to lawly prevent abuses and manipulations. Will this law do that? He won't. Therefore, it does not respond to four key reasons why the Law on Medical Aided Insemination should be passed. And I agree with my colleague, Lesar, that this law, in this form, absolutely needs no one. Says the minister in his opening statement, you know, there were a lot of those who said better laws than none. I guarantee you that those who said that after reading a law like this, they changed their minds and they took it back. In my deep conviction, this law is unarranged, missing, in some segments and contradictory. For example. Today, the minister is talking about something that is not in the law at all. And finally, most importantly, this law allows manipulation and abuse. I'm terribly sorry, why didn't you make one precedent? Why does this law go beyond sound logic by emergency procedure? In fact, this indicates that you are not at all for constructive criticism, for a well-intentioned debate, because all of us here today on this side of the assembly are doing just that, we are well-intentionedly discussing this law with a desire and a intention to meet the needs of citizens and citizens of this country. And I would like you to tell us very much the mystery of who this profession was that took part in the adoption of this law, because here I have a memo signed by a professor of science, Željko Metelko, president of the Croatian Medical Assembly. It says here that the proposal for a law on medically assisted fertilisation has been fully implemented since the beginning of production with the participation of relevant professional societies, the Croatian Medical Assembly and the Croatian Medical Chamber. It's really hard to understand, and I find it unacceptable that the profession has not been consulted. And now I'd like to talk about something that I think is one of the key disadvantages of this law. So the law doesn't allow freezing. Today, the minister said that freezing would still be allowed in cases of women, for example. He gets the flu. A colleague Mrsic mentioned an extreme, which is what if a woman dies by some chance and by some chance? However, I would have set you up with another dilemma. It is about a young woman who is well-informed and who knows that there is a trend in the world at this point that is even regulated by legislation, so the law is regulated in some countries like that. in Slovenia, which is so-called Single embryo transfer. In translation it means one embryo, one transfer. So these are the world's recommendations today. It is considered to be extremely risky for a young woman to pass on three fertilized egg cells, i.e. three embryos. It's extremely risky. However, legislation in Slovenia, for example, says that women under 35 should not be transferred 3 embryos, they must not. The profession will tell you an expert man will never do that to a young woman. So now I'm asking a question, I'm asking a dilemma what if a young woman changes her mind and tells you to listen, so I don't want three embryos, I want to follow the world's trends and I want only one. What are you going to do at that point? To do something beyond her will. Well, you can't have that right. And then I ask you, and what are you going to do with the other two embryos? Do they become biowaste? Shall we throw them in the toilet? What are we going to do with them? Is that murder? Is that moral? Is that ethical? Is that acceptable? I'd like an answer to that question. So what I'm talking about is opening a very, very serious question not just from the aspect of morality and ethics. So, are we going to declare embryos a biological waste already and because it opens up space to manipulations and abuses. It is so simple to imagine a situation where this excess embryo of one or two becomes a commodity that has its price. Can you imagine an embryo that is somewhere extra being passed on to another woman? It's possible, it's possible, and you need to be aware of that. So, what did you prevent from freezing the traps? I absolutely don't understand this article and it's unacceptable to me. As for the article on married couples, we have heard a lot about it today. But I must say, I must say, he's extremely hypocritical to me. Why is he hypocritical? So isn't it hypocritical and discriminatory to allow a woman who isn't married to adopt a child and raise it herself, but on the other hand, you know that our legislation is possible. But on the other hand, he can't start in an out-of-marriage community. So it's extremely hypocritical. I understand what you really wanted to achieve in this article. But why don't you have the courage to say it? Why don't you have the courage to say no, we didn't want to let female homosexual communities have children. That's not what you wanted. But then have the courage to call it the name it belongs to. There are a lot of articles I could discuss. For example, let me also say something concrete by mentioning the article, Articles 8 and 16. I'm also worried because they're slowing down the process, bureaucratizing it, and needlessly. Needless psychological testing, counselling, psychotherapy, legal. Well, when all those couples pass, they just go to the gynecologist. But be careful, the commission must pass. What commission? Is that an ethical commission? Well, every hospital has a commission. The commission for what? Well, listen to someone who might fall back on their minds to set up a chemo commission so I don't know if they're supposed to give them any chemotherapy. That's the most absurd thing to say. For me, this law is a bad copy of the Italian law with a lot of confusion, indeterminateness and the possibility of abuse. This law brings us back 25 years. More money for fewer children with numerous, numerous open ethical issues even though you won't admit it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-08-0.u36217	Thank you. And now we have one correction to the incorrect assumption. It is a respected representative, Nedjeljko Strikic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-08-0.u36218	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, here's an esteemed colleague in several of her statements, she was even contradictory. I'll say only one when you said that the modern achievements of medicine in the world that I agree with you recommend the introduction of one embryo or fertilisation of a cell. Well, this law also predicted that you read article 15, so it's important to read that you know what you're talking about. So he says: “The out-of-body fertilisation procedure can be fertilized up to three eggs. ” The introduction of mattresses, the number of mattresses entered into the body of a woman cannot be greater than that consistent with professional achievements. It means you're following trends. And that's what the legislator predicted. Therefore, I also congratulate the legislators who predicted this possibility, foresaw which number is the largest but that one might. Are we in Croatia at this time on medical achievement to enter only one as Japanese? I don't think so yet. But the law made it possible when it was achieved in Croatia to enter only one.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-08-0.u36219	Thank you very much. Thank you. Now we have one replica. It's Honorable Parliamentarian Nadica Jelash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-08-0.u36220	Thank you very much, Vice President. A colleague, Jerkovic, when you listed four reasons why it was necessary to pass a law on medically assisted fertilisation, you also mentioned a demographic reason. You're right because I claim that right now in Croatia the biggest deficit is not the deficit of the state register that we're all talking about, but the deficit of newborns. So we're already having big problems, but now that deficit's coming up. We're already in a situation where we need to import labour. If there is no working-age population, the question arises: who will actually fill the state register and who will solve this deficit of the state budget in the future. And one more thing. You were wondering, or you didn't know the answer to who was the maker of this bill. It is indeed a mystery who made this legal proposal. And the fact that no one by their name wants to stand behind him speaks for himself. I'll use the dictionary of this particular law. So many people participated in the birth of this legal proposal. That's what it's called. That's why the law turned out to be bad. And with us in Međimurje, they would say “a lot of grandmothers are squirming children.”
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-08-0.u36221	Well, thank you very much. Now let's move on with the debate. It is up to the distinguished representative Bruno Kurelic. He's gone. He's losing his right to debate. And then behind that is the esteemed representative of Brankica Crlenko. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-08-0.u36222	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. This proposal for a law on medical insemination does not go a bit to improve the poor demographic image of Croatia anyway. This legislative proposal does not allow the freezing of embryos but only ova and sperm, and women must therefore undergo further trauma in the process of medically assisted fertilisation. Also, the treatment of infertility as predicted by the law applies only to persons who are married, which is inadmissible. The fact is that in Croatia there was a long-standing practice of freezing embryos, and this successful practice of Croatian medicine will disappear with a new legal proposal. The freezing of mattresses is a common practice of major medical centres in the European Union, and Croatia will be the only country in Europe in which it will be impossible and we can conclude that even that law from 1978 is better than now proposed. The number of infertile couples is alarmingly high. There are 28% of such couples in the City of Zagreb alone. The person with the problem of infertility in Croatia is about 20% in the fertilized age. Today reproductive medicine goes in terms of less traumatizing patients in the out-of-body fertilisation process. In Slovenia, during medically assisted fertilisation, the marital status of couples is not checked, and the freezing of embryos is allowed. According to one study in November last year, 44 couples from Croatia were on artificial insemination abroad, 28 in Slovenia, 15 in the Czech Republic and one couple in Belgium. The Roda Association noted that the proposal for a law on medically assisted fertilisation is the most radical and restrictive in Europe. A similar law had Italy recently, but the Constitutional Court settled it to the satisfaction of Italian citizens. The proposal for a new law reduces the number of beneficiaries of the right to medically assisted insemination because this right would no longer be subject to extramarital couples and reduces the number of methods of the assisted fertilisation process because it would not allow freezing of embryos to persons with infertility problem, although it is almost 20% of citizens. This draft bill directly violates the Law on Gender Equality because only married couples are entitled to the medically assisted insemination procedures, and any discrimination based on marital or family status is prohibited, so that, under the applicable law, users of the right to medically assisted fertilisation and extramarital couples. The health ministry provided for the new bill the right to donate eggs and semen cells, but the conditions under which the donation is provided guarantee that the donation will not be nearly enough because donations are conditional upon the law of the child being conceived so that when he turns 18 he finds out who his biological parent is. In other countries' experiences, by subtracting the right to anonymity in the donation of egg and seed cells, the number of donors is repeatedly reduced. In Slovenia, for example. This condition led to the fact that the first donation of the egg cell was completed only five years after the law was passed. At the same time, according to the profession, in Croatia about 400 people each year need a donation of seeds or egg cells. This bill doesn't suit patients. It offers unacceptable solutions, and it turns out that whoever prepared it did not understand the problem. Moreover, according to women, it contains discriminatory provisions because that fertilisation would only be available to women in marriage. The reproductive rights of women should be guaranteed to all women, regardless of their marital status. By passing a law that restricts women's rights not married to infertility, it limits women's right to free birth decisions, which is unacceptable. The fact is that in Croatia women who are not married naturally are still allowed to give birth to children. In other words, they're allowed to have children without their husbands. Then why can't I do it with artificial insemination? For reasons the child doesn't have both parents? A child is a child, a parent's love is unquestionably lived with that child with one or both parents. Setting up the idea that the family is a community of men and women negates the possibility of different families. For example, families of single parents or those where grandparents raise children. Such a way of thinking is humiliated by families that are different from ideals and imply the difference between children. Why would children born in traditional families with both parents be better or necessarily more likely to live happily than some other children? Every 5th family in Croatia is a single parent family. On average, such families are about 20 percent. The draft law did not include persons with a problem of infertility intended for the law, although in the Republic of Croatia two associations, Roda and Beta are actively dealing with the problem. This bill means that the success of the procedure due to the ban on freezing of mattresses will fall and significantly collect the procedure because after each failed attempt, a woman will have to re-stimulate the hormone stimulation instead of taking advantage of the frozen trap. And in the end, I'd say there's no greater desire than a woman's desire to achieve motherhood. It's not about artificial insemination because there's nothing artificial about it. In Croatia, since 1978, he has given birth to 7.5 thousand children with this method, and with some other methods, another 8,000 children, which makes up one small town. The European Union’s view is that infertility is a disease and must be treated with medically assisted fertilisation. Which is why to deny someone the right to parent by adopting such a discriminatory and in any case unacceptable legal proposal. We can conclude what has already been said here, that no one needs this law and I personally hope it will not be voted upon. It is an extremely important law to be brought into line with national and international legislation and to refer to the procedure of the draft law which will not be discriminatory and that will protect women's health. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-08-0.u36223	I thank you, too. The guest of Gordana Sobol is next. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-08-0.u36224	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State with associates, colleagues and colleagues. As I have already made it clear and loud on the Committee on Gender Equality, I will now say that I am deeply opposed to the adoption of this law on medical insemination as proposed by the Government. I object first because such an important law is passed by the will of the majority as an emergency procedure. It is inconceivable that we speak such an important topic in an urgent procedure, so just one reading, and of course here, now, this afternoon and evening, I would say, away from the public's eyes, so it really looks like what we're going to do, that one debate, we're going to survive, we're going to vote by the will of the majority, or the will of the HDZ and the parts of its coalition partners. It'll all fall into oblivion soon. I also object, because it is hidden from the public, the proposer hides from the public who actually participated in the drafting of this bill, the law from which the profession itself is being built, not to mention the public that had the opportunity to read the provisions of this law. I object also because the proposal for this law in its individual provisions is directly contrary to the fundamental constitutional rights guaranteed to all citizens of our country, but also to the provisions of the Law on Discrimination of Discrimination which we adopted last year and which began to apply in 1.1 this year and the Law on Gender Equality, which was passed as an organic law, because that former Law on Gender Equality was put out of force by the Constitutional Court precisely because it was not passed as an organic law, and according to the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, the laws governing equality are passed as organic laws. These findings and these thesis are actually not answered by the Proposer. The most generous of all I heard was when a representative or spokeswoman, I don't know, the Ministry of Health asked her to tell who was involved in making this bill, said that so many people in the last 10 years had been involved in making this bill so that who would now list them all. Oh, please. If I am not mistaken a few months ago when we discussed the SDP bill then it is said by the minister or secretary of state, it is not important now, that a working group working on the new law is formed and that within a few months, it will be presented in this House, and I, as a parliamentary representative, have the right to ask you, and you are also obliged to answer to me, but also to the Croatian public the reputation of who participated in this bill, in accordance with the Law on Access to Information, Mr. Secretary of State. It opposes this law because it does not respect our laws, does not respect international conventions, international documents which are, now I will speak in one part, relating to fundamental human rights. In this case, the reproductive rights of women and men. So not only the reproductive rights of women, but also the reproductive rights of men. The Convention and those international documents were also adopted by this Republic of Croatia and, based on such conventions and documents, adopted and laws that I had just spoken to. I will repeat and warn once again, there are bodies in this country that are responsible for warning and proposing, but we also have parliamentary representatives here if we adopt or want to pass some laws that are contrary to these adopted and accepted international conventions, and even more with adopted laws that we have passed right in this Croatian Assembly. This will remind me that from the recommendation of the Committee of Ministers of the Council of Europe and the Memorandum of Explanations relating to standards and gender equality mechanisms, women and men must be considered equally valuable and that both women and men must have an indirect right to decide on their own body, including sexual and reproductive rights. Such confirmation must be reflected in the development, implementation, access, supervision and evaluation of health social services, and in research priorities. This law is partly affecting the reproductive rights of women and men, but unfortunately the provisions of this law in the selection of medical methods do not allow women and men the highest standards of physical and mental health, and women and men have the right to be offered those procedures which are least harmful to their health. This law, when it comes to women’s health, has certain provisions that go to harm and do not go to the benefit of women’s health, because they prefer procedures that are far more painful, often subject to different hormonal treatments and which therefore go through very difficult periods and on the psychological side, and their partners are involved in all of this. Mr. Secretary of State, we also have the Health Protection Act, so I want to remind you, but also all of us here that this law in Article 3 says every person has the right to health care, and the possibility of achieving the highest level of health. Article 17 lists health care measures. One of them is also particularly prominent in ensuring the full health care of women, especially with regard to family planning, pregnancy, childbirth and motherhood. And Article 22 says, of the same law, that in the achievement of healthcare, each person has the right, among other things, to equality in the process of achieving health care, to a health service of standardized quality and equal content, etc., etc. My colleagues and colleagues, there is no supplement in that law either if they are married or if they are married. There's no such thing in the Health Protection Act. The Law on Discrimination, I remind you once again, and the Law on Gender Equality expressly prohibits any discrimination based on marital and family status. And the Proposer must take care of it. And while you were already saying that you asked for an opinion from the Department of Family Rights, I'm asking the question. We all know, I suppose we haven't forgotten, that it's the main body when it comes to the Law on Discrimination of Discrimination of the Office of the Police Attorney. I ask the question did you ask for an opinion, because it was given to him in power, an opinion on this bill by the Attorney General? Because it is the highest body, I remind you, which is responsible for the application of the law and the supervision of the application of the Law on the subsistence of any kind of discrimination. If I'm not mistaken, you didn't mention that opinion anywhere. It's inadmissible, and that's a kind word. It's inadmissible to deny someone medical attention just because he's not married or not married. The Law on Medical Insemination helps women and men, couples who are married, women who are single to exercise their fundamental right, to exercise their reproductive rights. If they are found to have a disease in the form of infertility, the state is obliged to help them achieve it first. The state is obliged to do so, because that is what our Constitution says, and that is what all the legal regulations that we have laid down and passed on the basis of the Constitution say. Let Mr. Secretary of State explain to me that there is no minister, how we are making a law that is in direct contrast with the provisions of the Constitution and the fundamental freedoms and rights that this Constitution allows all whether you are married or married.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-08-0.u36225	Thank you. One correction to the incorrect quote, Mr. Agent Ivan Bagarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-08-0.u36226	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Sobol, therefore, is incorrect to you when you say that the Health Protection Act provides the right for all health care, etc. Because medical insemination is not treatment, you understand. So you can't get to the law then, because the one who's infertile he'll stay and later infertile. The other thing you're saying is that this law prohibits me from medical care and then you say, just a little bit, to exercise my right to a child. What right? So ask a child if it has the right to be born under such and such circumstances. Wait a minute. And the other thing, so how are we even going to determine fellow Sobol whether one woman is infertile if she doesn't live in marriage, let me know. Which she's on her own, and then I needed to subject myself to expertise, maybe she's infertile to have a child. So let's not make fun of things like this.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-08-0.u36227	Thank you. Ms. Representative Biljana Borzana.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-08-0.u36228	Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Well, at first, I'd like to say that I'm a little surprised by the lack of discussion by the HDZ on this bill. Okay. We'll see by the end of this exact agenda if all of you who are here answer the word again is a very small number of debates. And I'm sure it's not about indifference, if we, of course, exclude this one philosophical debate and what my colleague Bagarić is trying to shed light on your face through the corrections of an incorrect assumption that I disagree with but respect the right to someone else's opinion. So this lack of debate, I'd say it's not about indifference because there are doctors and women in your club and men who may have had problems or know those who have had problems in terms of infertility in marriage. I would say that this is about you all agreeing together one law that has been imposed on you in some way because you do not want to object, and in fact, deep down, you are aware that this law is not good and that it will cause unwanted consequences for Croatia's ethnicity. So here today we are discussing a law that will directly affect 18% of couples in Croatia who cannot have children. We are discussing a law that directly in that negative sense will affect the ethnicity of the Republic of Croatia, which is unfortunately the same as in most developed countries, so in the fall. We need to pass a law here that will respect all medical achievements and that will make it easier for couples who cannot have children naturally through a painful and uncertain procedure. A law that will allow the world to reach as many healthy and happy babies as possible. Unfortunately, this proposal will not have such an effect, but it will cause exactly the opposite effect. I repeat, if this law is passed in the Parliament, those who will raise their hand directly will affect the reduction of the birth rate in the Republic of Croatia. So now those who vote should decide whether to take on such responsibility. I just don't want to believe that any of us want to. But I won't be surprised if the ruling majority doesn't surprise me on Friday. This bill clearly shows all the hypocrisy of this government. On the one hand, there is a concern for the fall of birth, and ways are designed to reach that point, and on the other hand a law is passed that will directly impact negatively on the reduction of birth. In view of the needs of Croatia today, a small number of medically assisted fertilisation procedures are likely to be carried out, and the number will now be further reduced. But a man like any living creature on earth has a pronounced urge to extend the species, so couples in our country who are unfortunately at that time when the time has come to have children, and unfortunately the HDZ government will have to go abroad. This law recognizes the exclusive marriage community as a prerequisite for offspring. This is certainly contrary to our other laws, so according to that logic, the Constitutional Court should intervene and repeal this law. I can't help but impose one thought, that HDZ has found a very successful model in which it makes laws that it negotiates with those with whom it's negotiated, and that definitely wasn't a profession this time. And then comes the Constitutional Court that annuls the law like it did with a rough Sunday. That would mean a wolf full of sheep on the count. There's me HDZs going through a law, but that unfortunate Constitutional Court ruled to break that law. This law does not allow the freezing of embryos. What does that mean exactly? This means that a woman who is undergoing a medically assisted fertilisation procedure each time after a failed procedure will have to go through the painful procedure of taking egg cells and traumatic and for the health of women a risky hormone therapy procedure. It should not be ignored that it costs not to be alone which is unpleasant, painfully, painfully any individual, any state is not important at all, but it is simply a cost that can be avoided. Now I wonder if after this bill is passed we'll go one step further? Namely, I will tell you such a professional thing, and I believe that a part of you may know it that is not doctors, that in Croatia, the spiral is a very popular way to regulate the family, so a very popular birth control method. In this method, women stay very often, perhaps less often, so she is not aware of it, remains pregnant, but there is actually an abortion, and before the woman was aware, there is an abortion due to the reaction to the spiral. And now I wonder if I have a law like this, will the use of spirals be banned in Croatia? Because that's how we have constant abortions. I think it's so crazy that you just can't believe that something like that can come up, but here's my God. I appeal to couples who need to undergo a medically assisted fertilization procedure to determine themselves whether they have ethical, moral doubts about the process of freezing embryos? So, they are left with a chance if they can't do it because of themselves, if they're more concerned about the desire for offspring, they should be allowed to do it. I also find what's controversial on several occasions already being said the possibility of a child at the age of 18 finding out who his father is. My colleague Crljenko spoke about what caused this proposal in Slovenia infertile, i.e. that people simply stopped giving sperm and egg cells simply out of fear of what would happen later. No one likely wants to see a dozen children appear after 18 years of that fine act. I'm lucky I'm married and I have two beautiful children conceived naturally, but it doesn't give me the right to stand above those women who aren't married, who live in an extramarital community and want to have children. This law also tells such couples that they are less valuable until they marry that their offspring are unnecessary for our government. But we know that life teaches us to have very happy children who grow up with one parent and also have very unhappy children who grow up with both parents who are married because, for example, one of the parents is an alcoholic or anything. So, from where we have the right not to give everyone equal chances, we simply have no right to do so. Therefore, colleagues and colleagues, I call on you to think twice before voting whether you want to vote this law that will directly reduce the birth rate in the Republic of Croatia and make life more difficult for those concerned by the law. I hope there's still hope, that your conscience won't allow you because of all those little boys coming into the world artificially. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-08-0.u36229	Thank you. Mr. Representative Zeljko Jovanovic. He's gone. Ms. Representative Sonja Simunović. She's gone. He's losing his word. Ms. Representative Tatjana Šimac-Bonačić. Good to see you, too. Mr. Representative Daniel Srb. He's gone. He's losing his word. Mr. Agent Iron Flego. He's gone. He's losing his word. Ms. Danica Hursa. She's gone. He's losing his word. Mr. Representative Zlatko Koračević. He's gone. He's losing his right. Ms. Representative Mirjana Feric-Vac. She's gone. He's losing his right. And Mr. Representative Davorko Vidovic. He's gone. He's losing his word. Final review of Secretary of State Ante Zvonimir Golem. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-08-0.u36230	Dear Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen. At the end of today’s debate, it is certain that such a long and bitter debate over this law was expected. However, what needs to be started from the very beginning and from the beginning clearly and loudly is therefore about respecting the rights of the child. It has been 20 years since the adoption of the Convention on the Protection of the Rights of the Child, and it is necessary to look at this whole process, so the law that is being prepared from that aspect. In the end, the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia itself states this in Article 20(1), which makes it clear and loud that it is human, every human being has the right to life. When the Convention on the Protection of the Rights of the Child is taken and the Constitution is adopted, the Family Law and other laws in force, then the solutions that are presented in this Act are clearly imposed. However, even though there were differences in thinking, it was definitely clear today and loudly known, storage procedures that are not only freezing but there are other types of procedures in Europe are expanding, modern science is increasingly benefiting. That is why, since yesterday, a country that has not only stored the burdens today, we have already come to six European countries and is also expected to cross over in recent times and many countries because this process has solved all moral dilemmas. On the other hand, the safety and quality of such a procedure is extremely high. I have also brought to those who are interested in this the Separatists of the latest articles from the world and European scientific institutions in which all this is stated and can show it. By looking at this law, it will make a few things possible. It will allow the Republic of Croatia to no longer have a single doubt that something is happening that would not be appropriate, that something is happening where there is a particular suspicion that it is a crime. We kept mentioning it because the debate on this law has been going on for ten years. I will answer, as was the issue in health reform, when there was a question about any other clear and loud health minister said the author of the health minister, state secretary one, state secretary of the other, was the author of his ministry. He said it loud and clear. On the other hand, we said that for ten years. So I answer the question, there's been a debate about this for ten years. In ten years, attitudes have clearly been profiled, and it's no secret at all. The attitudes of the profession were profiled, attitudes of certain civil associations were profiled, attitudes were profiled if you wanted the Churches. But what was clear and loud, what had to be put into this bill, and it was put in place that these were no one's views but a clear and loud need to introduce a procedure that would not ask a question that I today could ask where all those traps that have been frozen over the past 30 years as they've been spoken of which no one knows or where they are, what happened to them, etc. And it wasn't the Church that determined it. It was science. You have a German textbook, you have a French textbook, science determines when it begins and at what point human life begins and when it begins to be a human being. I'm just always asking the answer where your traps are. The legal order has been passed, but the doubt remains. What we are with this law that can be said freely at the end of the day was expected to be regulated by law in the Republic of Croatia, and there is a need for law-making to ensure quality, that the National Commission controls the system, that hospitals must be accredited, that this can only be done in certain procedures. It's all in this law. It's all in this law. It's all in this law. And for those who have given, for example, one doubt that this may be a non-compliant matter, we have received confirmation from the European Commission, the law is absolutely in line with both European Union directives and at that point all three regulations mentioned in this law which should be regulated, which have been passed and which were also in the opinion. That moment with those rules in full and annexes of those directives. Therefore, it is not disputed. What is a message and what is a clear message must be, which is that the process of medical insemination is not treatment, but one procedure does not guarantee that success either, but that the procedure itself is a very difficult thing, something that the whole family is going through psychologically quite difficult, that people are having a hard time deciding. It's not a vaccination, it's not a doctor's visit to get an injection, it's a procedure that can take a long, long time. In response to the minister saying there's something, and there's nothing in the law, then we'll explain it this way. As I explained earlier, the Italian law has made something clear, the Croatian law does not formulate it. We didn't write anywhere in the law forbid the freezing of this or that. We have defined in the law what can be stored, it is number one, and we have not described the procedure itself, whether it is an initiation process, whether it is a procedure like this or one, which, on the other hand, is what the Italians got by amending the Constitution, we have it in this law and it is not disputed. Because procedure, we didn't write the first day to do this, the second day this, the third day this, no, it's procedure. We did not describe the types and ways of dealing with medical insemination and it was settled and it was legally resolved and it was unquestionable. And that's what I want, so as was said today during the debate I must be honest that I was a little surprised, but I have the right to say this for Croatian citizens, I agree. But during the discussion here let it be heard for Croatian citizens that this law will not limit, this law will allow, but will introduce order in a large part and certainly not cause what has been expected to be challenged all along. There was much more in this law. I think the debate gave most of the answers. And here's Mr. Vice President, we'll take the amendments to the vote. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-08-0.u36231	Thank you. Three corrections. Mr. Representative Miranda Mrsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-08-0.u36232	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President. Well, the secretary of state has made an incorrect assumption that six states have already banned the freezing of embryos. None other than Croatia has banned, and when we talk about Italy and Germany, then it is conditionally prohibited, because there is a possibility of storage for women's well-being and 95% of the cases are stored. And the law is obvious that it's unspeakable because the secretary of state himself said that there is such an interpretation of the law, so we expect there to be another affair that we've had so far.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-08-0.u36233	Ms. Representative Biljana Borzana.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-08-0.u36234	Mr. Secretary of State, it is therefore not about what you said you passed this bill because of the European Union. Yeah, you said that. So, the European Union has asked for an order, but definitely no one has said that this law should look like this, such a rigorous, lagging behind, insolent, not respecting any medical profession and progress. ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-08-0.u36235	The Secretary of State said that it is in accordance with the rules of the European Union, not at the request. Mrs. Representative Gordana Sobol.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-08-0.u36236	Mr. Secretary of State said this law would not limit anyone when it comes to medical insemination. Mr. Secretary of State, this law restricts one good part of our fellow citizens and fellow citizens who will not be able to achieve the possibility of having a offspring, just because they are not married and not married. In that part, this law is restrictive and I will repeat again, contrary to the Constitution and the positive legal regulations.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-08-0.u36237	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. I'm interrupting the session. Continuing tomorrow at 9.30 p.m. with the Annual Report on the work of the National Foundation for Civil Society Development, Report on the work of the Agency for the Protection of Personal Data, Report on the work of the National Council for Science of the Republic of Croatia etc., etc., according to the consolidated agenda. Now we're going to vote on the amendments and the law on the Final Proposal for a Law on Medical Insemination. The table is in front of MPs and MPs. I ask the Minister of Health and Social Care, Mr Milinovic, to be shown about the amendments. 1st Amendment 1 of the Club of Representatives of the SDP.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-08-0.u36239	The amendment is not accepted. The amendment is not acceptable because there is a difference in expression. Insemination is a process that occurs in conception. Medical insemination is also possible to achieve conception. In view of the above, the proposal may be referred to as the Law on Biomedical Supported Inception or the Law on Medical Insemination where the legislator decided on this second solution.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-08-0.u36240	Thank you. Ms. Representative Milanka Opačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-08-0.u36241	The term we have proposed for this law is the term used in the countries of the European Union, so this is something used in the World Health Organization. So this term is something that is common, so biomedically assisted insemination, and I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-08-0.u36242	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 1. The Health and Social Care Committee?
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-08-0.u36243	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-08-0.u36244	Thank you. It becomes an integral part of the law. 3rd, MP Romana Jerkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-08-0.u36245	It is not accepted by reason, earlier reasons of the 1st amendment, that there is only a difference in terms of medically assisted conception or insemination procedure and that medical insemination is considered an appropriate expression for legal... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-08-0.u36246	Okay. Amendment withdrawn. Thank you very much. 4th, the Club of Representatives of the SDP?
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-08-0.u36247	It's unacceptable. It is indisputable that infertility and the same need not be defined specifically by law as many other diseases in the Republic of Croatia are not legally defined. So we admit that infertility is a disease like the World Health Organization.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-08-0.u36248	Ms. Representative Milanka Opačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-08-0.u36249	The intervention with this amendment, therefore, to recognize infertility as a disease is necessary because to recognize infertility as a disease, then you would not be able to bind its treatment to any status and at least marital status. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-08-0.u36250	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 5th Amendment of the Committee on Health and Social Care?
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-08-0.u36251	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-08-0.u36252	It becomes an integral part of the law. Six, representative of Danica Hursa.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-08-0.u36253	It's unacceptable. The institutions which will carry out the medical fertilisation procedures and which will receive the authorisation to work are also not institutions where infertility is determined. Infertility as a disease is treated in the framework of many specialization disciplines and in many institutions, and that is why determining the failure of treatment determines the need for a second opinion.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-08-0.u36254	Mrs. Representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-08-0.u36255	I don't think this law should prescribe a second opinion because couples or people in need will look for that second opinion themselves. With this regulation, that is, by entering the law, we will create for many unnecessary financial costs because centres exist in Zagreb and large cities. So I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-08-0.u36256	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 7. The HSLS and HSU Representatives Club?
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-08-0.u36257	It's unacceptable. In the light of the amendments, the wrong assumptions are that the Family Law has led to the equalisation of the marriage and the extramarital community. It is also pointed out that the draft law and this provision provide for the rights of the child in the bill and, as such, children are above other rights.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-08-0.u36258	Who in the name of the club?
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-08-0.u36259	We wanted to point out once again that situation we had at the plenary session of the Parliament, and for the first time, in fact, the term of marriage mates is stated in Article 3(3). So, we insisted on equating the marriage and extramarital community, and given the much time spent in elaborated session, I don't want to take up any more time here, but I would like to say that in 2009 21st century and 3rd millennium, it is actually unacceptable to go after a health card in the left hand and with a wedding leaf in the right hand or in the mouth to exercise the right to medical care and health care. Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-08-0.u36260	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 8, Health and Social Care Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-08-0.u36261	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-08-0.u36262	It becomes an integral part of the law. 9, late, SDP counseling club. I've already read it, I've declared it, it's gone to second already. He can't. A SDP counseling club?
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-08-0.u36263	It's unacceptable. That's the 9th?
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-08-0.u36264	Amendment 9.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-08-0.u36265	It's unacceptable. As stated earlier in the amendment's explanation, it is wrong to assume that the Family Law has led to the equalisation of the marriage and the extramarital community, but also that medical fertilisation is a process of treatment for infertility, which is a clear point of view.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-08-0.u36266	Ms. Representative Milanka Opačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-08-0.u36267	So it's really amazing that you're treating a disease called infertility right now with marital status. So it's like telling someone with cancer because you're not married you're not getting any medication. If infertility is a disease like you said 10 minutes ago, then you must allow every right to treat regardless of marital status. And you also insult single-parent families with your reasons because you're trying to say that single-parent families are bad families and a bad environment for children's development, which is absolutely incorrect and you can't go against what our everyday life is. I'm asking for a vote, but I'm asking you to count your votes.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-08-0.u36268	Okay. Who's in favour of this amendment? Please, let's get on board, and then we'll vote. If an electronic vote is requested, it shall take precedence. ... Yeah. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] You're looking for a hand-to-hand vote. Let's see the electronic vote, and we'll see. Who's in favour of this amendment? Let's please get involved and vote on who's in favour of that amendment. The result? 40 for, 3 abstentions, 62 against. The amendment didn't get the required majority. Amendment 10, Club of HNS Representatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-08-0.u36269	It's unacceptable. The right to parenthood as such is not prescribed and clearly defined, while the right of the child to the parents is subject to the International Convention, the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and the Family Law.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-08-0.u36270	I remind you that the right to treat and protect health is the right to equality from law, the right to parenting, fundamental human rights. The commitment to the exercise of any of these rights to marriage is disrupted by the equality of all citizens and shall be discriminated against on the basis of marital status. There are no objective, scientific or medical reasons to link infertility treatment to the fact that someone is married. It is a backward approach and a poor development of liberal democracy today in the Republic of Croatia on today.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-08-0.u36271	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 11th Amendment, same club of HSLS and HSU representatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-08-0.u36272	It's unacceptable. As stated earlier in the explanation of the amendment, it is wrong to assume that the Family Law has brought about the equalization of the marriage and the extramarital community.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-08-0.u36273	Mr. Representative Korushec.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-08-0.u36274	That argument is also the same, but I really request a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-08-0.u36275	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 12th Amendment of the Committee on Health and Social Care.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-08-0.u36276	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-08-0.u36277	It becomes an integral part of the law. 13. HSLS and HSU representatives' club.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-08-0.u36278	It's unacceptable. The expression of gynecologist subspecies in the legal arrangement of the Republic of Croatia does not exist, but it is about doctors who may be specialists in gynecologists, and also with the possibilities of enjoying specializations in human reproduction of genetics and other specialities that make the expression appropriate. It doesn't exist.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-08-0.u36279	I accept your explanation. Our desire was indeed only to help in the terminology of which of the scientific experts and staff can explain the details of the procedure, the prospects for success and the possible consequences and dangers of these procedures for the woman, the man and the child. But this wasn't our condition to pass the law, I'm not asking for a vote. I accept your explanation.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-08-0.u36280	Thank you. Amendment withdrawn. 14th Mrs. Representative Romane Jerkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-08-0.u36281	It is not accepted, by reason of biology, one of the key experts in the medical fertilisation process in the part of the creation and monitoring of the embryo.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-08-0.u36282	Mrs. Jerkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-08-0.u36283	I'm withdrawing the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-08-0.u36284	Retracted. 15. The Health and Social Care Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-08-0.u36285	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-08-0.u36286	It becomes an integral part of the law. 16. Ms. Representative Romane Jerkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-08-0.u36287	It's unacceptable. It is precisely the seriousness of the procedure and all implications of the procedure that require, and in accordance with the Law on the Protection of Patients' Rights, that statement and the procedures provided for in that Article of the Law.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-08-0.u36288	Mrs. Romana Jerkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-08-0.u36289	Mr. Minister, you've bureaucratized this procedure, made it too long. I don't understand why many countries haven't done it. Article 8, we're talking about him, right? Article 8, yes. Article 8 implies psychotherapy that, in its name, prejudge the existence of a disease. I really don't believe that you think that couples who go to medically assisted insemination need psychotherapy, as well as legal and even less commission. Thank you. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-08-0.u36290	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 17th also representing Romane Jerkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-08-0.u36291	It's unacceptable. The legislative proposal does not enter into details of the procedure itself, and there is no need to define either part of the procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-08-0.u36292	Ms. Representative Romana Jerkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-08-0.u36293	Mr. Minister, but you said yourself that you would predict these situations, so it's logical to define them clearly in the law. I'm looking for a vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-08-0.u36294	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 18th Representative Bora Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-08-0.u36295	The amendment is not accepted. The proposed provisions of the law, in particular Article 19, consider that the options set out in the amendment are avoided, and we consider the amendment technically excessive.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-08-0.u36296	There's no representative. We should vote. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 20. SDP counseling club.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-08-0.u36297	19.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-08-0.u36298	19. HNS representative's club, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-08-0.u36299	It's unacceptable. The provision of the legislative proposal to be amended is in accordance with the International Convention on the Rights of the Child as well as the Family Law, under which the provisions of the child and man have the right to know about their biological origin
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-08-0.u36300	Mr. Minister, according to your explanation, only Sweden and Austria respect the international convention. Well, it won't be like that. You can't convince us. But if you're already pushing Croatia into the three club that way, then we have no words. So everything they do is smarter and bigger than us, it doesn't matter. What matters is that she made one or two countries. Thank you. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-08-0.u36301	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 20. A SDP counseling club?
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-08-0.u36302	The amendment is not accepted. The explanation is identical to that of the previous amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-08-0.u36303	Ms. Representative Milanka Opačić on behalf of the SDP club.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-08-0.u36304	So when Mr. Minister calls on some countries and calls on the Convention on the Rights of the Child, I'm just going to say that this amendment is as we have defined it, quite prescribed by the Slovenian Law. I remind you that Slovenia is a member of the European Union and is also a signator of the Convention on the Rights of the Child. So, in their law, they defined the possibility of a child learning all medical information about those who are donors or one or another cell, but not knowing the name and last name. In this way, as we have defined it in Croatia, any donation will be disabled, which means that in Croatia we have closed the door to all those who, with medically assisted fertilisation, can reach their child, now remain without it, or that they exercise their right and desire in one of the European centres. First of all, here in Slovenia, where such a thing is possible. And yet once again, Slovenia is a member of the European Union. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-08-0.u36305	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 21. The Health and Social Care Committee?
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-08-0.u36306	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-08-0.u36307	It becomes an integral part of the law. 22. The HNS rep club?
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-08-0.u36308	It's unacceptable. The legal provision provides for the possibility of medical insemination with the storage of ova and semen cells, while excluding the possibility of creating excess embryos and thus the possibility of manipulation of embryos.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-08-0.u36309	Mr. Representative Goran Beus Richembergh.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-08-0.u36310	It's interesting, Mr. Minister, that you have not called on the experience of other countries to explain this refusal. Well, as it would be if there was no solution in any country. Even Italy, of which you signed this, lost it in the meantime because the Constitutional Court abolished this provision. So how long does this close-eye thing go in front of reality and the need for medically assisted insemination to help people who can't have children naturally, or in the usual way? Why don't you look us in the eye when you reject our arguments?
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-08-0.u36311	Please, who's in favour of this amendment?
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-08-0.u36312	Here I am.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-08-0.u36313	Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 23. A SDP counseling club? Peace please, please, peace.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-08-0.u36314	It's unacceptable. It's unacceptable to store mattresses. Also, the success of the medical fertilisation procedure after storage of ova is today at the level of success and in the storage of embryos, and there is no particular reason to allow manipulation of human beings.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-08-0.u36315	Ms. Representative Milanka Opačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-08-0.u36316	Well, unfortunately this argument is something that is not true and you know it very well, but you only say what goes in favor of defence of such a law that is harmful to Croatian patients. The fact is that all associations, all health care organizations, when it comes to medically assisted insemination, warn that it is necessary to freeze the embryos. Otherwise, women needlessly submit to additional procedures, from hormonal stimulation, from the puncture of egg cells. So, one procedure that is not easy for a woman, is quite painful, difficult, and often can even cause some problems. So, Mr. Minister, you consciously as a gynecologist, as a doctor, as an expert, prevent women from using everything the medical profession in Croatia can, you bring us back a few dozen years and make it impossible for women in Croatia to use medical fertilisation without excessively repeating procedures to start their child. So you are directly working against increased birth rates, against more children in Croatia. And I ask you one more time how and where do you get the right to give up the future of Croatia and the number of children we unfortunately will not have under this law, and so far we have had them in the Republic of Croatia? I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-08-0.u36317	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 24. Representative Romane Jerkovic?
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-08-0.u36318	It's unacceptable. Frozen is not the only cell storage process, but there are other cell storage procedures. It is also today that most countries tend to give up freezing and completely move on to cell storage procedures. It's scientifically proven that the embryo is a human being.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-08-0.u36319	Ms. Representative Romana Jerkovic, withdraws. 25th Amendment of the SDP Representatives Club?
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-08-0.u36320	It's unacceptable. The statement in the article of the law is a broader statement and applies to patients as well as to patients, and we consider it appropriate.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-08-0.u36321	Ms. Representative Milanka Opačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-08-0.u36322	We definitely believe that there should be an association of citizens in these committees that brings together people who are being treated for infertility. I think it's a category of people who know best what they're going through and they know best how to protect their interests and interests all who go through the process of medically aided insemination. We therefore believe that the association representing and gathering these people should be represented in this commission. We're looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-08-0.u36323	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 26. Representative Zlatko Koračević?
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-08-0.u36324	The amendment is not accepted. The provisions of the laws proposed by the amendment to delete shall ensure the continuation of the species in the way it is biologically and genetically envisaged, which is the objective of most of Europe, and it would be inappropriate to remove the article to bring about a change in the genetic heritage of the family in full,
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-08-0.u36325	Representative Zlatko Koračević.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-08-0.u36326	If a woman in a normal marriage community is infertile, she's right. If a man is infertile, he's right. However, if both women and men in the marriage community have this accident and are infertile, you do not allow them to gain that right. Just because of the reason of my colleague and colleagues, because of the authority and president of the government of Ms. Kosor and the authority of the Deputy Prime Minister, Ms. Djurdja Adlesic and of reason. Because what difference does the adoption of a child have? Not at all. I ask you to support this amendment. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-08-0.u36327	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 27. A SDP counseling club?
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-08-0.u36328	It's unacceptable. The amendment is not accepted by reason of the same earlier explanation that there is no need or need nor is it allowed to store the traps.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-08-0.u36329	Ms. Representative Milanka Opačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-08-0.u36330	Mr. Minister, I'm sorry that you insist on passing one bad and harmful law. I'm sorry that you disobeyed the profession that warned you about exactly what we're looking for here in this amendment, which is that it's necessary to freeze the embryos, that freezing the egg cells is something that will not be good at the very end because it's simply a very small percentage of success after freezing the egg cells. You have been warned by experts, specifically Croatian doctors, because of you he warned that it is harmful for a woman, that it is harmful for our patients, that it is something that will ensure that we do not increase the number of children born and give birth but a reduction, and it is truly amazing that we cannot learn on the example of others but must constantly learn on our own skin and on the skin of our own citizens. Therefore, if in Italy it was shown that their restrictive law in this regard, the colleague said earlier that such a restrictive provision led to a major drop in birth by 2005 after the abolition of restrictive birth provisions, the number of births increased. Mr. Minister, once again, please think about the future of this country. We are an extinct country, and every day fewer children are born and you are making it impossible for us to get a certain number of children who can be born with the help of medically aided fertilization. 15% of couples in Croatia suffer from infertility. It's not a small number, and I call you once again, you're the Minister of Health, let's get moving until this law is passed.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-08-0.u36331	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 28th Amendment of MP Vesna Pusic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-08-0.u36332	It's unacceptable. Infertility, as I said, is the disease and the consequences of many diseases, but the procedure of medical insemination is not the treatment process. First, treatment procedures are defined in modern medicine and constitute a set of procedures and treatments to treat infertility, but when healing does not occur then an attempt to help or to try to help infertile couples who continue to have infertility can be followed.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-08-0.u36333	There are no MPs. We should vote. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 29th Amendment of MP Romana Jerkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-08-0.u36334	It's unacceptable. For the purpose of system control, provisions are laid down to allow quality system control with a regular report.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-08-0.u36335	Mr. Minister, it's about a minister who doesn't touch the core of this issue. I can't believe you won't even accept this amendment. The profession asked for a report on its work to be submitted once a year and not twice. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-08-0.u36336	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 30th Amendment of the SDP Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-08-0.u36337	It's unacceptable. Taking into account the competence of the National Commission, it is not possible to include in accessing the data of a person who may have been or have been a user.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-08-0.u36338	Ms. Representative Milanka Opačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-08-0.u36339	Mr. Minister, here's this last amendment on behalf of the SDP club until now you've refused. I still think this law is harmful to Croatian patients. What I would like to say to you now on this last amendment is that in the autumn we will send a decision to the Croatian Parliament to vote today as the day of combating infertility because today in Croatia is one of the sad days when you will obviously vote with your majority a harmful law. What I'd still like to say to you, Mr. Minister, is that women on many portals have sent you a message that marks the character of this law, which is "When the heart says child, the government says no.". And finally, we from the SDP club will not participate in the vote of this law, and out of the protest, we leave the Assembly, and the HNS club, and you vote the law that is harmful to patients and that goes against the birthrights and the strengthening of the birthright in this country. Vote against your own future.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-08-0.u36340	Who's in favour of this amendment? No one. Let's move on. 31st Amendment of MP Romana Jerkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-08-0.u36341	It's unacceptable.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-08-0.u36342	Thank you, Minister. Who's in favour of this amendment? No one. 32. Amendment to the Committee on Health and Social Care.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-08-0.u36343	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-08-0.u36344	It becomes an integral part of the law. We're going to vote on the law. Please, let's get on with it. There's no quorum. We can't vote. We'll vote when there are conditions. There's no quorum.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-08-0.u36345	We move to the Final Proposal for a Law on Medical Insemination, Emergency Procedure, P.Z.E. No. 360. The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. The government submitted an amendment in accordance with Article 166 of the Rules of Procedure. The amendment tabled must be agreed by most MPs because the debate has been concluded. We can discuss this, this amendment, this will be spoken to by the Parliament. Mrs. Vesna Pusic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-08-0.u36346	Thank you, Mr. President, on behalf of the HNS Club, for a 10-minute recess to consult on the emerging situation regarding the amendments and our position on the law.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-08-0.u36347	Thank you. Mr. Dragovan, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-08-0.u36348	I'm asking on behalf of the SDP club for a 10-minute break.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-08-0.u36349	Thank you. Mr. Chehok.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-08-0.u36350	I'm also asking for a break.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-08-0.u36351	Thank you. Mr. Cain. You too? No, I don't. And do you answer or not?
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-08-0.u36352	Yeah, yeah, I'm talking, I'm yelling.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-08-0.u36353	And then tell me what I'm looking for.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-08-0.u36354	Come on, give us 10 minutes to do the same.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-08-0.u36355	Drmic. Representative Drmic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-08-0.u36356	I'm also looking for a break on behalf of the club.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-08-0.u36357	Mr. Representative Hebrang. Mr. Hebrang, please. Mr. Representative Milorad Pupovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-08-0.u36358	Mr. President, on behalf of the SDSS Club, we're looking for a break of 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-08-0.u36359	Okay. Thank you. Like this. In search of HNS clubs, SDP, Mr. Chehok on behalf of the HSLS and HSU Club, Mr. Cain on behalf of the IDS club, Mr. Drmić on behalf of the HDSSB, Mr. Hebrang on behalf of the HDZ and the SDSS Mr. Pupovac, are seeking all breaks of 10 minutes for consultations on this law that we have put on the agenda so I am setting a break of 10 minutes. We'll continue at exactly 10 o'clock and 40 minutes. Here. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament! We're continuing with a session in a much more vivid atmosphere than I left it before, which actually enriches the social situation of this one. Since it's not prescribed how we dress, it's okay. So, the clubs demanded a break that went through. Here in my order is the first Mrs. Pusic, but since you agreed to be a representative of the SDP then the word has Mr. Igor Dragovan on behalf of the SDP. Here you go. Five minutes of course.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-08-0.u36361	Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues. In Croatia, 15 thousand children were born with the help of a medically assisted fertilisation procedure. No one has the right to help people who have problems and who are treated for infertility. No one has the right to take a Croatian future, no one has the right to restrict freedom and desire, love and the need to achieve what is most valuable, which is that with the help of medicine you get a child. What's sad about this moment is that a government that should listen to people who have problems, that a government that should listen to a profession that knows can and wants to help these people who have problems, that a government that is responsible should listen to the community, unfortunately it doesn't. This law is an absolute example that the government does not want to hear the cry of people who need help. This law returns Croatia to the Middle Ages, this law is discriminatory, this law definitely does not fit the time in which we live. That is why we in the SDP will not even take part in the vote on this law, because we believe that this is the most last thing that has been passed in Croatia lately. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-08-0.u36362	Thank you. Mrs. Vesna Pusic on behalf of the HNS club. And I'm sorry, there was one correction to the incorrect assumption. You can do it, but here, I'm sorry. Ivan Bagaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-08-0.u36363	Thank you, Mr. President. I think this demagogue just has to be corrected and has to be corrected. Comrade Dragovan, you're talking about the cry of people, and you're playing with their feelings and you're saying that this law is coming back to the Middle Ages. It's an absolute lie. It's not that incorrect, it's a lie, because... Because these laws have modern European countries. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] It's another thing. You said we were against children. It's not true, we're for children. Your arguments, all of your arguments here are simple deception and lies. So there's no talking about it. Your claims are unfounded and scientific and professional and human and certainly. You could've come for a pay phone and in short underpants.../The speaker turned off./...
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-08-0.u36364	Please! Mr. Representative, I've asked my MPs and MPs in this House countless times not to use hard words. Let's just say, if you use the word lie, maybe it's better to tell the truth, maybe it's more convenient to hear it. So I ask you to refrain from these extreme expressions that actually feel a little bit like an insult. Excuse me, Mrs. Pusic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-08-0.u36365	Thank you, Mr. President. On behalf of the HNS Club, we asked for a break to see the amendment submitted by the Government. However, firstly, we believe that the amendment submitted by the Government does not solve the problem because it refers only to the authorisation of assisted insemination for people in the extramarital community, which, by means of an extramarital procedure, proves that they are in the extramarital community, so they are not necks but necks. It does not include six requirements set by the HNS club, considering that they are a prerequisite for the adoption of a modern law that regulates this topic. So, still single mothers are absolutely not considered as possible mothers in the process of assisted insemination. Secondly, it is not predicted that all eggs or egg cells are fertilized, but only three, so the woman is subjected to a repeated painful, complicated and demanding procedure. Third, no freezing of fertilised egg cells is foreseen. Fourth, the possibility of objecting to conscience is projected. It is as if a doctor who is involved in kidney transplants can be called to the doctor’s conscience in performing this procedure. Fifthly, there is no possibility that when both spouses are infertile, they have the right to medically assisted insemination. And the sixth, continues to provide for a request, a mandatory requirement for a second opinion, which means that the country is still setting up an individual, an adult and a citizen in this country as a tutor where people themselves are unable to decide whether or not they need a second opinion, but rather the state orders them to have a second opinion. It's contrary to absolute and secular and human everything we think this law should contain. Therefore, we will not participate further in this process, and as a sign of protest, we have organized ourselves in this way and are now going to leave the assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-08-0.u36366	Thank you. Mr. Ivan Chehok on behalf of the Club of Representatives of HSLS, HSU. Here you go, Mr. Chehok.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-08-0.u36367	Mr. President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. It's very sad, I'm sad as a man, not as a representative that in this way we discuss cheap and political ways of discussing the fates of women and men. You gentlemen who just left the assembly before we even finished the debate I went out last time after we finished the debate you forget that you already did it once. Mrs. Adlesic and I and the HSLS club have proposed this law for both Racan's governments and you didn't have the strength to bring it. You didn't leave the assembly, but you abandoned your responsibility and you didn't pass the law. We could have brought it in 2002. You didn't have the strength then, because at the HSS Coalition you were determined to oppose the adoption of the then six-member or already five-member coalition to pass that law and we are still at law since '78. A year. So let's not put on T-shirts today and make a cheap political effort to gain the affections of part of the citizens, but let's also admit that the SDP gentlemen didn't have the strength to pass that law, you didn't have the courage to pass that law. And it's not right for the assembly to leave before all the clubs that asked for a word say their opinions and it's not right to leave when the debate isn't over yet. But who isn't here? Without him, you can do it! I ask you ladies and gentlemen, the Croatian Democratic Community, the HSS, minority representatives, we have a 31-year-old law, which creates a huge difficulty in practice that actually causes and leads to the fact that in practice there is a lot of arbitration and arbitraryness and that we can actually say that to a personal assessment and the conscience of the majority doctor and to regulate that area ourselves. But if we waited and when we didn't want to or when the SDP didn't want to pass that law. If we have waited 31 years then nothing Mr. Minister will happen to once again sit cold heads, sober, son of Ira et studio to listen to what the Association “Roda” and the Association of Civil Society say, to say what doctors say regardless of the ideological signs whether it will be Catholic doctors or be a doctor and doctor, it is his duty, it is his duty, it is his ethical obligation to help anyone who is sick if we have determined that infertility is a disease. Then I think that regardless of ideological commitment, doctors are in the care of the disease. We have a coalition agreement and I may be evacuating it for the first time today and withdrawing that mechanism here. We have the right to agree and I am asking on behalf of the Croatian Social Liberal Party and HSU for a coalition agreement on this issue. Let us not break overnight and over our knees with one amendment last night, because it is the fates of women who are subjected to both emotional stress and any difficulties of social nature and financial. After all, no less important and let's not play with their fates. Let's think this through. We've got time. If the minister withdraws the law today, we have an extraordinary session, so we can discuss it in peace once again, and then invite colleagues to return to the Assembly and then maybe they can explain why when they could not pass such a law so that we could all agree together with the laws concerning health and health rights and human rights of our citizens. That's the real job of Parliament, then.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-08-0.u36368	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs and MPs. Since the fact that the previous debate on this issue might be before the other clubs take the floor to hear Minister Milinovic to make it easier to come up with a solution in line with what Mr Chehok suggested. Well, if you don't mind, I'd like to give the word to Minister Milinovic for five minutes, and we'll see what happens next and how this case ends. Here you go, Mr. Milinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-08-0.u36369	Thank you, Mr. President, distinguished MPs and MPs. He said the esteemed Czecho, yes, that's true. No one had the courage and I asked the SDP why you didn't have the courage to touch, touch into this law that touches moral, ethical, religious and a series of other issues. I'll admit it here in front of you it's not easy to listen to these lunches. It is not easy to watch in a daily list of six-month-old babies with the title “We wouldn’t be born if Milinović’s law had been passed.” I wasn’t dementing, I don’t think it makes any sense. But I've been having a hard time reading that we're not talking about colleague Weiss, we're not talking about colleague Weiss, even worse. But I cannot reconcile with the fact that I will never reconcile with the fact that this law returns Croatia to the Middle Ages. This law regulates the space of malfeasance. I'll ask you like this. We don't know where he is today. We don't know where it is under the law of '78. One argument remained, and I'll say it proudly here. Yes, we have found ways to both the extramarital community, and according to the Family Law, it is determined in an extramarital procedure. It's according to family law. You, if you are to inherit something in the extramarital community, must also prove in the extramarital procedure that you are in that extramarital community. And I think it's an improvement of the law. I don't think that's my defeat. I don't think that was anyone's victory. I think it's Croatia's victory, that it's an improvement in this law. But I talked to the profession today. I won't mention it, but I can do it, Professor. Simonic. A year ago, the only point of reference to this law was to freeze the plugs. I'm going to try to explain once again why there is no freezing of mattresses in this bill. Five years ago, the only country in the European Union where there was a ban on freezing embryos was Italy. Today, Ireland, so it's a back country, it's the Middle Ages, today it's the Middle Ages of Italy, Ireland, Poland, Germany and Switzerland. Today it's from the SDP of the back countries. Now, what does that mean? Five years ago, one, now five. I see my time is running out. Europe's momentum is that an increasing number of countries will ban the freezing of embryos. Why? Because the technology of freezing sperm and female egg cells progresses and gives almost the same identical results. The National Toronto Institute, which deals only with reproductive medicine the other day, issued a paper that says the results are the same, if not better. And with this amendment, Italy, Malta, the Czech Republic, Ukraine, Germany, Belgium, Switzerland, Poland do not have the opportunity for extramarital communities to access medical fertilisation. We have this amendment and I do not agree to the politics of the SDP and all those who think so. I'll say, I don't agree to this politics to abuse children, to abuse children, to abuse women who may be going to medical insemination tomorrow. Croatia's state, Croatia's government allows them to do so in a way that there is no limit of 38 years. What kind of liberalism is that? And instead of paying six procedures under this new law. And that's why there's no room for politics here, and I really dare say that this government, and I, as a minister, had the courage to touch and finally propose this law and to pass this law which, by the way, is the final criterion for closing chapter 28. And that is why Croatia, with this law, belongs to the advanced countries of the European Union.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-08-0.u36370	Minister, with regard to Mr. Czecho's proposal to agree and so on?
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-08-0.u36371	I don't agree to the withdrawal of the law.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-08-0.u36372	Thank you. Mr. Damir Cain, on behalf of the IDS Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-08-0.u36373	I'm not getting dressed. It's not my style. I've been in this House too long, but I don't think my colleagues have hurt the dignity of this House. Of course I am against adopting this law today and it is clear that the IDS Club will not participate in the vote on this proposal. It's not fair that they did other opposition clubs, they just said their own and left, and now the rest of you wait. He's right, Mr. Chehok, when he says the 3rd January administration didn't have the courage for these or those reasons to pass this law. It is almost possible to say that Croatia has no law and that something should be done safely. Someone will say that when we have this amendment, it's better than nothing, but gentlemen, this isn't enough. It is incomprehensible that the legislator has committed or is still making a distinction between marriage and the nonmarriage community today. It is also incomprehensible that every law, especially from one ministry that is proposed in the end, falls, that every law experiences the fate of that law on 0.0 prominence, the Law on banning trade, will soon fall and the law on smoking. It is likely that the Constitutional Court and this legislative proposal will be proposed. What's almost amazing about this amendment is that now someone's going to have to testify to who, how much, not to say what they're doing or sleeping with. Clearly, this is the Law on aided insemination and I think that here, unlike the budget there, we can't be " neither stiff nor hard" because ruling us just teaches that they don't think that the proposed legal solutions are good, however, apply one principle to themselves, which some others would not allow. However, what is the point of this legislative proposal? Next, by ruling, I can flirt with some church dogmas to get any vote, in order to get someone's affection, but the church gentlemen can't lead the state, and the government has the right to bring life back two or three centuries to support anyone, whether it's the Roman Catholic Church because we understand or need to understand that nothing is as sacred as motherhood, as children and so on. I agree that this is extremely delicate matter and, therefore, if we are reasonable, this legislative proposal should be forwarded to the 3rd reading. I couldn't agree more, since you're throwing me away, the church has the right to make its views clear, no church, at least me, pushing into the sacristy. He has the right to lobby in the Parliament, in the government. He has the right to defend his dogmas because otherwise it would be that, we should respect that, especially those who declare ourselves to the Roman Catholics, but we have to lead the politics of the gentlemen here in Parliament because those who were the most radical in that ban themselves were not prepared to deny themselves the right to defend others. I'm not saying there's no celibacy, maybe others would think differently. Clearly, I respect everyone's worldview, I defend everyone's position, everyone's mission, but here, gentlemen, we play with our families, we play with our mothers here, we play with our children, and I don't think we should bow down because everyone will agree, and those children born to be assisted insemination will be just as good Croats as others who aren't born that way. They will be just as good people as everyone else, they will be just as good Christians as everyone else born in another way. That is why we will not participate in this vote, and I propose that we refer the law to the 3rd reading.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-08-0.u36374	Thank you. On behalf of the HDSSB club, Mr. Representative Ivan Drmic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-08-0.u36375	Dear colleagues and colleagues. I must say at first that my party is no liberal party. I am a Catholic by birth, and in such a spirit I have been raised, in my family since birth. But I also don't think it's right to hypocritically prove your practical faith on one of these topics that means a lot and a lot of people are interested in how it's going to be solved in this country. And at the same time, steal, lie, and do all those things that the Bible also forbids. I think there are, especially in this crisis many, many topics in this country where we can prove our Catholicism, our kind of religious principles and live in a Catholic spirit, without insulting God and sticking to what the church requires of us believers. For this law I will not raise my voice, nor my colleague from the club for two reasons. The first reason why this law needs to be amended, perfected, once again shaken is the state interest. You must know there are 50,000 infertile couples in the country. This means 100,000 people in this small country want to make their descendants, their children to raise them, to enjoy and to have a family, to live a normal family relationship. That state needs to help, help in a way that allows them to stimulate these people, to make it easier for them in this way that, I think, is God's gift, the last chance and hope in the lives of these people to try to get a child and in this way one part of them unfortunately won't succeed, but I think that the state is there not to make it harder for them, not to force them to raise credits and go out of country to fertilize, but to make it easier and help them in all possible ways that modern medicine knows to meet their wish, because it's also the interest of the state. Another reason is why this needs to be arranged and perfected is the humanitarian human cause. Probably every single one of you sitting here knows at least one infertile couple, knows at least part of their desire to burn them to gain that offspring. And it should be to you as believers one reason to make and participate in the creation of a law that would make these people happy and warm up that hope and give them that last chance to gain offspring. I once again emphasized that I am a believer, but I also think that everything that some church postulate has been sending messages that is not working on artificial insemination, you have already entered into that law, it is necessary to take another small step to make all people happy together and to solve this problem in a satisfactory way. We at the club won't take part in the vote either. I ask you once again to withdraw the Ministers of the Law. The fact that you're being attacked, I don't feel sorry for you, but I regret you because you don't realize that you're wrong and accept these messages you read in the paper as a warning to get back on track, to withdraw that law, to agree. Neither are those who left completely right, but my club thinks the truth is somewhere in between. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-08-0.u36376	Thank you. Mr. Representative Milorad Pupovac, on behalf of the SDSS. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-08-0.u36377	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues. There are few things we have discussed in the House, and I, as a representative, remember that so many people have addressed the text messages, letters, or other ways of asking us not to be denied the right that today's medicine provides and allows them. Some of you have been in Parliament longer than I have, I'm among those who may have a mid-term, but I don't remember receiving so many messages as an agent. Which means that it's very important to people and that it's very important to them. And that is why we gathered representatives here in the Croatian Parliament must have feelings for that kind of message. And that's why Ministers understand you when you say it's hard for you to look at the headlines of the newspaper and that you certainly don't make these decisions without feeling. And that's why the SDSS club pleads, not only to plead, but to ask that we in the coalition talk once more about it, as there was room for last night's phone session of the government to adopt an amendment to this law, so it makes sense that we who didn't talk about it in the coalition and that this is the extent to which it is possible in those places that are still important to build up and supplement and then to vote on this law afterwards. My colleagues and colleagues, we're a country with a demographic deficit with a demographic deficit that we still don't see how we're going to make up for in the long run. This is not a matter where we can significantly fix and stop this decline of demographic movement in Croatia, the poor demographic movement in Croatia, but it is one of the mechanisms that we can at least in a small way fix it. We in our country have suffered the fall of our scientific and health institutions in the past 15, 20 years. We have to admit that. Some of it was preserved. It was also preserved in this area, Mr. Minister. Some people are exceptional experts in this area, and we must enable them to continue to develop it and not be denied the legal solutions that can be further developed. That's the second reason that as representatives of the SDSS motivates us. The first is the feeling of people and their need for children, the second is the need to expand the space for demographic strengthening of what we need in Croatia and the third is to not limit the scientific and institutional capacities we need. And for this reason, unless our colleagues and colleagues from HDZ accept what Mr. Chehok said on behalf of HSLS and HSU to postpone the vote and that the room for additional consent we will not be able to remain in the assembly. Not because we do not want to share responsibility with you, but because we want to share responsibility with you in an additional debate. And that's why we're asking you to postpone this vote and sit down again and see where it is where we can bring things together. Some say the central issue is the freezing of embryos, or embryos. If that's the central question, let's go over it one more time and then decide whether to raise our hands or not afterwards. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-08-0.u36378	On behalf of the HDZ Club, Mr. Representative Andri Hebrang. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-08-0.u36379	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Mr. Minister, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. The law that lies before us challenges as you see numerous recommendations. As counterpart Milorad Pupovac said, he's got a lot of texting, but we need to know that we've been getting a lot and not just texting, but a lot of phone calls, a lot of visits to this Parliament, people who are just insisting that this law stays the way it is. Therefore, if the public is divided, then we must decide. I suggest we decide this time on the basis of the profession. In the last 7 to 8 years, the profession has developed in the sense that the freezing of the egg cell and freezing the sperm, which is made possible by this law, is improving and better results. There is no need for the profession anymore, especially for the next 2 to 3 years, because the new methods of development are to freeze embryos. That is why, as Minister Milinovic said, an increasing number of ousting countries in Europe are prohibiting the freezing of the plot. It's like the most controversial professional part of this law. As far as European solutions are concerned that this is a reverse law, I absolutely reject it. I must tell you that when you analyse European laws in over half of the countries, some sensitive parts are not legally regulated at all. I must say that in four European countries including Austria and Germany, an egg cell donation is prohibited, which is allowed with us. When I sum up everything that is for and against a Central European solution, this is one of the more advanced laws in Europe. Including the explanation I gave for freezing the cover. You must take into account that by this law we have had total deregulation of this area and that we have had a huge number of abuses, moral, human and financial. This law imposes a strict framework of control of the whole process, a strict framework for the control of persons of experts who will implement this law. Institutions, central control, keeping records, etc. Therefore, by adopting this law, we are certainly taking a step forward, as we prevent the abuses that have shaken unfortunately, the Croatian scene in this area. So let me get this straight. The law is located somewhere in the middle of European solutions, the law imposes good frameworks to take on strict professional control and organisational control of the system and avoids any possible abuse. And that's why I think that law should be passed. And why do I think you should bring it in today? If we don't bring it in, then we'll be on the list of those who don't meet the conditions for closing chapter 28, so they'll say, here you see, you're to blame for shutting yourself out of the race for Europe. That's why I think you should bring it in today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-08-0.u36380	Thank you. We've practically turned a debate on this issue, because the clubs have been discussing it. And now I'd like to ask the Minister of Health to explain the amendment. Government, of course.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-08-0.u36381	Thank you, Mr. President. Thanks for the club debate. So we from the government and announced that at the end of the parliamentary debate we would once again consider if it is possible to improve this law to some extent. And that's why we've proposed this amendment, that the extramarital union of single women and single men in case they have fertility problems, that they can access medical insemination based on this law. That's it.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-08-0.u36382	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, we must decide whether or not we will discuss the proposed amendment to the government at all. If we accept the debate, then we could if there's a quorum and vote. If we don't accept the debate, then we haven't accepted the debate. Mr. Chehok, what did you need? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-08-0.u36383	Mr. President, Mr. Secretary. Please, colleagues. We have a coalition alignment mechanism. I'm calling on him again and I'm asking you to discuss it. A week of time, no one will delay our negotiations with the European Union. I think that excuse to stop and postpone the closure of chapters in these circumstances, we all know what's going on in the process of approaching and negotiating. So, I ask you nicely, let's go soberly agree on our views. Yesterday night, the government discussed it on the phone. I don't even think that's correct for these women, men, families, that phone questions are being negotiated. We only heard today, now we have an amendment. I beg you, please just please, not even as a fellow political colleague, but let's go on a human level to show that we care a little bit more and think about it a little bit more.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-08-0.u36384	Mr. Hebrang. Before that I wanted to ask, would it perhaps be, would there be a way out of this, to adopt, to propose, to postpone, to adopt the law in ten days when it's second? That'd be good? Here you go, Mr. Andry Hebrang.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-08-0.u36385	Mr. President, I just wanted to remind my colleague, Chehok, that we agreed yesterday. And that yesterday the government also voted in favour of the amendment with the HSLS representative in the government. And we agreed to the whole attitude yesterday in the late evening with the coalition partners.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-08-0.u36386	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. We need to get out of this. We have the opportunity to accept yes, we accepted because the discussions were, yes, clubs etc. Therefore, I am putting the government's amendment to the vote. Who is for this amendment to be included and voted? Please engage and vote. First of all, the government's amendment. The result? 74 for one abstention and two against. So the amendment has been accepted. I now propose a bill with an amendment accepted to the vote. Please, let's get involved and vote. Check if you've turned on the light in the right place. The result? The law was adopted by a majority vote with 70 votes in favour, 1 abstention and 6 against which means a total of 77 votes, together with the amendment adopted. Thank you very much.
