ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-30-0.u25642	Thank you. Mr. President, honourable MPs and MPs. This law confirms the Agreement between the Republic of Croatia and the European Union on the participation of the Republic of Croatia in the European Union military operation in the Republic of Chad and the Central African Republic signed in Brussels in September 2008 and applied provisionally from the date of signature. On 15 July last year, the Croatian Parliament shared a decision on the participation of our armed forces in the European Union military operation in the Republic of Chad and the Central African Republic and sent 15 members of our armed forces to the operation in the first contingent in October last year. Taking into account the scope and type of participation of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia in this operation, there was a need to regulate the legal position and the rights and obligations of our armed forces through the agreement I was talking about. This agreement regulates issues related to the participation of the EU armed forces in an EU-led operation that carries out its mission in accordance with the document of the European Union's common foreign security policy, this is the document Joint Action 2007/677, followed by the operation plan and other implementing measures. This Agreement regulates the legal position of our forces, the status of staff, the processing of classified data, the line of command and the financial aspect. Given that the involvement of members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia in the European Union's peacekeeping mission contributes to the development of the European Union's operational capabilities to act in peace-making and post-conflict situations, and since we have demonstrated such a definition in our strategic documents, for example in the 4th, 5th and 6th cycles of the Action Plan for NATO membership, I believe that this High House should, in view of all of these, support this Law on the validation of the Agreement between the Republic of Croatia and the European Union on the participation of our Armed Forces in the European Union military operation in the Republic of Chad and the Central African Republic, as it is within the meaning of Article 140. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia is confirmed by previously concluded agreements which would thus become part of the internal legal regulation and shall apply from the date of conclusion and remain in force during the duration of this operation or the participation of the Republic of Croatia in that peace operation. So once again, I suggest that this law be passed at this House of Commons. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-30-0.u25643	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the HDZ Club, Mr. Representative Berislav Roncevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-30-0.u25644	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, distinguished colleagues. By including members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia in the Peace Operation of the European Union, it is in line with the intention of the Republic of Croatia to contribute to the development of the operational capabilities of the European Union to participate in joint disarmament operations, humanitarian and rescue tasks, military counselling and assistance, conflict prevention, peace tasks of crisis management, including the creation of peace and management of post-conflict situations reflected in the Strategic Defence Review, the long-term development plan of the armed forces adopted in this High House, the National Programme for Association of the European Union and the Annual National Programme under the North Atlantic Union in the cycles of the Membership Action Plan. By participating in this peace operation, the Republic of Croatia confirms that, as a recent member of the European Union, it is ready to contribute fully to the European Union's crisis management capabilities. Furthermore, the Republic of Croatia is profiled as a reliable partner who can meet security challenges and strengthens its political and military credibility. This certainly contributes to gaining experience in the area of planning and applying joint operations of multinational forces and our armed forces have the opportunity not only to test their interoperability but also to be able to conduct remote and logistic demanding operations. Also, by engaging in this peace operation, the Republic of Croatia is proving its full readiness to actively contribute to one of the long-term objectives of the European Union's common foreign and security policy, which is to support peace and security in the area of Africa. The United Nations Security Council in Resolution 1706 pointed out the situation in Darfur and stressed that the situation there could have a negative impact on the rest of Sudan as well as on the entire region, including Chad and the Central African Republic. At the same time, the United Nations decisions of the Council of the European Union confirmed its readiness to continue to support the African Union and the United Nations in resolving the conflict in Darfur. The support relates to the provision of a political process ensuring a comprehensive and sustainable agreement between parties in the dispute, on the one hand, and the establishment of peace through the operation on the other. Therefore, the Secretary-General of the United Nations has proposed to refer multi-dimensional forces to Chad and the Central African Republic, including a possible contribution from the European Union with a view to ensuring the security of refugees and displaced persons, providing humanitarian assistance and creating favourable circumstances for the reconstruction and development of the region. After obtaining the consent of Chad and the Central African Republic to the military presence of the UN, the European Union, pardon their area of the UN Security Council adopted Resolution 17/78 approving the establishment of a mission of the United Nations in Chad and the Central African Republic. The same resolution empowers the European Union to refer its forces to the area at a time of 12 months from the declaration of initial operational capacity. The adoption of Security Council Resolution 17/78 has created international legal assumptions on the basis of which the European Union has adopted its political and legal binding acts and decisions in establishing a peace operation in East Chad and Central Africa. The tasks of the European Union forces are to enable the deployment of Chad police forces trained by the United Nations, to ensure the conditions under which humanitarian organisations will be able to provide humanitarian assistance, to create favourable conditions for the return of the displaced population, to create conditions for the start of civil reconstruction and to increase the level of security for the civilian population including the avoided and displaced population. The peace operation, in accordance with the mandate set out in United Nations Council Resolution 17/78, takes 12 months from the moment of its initial ability. On 15 July 2008, this High House decided on the participation of the Republic of Croatia in this military peacekeeping mission in Chad and the Central African Republic to which 15 members of the... for special actions in October 2008. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Taking into account the nature and scope of the participation of the Croatian Armed Forces in this operation, there was a need for a more detailed regulation of the legal position and the rights and obligations of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia through an agreement between the Republic of Croatia and the European Union. This law confirms this agreement between the Republic of Croatia and the European Union on the participation of members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia in the European Union military operation in the Republic of Chad and the Central African Republic in order to make its provisions part of the internal legal order of the Republic of Croatia. The law confirms an agreement governing issues related to the legal position of forces, classified data, commanding a financial aspect, contributing to common costs, agreements for the implementation of the agreement. The aim of proposing the arrangements of the above areas is, therefore, to legally define the basic issues related to the participation in the EU-led operation on the basis of the recommendation of the EU Operation Commander and the EU Military Committee on the granting of consent to the participation of the forces of the Republic of Croatia, thereby facilitating the deployment of our troops and the exercise of their duties during the operation. The Republic of Croatia shall ensure that its forces participating in the operation carry out their mission in accordance with the operation plan and the implementing measures. The forces that the Republic of Croatia directs to the operation should carry out their duties and act solely by keeping in mind the interest of the operation. The legal position of the forces and personnel assigned by the Republic of Croatia to the operation has been governed by provisions on the legal position of the forces agreed between the European Union and the countries concerned. The Republic of Croatia shall be responsible for responding to all requests made by its forces or relating to its forces in connection with its participation in the operation and shall be responsible for the initiation of the proceedings of a judicial or tenacity against any member of its forces in accordance with the laws and regulations of the Republic of Croatia. This Agreement obliges the Republic of Croatia to make a statement in respect of the waiver of requests against any State participating in the operation at the time of the signing of this Agreement. Member States of the European Union shall be obliged to make a statement in connection with the withdrawal of requests for the participation of the Republic of Croatia in the operation at the time of signature of this Agreement. The text of such a declaration makes an addition as we have seen in these agreements. All forces and personnel participating in the EU operation remain under the full command of their national authorities, the Operation Commander may, after consulting the Republic of Croatia at any time, request a withdrawal from the Republic of Croatia. The agreement also provides for the Republic of Croatia to appoint a senior military representative representing our national contingent in this peace operation. He will consult with the EU Force Commander on all issues affecting the operation and is in charge of the daily discipline of our contingent. The Republic of Croatia shall spend all costs related to its participation in the operation other than those subject to joint financing. The Agreement provides that any necessary technical and administrative arrangements relating to its implementation shall be concluded by the relevant bodies of the Republic of Croatia and by the Secretary-General of the Council of the European Union, High Representative for the Common Foreign and Security Policy. The Agreement shall apply provisionally from the date of signature, i.e. from 26 September 2008, and shall remain in force during the duration of the Republic of Croatia's contribution to this operation. As the participation of members of the Armed Forces in the Republic of Croatia is in line with the strategic documents adopted by this High House and as it is of interest in the international affirmation of the Republic of Croatia, the Croatian Democratic Community Representatives Club will support the adoption of this law confirming an agreement on the participation of members of the Croatian Armed Forces in the peace operation in Chad and Central African Republic. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-30-0.u25645	Thank you. On behalf of the IDS Club, Mr. Representative Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-30-0.u25646	Your Honor, Mr. President, gentlemen of the Department of Defense, the distinguished gentlemen of the council. I think there's something that needs to be said about Chad himself. There are those who today think that the peace mission in Chad is far more dangerous even than that peacekeeping mission that is currently taking place in Afghanistan. I personally may not agree with that, but I still think our soldiers from Afghanistan should withdraw, why? Because that mission in Afghanistan is becoming even more dangerous than the one in Iraq. Why? Because today, an incomparably greater number of American, English, etc., soldiers are killed in the Afghanistan area than in Iraq. So understandable, when we talk about our soldiers leaving for military missions, it needs maximum, correct, professional equipment at the very least, if there's nothing to make our conscience clear. We must at least equip them with weapons, armorers, etc., to which, in due course, he intends to equip the city of Zagreb. To go back to Chad alone. 15 soldiers means Special Forces, specializing in reconnaissance during the 9th and 10th months respectively, went on a 6-month mission to Chad. This mission, along with that mission in Afghanistan, is certainly the most dangerous mission in which Croatian soldiers participate. So much in Afghanistan, therefore the best trained soldiers of the Croatian Army go to Chad. I said, I repeat, what is our obligation to train these soldiers, equip them with the best equipment possible. What did they get or get soldiers in Chad? They'll get an easy LMV armored vehicle, some Iveco truck, a Toyota field vehicle, two Pooh jeeps, vests clearly, G36 assault rifles with night aimer, HS guns etc., etc. What is the task of these soldiers in Chad? They must first and foremost search the terrain. They must protect territory with EUFOR soldiers. What does that mean? These soldiers of ours are de facto leaving in front of everyone, they must locate enemy troops and inform the command of the situation on the ground. In one word, the peace mission or mission of our soldiers in Chad is the most dangerous mission possible. Their role, unlike the role our soldiers play in Afghanistan, is combative. And it should be kept in mind. So, the role of our soldiers in Chad is a role of battle. Our soldiers are located in the north of Chad, so near Sudan itself. All that space is full of private armies, refugees, gangs, militias. People as we know, they're running from Darfur right now. There are no organized enemy formations in Chad, while, say, in one Afghanistan, it's the Taliban, but Chad, as I said, is full of militias, full of gangs, full of private troops, and they've announced Elfur. If that were the case, there is a great risk, it also says that the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Croatia has given up sending engineers to Chad because they would not be able to defend themselves from the attack and has sent a Croatian version of Task Force. Our soldiers, in one word, will share good and evil in the north of that country with the Poles, but the command at this time is French. Otherwise, the French support the current government in Chad. To end what I say, before I go to that agreement. In Chad, there is a civil war between four rebel groups and the forces of the loyal government in Ngamen. There are 500,000 refugees in Chad. We have 234,000 refugees from Sudan, so from this Darfur plus 54 thousand refugees from the Central African Republic plus 170 thousand refugees from Chad. Foreigners have been evacuated to Cameroon and in part, it is freely said, in that country, a humanitarian disaster. And now the question is, is it possible to control it? What is clear to all of us is that the 12-month-long EUFOR mission will be extended to several years. The question arises whether it is possible to prevent this disaster that threatens Chad. It's hard, but I agree, I absolutely agree that we should help. The war between Chad and Sudan is also possible because of the incursion of refugees from this Sudanese Darfur to Chad. So I'm kind of skeptical about the mission to Chad. Clearly, IDS will vote and vote for the mission. The IDS will also vote in favour of this bill, not because we have to collect some points to the European Union, but because Croatia has also passed a similar Calvary in which troops made up of soldiers around the world and thus from Africa have helped. For the end, soldiers should once again be highly paid, well-trained, their salary plus 90 euros a living room. It's about 22,000 kuna a month. I don't think it's too much, I think it's a minimum of which you should go on more. And what should also make sure that soldiers in the event of a wound, do not give God a death, should be well and secure, and in that case the state should clearly take care of them and their families. Today, I'm afraid that an even bigger problem than Chad, when we talk about peacekeeping missions, is a peacekeeping mission in Afghanistan. The current US president, Mr Obama, announces the withdrawal of troops from Iraq within 16 or 18 months. The question arises where tomorrow Al-Qaida, the Iraqi cell, where the soldiers of Jihad will go. So clearly it'll go up, whatever anyone thinks will go towards Afghanistan. Well, we saw what happened recently in one India or there in their hotels. All that's going to reflect further on Afghanistan the next day, and I'm really afraid for our soldiers. I'm afraid they wouldn't ultimately be helped by all the weapons that Bandic and Kalinic intend to equip the city of Zagreb. And as much as I think you should consider the same ones from Afghanistan. Once again, as regards this agreement with the European Union, this legal definition of the relationship between the HR and the European Union is absolutely acceptable. We'll clear, I'll say it one more time, vote for the same. I will not talk about all these details that he spoke of or persuaded or read legal formulations, which was spoken of by Mr Roncevic, but I am sure that the mission of Croatian soldiers in Chad will certainly increase to a number of years.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-30-0.u25647	Thank you. It's on behalf of the HNS club, Mr. Representative Miljenko Doric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-30-0.u25648	Dear Mr. President, representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues. The HNS Club will support this Proposal for a Law confirming the Agreement between the Republic of Croatia and the European Union. And I'm not going to repeat here these legal formulations that we've already heard, or even some of the military features, about these missions that my colleague Cain talked about, but we think we need to add something to this and similar mission, especially when it comes to Africa. Namely, I'll read the first sentence from the scoreboard. Participation in international peace operations, the Republic of Croatia is among the responsible members of the International Community who are willing to take over their part of the burden of general security. Your share of the burden. What part of the burden do we have in Africa? How much in Africa are we responsible for what's going on there? It is a question that at least in Parliament would have to be mentioned and talked about. In fact, I fully understand that in the process of approaching the European Union we want to show that sometimes we are even greater Catholics than the Pope. However, if you carefully analyse, then you will see that not all European countries, i.e. all members of the European Union, are so warm and do not always participate in all these missions. Why? Because it is in Parliament that there is sometimes debate and when it is crystallized that it is politically incorrect to participate in these missions, then clearly they do not appear there. So allow me just a few words on the subject. But first, I would like to say that this agreement is properly prepared, that we see in it what is important to conclude, which is that the agreement clearly defines the position of our forces, the even position of our forces, the classification of data, the way of command, the financial aspects, the arrangements for the implementation of the agreement, and so on, and so on. So a completely transparent agreement, which is very correct, gives us the opportunity to see what's going on there and how it's going to happen. Through the media, of course all our citizens can access relevant data. What is somewhat unusual in Chapter 5, one sentence, the agreement is provisionally applicable from the date of signature. So, not from today, but from the date of the signing. These are somewhat unusual criteria because every day we hear that the European Union will not allow us to do all the work we are expected to do in Parliament, however, if we do not implement it. There's enough signature here and something's being applied temporarily. Where I'd like to say a few words. Comrades and colleagues, when it comes to the African continent, then we know how this continent was divided between colonial powers. These colonial forces, they come from where? From Europe. Did they continue their influence in these areas? You betcha. First, they ruled asphyxiation in those countries because they had their forces, their police, and their armies there. Today they rule in a different way. Often by creating unrest in these areas. I sell weapons to an ethnic group, conquering in this way through unrest, my interests, setting up puppet governments. In many African countries, it is not their governments that decide the functioning of their economy. Believe me, colleagues and colleagues, in the embassies of several European countries, decisions are made which will be the price of raw materials, what investments will enter these countries, how and what will be done there, what will you and who will be exported these raw materials to? Therefore, there is much to be addressed in the embassies of the Member States of the European Union. That's why I just want to warn you, we can't be here covering, unspeakable cover. We sometimes have to analyze the situation a little bit in those countries, which is behind what's going on there, and then clearly decide whether or not it should, it can differentiate the case from the case. Is Chad the same thing as Afghanistan? I believe not. Is Iraq the same as Chad? I believe not. But that's why I would have to, apart from the legal elements we've heard about so far, have had to be clear about the political aspects of some of the decisions that we're making here much, much more seriously. That's why I want to warn from the HNS club if we don't have any weight, if it's not our fault, and we know whose it is, then we don't want to be involved in being someone's cover, we don't want it to be clear, it's the responsibility of all of us if that responsibility really lies with us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-30-0.u25649	Thank you. We have one correction, Mr. Berislav Roncevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-30-0.u25650	Thank you, Mr. President. So I am correcting this quote by a respected fellow representative, it is somewhat unusual that this international contract, the international agreement of the Republic of Croatia, should apply from the date of signature of 26 September. To avoid the Croatian public, there may be some misunderstanding that it is something outside the regulations of the Republic of Croatia and that the Croatian Government and colleagues from the Ministry of Defence have concluded something proper, it is the usual procedure in accordance with the Croatian Law on the conclusion and enforcement of international contracts. And participation, in addition, of members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia does not go in line with some material interests. The countries are participating in international peacekeeping missions based on international solidarity. Likewise, neither the soldiers of Argentina, Jordan and other countries that helped create peace in Croatia when it was the most difficult there in '91. In the same year, they were not guided by these criteria, but by international solidarity, and once again they should be thanked, so they came to Croatia. Soldiers of foreign countries unfortunately suffered in Croatia, it should not be forgotten. The missions are complex, there is always a risk, but this is the international obligation of the Republic of Croatia, which it carries out on the basis of international solidarity.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-30-0.u25651	Thank you. On behalf of the HSS Club, Mr. Representative Stanko Grcic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-30-0.u25652	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished state secretaries, colleagues and fellow MPs. In fact, this Law confirming the agreement of the Republic of Croatia with the European Union speaks of the Republic of Croatia as a responsible member of the International Community which assumes its share of responsibility for general security. Participation in international missions and peace operations also points to our strategic commitment to contribute to the creation of peace and overall capabilities of the European Union for action in joint operations. We will repeat some of our views in the debate during the debate on the Decision on the participation of members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia in the European Union operations. Croatia is harmonising its foreign and security policy with the views and actions of the European Union and thus offering it its capabilities at its disposal. With this mission under the leadership of the European Union, Croatia will practically be involved in all crisis and humanitarian hotspots around the world, but it is evident that the adoption of this law has also taken care of our human, material, financial opportunities and given the limitations of resources and our abilities. We ourselves know that integration into the European Union is the most important and complex enterprise facing the Croatian state and society as a whole. The text of the law and agreement in question is written without imposing interest and will by some of the parties and we also consider it a formal legal framework to cooperate between the European Union and the Republic of Croatia on the basis of which our interests will develop and coordinate. The following hope is to facilitate the work of our competent institutions with partners from the European Union in particular on matters related to participation in operations, on the legal position of our forces, classified data, the command line, some financial aspects, as well as the contribution to common costs. At the end of our debate, we would also like to commend and welcome all of our members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia, police and civil personnel participating in peace operations around the world on activities that achieve peace conservation and provide humanitarian assistance. The Croatian Peasant Party Club will support the bill because we believe that our participation will contribute to the creation of peace in that part of the world. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-30-0.u25653	Thank you. On behalf of the SDP Club, Mr. Representative Arsen Bauk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-30-0.u25654	Thank you. Mr. President, the respected representatives of the ministry, colleagues and fellow MPs. Every time we raise our hand for the participation of Croatian soldiers in an international mission, we take a certain risk and for their safety, and we take responsibility for that mission, for everyone to return and for something to happen that we might not be happy with and with the most difficult consequences. However, such a risk was taken by parliaments also mentioned by Mr Roncevic Argentina, Jordan, the Czech Republic and other countries whose soldiers came to Croatia during the 1990s to ensure peace and to end all this with the victory of the Republic of Croatia in the war that was. However, the question now is what is the limit, or how long can we take responsibility for something that happened in the 1990s and how much that argument will continue to be present in our discussions. In fact, at this point, the Republic of Croatia is a country that participates in almost the most mission of the United Nations, I think it's 15 or 16 missions, although that information is, therefore, when viewed by the number of people, it's not that much because in most missions we participate with a small number of soldiers or observers. However, it kind of shows our policy to actually respond to everyone who invites us, only that's why we didn't go to Iraq for good luck. It should also be said that the number of members of the missions from the Republic of Croatia is even in the maximum number if the number is to be sent, the maximum number foreseen by decisions so far even above the number declared in the long-term development plan of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia. Maybe it's not completely unacceptable. Maybe there's a political reason. We may in some way want to take additional responsibility for our approach to NATO and also for what was in the European Union, and also for what was in the 1990s, but in any case I think the time has come to reconsider what our policy of participation in peace missions is, what is our way of participating in peace missions. In fact, until some time ago, the Republic of Croatia had a commander in a large peacekeeping mission in Kashmir after his mandate had ceased, after he had stopped being commander, we no longer have people in such high positions in peace missions and perhaps we could. It should also be said that the participation of the Republic of Croatia in peacekeeping missions is most evident through the sending of people. In the NATO classification, so in their tables, let's say sending out free aircraft or some other equipment is even more classified than just sending people. And it should be said, of course, that only soldiers are sent, and that's probably because it's the easiest thing to provide is to say that the risk is greater and that every time we raise our hand to leave, we accept that risk. The decision on this mission was made in July 2008 and, of course, it was time to warn that the situation in Chad was risky, that this action was in some way a little higher risk than what was at the Golan High School and Mr Sprem warned on behalf of the SDP. However, we voted to go to that peace mission and now there's no need to go back to the situation as it is, we knew it all when we decided. However, we learned about this peace mission from the newspapers, so that Croatian soldiers will be retired, we learned from newspapers a month or two before that from a meeting of the National Security Council. Since we are taking responsibility together and decisions of this kind are made by consensus of parliamentary parties, which is what the consensus means yesterday when we ratify our NATO entry by the Slovenian parliament. It's not good for us to inform ourselves about such missions from the newspapers. I think that, therefore, at least the committee responsible can be informed of this before we read it in the paper so that they would not be brought in some way before the final act that, with our opposition, we do not endanger any other foreign-political interests taken by representatives of the Croatian government in some way by declaring that we are going to go on this peace mission. In order not to be such a remethyling factor, we are urging that, in the future, if decisions are made to send a peacekeeping mission, we do not learn from the papers, but in a normal parliamentary procedure as is already the case. Therefore, colleagues and colleagues, since it is a technical agreement made six months ago for which we voted the SDP club will support this Act on Confirmation of the Agreement. But we appeal, therefore, that in the future when Croatian soldiers are sent to the peace missions we consult a little more, not to read about them from the newspapers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-30-0.u25655	Thank you. We're moving on to an individual debate. The first is Mr. Mato Biljić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-30-0.u25656	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, there's a lot that's been said in today's debate. I would just add that this, our 15 members, has been directed for the first time since the beginning of October to a single European mission. Therefore, during the operation, the task of reconnaissance will be carried out in the field of multinational combat north under the leadership of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Poland. To talk about Croatian soldiers who are on any mission can only be said to be the most trained, most equipped and brave knights who have gone away and be sure to talk to them on their return, and all those who were on the scene would all sign not only six, but also another year to stay in that part. A soldier training for these missions if there is no terrain, unless he feels the focus of his training has no purpose and therefore, means our boys who are trained to go on these peace missions when they return will certainly be more capable of all the challenges that can happen in the Republic of Croatia and in the environment itself. It should be said that this is one of the first missions of going to our members who are over 4000 km away means from Europe to Chad and that this is one logistical challenge of bringing the MTS to the area of the operation itself. When the word peace mission or the place where the military is directed normally that it is a dangerous place, it can be either a war area or an area where conflict can occur, and therefore our soldiers are prepared and they are certainly well-trained, equipped, and I personally became convinced of the strong training and expertise of all of them in the Gashinci polygon. Here on the computer, I found a few images of Chad himself showing our soldier being well-trained, and we see a technique that they have and we see how a civilized people are working with the locals in the area. We said that most of our soldiers who are trained want to extend, they want to stay on these peace missions as long as possible. And it's not easy, it's easier to provide soldiers for the peace mission that our members are on. It is far easier to provide a free aircraft, buy a motor vehicle, and also a fighter aircraft than to provide a specialist who can deal with all the challenges starting with time, starting with the equipment he carries on himself and starting with the challenges in that part. With all this, I would like to express my great commendation to both the former minister and the Minister today, the members of the Land Army headed by General Mladen Kruljić, who certainly prepares every soldier who is leaving, that when carrying our arrival on a combat vehicle or on a motor vehicle, that is, when wearing the Croatian Army and the Croatian state label to present a democratically formed state, and also we cannot say that most of those countries we are going to today or that most of the countries were coming to us when we were weak, when we had nothing to defend ourselves that they were coming, and that I will always support the departure of our members, mainly because in the conversation with all our soldiers that I have talked to so far, everyone has said that they were well. It's a lot of training, but that's why they're trained. But they said they'd extend the contract. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-30-0.u25657	Correction of an incorrect allegation, Mr. Representative Arsen Bauk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-30-0.u25658	Mr. President, for the sake of historical truth, I think it is necessary to correct the incorrect assumption that most of the countries, the soldiers of most of the countries in which our soldiers went to Croatia. So, that their soldiers were coming to Croatia. It's just not true. We don't remember soldiers from Afghanistan, Sierra Leone, Chad, Central African Republic, etc. that they were just coming to Croatia. I think that level in some way justifying going on peace missions by someone coming in the '90s isn't necessary. That argument absolutely exists, but at that level it is not necessary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-30-0.u25659	The Rules of Procedure are not prohibited and commendable to talk about missions, as well as critically the same. Yeah? Therefore, he has the right to express his opinion. Let's move on. Mr. Kresimir Cosic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-30-0.u25660	Dear Mr. President, let me first at the introduction of a few words that will actually be a commentary of some of the debates that have ended with suggestions, but not for the first time. We should withdraw from Afghanistan because there is an imminent defeat of international forces. This all shows how difficult it is for us to discuss in the Croatian Parliament one day on status, sending our soldiers into peace operations can be politically difficult and, perhaps even uncertain. Fortunately, we have so far had no reason to question the firm decision of Croatian state policy that Croatia is involved in building peace and security where the most important international organisations of the UN, the EU, NATO are participating, etc. Fortunately, these discussions have not been charged because our soldiers have successfully and yet I stress only happiness in many difficult and risky positions have preserved their lives. But participation in such operations is a great risk, there is great uncertainty and what we do not want to happen can happen. I remember in the first debate when we talked about the Ministry of Defence's report in the participation of Croatian soldiers in Afghanistan, he said, we must be prepared because one day because of the nature of the job for different reasons, the most difficult thing can happen. And if that happens and we do not want that to happen, we must be prepared for such complicated and difficult political debates and appropriate political decisions that will prove the seriousness of the Croatian Parliament and the seriousness of Croatian state policy, which is part of the policy of key, core organisations of the international community that participate in building and creating peace. I remember a very difficult debate in a parliament a few years ago. In 2006, the first parliamentary elections in Afghanistan were. Only 10 days after the parliamentary elections, the Canadian parliament was scheduled to decide to extend their troops' participation in a peacekeeping operation in Afghanistan until 2011. At that critical moment, what no one wanted happened, the Canadians had great losses, not only had great losses but it even happened that even one officer, young officer, captain or captain was killed in the fighting in Kandahar. It was very uncertain how and how the Canadian Parliament will react, and a few days after those discussions, I was called by a colleague who is a member of the Canadian Parliament's delegation to the NATO Parliamentary Assembly and said, we made a decision to extend our mandate in the ISAF peace operation until 2011. It certainly can happen, although I have pointed out, we do not want to be in such a position, but our discussions must be ready for such circumstances, and I hope that we will get developmental and acceptable political decisions. A few words about military duties. Military tasks by definition are at risk, difficult and uncertain by nature of work. Whether it's Chad, Afghanistan, Haiti, Sirera Leon, etc., these tasks are not chosen with menus in principle as someone said easily, we will-not, dangerous-unthreatening, acceptable-unacceptable. Military tasks are taken as part of certain political decisions, in every democracy, in a well-organised and well-defined manner, and those taking over these military tasks, are known in what way they take them and do their utmost to understand their mission, their competence, to make good preparation, to choose the best among the best, to ensure adequate equipment and to take the risks of such a risky operation minimally. It is certain that participation in a peace operation in Chad carries with it some new challenges and difficulties, and that this operation is by far different compared to the operations so far because the challenges and difficulties imposed by Africa, not only because of the climate, not only because of the diversity of the terrain but because of the circumstances that exist in these countries, make this challenging task for our troops a risky, difficult one, but I am sure that those who prepared our soldiers for this operation have done everything possible to ensure that they can do it in quality and good. And because of that, I would say here, I think that Mr. Bilnjic pointed out, the man responsible for preparing our troops personally General Kruljac is a man who has a very difficult and long war experience. I remember well, one of his most important tasks in which he showed not only courage and determination, not him as an individual but also his soldiers, I was in Maslenica when the line of IV was taken over. The brigade, about 2nd, 3rd month when it was still falling, Major Kruljac came with his 600 soldiers and took a very difficult line of responsibility under very risky and difficult conditions. After a few days or just 10 days, he had almost 10 or 12 dead. What was characteristic of a strong and courageous commander was that there were no stops, but that he equally carried out his duties on the most difficult part of this battlefield in Kasic and therefore the selection of individuals, the selection of troops, selection of commanders is very important and responsible tasks that our officers and which the processes of preparation and training of Croatian soldiers take over from people who know how to do this job. Certainly, the operation in Africa is a new experience in equipment, in planning, legal issues and financial issues regarding the status of forces, logistics aspects, standard operating procedures, all this is a challenge, and in particular cooperation with other international organisations, the UN, NATO, the European Union, are usually processes and very often which make such operations more difficult than they are in the nature of business. In any case, the European defence and security policy is formed and located in its early stages of taking the right place in the wider international community, in creating peace and security in areas where and where the European Union assesses that the European Union's forces are necessary. We certainly expect that this co-operation between the European Union, NATO and the UN forces will be such a character that it will have all the positive effects, regardless of the ongoing political debates, who should do what in a way to avoid competitiveness and to increase the complementarity that is very often needed on the ground, because the success of such operations and such tasks depends not only on the military part, but also on the civil part as well as the general and overall process of seeking acceptable political solutions. The participation of Croatian soldiers in this operation only proves to what extent the Republic of Croatia becomes integrated into a wider international space and international community with other countries, taking part in the formation of peace and security where it is extremely difficult and challenging. But I will say again, military operations, military tasks are not such as to choose according to the criteria acceptable-unacceptable, but are of such nature that they should be taken over and carried out as high as possible in the interests of the entire international community. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-30-0.u25661	Thank you. We have two replicas. He is the first respected representative of Shima Lucin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-30-0.u25662	Thank you very much. I agree with most of what Cosic said, however, I cannot be impressed if someone on the side listens, not only to you but also to some of your predecessors who spoke there, it is in fact the impression that Croatia is training the military only for international military or peace missions. I cannot accept, say, that the best of the best go to international missions, because when I read the constitutional provision and the roles of the Croatian Army and the legal provisions, then the best of the best would have to guard the country. I think there's a story here, actually, and I have to say it openly, politically, and it's not true that I can't choose missions. Missions can be chosen and decisions can be made and rejected. However, Croatia is still not in a position to choose missions. Probably, if Canada had decided not to extend its military mission, it wouldn't have had any consequences. Croatia would certainly have political coincidences if, for example, it had interrupted the mission in Chad. So we need to talk about these things openly and know what we're talking about. I can only express my hope that one day Croatia will become so politically relevant on the international scene, if you will also within NATO and the European Union that it will be able to tell the gentlemen, we would not send 15 or 50 soldiers, we will send in this case two trucks. Actually, we just need to talk about it, but first of all, I answered for the impression. Croatian soldiers are not trained to participate in international missions, either militaryly or peacefully, but Croatian soldiers are trained to protect their country and this must be a priority.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-30-0.u25663	Thank you. Replication response. Dear Representative Krešimir Ćosic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-30-0.u25664	Well, it certainly needs to be answered to this comment. The best can only become a way to test abilities where real challenges exist. You can't become good, you can't become experienced, you can't become a capable officer, you can't become a soldier sitting in Zagreb or sitting in a training camp. Experience is very important, it confirms abilities, it affirms a person, not only an individual, but a unit, but also the armed forces of a state. And the fact is that we've chosen the best and that they've thus earned the respect of the entire international community. Many of us, Minister, Mr Raboteg, etc., were pleasant. to be in different places than Afghanistan, etc. and listen to comments about quality officers who are professionally responsible for their work. Therefore, you need to understand the technology of work. How do you test your ability? You can't become a world handball champion if you don't take the challenge, if you don't play and you don't win. Therefore, a clear analogy that does not require any further explanation. The choice, can be chosen and I said, the structure of democratic states is such a character that parliaments and debates in parliaments, different opinions conflict and a proper political decision is made. Therefore, this Parliament has made its own political decisions, too, and I said, for some time it can be very difficult, very complex, and that is why I cited that example of the Canadian Parliament. We don't want to meet in a similar position. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-30-0.u25665	Thank you. Time. The next replica is distinguished representative Boro Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-30-0.u25666	Mr. Vice President. Dear colleague, here you are talking about competence, courage, the abilities of our army, which is certainly a fact and no one can deny it. On the contrary, General Kruljac, who was here and there was a speech, we know him well because we are both Brodjans and one and the other, and he led and three. Guard and 108. The Slavonic-ship brigade and I was at the Maslenica Action that you were talking about, but you mentioned somehow, I'd say relativated the number of deaths. Let's say you counted 10 out of 12 dead. I must correct you in this replica. A total of 32 soldiers died in the Maslenica Action, out of which 23 from the Brod-Posavina County area.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-30-0.u25667	Thank you. Replication response. Dear Representative Krešimir Ćosic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-30-0.u25668	This remark also deserves an appropriate replica and answer. Sure, I agree with you. Then Major Kruljac, today General of the Croatian Army with whom I had the opportunity to be these moments when he lost 12 or 13 soldiers, 17 wounded, as an experienced brave officer, and therefore it is good to commend Croatian generals, knights of the Homeland War, for we usually talk about them in... society, a very unacceptable context, and we forget how critical it was that this man made a decision. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] No, again in the porridge, re-occupied position. It wasn't easy and he just did it. 3. The Guard brigade was on the ground longer, it was their first participation in the operation and unfortunately and afterwards, but with much more experience they had far less losses and far more successful and more efficient doing their jobs. And that is why it is very important and the fact is that the quality of Croatian troops, Croatian troops on the ground from Haiti, Afghanistan, Chad, is recognised through the experience of people who were in the Homeland War, who choose those who train and who do everything that our losses have really been zero so far, and this is the result of the experience we have and many others would like and receive from the officers and the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-30-0.u25669	Thank you. I would pray that, I haven't interrupted, that we still stick to the agenda point, that we discuss the scale of things and that we don't go so wide, because if we're going to go so wide, then I'm afraid that this debate won't hit that core that's the point of the agenda. We're moving on with an individual discussion. Dear Representative Miljenko Doric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-30-0.u25670	Mr. Vice President, distinguished government representatives, colleagues and colleagues. Here, I also reported for an individual debate because obviously in the first appearance in front of the HNS club, I wasn't clear enough. First of all, I would like to say that I had a certain objection to the fact that the agreement has been applied temporarily since the date of the signing. My colleague Roncevic, I had no objection to the Croatian side. I had no objection to the Croatian side, but to the European side. Why? You know well that the European Union does not give us a yellow light, let alone a green light if we do not comply with the legislation, and even then they do not trust the Parliament, they are checking the implementation of these laws. In this case, it is sufficient to initial and the agreement is applied temporarily. So, about those double criteria the other side I was talking about. As soon as I got back, and there was a lot of things said in the debate, I would still ask the vice president to forgive us for going wider in this debate. I think this is a very good debate, a very good debate, and for the first time we talked about whether we are in a position to choose missions or Croatia at this point is not in that position. If we haven't yet, then pro futuro set the criteria by which tomorrow we will give the green light to our soldiers to go on these missions. So far, President Mesic has been energetic only in opposition to one mission. I think that was good. I said something I'd be happy to say here again. So, no one, I really didn't hear anyone say that they had any objection to any of our soldiers or military units, but only to our political decisions that we're making here, or we're making in other places. Come on, let's be honest, let's go out with one poll today, here on the streets of Zagreb and ask the Zagrebers what the purpose of the operation in Chad is? Who are we protecting there? Who are we protecting you from? What is the history of this conflict? Who's behind this? Who was arming certain groups? For what purpose did he arm them? 95% of us don't know that, let alone our citizens. This is an attempt to approve future missions based on a much wider parliamentary debate because I responsibly claim that Africa is not the same as Afghanistan. In Africa yesterday, colonial forces ruled and choked riots in those countries by force. Today they create unrest to rule again. So, the rule of once-suffering unrest, the second time by creating unrest. Arming individual groups, permanent shifts of some puppet governments, and killing, colleagues and colleagues, let's be honest, in many African countries, who makes decisions? Ambassadors of many major European countries, I dare say here, are those who decide what is to be invested, at which the price of certain raw materials will be exported, how it will function in these countries at all. These aren't the decisions of these puppet governments, they're political decisions. We can't be covering for any of these. I'm not saying that in Chad it is, but in many African countries it is and I wish that Croatia could really, by reason of one objective analysis, kill to intervene, but, for example, not approve certain missions. Here, therefore, I will certainly not support all the missions in the future, and I will clearly try to explain it. Chad, I repeat, has every support from members of the HNS club. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-30-0.u25671	Thank you. We have two replicas. He is the first respected representative, Berislav Roncevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-30-0.u25672	Dear fellow Doric, then I was correcting an incorrect quote and called on him because I did not find a more adequate tile and simply not for the sake of the Croatian public, you left little illusion that the agreement might be concluded contrary to our Croatian Law on the conclusion and execution of international contracts. I'm responsible for saying it's not because I know the work of a colleague at the Department of Defense. Also, for the sake of the Croatian public, Croatia is not forced into peacekeeping missions, you must now. Croatia has declared its capabilities and in the long-term development plan, there it is said that 60% of the Land Army component will do so in Croatian frameworks according to the projection of our development of the armed forces will be around 700 soldiers on the mission and not immediately. Only for the missions we are prepared for, for which we have trained soldiers and for which we have adequately equipped them. That's how we've been acting so far. I don't mind a wider introduction, but simply so as not to leave anything unsaid here, no one imposes peace missions on Croatia. It is the decision of our bodies that are democratically elected and so far we have accepted only the missions for which we have received the guarantee of the profession, meaning the Croatian Army's command that we are ready and trained enough. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-30-0.u25673	Thank you. Replica reply, distinguished representative Miljenko Doric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-30-0.u25674	My colleague Roncevic, I completely agree with you, which is why I intervened and I explain that there would be no really misunderstanding about it, no objection, I repeat on the Croatian side. But now you've said again Croatia can choose depending on whether it is technically ready or not. I repeat. I'm also looking for political readiness based on a clear argument.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-30-0.u25675	Thank you. And another replica, the esteemed representative Krešimir Ćosic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-30-0.u25676	Dear Mr. Doric has asked such a very intriguing question that I think he deserves perhaps a little comment. The question seemed like this, who are we defending in Chad? 90% of people don't even know where Chad is, I might be implying what you might be thinking about. Well, we don't have anyone we know there, we don't have relatives there, maybe we don't have friends and so on. What's the point of all this, then? And that question kind of leads us in the wrong direction. We are looking for an answer to a question that is not asked by the International Community, not by the European Commission, not by the UN, NATO and so on, but by a very different nature why we are there. Not us as individuals, not only Croatian soldiers, but armed forces of the Republic of Croatia and dozens of other countries of the European Union, NATO, UN etc. The answer is very clear and this response also makes political decisions at the level of the most important international organisations that care and are responsible for world peace and security. We defend peace and security, even in Chad, although in the context of your questions we have no friends, no relatives, no one we know. But we are taking part in an important job, in an important task, because it is part of the international responsibility of international community headquarters organisations such as the UN, NATO and in this area, the European Union is seeking its position through a European defence security policy because it is aware that without it it it cannot become a political partner at global level. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-30-0.u25677	Thank you. Replica reply, distinguished representative Miljenko Doric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-30-0.u25678	Comrade Cossic, I can agree with one piece of your replica. But unfortunately, I think you missed what I was about to say. You know, are we here defending the economic interests of the European Union in Chad, are we here defending the rights of certain ethical groups of the Chadian peoples that was my question. You know? You know exactly what I'm talking about. There are always a few truths in war conflicts. I'd like to know what truth we're defending, what our ultimate goal is. Which is the people whose independence we want to secure. That's the question. Croatian citizens, unfortunately, don't know that.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-30-0.u25679	Thank you. Now, in an individual debate, the distinguished representative Boro Grubisic continues. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-30-0.u25680	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. It was a good replica and this debate in the replica. In fact, when we look at these materials exactly what Mr. Doric said the mission's goal is a bit vague, the goal of the mission itself. Following Croatia's participation in peacekeeping missions around the world, someone has said 15 countries so far, somehow it turns out that the Croatian state and Croatian people are the most solidarity people in the world. And if by the number of missions, and compared to the size of the state and our population wouldn't expect that from us. It is true that our army, our soldiers, are excellent, high-quality, competent to carry out their military duties. It is true that they are perfectly dressed and prepared and have a quality that I would really say at the price in international, military circles. However, this is primarily a political decision. So, it was brought to me by political means, and when this information that I've presented earlier on about the number of countries in which we're participating, about volunteering as Mr Roncevic said in the missions to me, forgive me for saying it might turn out to be some sort of a favor to the world powers or powers, and all in anticipation of what is also our political interest and mission, which is entering the NATO Pact and entering the European Union. You see, when it comes to this mission, I wonder who is doing this with our volunteering and well-intentioned participation in these military missions, who is helping us in our mission through a thorny path towards the NATO Pact and the European Union. Who raised his voice for these to say, "It's Slovenia." Here yesterday, their parliament postponed the debate on Croatia's entry into the NATO Pact, and we are sending missions everywhere, wherever we need to, voluntarily, no one is forcing us. So can we ever show that we're some kind of state, that we have our own attitude, that we have our own opinions, that we have my own. And when it comes to Chad and specifically about it, so it's a state located in the heart of Africa south of Sudan rich in phosphates. France was a good part of the century there, the boss, must be said openly. It relies on the Central African or Central African Republic. So, two Central African states where there were countless riots, coups, military coups. The North Sudan also reportedly, I would not want to accuse anyone, but we know that from newspapers, reports and everything also acts on riots in Chad, and we actually if we don't know the goal, exactly what Doric said, why are we going there? Is it peace-preservation? Is implementing someone's policy where it used to be, where the Foreign Legion used to be as far as I know. That's what we've been watching movies about. That's why it's really time for some speakers here to think about our missions. Although I know that in this situation of crisis, recession, unemployment, there is no property of our soldier who will refuse, and also because of the belief that they are doing what they are ordered to do is fine, there is no soldier who will refuse any mission. Let us not forget that precisely because of this disorderly situation in Chad, the risk of the operation itself is different than in Afghanistan, and it should also not be forgotten as it says in Article 5(2), and I do not see anything here that I am about to say. So, in the event of death, injury, loss or damage. It's a shame if there's any damage to the disease, we know that there are severe infectious diseases from Ebola all the way to malaria in that area. Therefore, when we talk about our participation, it is clear that when it is already signed here it is written in Brussels on 26 September 2008. So I think we're actually having a little bit of a discussion out of time here. But in the future, as many of my colleagues in the Parliament said, we need to think carefully and discuss it a long time ago and with much more arguments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-30-0.u25681	In order not to repeat it again, we are, and there is no misunderstanding anything can be done on these missions without the Parliament's decision. And the Parliament made a decision on that mission. We are today discussing the technical aspects of maintaining this mission, so please don't have to interrupt, stick to the agenda theme. ... Please. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Now we have a few replicas. First is the honourable representative Krešimir Cosic. Here you go. But we stick to the subject.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-30-0.u25682	Certainly, Mr. Vice President. It is very important that Croatian public and Croatian people understand the complexity of these issues and decisions made not only in the Croatian Parliament but also in other countries' assemblies and wider international communities. Type comments, I quote, courting world powers is the type of comments that challenge not only Croatian state policy but also the state policy of many other parliaments and the entire international community. I don't know who's being courted by the Danish Parliament, the Hungarian Parliament, etc. All these countries and all these political decisions have a common goal of building as much peace as possible, security in the world and Croatia in NATO means gentlemen very simple peace, security, definitely means that it will never happen again and most of us remember well what it looked like in 1991 when it was meant to leave normal jobs, all of what we thought we would never do in life we were forced to do. This value of security and peace is the fundamental value of the modern world and, therefore, the character of commenting on someone being granted by sending Croatian soldiers or other military states to peace operations is I would say unacceptable.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-30-0.u25683	Thank you. Did you answer the line? ... Excuse me, but you've got to pick up the replica board. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] You had her in your hand, we followed her, you didn't pick up, but here's my word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-30-0.u25684	This is the first time you've given me this. Thank you very much. Sir, if it were our will and it wasn't what I said, then this mission would be called CROFOR, not EUFOR. So I'm staying on those settings. There you go. That's it.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-30-0.u25685	Thank you. Replicated representative Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-30-0.u25686	Thank you very much. Your Honor, Mr. Vice President. You expressed your dissatisfaction with the fact that today we are indeed discussing sending our mission to Chad in the context and the moment when a NATO member is making problems in the process of admission to full membership, because of the final budget account in neighbouring Slovenia. But I am not concerned about that, so I believe that you will accept my suggestion that you too do not have to be concerned because unlike the Brussels administration, which has no problem so far solved this problem of ratification of Croatia's NATO entry agreement will not solve Brussels but Washington and their methods of persuasion are still slightly different, are not as gentle as Brussels and it will be quickly solved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-30-0.u25687	Thank you. Just for the sake of truth, we don't make a decision today to send our forces. We brought it in on July 15, 2008. We're only talking about the conditions under which we send them. And we have another replica. Honorable representative of Shima Luchin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-30-0.u25688	I agree with my colleagues who have said that we are not courting the acceptance of all missions. By accepting all missions or inability to refuse certain missions, we are in fact meeting some political goals. I belong to those who would be most fortunate if never a Croatian soldier had to go beyond the Croatian border, but unfortunately, the situation is as it is and unfortunately lives in the world as it is. So we have to agree to that. However, they cannot accept military missions being justified exclusively from the military aspect. No one can convince me that anything special will be more prepared for the Croatian soldier or I don't know what will happen to the Croatian army if it stays on the ground more in foreign countries, because that logic and that argument made by counterpart Ćosic would never win the Homeland War. I don't know where the Tigers are, the Coves, where they've been to military missions, international military missions, so they've won a brilliant victory. So let’s make a political speech when it comes to these problems and issues.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-30-0.u25689	Thank you. Let's move on with the individual debate. The last person to be reported is Honorable Representative Zdenko Franic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-30-0.u25690	Dear Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues and fellow MPs. Chad is one of the poorest countries in the world with perhaps one of the most corrupt governments in the world and located in such an environment that there is probably one of the worst humanitarian disasters currently under way there with Afghanistan. Chad is overrun by the conflict from Sudan, the Sudanese region of Darfur with hundreds of thousands of refugees who do not have half a glass of drinking water daily to meet their basic living needs. Therefore, the participation of the peacekeeping forces that prevents further conflict between at least four warring factions of the Chadian paramilitary and military forces is one of the Christian tasks of the international community and this mission in Chad has belonged to the European Union, and it may actually be a historic mission for the European Union's military orders to perform with the United Nations police forces, but this time they have more powers than the United Nations units themselves, that is, the global organisation. Last December 15th, a meeting of the Western European Union was held in Paris, so on 15 December last year, a meeting of the Western European Union was held in Paris, so the Parliamentary Assembly of the European Security Co-operation where a mission was discussed in Chad, a mission in Afghanistan and other missions containing European countries' military troops. A particularly apostrophe mission in Chad is due to its humanitarian dimension and potential disaster. The European Union has an interest in Chad, simply because it defends peace, security and dignity that these people need to ensure that they have such conditions. It is interesting that the debate in Chad has also led to a debate on the security aspects of this financial crisis that shakes world markets. The European leaders, at this meeting of the Assembly, also stressed that Europe will fight the crisis as it has so far with its social-market economy model, but this does not exclude such humanitarian missions that cost much but defend European credibility. Let us remember the moments when Croatia itself was attacked, when grenades fell on Croatian cities, when we cried for help from the United Nations which was nowhere. Have we wondered who would send their soldiers here to protect us as we are today wondering if it's dignified and humane to send our soldiers and our boys to defend dignity and the right to the lives of innocent victims who haven't actually initiated that conflict? Let's put this conflict in Chad and the Central African Republic in another context. The other day, a Croatian tanker was abducted by the Sudanese pirates of these same ones who caused a humanitarian disaster in Darhur, which was transferred to Chad and the Central African Republic. So we can say that in a broader context Croatia defends its ships from international pirates that dispute the safety of navigation and endangers sailors and international trade including Croats. The military mission in Chad is one of the successes of European security and defence policy, and I believe that Croatia should actively participate in these efforts, and in this House which has already decided on the participation of our mission in Chad and the Central African Republic is a great responsibility because each of us advocates who have already raised our hands to send our boys there, he has probably thought well about whether to raise that hand, however, the fact is that there, as I said, defends peace, security and credibility of European security policy as a policy that is complementary to NATO and which plays an increasingly important role in the military, political and economic plan. And it is good that Croatia joins it with its active policy. This law regulates legal issues related to this mission and, in fact, we legally increase the safety of our soldiers and reduce possible conventions that could happen there. It is good that our soldiers are well trained, that the mission is going well and I wish them all good luck and a safe return to the Homeland to continue with their mission to actively defend us within the borders of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-30-0.u25691	Thank you. We have two replicas, the first distinguished representative Miljenko Doric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-30-0.u25692	Thank you very much. I would like to thank you, colleague Franić, that you are the first person to enter etiology of what is happening in the Chad area, and I think that this is the right way through which we must dispute or accept this agreement today when we vote on it. What you said and what I'd like to underline, we have a state in Chad that requires humanitarian intervention and police intervention. I disagree with you when it comes to military intervention. Military intervention should be in... And at the borders of Sudan, that the military conflict doesn't spill into Chad, we know where he's going otherwise. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Therefore, Croatia sends to Chad blankets, flour, water, and soldiers to... I would agree then, this is how I must say, I understand this mission, but it would be much more logical if it were set differently. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-30-0.u25693	Thank you. And another replica of the esteemed representative, Berislav Roncevic. Excuse me. Reply Dear Representative Zdenko Franić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-30-0.u25694	I have to pay my respects, Mr. Vice President, to repeat your words that we are not actually discussing the condition of the soldiers because we have already sent soldiers. We are now discussing the legislative framework under which we have sent these soldiers to Chad. Unfortunately, there is also, in Chad, a military conflict of at least four warring factions, and a military component is used to protect the police forces of the United Nations, and there is a very, very extensive report that you can get from me as head of the Parliamentary delegation in the European Union, because it has been debated there for hours. And I must once again say that Croatia has received all the compliments and compliments that it has decided to take responsibility to join such a very complex, but also to the historic mission of the European Union.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-30-0.u25695	Thank you. Dear Representative Berislav Roncevic, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-30-0.u25696	Well, dear fellow Franic, several times, it seems twice in his speech to me, speaking of the context of members of the Armed Forces in peacekeeping missions, you used the word boys. I know it is not intentional, but simply for the sake of correctness, there are also women, members of the Croatian Armed Forces, and even here at the pride of the Croatian Army, then Lieutenant Vlasta Zekulić led a 6-month contingent in Afghanistan with excellent results. I know it's not intentional, but it's just doing the right thing, and I think it's a big pride on all of us.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-30-0.u25697	Replication response. Dear Representative Zdenko Franić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-30-0.u25698	... Insult our soldiers and here, once again, I apologize and welcome all Croatian soldiers who are serving in any missions outside the borders of the Republic of Croatia. [[Specially enabled.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-30-0.u25699	Thank you. And on behalf of the SDP club, 5 minutes final, distinguished representative Ante Kotromanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-30-0.u25700	Mr. Vice President of the Parliament, fellow MPs. So far, this High House has made several decisions about the condition of members of the Croatian Army on various missions, you've heard, not to say again, I don't have much time. And so far we've never, the Parliament has never visited these people. We were two months ago, the Defence Committee proposed that a delegation, a parliamentary delegation of course composed of different people, visit our people in Afghanistan. And now I have to ask the secretary, we're late with that, it's too bad it's stalling. We have already agreed everything in principle and we believe, and there is a former minister, that it must be analysed as soon as possible. We're deciding on these people and we think we should go around these people in a place that's very critical up there, and it's called Afghanistan. Every mission, any peace mission, any peace-keeping mission, the peace-making, we can talk about it another time, these are completely three different missions, is dangerous and requires a great effort of soldiers, officers, officers wherever they are, who directly participate in them. It's also a great effort for the Ministry of Defense. In many places it is difficult to provide logistics in such conditions as we and the conditions in which people are in the field. People go to a whole new space, meet different climate conditions, different cultures. Of course, and it's always a dangerous task. The situation in Chad and Afghanistan can get worse, and we need to be aware of that, we need to be prepared for military and political, as we must be prepared for the first possible victims. Unfortunately, it can also happen very easily, especially in these risk zones. But our commitment is very clear and all the clubs in this House are now supporting these missions outside. Soldiers also, which is very important and unfortunately not much time, and that's the most important thing for a soldier. We are at the return of NATO and of course NATO has certain requirements. What is very important to me is that we must not overestimate ourselves and accept new missions. Why? Because of the 17 thousand members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia, we have 2,000 soldiers in two Guard brigades. That's very small. That's all I had in one brigade during the war. We don't have enough strength, enough trained forces to stretch into more places. We're all talking... in principle and in general. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It needs to be realistic and see what we have and what the forces are preparing for. We can't define that we're just sending in pedestrian troops. You should decide to send other teams, logistics, sanity, engineering. These are also very experienced people with great experience in war and can greatly contribute to the success of any mission in any space. What about HRZ? What about the Croatian Navy? Why don't we send them on certain missions? What I want to say and what seems most important to me, and every week I call the guys upstairs in Afghanistan, and I hear from the team, and they say it's not easy. These are very difficult conditions, physically and mentally, they are constantly on guard, they are constantly on vanca patrols and of course they can't wait and... The day he comes home. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] What happens when they come here to Croatia? A good ten days' rest and then immediately into the military and guards. Guards, cleaning the circle, for example. The commander of the Croatian Navy tells the commander of the Southern Brigade give me 100 men that these professionals, those guys we swear to, I've been in charge of professionals for 7, 8 years, so I know, they have to humble themselves and come to a military cleaning circle and mowing grass after all they've been through. Let me cut to the chase, let me get to the point. I propose to the Ministry of Defence that we form a security company of the type "AKD Protection" that will relieve these people who guard the Croatian Army's House in Karlovac, guard the military. We were in NATO the other day, who secures NATO in Brussels? It's a private security company. Let's at least unburden ourselves with this, how we're going to relieve people, to hire about 300 defenders, 400 defenders in that agency that can function perfectly, which can naturally be under the MOTH's patronage, and I think it's a good solution that, in a certain period ahead of us, must certainly be analysed because this is not how it's going to work. We don't have enough strength, we don't have enough people who can do all these tasks in Croatia, military tasks, and they don't have much time to train, for training. What is the primary task of every soldier is to train, train, train. Not to keep watch, not to cut the grass, not to do tasks there that are absolutely not suitable for soldiers. I also suggest that the Assembly delegation visit the Croatian Army, visit HRZ, the Croatian Navy, aviation, tour these two pedestrian brigades, and I think it would be good to agree with the Ministry of Defence to see a little bit of how these people live, how they do...
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-30-0.u25701	Time!
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-30-0.u25702	How they behave and that in the end we have a clearer picture and vision of what is called the Croatian Army and what is called the next task that the Croatian Army will surely have in both Croatia and out. Mr. Vice President, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-30-0.u25703	Thank you. And on behalf of the proposer's club, the esteemed Mate Raboteg, State Secretary at the Ministry of Defence. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-30-0.u25704	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Just for a short time, I, on behalf of the motionor, shall thank, above all, all the representatives for the support you have given to this bill and in view of the content of this item and the subject matter of the debate, which is the Act confirming the Agreement between the Republic of Croatia and the European Union on the dispatch, on the participation of members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia in the military mission of the European Union in the North African Republic, the Republic of Chad. And since I haven't noticed that there have been more significant objections to the content of the agreement itself, I don't think as president of the motion there is any need to comment on any of these discussions and that parliamentary representatives have done it very well. However, here I would like to respond, by the way, to the distinguished representative Kotromanović, that we welcome in any case the interest of representatives of the Croatian Parliament for everything that is going on in the Croatian Army and that we are willing to provide our full support to the organisation of any of your initiatives concerning the visit of the Armed Forces troops. But, of course, your initiative to have a parliamentary delegation headed to Afghanistan is also welcome. However, we must, of course, prepare it very scrupulously and very seriously. It's a matter of security, it's procedures and agreement with our allies, etc. Therefore, it is necessary to choose both the right moment and the right time in view of the other obligations and in any case we will work on it together. So, so you don't get it wrong that we have something against it. Also, as regards the participation of other branches of the Armed Forces, I must say in Afghanistan and all other missions of the United Nations in which members of the Armed Forces participate have all three branches of the Armed Forces, including members of the Navy in Afghanistan. For they are therefore on various duties, on various headquarters duties, in various support services, etc. In addition, the Croatian Navy participates in Operation "Active Indomer" which we have also made a decision on this high body. You also know that members of the Croatian Air Force will soon participate in the KFOR mission in Kosovo with two helicopters. Therefore, I would say that all branches and all tribes of the service of the Armed Forces are included in what the Croatian Army is doing in its daily affairs both within Croatia and in peacekeeping missions around the world. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-30-0.u25705	Thank you. I'm closing the debate, and we'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-30-0.u25706	Fifthly, the Final Proposal for a Law confirming the Agreement between the Republic of Croatia and the European Union in the participation of the Republic of Croatia in the European Union military operation in the Republic of Chad and the Central African Republic, operations EUFOR TEHAD/RCA, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. 212. The debate is closed. I am voting on the final proposal of this law, not to read it again. Please, who's in? Thank you. Against? Thank you. Restraint? Thank you. The law was passed by a majority of votes, 119 votes in favour and 1 abstention.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-30-0.u25707	We move to the fifth item of the agenda, which is - Proposed law on preventing abuse at work, first reading, P.Z. No. 55. Proposer: When adopting this law, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading of the law shall apply, Articles 144 to 150. You took the materials into the boxes. The government delivered an opinion. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Labour and Social Partnership. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Honorable representative of Gordana Sobol. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-30-0.u25708	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. Here after a really long period came the turn and debate on the bill proposed by the SDP Club, the Proposed Law on Preventing Labour Abuse and allow me a few sentences. First of all, let me introduce you in short lines since this bill is actually in the Parliament's agenda. In fact, I should remind at least those from the last term that such a bill still entered the procedure in the fall of 2007. So, in that last assembly of Parliaments. At that time, the Proposer was the Committee on Gender Equality. In the meantime, there has been a new assembly of parliaments, and this bill entered into the procedure in April, i.e. early May 2008. And here it is, the end of the month is the first year of 2009, and we are discussing it today. This bill was composed of a working group brought together by the Mobbing Association, which deals with the problem of abuse in the work within which the representatives of the association, representatives of the unions, representatives of experts from working-law relations, representatives of professions such as psychologists, or psychiatrists, mental health experts and occupational protection experts. So, one thinks that we can really say the expert working group that then sent this bill as its initiative towards the Croatian Parliament, but also according to the GSV, so according to the Government, with a proposal that someone should be interested in this law and take over this law and be a promoter. Proposer, an interested SDP club called, and here we are proposing this law. In the meantime, somewhere on October 31st of last year, and the government set up its working group to prepare the Labour Prevention Law, and on that basis, at the time of the 11th month last year, we were given a negative opinion by the Government on this bill with a very loud explanation that they disagreed, so that they did not accept the bill because they had established a working group which, by the way, was more or less included by the same groups that were, representatives of the same groups involved in the draft law on the prevention of labour abuse. I would also like to remind myself that somewhere last year, for the first time in Croatia, it was marked October 7th, it is to remind the World Day of Dignified Work when primarily unions came out with a presentation of different research and with the current situation as it is when it comes to workers' problems in Croatia. Mobbing or mistreatment at work is the problem of modern society. Today, he sees himself as a new form of human rights violation. It is considered a disease of civilization, but also a disease that civilization creates. It's mostly psychologically. It's hard to prove. The basic feature of mobbing is pathological behavior that, to put it this way, common sense cannot understand. It is reflected as a failure to respect a person at a personal and professional level, as well as ignoring and discrimination in different forms. Mobbing or as we in Croatia say abuse, psychological abuse at work specific forms of behavior in the workplace. It is psychological and moral terror to which one person or a group of them systematically, mentally abuses and humiliates another person with the aim of jeopardizing her reputation, honor, human dignity and integrity all the way to the elimination of her job. Since it has an extremely negative impact on the health and life of an individual, on the quality of the provision of services, on the negative economic consequences of the entire community, any sufficiently conscious society should be interested in early detection and in the suppression of mobbing. Today, in fact, to say the most significant, i.e. the best definition of mobbing, is considered to be the one introduced in the French Law on mobbing which is read, I will read it because the proposal for this law was done precisely on that definition. Mobing is a psychological harassment repeated through actions aimed at or after the degradation of working conditions that can cause assault and harm human rights and human dignity, harm physical or mental health or compromise the victim's professional future. As I have already said, this bill of law in this text you have, it uses the term abuse at work because it was requested when making this law and professional opinion of the Institute of Croatian Language and Linguistics. When we talk about what kinds of abuses we have at work today, we can observe who is the abuser, and who is the victim, and then we talk about 2 or 3 types of abuse. It is a vertical but vertical type that can go from superiors to subordinates and vertically that goes from subordinates to superiors, and horizontal work where in the same, therefore the level of colleagues abuse either one colleague or more of them abuse their colleague. This vertical type is the most widespread, somewhere around 75% of all cases is the vertical type, of which 5% goes in that direction from the subordinates to the superiors, and this horizontal approximately 25% of the cases. True, there are also different studies that show some different percentages in this relationship, but killing is always more expressed by this vertical type. When we talk about the motives of abuse, it is actually about strategic or emotional abuse. Of course, the strategy in a way gives its own answer, which actually means it is an agreement of the management summit on which workers are unwanted before the start of the organized abuse. When we talk about strategic abuse, I actually want to remind you on behalf of the club of a period in Croatia. It's a period of one of those conversions and privatisations. In fact, you remember then after privatisation, in many companies there was actually a surplus of workers because then the new owners didn't want to, and they didn't actually have the means to invest, and their only goal was to actually make as much profit as possible in the shortest time, not choosing the funds, and a part of them went towards destroying companies. We remember, then he killed the largest number of workers and lost sex, and was forced to retire, and left without any severance and so on and I dare say that this period of the largest mobbing that was carried out over Croatian labour. When we talk about emotional abuse, we can look at different aspects of the personality of abusers, as well as victims of abuse, which is, of course, the largest number of research dealing with precisely labour protection experts, mental health experts, psychologists, psychiatrists. Abuse in the workplace causes and carries the risk of permanent health damage. Mobinga victims address family doctors, psychologists, psychiatrists after a shorter or longer period. Western countries have been facing this problem for years, and mental health professions have developed ways of preventing, identifying and treating the effects of mobbing. However, here it should be said, therefore, except that, why mobing is really particularly dangerous, why the abuse of a person's work is really dangerous, harmful and deserves the full attention of the whole community, especially when it comes to, of course, legal regulation, or legal sanctioning unacceptable behaviours. So, apart from being a worker feeling the consequences of his health, whether psychologically or physically, the fact is that this problem is also an extremely high social cost, but it should be said here, because of those employers who are still opposed to legal regulation and the punishment of wetlands today, so it also causes high costs for employers who are born and for the absence of workers from work, due to the fluctuation of workers, due to the low efficiency of the victim of the mobbing, so his dissatisfaction, which we want or not, is very much reflected in the product that the worker produces, and then on the overall profit of the employer. Secondly, of course what results from the abuse of workers is causing, these are also the problems and impact on its or narrow or wider environment, and the problem that has been seen especially recently, especially in Europe's countries, which is that workers who are highly exposed to labour abuse tend to have early retirement. Swedish statistics say that about 25% of workers, so over 55 years earlier, were retired, and from that 20 to 40% of previous retirements were due to a disease whose primary sample is poor psychosocial working conditions, among other things, mobbing. This means that, in fact, approximately every 3rd to 5th of the previously retired individual in this age group suffered from a highly expressed mobing, or abuse in the workplace. When we talk about abuse in the workplace, today and in one part still cause different controversy, or we always wonder whether there are relevant research that is talking about it, there are relevant research, there are also relevant research at European Union level, but there are certainly different controversys in Croatia, regardless of what part of it primarily refers to the employers' association to deny in some way the results of these surveys, or perhaps it would be better to say not to deny them but in some way knowingly reduces this problem or the consequences resulting from the problem of labour abuse. So, at European Union level, a number of research has been done by institutes dealing with health and social protection issues, and somewhere at about 8% and 12 million workers in the European Union, respectively, complains that they are offended by administrative discipline and around 9% of workers were in some way the target of labour abuse, which is about 13 million workers at European Union level, with the difference of course from country to country and a significant research that has been done. I would personally like such a thing to be done in Croatia, which is that they have investigated the abuse of work in different activities and is shown at European Union level that the highest percentage of labour abuse in the state administration and defence is 14%, then education and health care 12%, hotel and catering 12%, etc. So, I think it would be worth having this kind of research at Croatian level. When the percentages of labour abuse at the level of individual EU countries have been compared to the percentages among the new members of the European Union and then I will say on the percentages of what is happening in Croatia, then it is seen that the new members show this lower level. However, this is primarily explained by the lack of recognition of mobbing or abuse of work in those countries as a problem or something that has become a constant phenomenon. How's that in Croatia? Therefore, by rejecting the allegations of certain associations primarily coming from the Croatian Employers' Association that there are no relevant research in Croatia, I argue that there have been relevant research done by different associations dealing with the problem of mobbing but have been working and associations dealing with the problem of employment itself, associations dealing with health problems in general and various research published today still more or less in professional journals and which look at the problem of labour abuse from different aspects. I think that definitely today after all these results we got we can't say as it was so comically little in one daily newspaper was one big headline, I think it was some city from Istria where he wrote a big title: "It's pulsing us either." So, "That's not with us." I think that if we close our eyes to the fact that in Croatia there is one thing that we can do only in the future by delaying problem-solving further problems, I repeat, which are not only on personal levels when it comes to the health of one worker but also on his family but also on the wider community. Systematic mental abuse at work recognizes still today and more people in Croatia. Regardless of how one health portal has generally been established over three years, it has therefore worked together with the Department of Medicine at the Croatian Institute of Public Health. So they found that Croatia is still one society in which the patriarchal culture is ruled and that the fact that people who have been exposed to some kind of work abuse are actually ashamed of it, that is, shame on them to go out in front of their family, friends or associates, are ashamed to talk about it. Or what is even worse, they think in most cases that they may be responsible for what happened to them and because of this, a large number of people in Croatia who are exposed to labour abuse are waiting for a year and two to even turn to someone for help when in fact some mental symptoms become chronic and transition to both physical and then decide to go to a doctor. But I say, regardless of the everyday life, it shows us that more and more people decide to report mobing or abuse at work, but then the question becomes what after that. When they go to a doctor, when they go to a psychiatrist, when they go to a psychologist, when they go to a hospital, when they try to heal in one way or another, there comes a phase to try to return to the workplace but of course not to the environment of that job they left behind, so with people who showed them hostile behavior. After that, I actually start to say "torment" because in most cases, they don't come across understanding in their working environments. Here, it should be said that in Croatia too, a number of companies are mostly large companies of world names problem of labour abuse or labour conditions, good working environment, climate, good governance etc. have long recognized as something that can, or possibly affect, their profits in the future and in extraordinary ways address these issues. The problem is others who find this problem irrelevant or refuse to admit that some kind of abuse is taking place within their company. When preparing this law I and I have to say it is mostly by the side, not mostly but by the government have constantly come messages that we do not need some new law that will only contribute to making us even more insane in Croatia, that this issue will be resolved through the Law of Labour, so when the new Labour Act is passed. Such explanations were about three or four years old. I said what I said at the beginning somewhere in, at the end of October last year, the government suddenly changed its mind and formed a working group in which, which has the task of making a new draft law on preventing abuse at work. What happened in the meantime, therefore, in those three or four years after the government decided to go with the new law, of course remains unclear. But we are asking, of course, whether we could have already had a new law and that the government had long ago accepted that we were discussing this law here in Parliament and we could have already had it. We are open as proposings, of course, to all possible remarks, to any good or better solutions than we have written here. But then, I keep repeating what happened that the government here decided to still go with the new bill. What happened in the meantime, there was a new Law on Disclosure of Discrimination, but a new Law on Gender Equality also took place. However, it has still proved insufficient that through these laws this problem is happening. We had one remark, it seems to me that it was the Committee on Labour and Social Partnership, by the HUP, that we have prescribed in this law some solutions such as in other laws, such as the Law on Discussing Discrimination and the Law on Gender Equality, and we say no, it is the opposite, this law was made up a year and a half before we passed the Law on Discussing Discrimination and the Law on Gender Equality. So we're actually glad that these laws are incorporated into certain provisions of this bill on preventing abuse at work, which can only tell me that we actually did a good job. Why did we actually advocate having a special law? And I'm glad that the profession, the ones that are really dealing with the problem of labour legislation, but also those who are dealing with medicine, so psychologists, psychiatrists, mental health experts, all at first advocated that we have one new law. In the current Labour Act, therefore, there is a certain anti-discrimination of the provision in this law still in force. However, the problem has proved primarily that the Labour Act does not offer legal protection in relation to all the causes that can lead to labour abuse, since it is defined only in relation to the causes which represent some of the forms of discrimination listed in Article 2 of that Law. So based on race, skin color, sex, sexual belief, political and similar, etc., not to mention. And the Labour Act does not provide any protection against the abuse of work resulting from personality traits,... group patterns of behavior, not becoming an appropriate structure of industrial culture performing from the position of power and the like. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So there's no talking about the Labour Act and there's no talking about it in this new draft of the Labour Act that we're just going to discuss here in this room. Furthermore, the protection process refers primarily to collective agreements, agreements with a working council or labour rules and the fact is that all workers in Croatia are not covered by a collective contract and only employers with more than 20 employees can be founded by a working council and only those employers are obliged to adopt the labour rules. And to a significant part of the staff is applied exclusively to the Labour Act, so I said before its provisions were not, it is not enough for workers to be properly protected. Finally, it is only on the victim's case of the initiation of an harassment proceedings in which they can actually be exposed to additional harassment, I don't think we need to explain it specifically. Come on, as a working man who has been abused, dare I say so to press charges, and yet you dare not come to work because in this way and you have the right to do so in the existing Labour Act until the end of the proceedings and then in court, take a lawyer and then you prove to the contrary to the Labour Act again that you have been abused instead of the employer proving that there has been no abuse. So unfortunately in Croatia, in some ways the values are reversed and even more existing laws are being manipulated in all possible ways, in all ways they are being manipulated or not applied. It is estimated that a little more than 100 lawsuits have been filed here in Croatia since 2003 to compensate for the damages of harassment. However, there is still not a single, first-degree verdict, we make a good point precisely because of the fact that there are unclear and insufficient provisions in the existing legislation, namely, there is no clear, in any law, clear legal provisions on punishment... I don't want to talk about how our judiciary finds itself in 100 miracles in some way when it comes to lawsuits for discrimination of any kind, including any discrimination at work. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We believe that this law solves all the current concerns and all the open issues. With the draft labour law, we address this issue in relation to all employees, therefore, not only those covered by the Labour Act, but also those subject to different other regulations. In relation to the circle of persons, the proposal is therefore to include not only persons in employment but also those in practice, those who are somewhere on vocational training without a working relationship, on students and students who are in practical training, on those who perform certain tasks during the course of the sentence of prison or educational measures. What we also need, in this proposal of the law, is that we have taken all forms and definitions of abuse from the Framework Agreement on Abuse and Violence to work that the representative associations of employers and workers at European Union level initialled in December 2006. Then, we suggest that the entire protection procedure be regulated by law and that what is new, that the court worker has the right to request that the court order the termination of the action that violated his right. Finally, the socially responsible business that we are talking about more and more in Croatia is a way of managing issues of social and cultural character, including human resources management and health and protection at work, as well as environmental protection management, therefore issues that in themselves do not represent direct business goals, but are in the function of their performance, as we have written in the conclusion of this proposal. This bill focuses on the organisation of work in one company, institution, company, office, smaller or larger, on what it is obliged to do, which is able to identify and what it is obliged to do. So we're focused on organisation of work, on working climate, on how to run a company, on working conditions. And finally, I don't think it's burning but not saying, at European Union or European Community level. There are a whole range of institutions, bodies and associations that try to determine what is happening and how in working environment conditions, meaning man, his workplace, the outcomes of his work, as this reflects on the final product or product that brings profits to the employer. Profit will only achieve a good product. A good product creates a good and satisfied worker. As someone would say, it's such a simple formula, and it's so hard to apply that it's just amazing. On behalf of the promoter, I therefore call on the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and fellow MPs to participate in the debate and, of course, to support this bill in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-30-0.u25709	Thank you. The rapporteurs of the Legislative Committee? For work and social partnership? I'm opening a debate. HDZ Club, Mr. Representative Boris Kunst. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-30-0.u25710	Dear Vice President, fellow MPs. Well, I'm sure this proposed Law on the Prevention of Labour Abuse is worth the attention, but I must remind you that it is almost identical to the proposal of a different title, the Law on the Protection of Workers from Mobing, which was publicly discussed in 2006 and the initiators of that debate were then trade unions. Surely and here I fully agree with the Proposer, mobing has existed since there's been a human race, since there's a desire for power, envy, jealousy, hatred, etc. And it's not some new phenomenon. And it exists in all the working environments, from those primitive to those complex companies of this century. Mobing usually starts with a conflict in the workplace, and continues with moral terror, abuse, etc. According to studies, abuse victims are mostly workers, lower education workers, pre-retired persons, newly employed, persons who are eager for careers, whistles, workers who often warn about problems in the workplace. It is interesting that working environments in which the most common mobing happens are state and local administration, education and health care. There are other companies, but I said it most often. Mobbing victims are 2/3 of a third of a woman, 1/3 of men who rarely admit it and say it more rarely. Mobing happens most often in poorly organized institutions, companies with unprofessional and needed managers. I think the workers in Croatia have passed the worst period of mobbing and I fully agree with Sobol during the privatisation process in Croatia. The transition economy and burdensome problems have left consequences and normal, leaving consequences for the health of certain workers, but since methodologically designed research has not been carried out so far, we in Croatia have absolutely no real data about it. We've got all kinds of research, all kinds of data, but for now, methodologically, we don't have any research. I believe that the most important thing would be to identify the quality primary prevention of mobbing and in-house company acts, collective agreements, labour contracts that should be closely regulated by relationships and behaviour among workers first, and then relations between employers and workers, and periodically educate, train employers to prevent mobbing and teach better communication skills with workers. It is important to note that educational investment in prevention will have multiple advantages for the company and this will, in any case, return to the company, by reducing the sick, by reducing the number of errors, by accidents at work. Workers will be healthier, there will be a healthier climate and will lead to better work performance, better product quality, services and improvements in the business image itself. I remind you that the first company in Europe that decided to invest in the quality of its workers and management, especially in the quality of human relations, was Volkswagen. I believe that for their results and quality we have all heard more or less. Some have had the opportunity to convince themselves of that quality. Therefore, I call on companies and businesses in Croatia to just look up to Volkswagen for example and will have a sure satisfaction for workers with greater quality and productivity, and less mobbing, conflict and conflict in the workplace. As for the protection of the dignity of workers, the abuse of work, the fight against discrimination, the protection of human rights, in the Republic of Croatia, this area was first governed by the Labour Act. And I won't agree with Agent Sobol here, because a particular ban on discrimination is arranged, protecting the dignity of workers, and harassing and sexual harassment. And individual solutions from the Labour Act are prescribed and transposed into this law, this bill on preventing abuse of work. Secondly, the Law on Discrimination of Discrimination ensures the protection and promotion of equality of all persons, and in particular of employees, highlights the protection against discrimination in the field of labour and employment, whose disputes will in the future be seen as labour disputes rather than civil litigation. I'll remind you that the law came into force at the beginning of this year. Normally, he hasn't been here yet when this proposal was written, a bill of law. Third, the Law on Gender Equality also prohibits discrimination in the field of employment and labour. Even accurately determines how and the content of advertising for employment needs, and systematization of jobs where there must be no discrimination for male or female. This law further strengthens women's equality in the field of work. It is evident that many improvements have been made to protection through standardisation in the field of labour abuse. Surely there is a need to continue to improve the system of protection against discrimination, abuse in general from mobbing and that it is one permanent obligation for all of us. But this will not be resolved by cumulating regulations, laws, but by improving the relationship between workers and employers, by affecting employers to accept investment in education that will build a better quality of human relations, especially the relations of workers and management. As I said before, there must be a more active role for unions, no matter what logically you said, there is a part of the workers who are not covered by collective agreements, but the trade unions must, but these collective agreements can be extended to other workers, etc. But unions have this role to play through collective agreements and regulate the mobbing issue. Then, there are working councils that can influence the resolution of the issue through company acts. Employers through investment in education and workers themselves, but courts also have to deal with disputes with appropriate penalties against abusers more quickly, and I fully agree with you that it is inappropriate that there are so many cases in courts and that there is not yet one completed court dispute. To conclude, there's never too much talk about protecting workers and protecting human dignity at all. And it is certain that we should constantly work to improve the system of protection against discrimination in all forms. However, the proposal for a law on prevention of labour abuse is just another regulation that contains solutions already prescribed in the pre-mentioned laws that I mentioned here and which are in force. When this bill of law was written, I said that when we had no law to combat discrimination. But I think that surely a new law is needed to sort of unite all of this from certain laws. But with existing laws, they need to be far more affirmative in preventing abuse in work. I think this proposal of yours that you have instructed would be and may remain as one of the bases to be discussed further and from which it would be possible to further build a new law. But we believe there really should be one new law to be made. Because as I said, when you wrote, or you didn't write, but when the law was written, there were not yet these laws that I mentioned, so I am holding and therefore the Croatian Democratic Community club will not support the adoption of the proposed law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-30-0.u25711	Thank you. SDP representative club, Mr. Representative Josip Leko. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-30-0.u25712	Dear Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, dear colleagues and fellow MPs. First of all, I would like to agree on one fact that the job and the workplace are not only a source of existence, but that it is also a confirmation of man's dignity. If we approach this problem that way, then we have to say that it's a job, a job and a right to work part of human rights. And human rights are regulated by the Charter of the United Nations and various conventions, to national legislation, and it's all called legal instruments for the protection of human rights. This bill, which was submitted to the Croatian Parliament, speaks to the SDP's representative's club in the Croatian Parliament about prevention, as it is called, of preventing the abuse of workers in the workplace. So it's not just about normative optimism, it's about actually changing the relationship in essence. So, harassment, shagging, intimidation, humiliation, insult, abuse of workers in the workplace is not an individual's problem and it's not just the employer's problem, it's society and state's problem. And that's how it's supposed to be done. It is therefore not enough to bring only a normative, legal, legal framework but to find the institutions of a society that are completely independent of the employer, and often the Government as an employer. Not often, but also from the government as an employer. The circumstances in Croatia that for 19 years more than 250,000 workers have been looking for a job and that they can't find a job is a particular problem to think about and when it comes to this. If these circumstances are added that conversion and privatisation has been done in the most harsh way, and it is known who is the creator of conversion and privatisation, the worker has been in a position for 19 years to wander to whom he will address in protection against harassment. It's 19 years old. Which is the institution we can refer to from this pay phone if you're harassed, and that's very hard to prove. You got protection for who? - The Attorney General? - Yes. We didn't give him that authority, nor did we increase the number of people. It is a very important institution to protect, or prevent the abuse of workers in the workplace. For 19 years, we haven't recognized that the social problem, the state's problem that the protection of workers' rights is taking place as quickly as possible. We didn't even set up a council of courts to deal with problems in working relationships and protection of human rights, nor did we set up special courts. And the situation with courts and the judiciary doesn't satisfy us or Europe for all those 19 years. The second thing I want to point out. What's protecting workers' rights and a global problem. The globalization of profits is very well organized and super capital covers many parts of the world, including Croatia, and protection of workers' rights is very particular. It cannot be any different, but at the level of the state other than the legal instruments. In Croatia, the state ignored that task. What can the state do here? It may establish or strengthen independent bodies and may establish special courts or special councils in existing courts. It is necessary to remove any belief that private initiatives or only unions will protect themselves or prevent workers from being scrutinised at work. It is not possible simply because often the interests of workers, or the interests of workers and employers do not match. Only in high, so to speak, aware employers' organisations are aware that a satisfied worker meets his need, his interest, as well as the worker knows if the employer is satisfied with his work, that he will be adequately and adequately rewarded and protected. How many organizations in Croatia are aware of that? We even have complaints, they know those who have been investigating, and here even representatives of the ruling states that the most common form is chicane, harassing, humiliating or other forms of mobbing in the administration, the state administration, the public administration. So once again from this place, I advocate that the state set up a council to set up special independent bodies to prevent the bullying and harassing of workers in the workplace. Of course the union in these jobs is important. I wish it was so strong that we shouldn't have discussed today shagging workers in Croatian companies. Unfortunately, I don't think so. From this booth I can only wish to strengthen as soon as possible and to be afraid for the employer and the faith of the workers in them. One who has met in any form with various kinds of visions, ways of shagging workers, I assure you that the entire Parliament and all MPs are not so imaginative that they can only count all kinds of harassment of workers. In my working life, I met a form that was often expressed, I believe today. That when it's difficult, to say so, to resolve relations in court, then, it doesn't have to be an employer, but the boss leaves the employee at work in the office, doesn't let him do anything and has no communication with his colleagues, and he neatly pays him. Such a worker can endure a very short period of time without causing a worse failure of work discipline, or responsibility that is not the basis for his dismissal. So it's thoughtfully brought by a chic worker to make a move that will be a very clear example of firing at the expense of workers. There are others, of course, but he's not here to teach those who want to abuse knowledge. I'd come back one more time if it wasn't private or personal. It is both private and personal, but it is the obligation of society and the state to answer the problem organised. We are confident in the SDP that this bill on preventing the abuse of workers has the support of workers and most employers. But at the same time, we are convinced that without a planned state, to say politics, we will not achieve great results, so without independent bodies that the worker will be able to address before he goes to court and gets a lesson and record the case, there will be no successful fight to prevent the abuse of workers in the workplace. Since my colleague, the distinguished Gordan Sobol, has made all the motives here very well, all the reasons for passing the law, and since we have heard that the government has tried several times to say that it will prepare a similar law on this or even where happiness is to be better, more comprehensive and so on, I am convinced that the time has passed to wait for the Government's proposal and to make promises, convinced that this time has passed and that, in the interest of its, in the interests of Croatian workers, in the interest of the economy in the Republic of Croatia and those who come to us to open up the plants and companies, the interest of the Croatian Parliament and the people, that in Croatia, the prevention of abuse is organised, that the union is strong, that there are the institutions of society that both the employer and the worker can address with full confidence that they will be heard very quickly, the measures taken and the cautioned one that the abuse, abuse, shaling, shaling, and so on and so on. That's why I think prevention, prevention is the most important thing when it comes to the fight against shagging. Without prevention, without institutions, the more cases will come to court, the harder it is to prove, the processes take a long time, the expensive, the damage on all sides. Let us consider how we can strengthen prevention and prevention of harassment in Croatia. Let's accept this solution until it gets better. That's the SDP's proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-30-0.u25713	Thank you. One correction, Mr. Agent Ivan Bagarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-30-0.u25714	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I'd like to correct my colleague, Lek, who, often when he talks about conversion, says that he knows who created the transformation that he is. I think I need to make it right, but I'm going to read my correction and I'm afraid I won't make a mistake. The transformation of fellow Leko was created in 90% of cases in Croatia by business directors who came from structures they know have nothing to do with "knowledge" because it is known that they were "known" at the time of the war. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-30-0.u25715	Club of representatives of the CNS Mr. Representative Miljenko Doric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-30-0.u25716	Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. The situation in Croatian companies when the abuse of workers or employees is concerned is mildly alarming. Especially with you for the last ten years. That's why the union already heard the bill in 2006, which is why in 2007, various associations complement the proposal, so in 2008, the SDP takes over, cumulates these proposals, turns it into a legal proposal, which is why in 2009, the Croatian Parliament discussed this bill of law and co-workers, which is the result of all these efforts so far. I dare say zero. Needlessly, I think we will all agree quickly and effectively to continue the process of protecting human rights, in this case the rights of employees. This process is ongoing in all European countries and we must go clearly in the same direction sooner or later. I must commend my colleagues from the SDP and colleagues of the Association for helping to educate the victims of mobbing on the preparation of this proposal. In the opening part, they really tried to show the situation in other European countries, to show the good and bad sides of the legal proposals that were accepted there. They have shown up until now known preventive measures, then measures to sanction mobbing and other forms of abuse at work. This bill clearly defines all forms of work abuse. It covers all kinds of employees. The proposal concerns all types of employers from those smallest companies to large state administration companies, etc. The draft law elaborates the opportunities available to the worker, provides for a clear and clear role of the working council in protecting workers' rights, the union association is clearly underlined, it is proposed to ensure the confidentiality of data in order to protect the employees themselves. Your colleagues and colleagues have also seen judicial protection mechanisms if the employer does not respect the letter of the law, the criminal provisions are correctly proposed for the system to be effective and to function. The rating of us from the HNS club is very good, but colleagues and colleagues feel that this rating is not a passing grade in the Croatian Parliament. The reason why it is not a passing grade you have before you the reason for the Croatian government. The reason is the government has formed a task force. That's a sad conclusion.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-30-0.u25717	Thank you. The HSS club is Ms. Mariana Petir. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-30-0.u25718	Dear Mr. Vice President, MPs and representatives at the Croatian Parliament. Surely this topic that we are discussing today is one of the important topics because preventing abuse at work is something to talk about, there is no better place than the Croatian Parliament. It's important because any kind of abuse violates the very essence of man and that's human dignity. And we in the HSS think that this debate today is very welcome because it will show that a number of laws are often passed in Croatia but they are not in practice implemented. Because here it is proposed by the SDP club to pass a new law, but the new law is in fact only working out, and in most cases it repeats existing legal solutions. Thus, there is no going to provide some new elements that would contribute to preventing abuse at work. We believe that this topic is important, and the preamble of the law mentions polls that really need us, which were conducted in the Republic of Croatia, which were carried out by the Association of Mobing and which was reported by a thousand 152 persons who had been abused at work. Also, according to a study of the Business.hr portal, which included 812 respondents to the question of whether they had ever been found in a situation where colleagues or subordinates or superiors mentally abused as much as 84% of respondents responded positively. What is most worrying is the conduct of the courts themselves because it is evident that according to some estimates of 100 lawsuits, there is still no first-degree verdict for the damages of harassment. All these facts really need to make us imagine how the laws that we in this High House are implemented. What would also be interesting to see are statistics on how many abused workers, those who reported this abuse of course worked in the public and how much in the private sector. It is not necessary to run away from the facts and that is what we all know that in municipalities, cities, counties in the country after the elections, the authorities are changed and that sometimes those who have also received the citizens' trust are not in their true human personality to the end, so they like to live on employees or on their subordinates. Likewise, each of us had the opportunity through his working life in his working environment to meet people who are in some way being abused or perhaps even to experience abuse in the workplace, humility, vulnerability, fear that abuse of a person cannot be described by words. And that's why it's important to respond adequately. We are bound by our human and moral responsibility, but we are entitled to this by a series of legal provisions. I will, for example, refer to the Labour Law that this matter is really well arranged. In this regard, our Labour Act has been incorporated into the Council of Europe guidelines 2000/78 establishing a general framework for one treatment in employment and calling. Council Guideline 97/80, where it is incorporated, therefore, the guideline of the burden of proof in cases of gender discrimination. Council Guideline 75/117 on the adaptation of the legislation of the Member States in relation to the application of the principle of equality of salaries of women and men. Council Guideline 76/207 on the application of the principle of equal treatment between men and women in relation to access to professional education and progress in working conditions. Council Guideline 2000/43, which applies the principle of equal treatment of persons regardless of their race or ethnic origin. The 90th Council resolution on the protection of women and men's dignity at work, the European Parliament resolution of 86th on violence against women and therefore, I could list many other guidelines, resolutions and acts already incorporated into our existing legislation. No country to which the applicant is invited has regulated this issue by a special law on labour abuse, which of course does not cross us over to do so. In fact, Sweden has a regulation on victimisation at work, France has completed the Labour Law and Criminal Law by including in them provisions on psychological harassment and Luxembourg signed the first collective contract on psychological harassment in 2001. The relevant legal solutions that we have today in the Republic of Croatia prohibit discrimination in work directly and indirectly, based on race, skin color, sex, sexual commitment, marital status, family obligations, age, language, religion, political or other beliefs, national or social origin, birth, social status, membership or non-membership in the political party, membership or non-membership in the union and physical or mental difficulties. It is also interesting to say that discrimination is prohibited in relation to employment conditions including criteria and conditions for the selection of candidates to carry out certain work at any branch of activity at all levels of professional hierarchy, discrimination when it comes to progressing in work, access to all types and degrees of vocational training, employment conditions in relation to all labour relations rights and employment relations, of course there includes pay equality, job termination, members' rights and the activities of workers' or employers' associations, or any other professional organisation. It is therefore regulated in Article 2. The labour law, and the Article 30. The employer's labour law is required to protect the dignity of workers during their work, so that they can be provided with conditions of work in which they will not be exposed to harassment or sexual harassment. This protection includes the taking of preventive measures. The protection of workers in the event of not taking measures by employers to prevent harassment must also be ensured and, of course, within a period set by a collective agreement or by some agreement concluded between the working council and employers and the labour rules, and not later than 8 days after the delivery of the complaint, therefore, certain measures should be taken to prevent harassment or sexual harassment. Similarly, if there are circumstances that are not justified in expecting the employer to protect the dignity of the workers, the worker is not obliged to submit the complaint to the employer, he shall be entitled to terminate his work provided that he has requested protection from the competent court. In the event of a dispute, the burden of proof is on the employer, this is also settled in Article 30. So it is evident that through the laws that we have passed is the secured protection of workers from unwanted verbal, not verbal or physical abuse which, therefore, aims at any violation of the dignity of a person who seeks employment or but who is employed by such behaviour that leads to fear, hostility, humiliation or offensive environment. The labour law is in line with the conventions of the international organisation of work which the Republic of Croatia is party to and follows the concept of the regulations of the European Union whose guidelines are fully or partially applied through its provisions. So, the level of rights established by law belongs to high civilization and social standards of our time. There can and must be debated on the day of the completion of all these provisions that I have cited and all the solutions that already exist and for this there should always be places and times. But what we believe in the HSS club is a real obstacle is not to pass new laws or to lack existing laws, but not to enforce these laws in practice. We also think that it is necessary to conduct education and to introduce workers to their rights and ways of protecting these rights. But what seems most important to us is the functioning of the judiciary, or sensitized judges, the identification of these problems, and the implementation of the protection of workers in practice itself. Ensuring better protection of workers from labour abuse will not necessarily contribute only to the adoption of new laws or amendments to existing laws but also to the implementation of these laws in full in practice. That is why it seems to us that we should not seek a permanent expansion of the adoption of new laws that sublime existing solutions should already be dealt with by inflationing the implementation of legal solutions that we already have today, which is one of the tasks of this Parliament if we really want to protect workers from labour abuse. Our proposal at the HSS Club is that the working group that the Government of the Republic of Croatia has formed dealing with the issue of the Law on the Prevention of Labour at Work includes solutions that have been spoken of by colleagues from the SDP Club and which have been taken over from the solutions offered by the Association of Moving and to apply the entire bill. What is also most important to us is that our expectations are indeed going towards the executive authority, to ensure the implementation of existing laws aimed at preventing labour abuse and preserving human dignity. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-30-0.u25719	Thank you. Proposed by Mrs. Representative Gordana Sobol. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-30-0.u25720	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. First, allow me a few sentences after they expressed their thoughts on behalf of the clubmates and colleagues. What I'd like to say at the very beginning is, this law is an affirmative law. Aphimative because, like any other law, it goes to prevention, it goes to education, it goes to information and obligations of course to those who have to do so. It seems to us that this part is extremely important. We didn't just want to go to sanction some kind of behavior, paying fines, etc., but the basics of everything when it comes to the problem of abuse at work of any kind to go to preventive action. This law is an "old" law because unfortunately the ruling coalition is the one that delayed the debate on the law when it is referred to the procedure. And despite the fact that the Law on Discussing Discrimination and the New Law on Gender Equality has been passed in the meantime, neither one nor the other has addressed the issue of mobbing or abuse at work. Even the existing Labour Law and legal provisions do not solve the problem of labour abuse. Because, as I said in the introductory words, existing legal provisions ensure legal protection when it comes to discrimination, when it is the cause, I quote: "discrimination based on race, skin color, sex, sexual commitment, marital status, family, age, language, religion, political or other beliefs, national or social origin, property, birth, social status, membership in the political party, membership in the union and physical or mental difficulties." But no legal solution in the existing laws solves the issue of discrimination or abuse that a person commits to a worker because of his own personality or because he wants to get rid of a worker, where you cannot prove that you are discriminated against by sex. And it can't go as gender discrimination if you're an employer or you've been repeatedly isolated by your office colleagues, not talking to you, giving you pointless jobs or giving you no jobs at all, etc. And someone's actually waiting for you to pick up, what you say, your own shit and go. Who and how to address? I repeat, over 100 lawsuits stand in our courts because it is not really known how they are to be discussed and how and on what grounds the verdicts are made. Therefore, this bill is extremely important. And I repeat, we are only pleased that some of the provisions set out in this bill have been copied into the Law on Disclosure of Discrimination or the Law on Gender Equality. And I'll get it over with. I would disagree that the result of all the efforts of the last few years when it comes to this bill and when it comes to the problems of mobbing and abuse at work, is zero. No, because what we are finally, after a few years, discussing this issue in Parliament is actually a very big shift. In the meantime, we have also opened the Ambulant for victims of mobbing, or abuse of work that works here in the city of Zagreb, and that is a great progress. The fact that, in the meantime, since we started discussing the law, since we agreed on the law and finally came to this debate in the Assembly, a number of educations have been held, two interdisciplinary symposiums have been held, 1. International conference on the problem of mobbing in Zagreb, in December 2007. A number of seminars, research, etc. have been held. So somewhere I feel like politics or government helmet for what's really going on. I repeat, I am actually sorry that this bill has not come to the debate before, but here on the other hand, I am pleased that after all these years of effort and apportionment and speech, and even the debate that we had within the Croatian Parliament at several thematic sessions, round tables on this issue, finally the Government itself realizes that existing legal solutions and laws are not enough and cannot be embezzled in these provisions, but this problem is such that it deserves and needs a special law on prevention. I thank those who, as clubs and parliamentary representatives and MPs, will support this bill, and can only call on the government that formed the task force at the end of the 10th month last year to finally call for the first meeting of the working group, because I expect that the draft law will be really systematically worked, not overnight. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-30-0.u25721	Thank you. One correction, Mr. Representative Boris Kunst.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-30-0.u25722	Well, I actually agree with Sobol in a lot, but it's not true that these laws, especially the Law on Discrimination of Discrimination, have not solved anything in the area of protection against labour abuse. In addition, the law strongly emphasises the protection against discrimination in the field of labour and employment, including the part where these disputes are in the future treated with labour disputes, not more as civil disputes, and that is a big plus. It means you can't say it's nothing. The Law on Gender Equality does not, in any way, resolve gender equality or put women in a more unfavourable position, but surely none of these laws fully resolves the issue of protection against labour abuse. Well, in the end, as far as these hospitals are concerned, maybe we should have one of our own infirmarys here, too, because there's abuse at work.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-30-0.u25723	Where, in the conference room?
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-30-0.u25724	Well, yes, there is. Mobing is present... /The speaker has been disabled./...
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-30-0.u25725	There is, for example, the abuse of the chairman, when he is brought up with some complaints about violations of the Rules of Procedure or corrections of false allegations, unfounded objections to the chairman. ... Yeah, yeah. [[Everyone speaks out loud, they don't understand.]] So then the chairman feels abused. There are still 14 MPs and MPs. Today we would only absorb this item without delay and without voting, so I appeal to all respected and esteemed MPs and MPs to take care of this fact in order to complete the work as soon as possible today. Ms. Representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-30-0.u25726	Thank you. Dear Mr. President, fellow Sobol. When you spoke on behalf of the SDP Representatives' Club, you rightly pointed out that the strange government still does not recognize this problem of labour abuse. But there's no need to be surprised. That's going a little slower with them. You remember in the 1990s when as the political party of the SDP, the first of the political parties, we talked about the abuse of women. Of course, others then felt that this was not a question or time to ask such questions at all, and it was also such wisdom that it was said that the Croats did not beat their partners. And here today we have achieved it, however, that the ruling talks about this problem. However, much more is said than has been done in that sense. So, it is our duty to talk about this no matter how much it enters the ears of the ruling, but it is certainly our duty to sensitize the public, who will then trust and force with this power to encourage those responsible to do something in this sense and to do something about it. First of all, this law answers the question of identifying this evil and reacting to it. He answers the question, address books, and that's almost all of them if you've become a punching bag. Some of the synomas made up by Dr. Halz Laiman, therefore the first Swedish scientist to recognize this problem in 1984, because until then, the problem had no name. He spotted him, noticed this deviant behavior, and gave him just a name that comes from just the word, English words attack, disdain. He defined several symptoms by which you can identify whether the worker, whether the worker is experiencing a mobbing. First of all. Whether the superior, but also colleagues, do not give you the opportunity to express your opinion at all. Whether or not you are constantly interrupted while you want to say something, even when it is your turn. Whether to criticize your work, your appearance etc. It avoids you or stops talking when you enter a room or near you. You don't get work assignments, or if you get them, they're completely pointless. This is already one sight I'm going to talk about later how to deprive a political inexperience. It's in the state administration. These are methods that are highly developed and present, and I'm going to set a concrete example a little later. They deliberately mock you in front of others. It is then and finally, so not only psychologically and physically, sometimes sexual abuse. So, if the answer is just for this one symptom yes, then it's certain that you've already become a victim of mobbing. In fact, victims find it difficult to recognize especially from the beginning what is happening to them. Webbers start their action first with some kind of a throw, and then there's the mockery, one more cruel criticism of the victim's work and all her life. After a very short period of time, the victim loses confidence, and after that time, because of such pressure, the victim falls into depression, where he commits suicide in some of the most drastic situations. That's exactly the kind of faceless behavior of the webber, so the one who terrorizes the victim gets a reputation in that working environment, but not the reputation based on work, the results of work, but the fear that it sows. Many colleges recognize what happens to a specific person, a specific person. But they're too weak, they're afraid because such a person sows fear, and then by that famous one of ours, it's easier to keep quiet than to stand up. So, what else do they call them? They're feeding off the victim's fear. Research has also shown in Germany that abuse is not only a relation of employer-worker, an employee, although relative to such a single relationship, mobbing, refers to mobbing one 50% of such cases. And the other 50% of the victims are just victims of their workmates. On one such thing, therefore, it is one monster of the modern world why a colleague attacks his fellow man. First of all, it's a fear of progress, fear of competition in that one faceless competition. Studies in European countries are talking about how just after a very short time, such a person and if he has not been fired, she herself is forced to quit. The terrified family, however, the wise, responsible employers have seen this problem. They didn't even need law, and there are such companies in Croatia who, by their internal acts, please go ahead of the state itself and have sanctioned and regulated such behaviour. Because they found that such illicit behavior not only harms the victim, his family, that it cost the state precisely because the health consequences of such a person but directly harms companies and their business interests, above all that reduces her reputation, and then surely profit, profit. Many countries, therefore, have long since stated on behalf of the promoter Mrs Sobol that Zagreb is just ahead of it with such an ambulatory, polyclinic. In the world long ago, especially in Europe, such medical institutions have been established that have recognized this problem and that give such assistance to such individuals. However, we do not take such behaviour seriously, and even in the earlier phase among children, who is known as bulling, and therefore in this adult phase when man is found in the world of work, it is considered to be an exaggeration, that man is so steeled. It is indeed a primitive understanding that violence, abuse, is considered by the ironing of a person. However, it is still predominant in our society today. And that's how one abuse is tolerated. France is the country that first sanctioned this behavior. Their law for such one conduct provides for a prison sentence of up to a year or a fine of 15 euros to as much as 250 thousand euros. When a person, for a long time, is exposed to stressful situations, there is indeed a chronic fatigue, to exhaustion, because no matter how hard such a person has worked at his job, he cannot please his superiors, nor his colleagues, if they are mobilising it, and in any case, he does not satisfy his superior employer. The prominent and prominent psychiatrist, master Elvira Kojić, was one of the first to conduct such a study in our population of 700 subjects, the results were completely devastating. So here I think it's high time to seriously consider the problem because every denial of this problem is not only a lack of knowledge of the problem but also of the allowed behavior, and above all in the state administration. We are witnessing that many people who are obviously not superior, so one state official on her way to China, please, have secured it, asked her employee, counselor to provide Jana in China. Jana's water. To that end, such a devastating, humiliating behavior is going on. So, on these things, it's one form of political discrediting a person, forcing her to resign herself because it's obvious now that the courts are still providing protection, although it takes a long time to wait until the river, even ten years, justice still comes. Now these methods are even more subtle. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-30-0.u25727	Thank you very much, although it's already red light more than once, I didn't dare interrupt. Three replicas. First, Mr. Representative Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-30-0.u25728	Thank you very much. My colleagues, Ingrid, this bill and today's debate have three values of great importance to me, even if we ignore legal norm for a moment. First, for the first time, we received a bill that was proposed by others, the foreign words received Croatian expressions, abuse. And it would be good if from now on in the Croatian Parliament we were talking abuse, not mobing, because that word 50% of the workers don't understand what it means. Well, then we've got bulling, which is even less people understand. If we keep it that way, then we'll both call bribery and corruption "cunning" or "euring," just to make as little sense as possible. So, yeah, it's about abuse this time at work. The second value of this proposal is that, based on the reasons and data and evidence given to it, it exposes the problem as a social problem which also has health consequences. That is why the Minister of Health should also be interested in legal regulation of this problem because it has been proven in Europe, and it is also likely in Croatia that the result of the abuse is also in the health sphere. And thirdly, another problem has been exposed, which is in the area of the judiciary, that we have about a hundred lawsuits, and there is not a single verdict yet. What they say again is that judges in Croatia do not manage, they do not know how to judge these lawsuits that have been filed, because there is obviously a lack of education and the preparation of justice for one newspaper that has taken place in Croatia, so it would be very useful for the minister of justice to be interested and to offer one transitional solution to say urgently, at least four large courts of Zagreb, Osijek, Rijeka and Split, to enable them to create a certain case-law in order to be able to pass on to other courts occasionally, that we do not have a finding that there are 100 lawsuits, and no convictions, because in 5 years there will be about 1000 lawsuits without a single verdict. This is the topic the Minister of Justice would need to discuss intensively.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-30-0.u25729	Replicate response, Ms. Representative Ingrid Anticevic-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-30-0.u25730	So I think, colleague Lesar, when you just said you needed an education. Surely, when we were in a position to for the first time, here is the law that prevents abuse among partners. So there was also a broad education at the time, not only of the citizens, but of all those who are invited to respond to this problem, those who will apply this law, and it is certain that this law also requires a broad education of those who must be involved, above all in identifying, in diagnosing this problem, and then sanctioning. I have to say that the rare doctors, but there are also, among them, a few years ago, another 5, 6 years ago, began precisely with a diagnosis that in the history of patient diseases they have just recorded, although rightly speaking not to abuse at work, but mobing, but now in this sense, although the law is as good as you see and addressed, it bears the title of Croatian title, preventing abuse at work, although many already, so already call it mobing, here is an important issue, to recognize, to prevent abuse and react to it. After all, here we have, now it's a Croatian word, although it has roots, so in English corruption, so what it means to destroy, hurt, but it's safe, what you draw attention to, regardless of the weight of the problem that we always have to take care of, too. So I absolutely support what you said that applying this law requires a broad education.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-30-0.u25731	12, 51, it's time for a ten-minute hearing. Next replica, Mr. Representative Franjo Lucic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-30-0.u25732	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Here, I would like to say a few words and look back at the presentation of my colleague Antičević and I would only mention that here in 1984 it was the first time that the word mobbing was mentioned, but today it sounds very nice, very decorated, and also in its presentation we heard how it is said today in a classical way or better to say to the people that it is recognizable that certain people in certain companies, counties, cities, municipalities, and municipalities use words or people who are doing pressing, who are making other people's fears, doing terror, or as it is best said, to iron their personality. It is mentioned here, of course, that in other countries these words are being used, but I would like to mention the Požeško-Slavon County, which really stands out in terms of terror, in terms of the ironing of personality, and it is best drawn in the former mayor of the current mayor and today's representative in the Croatian Parliament who is just sitting behind Mrs. Antičević. It is precisely a man who irons his personality through terror in the House of Old and Powerless in Požega, and this is indeed the best indicator of how one man can terrorise all those workers in the same home who are getting fired, who are going sick, who are getting nervous. And you know what happens then? All these same people are returning to their jobs through regular court proceedings. It's the face of a representative who comes from the SDP today, and I'm glad you're the one who proposed this law. You're the best way to show how it should be done.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-30-0.u25733	Thank you very much. Reply to the replica of Ms. Ingrid Anticevic-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-30-0.u25734	Very short. My friend, everyone knows that you citizens are getting nervous, and as far as you're concerned, what you're doing here now, and you're coming down against Mr. Ronka, fear and radiant fear is the method of your rule, but it's almost over. And don't measure yourself with your elbow. That's what you do.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-30-0.u25735	Ms. Zavodnica Bozica Šolić replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-30-0.u25736	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President. Here, I did not intend to report for the replica, but you offered me in your debate where I will say that I agree with the parts of your debate that there are motives for abuse, that there are political corruption behind it, and that corruption is behind it, especially political corruption. You stated in the debate that the city of Zagreb was ahead of what opened the infirmary for the unhappiness of these abuses. But I don't think that solves the problem because obviously the infirmary is open with a targeted motive. I'll tell you what's going on in one company, actually a branch which is part of Zagreb Holding where... Don't shut me out. [[The speech room is off, you can't hear it.]] Please, this is important that you hear and that you can help these people. And I got the courage to say it publicly and I'm asking you nicely please don't interrupt me. Where the director of that company... He abuses his political workers, where he moves them who have worked for over 20 years in the branch and where he moves them to dislocations because they do not, they do not listen to his politics, do not implement his politics. [[The speech room is off, you can't hear it.]] At the same time, these jobs are employed by new members of their political, in fact your political option gives them... contracts for three months. [[The speech room is off, you can't hear it.]] Please, Mr Bernardic, raise your hands, don't turn me off. He's giving these people contracts for three months. These people are not allowed to join the unions. These people are under a lot of pressure. At the same time, in the hostel Remetinec gives a year of accommodation free of charge to the members of this village football... I'd like to give you public... [[The speech room is off, you can't hear it.]] I publicly teach you which day and mayor was sent to the city of Zagreb to read it and to help these people. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-30-0.u25737	Thank you. Don't turn it off. It's a work-off abuse, when someone's shut down. ... I'm not saying it's you. ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] These are unique ways of expressing sympathy. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Reply to the replica of Ms. Ingrid Anticevic-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-30-0.u25738	So from these two replicas that I've been told especially this last one is really moving to listen to HDZ people get scared and talk about some fear. And Mrs. Šolić speaks of Zagreb at any point. I guess that's how much he wants to come to the City Hall, leave the council seat. There will be local elections now, so I warmly hope that as the great protector of the city of Zagreb and all of Zagreb it will become in the opposition benches. Good luck. And thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-30-0.u25739	The Protector of the City of Zagreb is Our Lady of the Stone Doors. On behalf of the promoter, Mr. Representative Sima Lucin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-30-0.u25740	Thank you very much. Here we are in the House specializing that very funny not to talk funny about serious topics and often talk about unserious topics very seriously. However, I would like to thank all those who have discussed it on behalf of the promoter so far, and I would like to conclude a few facts. The first is a fact and it is very good that in fact no one here in any case, no situation has denied that in Croatia, among Croatian workers in Croatian companies, there is a mobing. What we actually seem to be arguing about here is how to solve this problem. I think the proposal that the SDP came up with is actually the most painless and easy way to help solve this problem. I believe that the reason for the parliamentary majority to reject this proposal is actually because it comes from the wings of the political opposition. However, I would be more inclined to put this debate and this bill into a broader context. And that broader context could actually be understood in the relationship between capital and labour. This law and the bill of this law are clearly on the side, and it is clear to everyone on the side of work, or workers. Taking part in several round tables and the debate of defacto trade unions, the profession, all spoke affirmably of this bill. The only person with a large reserve is employers, understandably. Why? Because unlike all the so far solutions in all the laws that have been mentioned here and before, this law prescribes clear and very high penalties. There is still an expression to put it this way or the spirit of this Parliament. So, although we tend to reach out with highly repressive measures and are also inclined to impose very high penalties in some other situations, let's say the safety of road traffic. Or let's just say it's gonna be about football fans. And when it comes to the rights of workers, then we're not able and we don't have the courage to raise the hand that this employer pays 50 or 100 grand if his company is often mobile. I still have one thing to say as a proposal. I was a little surprised by the attitude and the work committee and some of the debaters who spoke on behalf of the club. So, in one section, they say they support the view that the government makes a whole and new law because it has already been announced together with the social partners and then in the other part of their discussions or reports write the following, that this law is not necessary because and that already in Croatia this problem is very and very much exaggerated. Now, watch out, if it is too much and this has already been resolved through Croatian legislation, then we really don't need to support the government's review to be done, to make this law. So, I would ask you, I would ask you once again to consider this possibility of letting this law go further in the process. Well, maybe in the next four or three months, the government will come up with its proposal, and then we'll come up with two better suggestions, or we'll get a smarter proposal, and we'll all be smarter together than to just throw this away. But obviously, this Parliament is not primarily interested in work and workers, but in fact is interested in proving certain political power, political power, and then also if you want to, because I cannot conclude otherwise the representation of the interests of those who are on the other side, which are employers or capital. That will likely be more than a word when we discuss the Labour Law. Therefore, I am very glad that we have realized that the problem exists and that this problem is necessary, it is necessary to resolve it. I hope we don't wait two or three years again or God forbid we solve that problem any more. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-30-0.u25741	Thank you. Two corrections. First Mr. Representative Boris Kunst.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-30-0.u25742	It is done that fellow Lucin must understand one thing that when this text was written, and he was written somewhere in early 2006 and the unions, their lawyers and these associations, NGOs, etc., were involved. At that time, there was neither the Law on Disclosure of Discrimination nor the Law on Gender Equality, etc. That this text should simply respect these provisions of these laws now and that a new law should in any case be improved text and better made. And then that would make sense. And for that reason, no one has refused that this is not a good basis for discussion, and we are discussing it now, but that such a bill as this, he's not good, he needs to be completed, he should be made up of a lot, I think it's simpler to make a new law then.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-30-0.u25743	Infringement of the Rules of Procedure Mr. Representative, Mr. Representative of Shima Lucin.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-30-0.u25744	Well, I don't understand what my colleague Kunst fixed, I don't know, and that's where Article 209 was injured. Rules of Procedure. This was probably supposed to be some kind of replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-30-0.u25745	Well, in his own way, he claimed not by saying it, but by painting it as the wrong claim that he needed this law. And Madam Representative Mariana Petir, here's a correction to the incorrect assumption.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-30-0.u25746	Dear Vice President, my colleague Lucin said that some exhibitors on behalf of the clubs were contradictory in their statements that in one part they advocated a new law that the government would pass, and in the other part state existing solutions. The point is, and this is what my colleague Kunst said, that your law contains existing legal solutions, so what you've offered exists in the Labour Act, in the Law on Discrimination of Discrimination, the Law on Gender Equality. And therefore, if we are going to make a new law our proposal would be in that sense to sit together and then offer some new solutions if there are better solutions than the laws that are now in force. In that sense, we spoke.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-30-0.u25747	Mr. Representative Sima Luchin.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-30-0.u25748	In 209, I'm not really fixed now. I understand that Mrs. Petir has risen because of what she has been contradictingly speaking. But according to that, then it doesn't correct my wrong quote but confirms it.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-30-0.u25749	Now it's fixed in image and sound. A little bit, it's always said, this little picturesque, poetic, or just like the president says license-poetics, is it? Madam Representative Tatjana Šimac-Bonačić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-30-0.u25750	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. We find out from the media that in one post office, because of the lack of employees in mid-June, work hours have been cut short. The reason that 19 postal employees are listed is mainly women employed on counters who suffer from depression and other mental conditions, caused by long-term stress and workplace abuse. Then, the confession of an employee who states that she was found excess, and that she was planted, was called a thief in front of the guests, and this victim is the president of the staff board and representatives of the workers on the supervisory board of a company. At the request of the workers, she insisted on a response to the disappearance of a certain amount of money and then on signing or not signing new contracts. Instead of answering, as she pointed out, she received indirect threats that she might lose her job and plant a deficit. At the same time, she was accused of being unkind and considered a thief. Next, a Mrs. Anna who had a severe handicap, but was marked, had a disfigured face. However, she never had problems in her midst, but she had problems with a superior. Together with all these women, there is an unsolved conflict among co-workers that has ultimately resulted in a disturbance in human relations. Also, in this whirlwind of plots, threats, humiliation, or psychological abuse, the victim lost her professional and human dignity and began to feel less valuable to the subject in her work environment. Since she mentioned a colleague named Ingrid earlier, the abused person can very often feel a bag of punches. And after years of terrorism, such victims suffer from chronic illnesses or disorders. Health consequences arise, whether physical disorders or emotional disorders, loss of life-sense, motivations etc., etc. The above mentioned victims were made mobbing, mobbing which marks the psychological abuse of employees by superiors or by colleagues with always the same goal, the degradation of employees in every respect making it difficult for their working conditions, causing damage to the mentions I mentioned for health and, of course, it is a violation of human rights of dignity. Mobing is unfortunately, as we have heard so far, largely present in Croatia, which proves a number of research, but also cases of serious human rights violations reported. Studies have been carried out in the framework of European countries that have shown that the treatment of people victims of mobbing is very expensive for the countries themselves, and that is why this problem has been systematically tackled. It is time for similar events to happen in Croatia. I would point out here one statement from a psychiatrist who says there is a problem here, because if the surgeons on their patient see clues or any other doctors, see signs of physical violence, they have to report it legally to the Ministry of the Interior, while for emotional abuse there is no obligation in that sense, and a lot of people and they don't want to know. Since there is no law against abuse at work in Croatia, the Labour Law does not mention it, and since the law does not define it so is not careful. The problem is getting bigger and more frequent, but obviously insufficient awareness and lack of existing legislation only suits once, only for abusers. Europe recognised this problem, of course, and the European Parliament adopted a resolution on abuse at work and called on the social partners from the Member States and at community level to develop their own approaches to combating violence at work. And I stress, in the legislation of the Republic of Croatia, the Labour Act does not provide legal protection in relation to all the causes that can lead to labour abuse, since it is defined only in relation to the causes which represent some of the forms of discrimination. Therefore, dear gentlemen, the first stage of combating workplace abuse should be the adoption of this bill, and then systematic control and education on mobbing, which unfortunately becomes an increasingly common phenomenon and a growing social problem. The interest in the cost dimension of abuse must be all factors, and these are society and employers and workers. Therefore, and the Government, in fact, we know that the Government of the Republic of Croatia has established a working group to create a special draft of the Law on the Prevention of Labour Abuse. So isn't it absurd to admit the problem, to raise awareness of this problem, but to reject this bill of law and form a working group? What the HNS representative said earlier, my colleague, it's sad, I repeat, too, it's sad. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-30-0.u25751	Thank you. Replica, Mr. Representative Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-30-0.u25752	Thank you very much. Comrade Šimac, you have, on two examples or presenting two examples, really taken a strong picture of the situation and the need to place the Croatian Assembly in the protection of people who have been abused by legal framework. It seems to me that the Government of the Republic of Croatia is aware of this because, in its opinion on this proposal, it has said that they have an established working group that should write something different down this solution. They've been working for a long time, though. But what's stuck in my eye and I can't understand it now is this. After the establishment of the task force, the government had a agenda and wrote a new Labour Act. I expected it to be at least as cunning as to the provisions of Articles 2 to 13, because the first one is not needed, these two last ones are also not, so Articles 2 to 13 of this law should be incorporated into the new Labour Act that we have on the agenda of this session. And then the need and discussion of this proposal and the passing of a special law and torture in this outwitting procedure would cease. But I have to say this time it's not just the government's fault. How is it that other social partners, primarily trade unions, did not use the Labour Act as one of the most important topics of discussion in writing a new text, and when they had already offered a near solution that is the fruit of profession and association interested in this matter? So if the Government doesn't think this can go away, let's agree to transform these articles into amendments to the Labour Act, and maybe we'll have a better chance of getting adopted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-30-0.u25753	Replica reply, Ms. Representative Tatjana Šimac Bonačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-30-0.u25754	Thank you very much, Mr. Lesar, so I would like to answer to you actually if the government cared about preventing this mobbing actually, would accept this law of ours or would implement this problem in the Labour Act. This way, given that this committee of opinion has formed itself, that the government is returning to its beginning, and that is why I ask the question of whether it is even aware of the problem and, unfortunately, whether it wants to solve it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-30-0.u25755	Mrs. Brankica Crlenko. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-30-0.u25756	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues. We'll probably all agree here when I say that any form of work abuse has serious consequences, social and economic as it affects the worker, so does employers. Every abuse, and so on in the workplace, carries the risk of permanent health damage. The intensity and type of consequences depends on three categories of factors, the intensity of mobbing, moral abuse, length of duration and characteristics of the victim, or traits of personality. The fact is that mobbing is not only a problem for workers who are exposed to such behaviour by causing them mental and psycho-somatic interference, but also represents extremely high social costs, but also the cost of employers who are due to the absence of workers from work, the fluctuations of workers and the low efficiency of the victims of mobbing. There is a tendency of early retirement in workers who are highly exposed to mobbing. According to Swedish statistics, the figures show that around 25% of workers over 55 years earlier were retired, and from that 20 to 40% of earlier retirements were caused precisely by a disease whose primary cause is poor psycho social working conditions, including mobbing. This means that approximately every third to fifth previously retired individual in this age group suffered from a highly expressed mobing. Polls that have been conducted in the Republic of Croatia so far suggest that the mobbing is present in a worrying range. Systematic psychological abuse at the workplace recognizes and reports more and more people who are unable to perform their work assignments due to the psychological and physical consequences of abuse. The conduct of the survey was aimed at contributing to research into the presence of mobbing in Croatia for the purpose of planning and taking appropriate measures to prevent and prevent it. There were women who appeared significantly more frequently to this association, almost 70% of them. Almost half 45% of them are the most productive of life between 36 and 50 years of age. Highly educated show up 48% more often, and half of the respondents have been working for the same employer for more than 10 years. As the victims of the mobbing, they feel humiliated, vulnerable, sick and frightened. On the question of how the mobbing affected their attitude to the workplace most often felt increased stress 64% of them, over half 53% were thinking about leaving the current job, half feeling reduced work efficiency and loss of concentration. More than 40% felt loss of motivation and refused to go to work, and a quarter of 24% began to go to sick leave more often. In their private lives, mobbing caused them increased stress, fatigue, dissatisfaction, depression, and insomnia. As the most common causes of mobbing in their workplaces, respondents recognized the individual’s personal characteristics, abuser and envy and competition. It is also interesting to ask whether they have ever been in any way abused by a fellow 40.7% of women and 11% of men said they themselves were abusers. A significant difference in current protection concerns protection against all grounds of labour abuse not only those who represent discrimination, and that a court worker has the right to require the court to order the termination of an act which has violated his right and the removal of his or her consequences in accordance with the Law on Mandatory Relations. Many examples of workplace abuse in Croatia are not lacking. A middle-aged lady in charge of the state-owned company recently received a warning from an employer saying that, among other things, her excessive weight was the reason why she was not doing her job properly. In particular, it is necessary to regulate the area of prevention of labour abuse not only of executives, workers or workers and their representatives, but also of all employees on the types of abuse and the means of identifying all types of abuse, prevention of abuse, and the effective removal of such phenomena will certainly contribute to humanising relationships at work, reducing stress at work and reducing departure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-30-0.u25757	Thank you. Ms. Representative Ljubica Lukačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-30-0.u25758	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. Well, before me, all the colleagues who spoke explained in detail and cited all the regulations that here today regulate abuse at work. I will certainly agree with all my colleagues that labour abuse is a major problem in our country and that it must certainly be solved in the best possible way. Whether the regulations are still valid enough now or not we see that they are probably not or are at least missing, since here the proposer has also embarked on the procedure of drafting the draft of this law, and that the government has established a working group to draft a proposal for the same law. So there's definitely a problem and I don't think anyone's denying it and that somehow we have to solve it together. It seems to me that this law, however, this bill of law, is not so, or not in such a whole way as the Proposer says, does not solve this problem of labour abuse. I'll say exactly what I mean. My experience, even in this part, therefore, in the conduct of work abuse procedures says that abuse in a large number of cases is very difficult sometimes to prove. And that employers unfortunately conduct long procedures to simply determine whether or not the abuse was there. So I think the provisions that regulate the protection against labour abuse would maybe, here might be a little bit more specific. In my opinion, as far as this law is concerned, there are a few open questions, but here I'm going to name only two. It seems to me that in Article 7(2), therefore, which states that during the examination of the complaint, the employer, or the Commissioner, is obliged to take the measures he considers appropriate, if there are reasonable reasons to do so, to further prevent the abuse and dissuasion of his repetition, including the temporary distance from the work of the workers to which the application relates to the completion of the proceedings. So, as long as the complaint is being questioned, until it is known specifically and it is not known whether or not the abuse was there, the warlord may remove the worker from work for the sake of caution and he has an obligation to pay him a monthly salary of half the average salary paid to that worker in the previous three months. I agree with such a provision and it has to be done with caution, but I wonder what will happen if the decision at the end of the procedure is that there was no abuse? And we removed the laborer from work and reduced his wages. It is clear to me that, according to the regulations, this worker, according to the Law of Labour which regulates the protection of the rights of workers, will exercise his rights under those provisions if he considers that a person from a working relationship has been injured, but it seems to me, however, that this bill should be regulated by at least one statement that when a decision has been made that the abuse has not been made, and the worker has been removed from work, so that the employer is obliged to pay the difference in salary, so up to the full amount of wages as if he had worked. Now, that seems kind of to me that we should regulate the second open question that is being imposed on me is whether in this law, too, in this bill should at least one provision in some way touch a person with disabilities, since I think everyone knows that people with disabilities are generally more discriminated against by persons without disabilities and at work as well. And women with disabilities are triple and more discriminated against women without disabilities. Although the Law on Discussing Discrimination, including the Law on Gender Equality in some ways, touches a person with disabilities, it seems to me that if we go into the adoption of such a law that we should, however, we should, in some ways, touch a person with disabilities. I think there's more in this bill, here's some things you might be able to fix. I must say that I welcome the motion to discuss this issue and to pass this law. I think it's in everyone's interest because workers should certainly be protected and no one has the right to be abused. However, because of what I have stated so far, I think it is good to see what kind of bill the Government is going to send to us, so that we all together give our maximum to really pass one quality law, and here I look forward to it, from the Government's opinion, that they will also take into consideration some of the proposals proposed by this law, i.e. by the bill. Here, colleagues and colleagues, for all these reasons, I will not support the adoption of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-30-0.u25759	Thank you very much. I apologize. Mr. Representative Nenad Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-30-0.u25760	Thank you very much. Does labour abuse exist in Croatia? Well, there is. That's what we all agree on. What we disagree on is whether to go immediately or not to fight this abuse. Abuse exists also in the public ministry, compared to officials, is the most classic example of moving someone to another workplace or simply not doing anything. He's getting paid, but he doesn't want any work, because he can't be fired because he's protected by the Labour Act or by some other law. And so a man comes to work every day, does nothing until one day he gives up. Abuse exists in institutions, and especially exists in the private sector. We've been living on privatization since the 1990s at a time of wild capitalism. And abuse certainly does not exist only among employees but there is especially with regard to the employer to the worker. As chairman of the Media Committee, I get complaints from journalists and from both public television and private publishers. I'm not going to list here right now, it's not all these cases, but I'm going to mention one that's drastic on the one hand and one that's typical on the other, so it might be a little clearer why the majority club in this parliament the HDZ club rejects SDP's bill. It is two prominent journalists, Marinko Culic and Viktor Ivancic, who were admitted as columnists to the "New List" in August of last year at the request of the New List Administration. A column was agreed with Viktor Ivancic that should go on Mondays when the circulation is the smallest. Five days before the publication of the first column, he was told to do so until further notice at the request of the new owner of Robert Jezic. Robert Jezic became the majority owner of the New List. He was otherwise owned by Dioki and Dina, who are certainly not engaged in any newspaper publishing and is a longtime member of the HDZ. He as the owner of Diokia and Dine and now the new owner of the "New List" prohibits or does so until further writing by two prominent journalists. There was a classic abuse, a typical abuse at work. They are invited every few days to come to Rijeka for some business meetings of which there is nothing. Typical abuse. Then the text is ordered from them, on 29 December from Ivancic, to be ordered text that will be published on 5 January. Of course, the text is not published on January 5th and writing is delayed until further notice. This is certainly not just about abuse of work but also about political persecution of strange journalists, the cardinal application of the asphyxiation of media freedoms and freedom of public speech. I'm not talking about who these reporters are, I think they're famous. I will only say which awards Ivancic received in Croatia and which international awards he receives because he is not afraid to do so when it comes to the abuse of a newly-roasted publisher owner. He won the Veselko Tenzer Award, the International Federation of Journalists Award, the International Press Freedom Award, the award... Palme in Stockholm, the Joško Kulusic award given by the Croatian Helsinki Committee, the Golden Dove for Peace award in Rome. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] What's a prize worth to him? What's his name worth? What's his reputation worth when a HDZ guy Robert buys a "New List" and forbids the writing of journalists. HDZ's Robert Jezic, because he has money, can harass prominent journalists, can abuse them at work, can choke the freedom of the public word, can do in one word what he wants. Now that I've said this, it's no wonder HDZ refuses the SDP bill. Because if this law were passed, then Robert Jezic would have been fined for it at least. But he's a respected HDZ member. Well, I don't suppose the majority of HDZ will let some law pass under which such a notorious Robert Jezic could do whatever he wants. Well, the government refuses this bill because it says as always that it will be smarter and more comprehensive and so on. The proposal for this law was first referred to in the procedure in 2007. Well, she had the government's time since 2007, until today that she wanted to write her own bill. She didn't want to, she didn't want to explain why she didn't want to. HDZ and HSS welcome this initiative but will not leave it in the first reading either. They have some small grudges, they say the provisions of this law are in other laws, etc. as if it couldn't be fixed until the second reading. It could be. We heard their debates. The SDP club would have respected these discussions and their arguments, introduced them into the second reading of the law and we would have received the law. And that's what we'd try to do because those grudges aren't numerous, they're at this session. We could already have this law passed at this session. But what does it take to do that? It takes political will in the majority club and at the HSS club to defuse or at least reduce the law, or at least punish abuse at work. There's no such thing as political will. I explained why she's not at the HDZ Club. Because I hope he won't let Robert Jezic be punished. Why isn't she in the HSS club? I find it a little harder to figure out other than coalition loyalty in any case, and even when that coalition loyalty is completely unreasonable, then when it goes to the harm of the workers who have been abused, when it means not solving the problems in society they admit to exist but simply don't want to solve it. I also call on the ruling majority, coalition partners in particular, minority representatives. So what do they have to do with Robert Jezic and the protection of such an abuser? What do they have to do with it? Why would they stand by the parliamentary majority in this example? What reason do they have? Well, it isn't, and their coalition loyalty isn't going to go to the point of being told tomorrow, so look, it was you who didn't want to punish the abusers at work. I now call on representatives of coalition clubs, not to be loyal to the government when voting this bill, to show that they can think and show that they want to settle in this country, at least where it can be arranged, despite the fact that the government and the HDZ Club do not want it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-30-0.u25761	Thank you. Two corrections to an incorrect quote. First Mr. Representative Andri Hebrang.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-30-0.u25762	Thank you very much. Not the exact quote of Mr. Stazic, I quote: "HDZ's Robert Jezic abuses the work of two journalists.". It's simply not true and not only is it not true but it's pressure on the freedom of the media, trying to edit one list and from no one else, but from the chairman of the Assembly Media Committee, it's incorrect. It's the same as if I were to say that the SDPs threw out the best Vecernjak journalist Tihomir Dujmovic on the street. It's a matter of editorial policy, not of Mr. Stazic's policies.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-30-0.u25763	Second Amendment, Mr. Representative Boris Kunst.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-30-0.u25764	This debate, not for the first time, the representative of Stazic, could be called, it is your horizontal level of abuse or mobbing.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-30-0.u25765	Correction, correction!
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-30-0.u25766	And the correction is that he said that they do not want to solve problems in society because they do not want to accept the Law on Preventing Abuse. That's not true. If the government didn't want it then, it wouldn't have passed the Law on Discrimination of Discrimination, it wouldn't have passed the Law on Gender Equality, etc., it means exactly where the abuse is prevented, so that's not true.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-30-0.u25767	Mrs. Representative Nadica Jelash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-30-0.u25768	Dear Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, the abuse of work in Europe has been intensively spoken in the last 10 years, although the first legislation on the ban on psychological harassment in the workplace was passed long ago in 1993 and where it would be elsewhere than in democratic Sweden. Some European countries still have laws or collective agreements on mental abuse, such as Belgium and Luxembourg, while some other countries treat labour abuse through labour laws and criminal law, such as in France. However, regardless of legal solutions, labour abuse has been recognised as a problem with very serious and social and economic consequences affecting both workers, causing them mental and psychosomatic disorders all the way to suicide and employers. Who suffer high costs due to the absence of workers from work, due to the fluctuation of workers and poor efficiency, workers, victims of abuse. Of course, social costs are very high, for example, we have data, and in the United States, the annual cost is estimated at over $4 billion. Unfortunately, there are no exact indicators of these costs in European countries, and it is also difficult to compare them because of different definitions of mobbing and different measuring instruments. However, the common observation is that workers are exposed to mobbing characteristic high health care costs as well as early retirement. And what is the situation in Croatia? In transition countries, and also in Croatia, the problem of mobbing began to be discussed in the general public since 2000, leading to an increase in public awareness of the problem and it is assumed that the incidence of mobbing is also increasing given the large number of risk factors available in our working environments that affect the occurrence of abuse at work. Because it is undeniable that the mobing is significantly conditional on the social economic situation, the difficult economic situation, the resulting reduction in the number of jobs and the existence of a reserve labour force army in a huge number of unemployed. So it's all an ideal basis for so-called. strategic mobing as a way to solve extra workers. The strategic mobing is a organised, agreed abuse of the management summit aimed at forcing workers to quit on their own, asking for neither severance nor the purchase of retirement training or any other right of employment. In that sense, I think that in the coming crisis times of such mobbing, there will be more and more. The mobing space will also be extended by the more massive arrival of labour from other countries, but also by the greater flexibility of the work brought by the amendments to the Labour Act. A special problem sets out so-called. Generation mobbing, therefore, the abuse of young people over the elderly, and especially women, you're not a good worker if you're not young and attractive, it's becoming a rule more and more. I'm familiar with the case of an acquaintance who was molested by a young boss in a way that he's been setting up impossible tasks for her to prove to her that she's incapable of doing them because she's old. On one occasion, she reacted in a way that she told him. I suffer your abuse for one reason only, those who will be your bosses will be even worse than you. In Croatia, mobbing has an alarming scope, so every fourth employee has experienced mobing in his current working century. When asked whether they had ever been found in a situation where their peers or their superiors were mentally abused by as many as 84% of the subjects responded positively, 82% of the subjects recognized the abuser in their co-workers, so we're talking about vertical mobbing here. 17% think it's their colleagues, but it's a horizontal mobbing, and 1% think that abusers are most often their subordinate associates. If we faced psychological abuse that would last for a long period of 54%, the abuse would suffer and demand another job at the same time, and 27% would quit and then ask for another job. Even 12% of respondents would suffer such abuse continuously and only 7% would report employers to competent institutions. And that's exactly what's worrying. That percentage of people who would suffer abuse and a low percentage of just 7% of respondents who would report the employer to the competent institutions. What does a colleague and a colleague say? This actually speaks about how many employees do not trust in solving the problem of mobbing through competent institutions, because it is an inefficient and poorly organised labour inspection, and even more so the judiciary that does not settle work disputes within 6 months. The start of the legal treatment of labour abuse in Croatia took place in 2003 by the introduction of the Institute of Protection, the dignity of workers in the then-newized Labour Act, so I am talking about Article 30. The labour law. However, this article only provides partial legal protection against labour abuse or better to say protection against certain forms of discrimination based on race, skin colour, sex and sexual commitment, marital status, faith, political or other belief, property, social status, etc. This also confirms that since 2003 more than a hundred lawsuits have been filed to compensate for the damages of harassment, but unfortunately there is still not a single first-degree verdict, which we have already heard from more debaters today, precisely because of the lack of clear legal provisions on labour abuse. Unlike the Labour Law, this proposal of the Law on the Prevention of Abuse is a complete solution for a number of reasons. Because it includes not only persons in employment, but also persons who do jobs without employment, or who are in training with the employer, persons who seek employment, students and students in practical training, as well as persons who perform certain jobs during the course of the prison sentence or educational measures. The second reason, since it covers all forms of work abuse, not just discrimination, as has been the case so far in Article 30. The labour law. Furthermore, because it extends criminal responsibility and ultimately, because it particularly regulates the area of prevention of labour abuse and of both management staff and workers with the aim of identifying all forms of abuse. So, all of this I have listed, but certainly and primarily the cost dimension of labour abuse is more than a good reason why this proposal should be supported by both workers and employers and states, and certainly by all, colleagues and colleagues, you here in the Parliament. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-30-0.u25769	Thank you. Honorable representative Boris Sprem. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-30-0.u25770	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. As a lot of my colleagues from the SDP club talked about this topic, about its contents, so I won't repeat it, I'll just limit myself to the government's attitude towards the Parliament through this proposal, but not just this proposal. So it's a constitutional institute, not just a business one law proposal can be submitted, according to the law, by a representative, by the working body of the Parliament, by the club of representatives and by the government. And when someone other than the government or the HDZ Representative's Club appears as a proposing, and perhaps the HSS, but I doubt it, then there are situations that are not, I would not say desirable, but are not democratic. They are not democratic because it is seen and through the process that happens when the Government receives a legislative proposal in the procedure such as this important legislative proposal on 30 April of last year and then by abuse of the Institute of Opinion which then has to be given to the Government of the Croatian Parliament so that it could be put on the agenda to consider this proposal not only makes it difficult but prevents the law from being passed. And then, as we can see, eight months and the government to think in two sentences that consist of saying, you know, the idea is good, but we're going to make it through a legal proposal. And that would be fine, too, you know when? That would be fine if it were done in 2006 when the first initiatives by the unions and 2007 by associations appeared. All right, then these initiatives are collected and the government may be able to do so best quickly, or relatively quickly, a legislative proposal by the government. However, when it is delayed in this way, it is seen that one will is manifested in which the law is not to be passed and that the government has something against it. So it's my thesis, but it's not just in this case, there are more cases like this, I wouldn't be talking about them right now because it just doesn't make sense. In this case and in similar situations, the government is mobing over the Parliament and that is what I cannot accept because it respects neither parliamentary representatives nor their clubs, nor the working bodies when proposing some serious legal projects for consideration and adoption. I therefore propose that the future Government take care of the fact that there is a legislative body called the Croatian Parliament in which there are therefore three entities that can submit a legislative proposal and that it treats it at least equally with those proposals that come from the government itself according to this Croatian Parliament. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-30-0.u25771	Thank you. I've let you finish this debate until the end, although it's not the topic we're discussing today, but it would be about the same way most of us would object to why the opposition doesn't vote for the laws proposed by the government. So that's something that's perfectly normal. He who is in Parliament makes decisions and assumes full responsibility. We have one correction to an incorrect quote. Dear Representative Boris Matkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-30-0.u25772	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, just in this direction that you just said, I'd like to correct my colleague because that's how I have to say it, and that's to say that the government is mobilising the Parliament. Well, you see, dear fellow Sprem, if the government is making that call to us here sitting in the Parliament, then you've now been mobilising towards me and all of us here telling us about the procedure the government has to do...
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-30-0.u25773	Thank you!
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-30-0.u25774	In the sense that someone who we have to... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-30-0.u25775	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-30-0.u25776	I mean, it doesn't make sense.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-30-0.u25777	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-30-0.u25778	We know this procedure, it's the same thing.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-30-0.u25779	Dear Representative Davorko Vidovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-30-0.u25780	My colleagues and colleagues, I can't make jokes and jokes right now on a subject that doesn't deserve it. This morning, when we went to work together with us at least 2,000 men and women, young and old, qualified, unqualified, went to work with a stomach cramp knowing it was the least, knowing that there was a waiting for them all before the pleasant and friendly atmosphere was by their bosses, either by their colleagues. And this cramped today will bring into their homes, into their families, and further to their frustration contaminating family life. These discussions of ours have shown that we must be aware of that. I guess there's no difference between opposition and position and opposition. Either we are or we are not aware of it. I would say yes, that the problem is recognized and that something must be done in that sense. In Croatia it seems to me 6 million pills a year for dying, practical, apaurina, I don't know what not. A good part of these intense, psychological disorders that people are exposed to, which suffer from exposure between others and mobbing at the workplace and dissatisfaction with the working conditions people face. It's a problem to discuss seriously. Now, there's one rarely good and high-quality bill here. I know it was written by the most professional people we could ever find to do that job. I haven't heard any serious, no serious remarks on any of the institutes in this law. I can say it a little bit, and I'm not going to say that I'm qualified but in any case with one experience because I remember in 2003, which may be in a civilized sense when it came to this problem, when we brought in a new Labour Act, building in it a dozen very important institutes that may have looked like it at that moment and perhaps the actual practice has confirmed it we haven't worked out enough and so we set out that they can really be applicable in a good and quality way in practice. For the first time, we introduced into legislation the obligation of the employer to protect the dignity of the workers. For the first time, we wrote that the worker enjoys protection from employers, superiors, and people with whom he regularly comes into contact. This is what is now qualified in this law. We have introduced a procedure and measures to protect dignity to be arranged by collective agreement. The employer who employs 20 workers was obliged to appoint the person who, on his behalf, is obliged to receive and resolve complaints. We've ensured that the worker has the right to terminate his work until his protection is secured. We also introduced the right for a court worker to claim compensation for damages and also to receive wages as while working during the termination of the work that occurred due to the mobbing. But life goes on. The practice has shown that some of these protection institutes lacked sanctions or lacked simple enforcement measures and some of the abuses that had arisen and to which these provisions of the Labour Act could not simply be implemented. I'll remind you, in 2003 we passed the Law on protection against domestic violence. We've instituted the Attorney General for Gender Equality. A whole series of quality institutional solutions to prevent violence at all in a society that is so burdened with violence we introduced in 2003. But life doesn't stand, and we did the job in 2003. Life goes on. The problems that our fellow citizens face continue, and it is important to recognize and monitor both these problems and what is planned to solve these problems, because we are not isolated from what is done elsewhere in Europe, in the world, and to build on it. Now, if we have a recognised problem that we agree on, if we have laws that we also agree to supplement, if we have here now defined my God's quality proposal as well as anything else and it can probably be repaired. I don't see any reason, because the logic of the chairman is not clear to me when a little time warned that it was my people that meant that by ruling the laws, they fit for them etc. Yeah, but in this case, it's not a word. This is about proposing. So we have a quality proposal. Of course it cannot be adopted without the majority in Parliament. That you'll take responsibility. Tell me why not. Why not? You are neither, colleagues, nor any serious reason for not accepting this law except for coming from the ranks of the opposition. But I'm saying, neither I nor my colleague Sobol wrote it, but it was written by really great experts that the government would hire if it did something. Why don't you accept that? I do not see that it is against the logic of parliamentary life, nor will it be more laws, nor will it be a humiliation to HDZ or the ruling majority if one of these laws is passed. So let's demonstrate once and some seriousness, and it's not true that the opposition doesn't accept it. So I think 85% of the laws proposed by the government by the opposition are unanimously accepted, 85% of the law. Well, it's crazy not to say anything just because the government proposes. But I also wouldn't say it's too smart to reject the good proposals that come from it. I promised my colleagues from the “Mobbing stop” association in Sisak with whom they were only at the beginning of their work. I intend to cooperate more seriously. I promised them support for this law, and I also promised that I would regularly consult them to report me as a parliamentary representative on all the forms of abuse that are happening on our ground. Perhaps it can also help to focus and increase on each individual case, perhaps it can help to at least reduce the mobing if it cannot be eliminated. So, consider this debate of mine really as kind of pledoies to start thinking about it, why shouldn't anything that comes from the other side be accepted and that we're slowly changing that logic because it just doesn't make any sense. If there is any ideological or any other professional reason for any serious reason, it would be good to list him here. I just don't understand all of this.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-30-0.u25781	Thank you. We have one replica, distinguished representative Boris Kunst. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-30-0.u25782	Well, my colleague Vidovic mentioned here a whole series of measures that have been introduced into the Labour Act while he acted as Minister of Labour and Social Care, that ministry, and, I mean, we are only in one part contradictory because it was just said, not from you, but as a promoter that the Labour Act is insufficiently regulated by these issues and in any case I agree that there are also how good, and I was talking about it in the end, the good rules of the law which, in some way, protect the dignity of workers and in some way prevent this abuse at work. But there was certainly no law on the prevention of discrimination and the Law on Gender Equality and so on, which better regulate the issue of protection of labour abuse. But when you mention all these measures, I will remind you of one that certainly has contributed greatly to the problems of workers, especially in this area of abuse at work in this part of the abuse, which is a working time. This is the same measure that was introduced at the time in the Labour Act, and you know that many today have very big problems, since we have found that many work contracts are being concluded, that is, most of them concluded for a certain period of time, and that these are night and life nightmares for people when the time for breaking up approaches. So, I agree, I also argued in this section that even now the Labour Law has well settled the issue and a lot of it has been introduced into this bill from the Labour Act. But I'm also saying, you need to access a new law, perhaps a better quality that will regulate the issue of protection of abuse of workers and abuse of workers and abuse of citizens at all. So, I don't see any reason why you're against it, that, together with the social partners, you don't sit down, and that there's your contribution and that there's a contribution of this bill to making this new law. It's nothing so catastrophic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-30-0.u25783	Time. Thank you. Replica response, distinguished representative Davorko Vidovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-30-0.u25784	I cited these laws, the Institute of the Labour Act simply because it was passed right in my term. And I wanted to say, if anyone had any copyright or reason to defend him, it could be me. But, I mean, life goes on. Life goes on. The colleagues counted precisely in the explanation, in the opening part of the law they explained that this is not good enough with these institutes. And that information that not all workers are in collective contract regimes, which we are not, is being abused and those who are less than 20, with employees less than 20. That's a good point. These are good comments if someone had warned at the time when we passed the Labour Law, so they would probably have built it in. It is not that once written for all it is necessary to defend as completely invariable. And as far as the environment is concerned, you know, it would open up a big story right now. The institute of work for a certain time has always existed. We've just limited it in the Labour Act, the truth to a somewhat longer period. Priorities change. In those years, 500 thousand unemployed people have welcomed us, a country in recession. The most important task was to establish greater protection for outsiders, those outside the world of work. There we were focused, there we were focusing on how people get to work anyway, even for a certain time, why not. But, don't forget, we secured for these people the status as if they were working indefinitely, so their internship went, and their health insurance. That's the truth.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-30-0.u25785	Thank you. Honorable representative Goran Heffer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-30-0.u25786	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues who are still present. I'll try to be brief. Of course, as we have heard in the opening part of this bill several times, abuse at work, or mobbing deals only four centuries back in the world, world psychologists, while this topic is only a few years back. That doesn't mean that there wasn't, but that we probably still don't know enough about him, we don't know him enough, and we don't talk about him enough where we should talk about it. He often, not only recognizes himself, but neglects himself and knowingly denies himself. It is a specific form of behavior in the workplace where, either one person or a group of persons treats one, so to speak to a third person, with the aim of jeopardizing its reputation, honor, dignity and all the human that it has in that person, all the way to trying to eliminate it from the workplace or physically. Of course, the abused person is both helpless and unable to defend himself against such behavior. Therefore, it is right to say that it is one collective usurpation of all rights of human, civil, and all others. But the research mentioned here still shows that the number of people who have been abused is extremely large. Many surveys have been indicated. Of course, these surveys depend on where they are conducted, in what conditions they are conducted, therefore under economically developed or undeveloped conditions. I will take this opportunity to mention one poll which was conducted at the end of October 2008, so here some 3 months ago in Vukovar-Srijem County, it was conducted by the independent union, the Vinkovska branch and the 761 surveyors who handed over the questionnaire because about 2,000 respondents shared in the conditions that there were more than 50% of men because it was usually going with one prejudice that women and who were primarily at risk, were primarily abused at work, there were data that were in many similar terms mentioned by their colleague Crljeko because it was probably one joint survey at the level of Croatia as a whole, but in some things I would say that the part of the lack of development of an economic activity that existed in Vukovar-Srijem County reflected this question and that the fear of losing a job, the fear of showing resistance to abusers was important in relation to some other areas. In some places, 56% of respondents confirmed that they were victims of mobbing and about so much or little more that they were present when they performed the mobbing over a third party. What is difficult to understand or to understand is that these people do not feel brave enough to be able to talk to any professional person, whether within the business system itself, they turn to this problem rather than talk to friends, talk to family members about it, and it closes as a closed circle while violence continues. As a result, it is not surprising that a certain part of those who are exposed to such behaviours, as Creljko said, except for the stress that, with due respect for this disease, is still underexplained and I think that Croatia is still insufficiently known and treated. In addition, a large part of the diseases that ended in institutions were shown. After all, what is also saddening is that the employer is uninterested in the problems that are evident in these phenomena. What interests me in this survey and as regards this current bill, 51% of respondents have stated that they do not know or are not familiar with measures to protect them from harassment and abuse in the workplace or are not familiar with the existence of certain legal rules that they can also be called upon in accordance with which they can exercise their right to a peaceful and normal work. So that element also shows that a law is needed to deal with this difficult problem in a targeted way. Mobing is a phenomenon that happens everywhere at all levels, wherever there are business systems, wherever there are people who do some work, who are subordinated to employers or who have a working environment in which there are no good working relationships and mobbing. Very often despite pointing out that there are some mobings to say that this is not so, so that all of this is ignored, that all of this is relativised and after a certain time even forgets. It's kind of an misunderstood event. It's hasty to say that that's it, etc. But I will point out to you a vivid example that was mentioned many times in the media by a recent case that took place at the end of August last year when, for example, the Association of Employees in Croatian School Renaissance publicly accused the educational authorities of mobing over teachers who did not want to participate in the business of sharing free textbooks. So, the title was "The Ministry of Mobileing of Schools." Despite this, agreements between educational authorities and trade unions that these jobs will be carried out only voluntarily, as unobedited teachers said at the time, and even school principals were exposed to intense pressures and intimidation if these jobs refused to work. Some of the principals of primary schools made public calls from the competent ministry and from the education and education agency for the purpose of warning that textbooks must be distributed, otherwise it is not possible to visit an educational inspection. So there's a mobing and at that level not only mobbing at a man's level. Of course, fear of the ministry is great because the ministry influences the selection of directors, and then that spiral of mobbing went down further because the directors pressured their employees to share the textbooks. There were a series of threats, etc. The union then also called on the minister responsible to report or to help, to protect the workers. Unfortunately, however, the minister did not answer at the time. Of course, we here today talking about it especially from colleagues from the party in power to say that it is not so, that it is misunderstood etc. Just because it's a minister or a ministry. But here, for these very reasons, we need to have a law that will undoubtedly solve certain things, which will provide a basis for some things to be sanctioned and not to have these things happen. Here, so I won't be long. Of course I'm in favour of this law because it has to be targeted at certain behaviors in order to sanction it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-30-0.u25787	Thank you. We have one replica, the esteemed representative of Nenad Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-30-0.u25788	Comrade Heffer, you rightly point out this abuse of the ministry towards the teaching staff, but you forget about a more recent, fresher example, which is the abuse that Minister Milinovic conducts on family medicine doctors because they will not sign an annex contract. Look, they have a contract worth another year. Contracts must be respected. If one party will not sign an annex contract, it is his will because it has a valid contract. No one can force him to sign something he doesn't want to sign right now. But Minister Milinovic threatens them with resignations, Minister Milinovic actually carries out a classic example of mobbing, a classic abuse of workers at work using his post as minister. But as we can see, we have more and more reasons, more and more arguments that make it clear why HDZ does not want to accept this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-30-0.u25789	Thank you. Replication response. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-30-0.u25790	Thank you very much. My colleague Stazić, so I focused on one segment because of the length of the debate, but also because I was able to be asked by certain fellow teachers even after the union had shown that this should not be done, what to do because their principals continued to insist on it, there were written orders. They also mentioned the so-called so-called. labour obligations and so on. All in all, is it a mobing or not a mobbing? This can obviously be discussed, but that it is inappropriate behavior and that behaviour that is not in line with such systems and this in health care which my colleague Stazic spoke of, and this in education, or in school, is definitely an area of what needs to be discussed, not only but also regulated legally. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-30-0.u25791	Thank you. Let's move on with the individual debate. Last in line is Honorable Representative Jerko Roshin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-30-0.u25792	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. I know you've only had my discussion since lunch, eating, going home, etc., but somehow the circumstances have turned out to be me, as well as... Then let me tell you a few things. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] First, I'd like to go back to my colleague Sobol, and with support, I think she put the subject on a table that's worth the attention, and she's committed to giving a certain attention to the subject of abuse at work, and I think that subject deserves that attention. And the price of such praise to you for this, I would like to commend my colleague Stazić on making one topic of great content worth of my conviction vulgarized by putting itself into a political framework. Because when we talk about it through one political framework, then, the important thread is lost, and that's the debate on the subject itself, the content itself, gets each other, the other frame. In the illustration, these two commendations and contritions, so also fellow Spremu that then it's quite clear and how some things can go forward in one sense of content, in another sense of form. Because if you're bringing the issue of abuse into a political framework that one option threatens another, it would bring us back to a long time ago when I was actually experiencing abuse, but I'm trying to forget a lot. If I were to talk about abuse as a topic of work, and I mean abuse is not just a topic of work, but in this case I am talking about abuse at work, I can tell you that for a long time I have been a conditionally told employer, and that there are no problems in my company, however, in my company every day lunches, all the employees lunch together, to discuss not only professional problems but also family problems that can be helped and my belief that the people I share bread with, with whom I eat, with whom I bless, will never put a knife in my back. It's my one impression, I don't know if it's right or wrong, but for over 30 years, that's how it happens in my firm at the time of the last state when I was completely on the market, but that's how it was done. So, this comes from one of my world supervisors and world supervisors of people who share with me this working living room where I spend a lot more time than I do at home so my wife says it's actually my real home not that home and that's why I have on the wall and pictures and family and a lot of things that we... Life. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] If by my worldly supervision and the worldly oversight of my loved ones, the law wouldn't even be necessary for this harassment at work because I simply can't understand that someone is being abused. But I am aware that this is happening and that it should in some way be prevented... but it's killing itself. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Because, fellow Vidovic, he's not here, I can imagine that many people go with a cramp to work, I'm fortunately not going, but maybe my children go with a cramp to work, because they also experience abuse at work and believe me, abuse is not only from employers, but also from those with whom we share the same space. So this relationship between the employer and the employee again polarises and escapes from the real subject of abuse and is again in a kind of political context that is not good. I think that a lot of the examples that are being instructed, the instructions are, indeed, none of the examples are evidence or less that will go any further, only one of the illustrations should not be convinced that such examples exist that they should not be supported. And in the end, it's not some Croatian specificity, it's a general specificity of human relations, and as important as it is, it shows that Obama is one of the first declarations he has signed is precisely that nobody's skin color, faith or anything else, and neither the salary between female and male employees should be different. So we're on the same page, and we're trying to solve the same problems. The fact is that many of the laws that exist today, which we have, regulate in one way or another, or in a similar way, this problem, but we are also aware that practice goes often differently from what the law provides. Unfortunately, the media that transmit these problems and who are generally involved in the abuse problem. I don't say to the press, but also to the working media, they experience such things and there are examples or speculations that some editors write an article on some journalists just like that, or they don't write it, so using their position, so I think that abuse is also, in some way, abuse and abuse. To talk about the ethics of our mutual relations, we should never, at which point we should always put more and more into it because it represents utopia or not, I don't know but from that utopia I personally don't give up and go forward in the fight to make that happen. So it seems to me that the law that will regulate this problem should be passed as soon as possible, absolutely agree, but I think that law should be the best it can be. That's why I don't see the problem with two bill proposals even competing with each other, so let's see which law is better by itself. As a result, even those who have proposed this law should have no objection to the adoption of a law that is better than that, and to see if such a law can be better than this proposal. So, the fact is that we should be concerned that such a law that regulates this problem as soon as possible, but it's important to be as you say it is, just like this, and then the debate turns away from the issue of abuse in the problem of the functions of democracy, and that is, the rules of the game and the mechanisms for which we know everything, so here we go somehow. So we should have no objection to a better law, but it is also one fact that this problem may be escalating, that perhaps the problem of some relations with us arises for the first time from imports to Croatia, some conditions, some relationships and even threatened with imports and anarchic behaviour, etc. ... According to the newspaper that's written, you're going to be Greece, you're going to be this and that, so that's kind of a media abuse of me. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And the very word mobbing is kind of abuse to me. If we have the word abuse, then why not use that term instead of mobing instead of abuse? Thank you very much, if you're hungry, let's go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-30-0.u25793	Thank you, Your Honor. We have one replica. Dear Representative Nenad Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-30-0.u25794	Dear colleague Roshin, you object to me that a quality subject, an important topic, is being vulgarized by me politicizing it and, in my humble opinion, you are mistaken. I'm not politicizing. It politicizes the opposite side of this assembly, your side. So if you'll allow me, you yourself will be politicizing in the way you vote in this law. Why? I listened very carefully to your argument. You have not said a single objection to the proposed text. In fact, you said you didn't see anything wrong with two proposals competing to see which would be better if we adopted the best legal text. But in that case, you would have to vote for the conclusion, the bill is adopted in the first reading, it is referred to the Proposer with all observations, suggestions and opinions to draw up a final draft law. We can add another point. The Government of the Republic of Croatia is also obliged to prepare the final text of the law together with the proposer. If you voted for such a conclusion, then you would be consistent with what you said here, but since you will vote along with your club to reject this legal proposal, and you have no argument, then you are politicizing a banal topic, not me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-30-0.u25795	Thank you. Replication response. Honorable representative Jerko Roshin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-30-0.u25796	The two thesis that you presented, or two elements of your replica, to my speech. First, I said you were politicizing because you brought one state into the context of HDZ and someone else. This HDZ and someone else, it is immediately the political context of the debate, because that someone else is an opposition to HDZ. Regardless, so you've brought in two options that contradict each other and I didn't want to talk through it about a law worth paying attention to. So I'm saying you're politicizing, because if you said in general then there wouldn't be politicizing. And I didn't want to because I didn't say that SDP was treating someone else at a time when he could. So I didn't want to politicize. That's the first thing. And the other thing, fellow Stazic, is I'm fresh in Parliament. I don't know much about Parliament, you have a long internship in Parliament so you know how mechanisms in Parliament worked. At the very least, as one said, democracy is not the best, it's not the best, but it's the best we can have, and the most convincing mechanism has been before, it's convincing now and in times when you've been acting in power. So I'm not surprised at that, but I'm surprised that you're surprised that this mechanism works. Democracy and the will of the majority will say what they think.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-30-0.u25797	Thank you. And five minutes on behalf of the National Minority Club, the esteemed representative Furio Radin. He checked in orally.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-30-0.u25798	I'll answer in writing next time. Thank you very much. I'll be very brief so this Friday can actually... No, I'll be brief because otherwise I have to be brief because... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Look, whoever was listening very carefully to this debate saw that it actually took place in two dimensions, in two clusters to put it that way. The first was the one who spoke, and I think quite justifiably, about that mobing is the category that applies to all those who are different and who think differently, to minorities of all kinds, I'm not talking about national minorities. I don't want to say pro domo nesua as some say but pro domo mea, that mobing is a category that protects all those who can in any way be committed to others. And I agree, colleague Roshin, not only those who have been committed but those who work with others because there are some who are both character and personality stronger than others, so they tend to have some kind of predominance over others, so also mobbing, mobbing, or whatever you want to call it. The second was where it was trying to score political points and then, of course, legitimately, it's the Arena of that kind. However, in trying to get political points for quite understandable reasons, a whole set of mobbing issues has been left out and, who knows why, no one has talked about mobbing within the parties and about how it is happening and how opinions prevail and how it is reflected, it is realized that the famous Luxembourg sentence that freedom is for those who think differently and who are different. As much as the parties respect it, I'd ask you. As important as in parties, in all parties, how much respect is given to one other thing that is also important. You know when it goes to elections there's one order. A party that wins, or coalition that wins gives people certain duties, and then they have to find replacements. These replacements are in the absolute authority of the presidents of the parties and two, three people in each party who do the mobing and find whoever they want to come for him. I've spoken to certain European colleagues. You know, here we are saying there is no such thing in Europe. Usually there are other things, but this really isn't anywhere in Europe where two, three people actually say who's going to sit in this House. In the end, we are very interested as a national minority to talk about this problem. You agree to continue this conversation on a non-political issue, which is only indirectly political, which is most humane. And please, let's go to another reading and sit together to really discuss this issue as people, not just as politicians. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-30-0.u25799	Thank you. And finally, on behalf of the promoter, the distinguished representative of Gordana Sobol. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-30-0.u25800	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. First, of course, on behalf of the legislator of this law, I really thank everyone who's involved in today's debate. I think there's been a good debate, and I've had extremely valuable suggestions and references and some things that can be done in a bill like this, of course, if you give us a chance to do it until the second reading. And of course, at the SDP club, we would be very pleased to have this law given a passing grade of everyone in this House and to allow it to enter another reading and then get the opportunity in that space, and then in a parliamentary debate to compete with a government proposal that I expect should reach the parliamentary benches in that period. But I don't know if that's possible. However, today from the ruling coalition, all somehow tried to explain why they could not actually support this proposal, although in fact some major special grudges were not his. Well, that even seemed a little sweet at times, and perhaps some have tried to hide a certain amount of discomfort. Why? I guess because someone here today said this bill wasn't written by us at the SDP club. This bill is the result of the work of a group of people, experts who are each in their field of expertise and are currently the leading names in Croatia when it comes to the problem of labour abuse. I will now read their names: Professor of Science Jadranka Musterbegović, Faculty of Medicine in Zagreb. Professor Doctor of Science Nada Boiroga Vukbrat, Faculty of Law Rijeka. Doctor of Science Sladjana Šrklj Ivesić, psychiatrist, Psychiatric Hospital Vrapce. Master of Science Dr Elvira Kotic, specialist psychiatrist, General Hospital Virovitica. Master of Science Snježana Vasiljevic, assistant, Faculty of Law Zagreb. Master of Science Saša Petar, graduate economist. Primarius Doctor of Science Marija Zavalić, president of the Croatian Institute of Labour Medicine. Luka Majarić, head of the Croatian Government's Human Rights Office. Dušanka Marinković Drača, a graduate lawyer. Višnja Ljubicic, Office for Human Rights of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Teuta Barusic, secretary of the Psychological Chamber of Croatia. Irena Radic, a lawyer from the law firm Par. Jadranka Apostolovski, president of the Association for the Assistance and Education of Mobbing Victims. Te, Sandra Lukić, co-ordinator of the Working Group from the Association for the Assistance and Education of Mobbing Victims. And at their last meeting on 12.4.2007, they completed the draft draft, draft legislation on preventing labour abuse. Well, look, if it's nothing else, and it's because of these names that I've listed here, we should all vote together to get this bill into another reading. I also want to remind you of heaven once more. This bill was co-ordinated by the Mobbing association, which coordinated the whole work, was addressed to all clubs in this House and those in the opposition and in the ruling coalition. It's headed towards both government and GSV. You know, now it's gonna turn out that because only the SDP took this memo seriously, and the others don't know what they did to your memo. They didn’t even deign to contact the “Mobbing” association, throw aside somewhere, ignore, throw into the trash. Now that's the only reason why it looks like this law won't go any further in the process. Of course, we can speak here I don't know what, it's your right, it's part of those political struggles that ultimately depend on the laws we're going to make. But, you know, colleagues and colleagues, when it comes to the right to decent work, and decent work means work that means productive jobs in which workers' rights can be protected, which can earn a decent income with the existence of adequate social protection of workers when it comes to such work and the protection of workers, it should at least be important who proposed the law, who referred it to the procedure, it should already be important that such a law, and the need, as soon as adopted, is equally valid. Whether he was proposed by authority or opposition, no matter how hard some today try to prove otherwise. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-30-0.u25801	Thank you. And we have two corrections to an incorrect quote. The first is the Honorable representative of Andrija Hebrang. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-30-0.u25802	Thank you very much. Dear fellow Members, it is not true that we felt some discomfort as we spoke against this law, but simply have sketches of the law that the Government of the Republic of Croatia is making on the same topic and which is better quality. In which some of the experts you listed were involved...... [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-30-0.u25803	Please, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-30-0.u25804	I'm correcting your inaccuracies. It says in the Rules of Procedure that I have the right to correct your claim.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-30-0.u25805	Go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-30-0.u25806	And therefore, there are also those experts who you have led a part of them and much wider. And another incorrect quote we did not manifest ourselves on the letter of the Mobing Association. I got it, but I didn't understand what mobbing meant, I thought it was jogging, so I didn't answer. If she had written a beautiful Croatian word of abuse, I would have understood so I would have answered.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-30-0.u25807	Thank you. And another correction to the incorrect allegations, the distinguished representative Nenad Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-30-0.u25808	Thank you very much. Comrade Sobol, you're saying that this law will not be missed in the second reading is part of a political struggle. That's incorrect. This could possibly be part of political culture because if it were true if it were a political struggle, then the opposition would reject all the laws that come from the government because it would imply the principles of that struggle. As you know, it's not like that. The opposition accepts about 80, 85% of the government's legal proposals. Why? Well, because he's responsible. Because he believes these laws are of quality and that they repair the situation in society. And because he thinks it's part of a political culture to accept the laws that come from the government if they're quality. As we believe that part of political culture should be to accept... [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-30-0.u25809	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-30-0.u25810	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-30-0.u25811	Thank you, thank you. That concludes the debate. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met. And we proceed Wednesday at 9.30 p.m. with point 6. Proposal for a law supplementing the Law on Features and Recognitions of the Republic of Croatia, first reading, P.Z. No. 114. The promoter is Ante Kotromanović. After that, we will discuss the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Prevention of Disturbs in Sports Competitions, P.Z. No. 248. Thank you and have a nice weekend.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-30-0.u25812	Proposal for a law on preventing work abuse, first reading, P.Z. No. 55, Proposer: SDP representative club. The debate is closed. I am giving the vote the conclusion in line with the proposals of the parliamentary working bodies and the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Croatia which reads: The proposal for a law on the prevention of labour abuse is not accepted. Who is it for this proposal not to accept the draft law on preventing abuse at work? Thank you. Against? Thank you. Restraint? The conclusion was accepted by most votes, 76 votes, and 44 votes against. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen of the MPs. We'll proceed with the 8th session. It is up to - Proposal for a law supplementing the Law on Features and Recognitions of the Republic of Croatia, first reading, P.Z. No. 114 Ante Kotromanovic shall propose this act on the basis of Article 129. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading shall apply to the adoption of this law. You received the proposal by mail. The government delivered an opinion. The debate was conducted by the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the Political System, the Committee on Law, the Defence and the Committee on War Veterans. You received the reports at the session. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? What? Yeah. Mr. Representative Ante Kotromanović. Here you go.
