ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-10-0.u45061	Thank you. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. Here, let me say a few words about this very important law that provides money sources for all activities in the water economy. The water economy financing law is adopted in order to comply with the Water Management Strategy, the European Union Water Framework Directive and to provide sufficient resources to implement water protection measures in order to achieve the good state of all water in water areas. I would also like to add here that in order to implement these objectives, we need to invest in the water economy a total of 53 billion kuna over the next 15 years, and we are planning to get a significant part of this amount from the European Union. I would also like to point out in particular that this law was held after a public debate of the National Council for Water, the Community of the Republic of Croatia, the Association of Cities and municipalities, the Economic Social Council, the Association for Environmental Protection, the Association of Communal Enterprises and others. I would also like to add here that the Water Economy Financing Act means that it is based on the fact that all those who use water in a certain way and pay compensation for a certain type of use of these waters. This proposal of the Water Economy Financing Act retains all existing water compensations, except for the compensation for the extraction of sand and gravel which is abolished as a consequence of the prohibition of exploitation of the same materials from rivers, or water streams. I remind you that here in the Water Act we've defined correctly, there is no more exploitation of these materials from our water streams. I would also like to say here that the sources from which all activities in the water economy will be financed are means, water charges, water prices, state budgets and budgets of local, or regional self-government. According to this law, there are four kinds of water charges. The first are those who are the income of the state, these are the water contribution, the water treatment fee, the water use fee and the water protection fee. We also have fees that are the revenues of cities, i.e. the municipality that is the compensation for accession. We've got county income, it's a melioration drain fee, that's a irrigation fee. And we have a development fee which is the income of utility companies, i.e. a public water service supplier. Here I would like to add that we are in these revenues of the state, here I particularly highlight the water contribution where 8% of that amount is returned to the area of cities and municipalities where it is collected. And it's dedicated to building a system of deforestation. Why are we doing this? We're working for the reason that we're aiming to stimulate the decommissioning systems of wastewater disposal. So we're going to specifically build wastewater systems, especially for rainwater. We also have a water treatment fee here. Its purpose remains the same as it was in a law that was valid. What I particularly want to point out here is that the purpose of this fee will also be used for the public good, or for the regulation of the public water supply. As for the compensation for the use of water, I would like to say that it will be paid for the quantities of water covered from underground or surface waters. What's important about this water use fee is that it will also be used to recover losses in local networks. That hasn't happened yet. For us, the objective in this transitional period following the adoption of the Government's Regulation on service areas is also going to be our goal in the next 5 years of our local losses that we have so far had in water supply networks, to be within the allowed limits. As regards the compensation for water protection, it is clearly defined here that all those who release polluted water into the environment must pay a certain fee, in accordance with the quality and quantity of waste water released into the environment. It is also important here to note that we have dropped two fees to the level of regional self-government. They've been the income of the state so far. I would especially like to point out the fee for the melioration drain and also the fee for the melioration irrigation. Here, the county will be able, in accordance with its decisions, to determine both the height and the fee, as well as the purpose of these fees. As regards development compensation, it will be possible to establish the basis for decisions by cities and municipalities in service areas for development means public water supply systems, i.e. wastewater disposal in that area when increased investment is needed. And it will also be one of the models, i.e. the share when money from the EU funds is withdrawn in the future. So it's going to be the amount that's going to have to secure cities and municipalities. In the end, I would like to say that this law and the Water Act that was already under discussion in this honored House that we have completely circled a set of laws that are important for the water economy. I can also say that we fully comply with this law with the Water Framework Directive and other EU directives. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-10-0.u45062	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? Yeah. On behalf of the Committee on Regional Development, Forestry and Water Economy, Mr. Representative Koračević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-10-0.u45063	Thank you very much. At its 23rd session held on 8 December 2009, the Committee on Regional Development, Forestry and Water Economy discussed the proposal for a law on the financing of the water economy with the Final Proposal for a Law, which was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia to the President of the Croatian Parliament by the Act of 3 December 2009. The Committee shall comply with the provisions of Article 88. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament held that proposal for a law to be implemented in their home working body and did not object to the proposal of the Proposer on the application of the emergency procedure in its adoption. In the introduction of the proposal, he pointed out that the proposed law in this area continues to comply with European Union rules, and that no new compensation is imposed in relation to the existing legal arrangements. The members of the board are familiar with the written opinion submitted by the Croatian Employers' Association on this draft law. Following the opening presentation of the representatives, the committee members assessed in the debate the need to support the adoption of this law for a reason, as it would enable full implementation of the principle of wage pollutants, i.e. that part of the funding funds for the water economy should be provided from water charges paid and water users. In a further discussion, the president of the Croatian Employers' Association and Committee member expressed regret that such important tasks are related to legal certainty, but also to the fixing of the price in the area of development and accession fees entrusted to one ad hoc body of the Water Services Council, which are proposed in the Water Act instead of the Croatian Water Regulatory Agency. In further discussion, a principled concern about the fate and continued survival of small utility companies will feel the burden of accounting for the use of water towards the really affected quantities of water, and not as before to the quantities of water delivered. In the debate, some board members warned of the problem of a high amount of water compensation that would add to the burden of such a weakened branch of freshwater fishing. It is therefore indicated that the possibility to add new compensation in Article 5 of this Act should be considered, which is a compensation for the use of water for the production of fish in closed waters which would be regulated by a specific regulation for the specificity of this production. Namely, freshwater fishing as a medium for cultivation uses exclusively rainwater that returns to the recapital in the same or better condition. On the basis of the debate held, the Committee on Regional Development, Forestry and Water Economy of the Croatian Parliament unanimously decided to propose to the Croatian Parliament to adopt the Water Economy Financing Act.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-10-0.u45064	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. The first is on behalf of the HDZ club, Ms. Nevenka Marinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-10-0.u45065	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable Secretary of State with an associate, co-workers and colleagues. The creation and adoption of a proposal for a law on the financing of the water economy by the Final Proposal for a law is primarily necessary in order to ensure sufficient resources to ensure and implement water protection measures in order to achieve the good condition of all waters in the water areas, as well as to bring legislation in the area of the water economy into line with the procedures of the European Union. The proposal for a law on the financing of the water economy with the final proposal for a law lays down the resources of, in particular, the water compensation including the obligation to pay, the obligors, the basis, the method of accounting, the determination of height, the purpose of spending of those funds, the exercise, the statute of limitations and other issues related to the achievement and use of those funds. This proposal retains all existing water compensations, but is partially complemented by the purposes and partly modified method of accounting, and two new fees are prescribed for the taking over of public water supply and public draining and treatment of waste water in the water sector. These are development and construction fees. Although the calling and income of these two fees has been possible so far, according to the Law on the municipal economy, they were not legally defined, but were prescribed by the operator's will, with the consent of the founders, which led to an unequal calculation of water prices in the distribution area. There are three kinds of water charges here. The first is the arrival of Croatian waters. It is a water contribution, a water treatment fee, a water use fee and a water protection fee. The second is the county's income compensation for melioration draining and irrigation fees and the third is the income of local self-government units, development and accession fees. No new compensation shall be imposed in relation to the existing one. Only the meanings of the Law on the municipal economy have been taken over and the needs of the European Union, i.e. the directive is adapted to the amount of maintenance and financing of construction, etc. development and accession fees. I would particularly like to emphasise here and welcome the fact that the compensation for the extraction of gravel and sand is lifted as a result of the ban on exploitation in accordance with Article 96. The Water Act, although yesterday's debate lacked clarity on this fact. Water contribution is paid on construction of buildings, and the benefits of preparing and implementing flood defence plans are meant for preventive protection measures. Then, for regular and extraordinary flood defence measures, by bringing a flood defence system more significantly from 2005 to today, we have avoided what unfortunately happens in many European Union countries because of high water conditions. And yesterday we spoke and praised yesterday this fact that we are here far ahead of many European Union countries. In addition, this water contribution is used to build buildings for the basic melioration drain and for the construction and maintenance of regulatory and protective water structures. Then for the financing of units of local self-government, for the construction and reconstruction of the construction of coastal draining buildings, this 8%, as the Water Law takes the coastal draining of urban areas from the Law on the municipal economy. And according to the improved provisions of the Water Act, funding is foreseen for the necessary activities to implement the public goods book from this source, which is also good. The water treatment fee shall be paid on the property other than agricultural land, and used in the water area where it is collected for the implementation of operations and measures of preventive, regular and extraordinary flood defences, for the construction of buildings for the primary melioration disposal and for the construction of mixed water-building facilities for meliorations operated by Croatian waters. It is foreseen from this source to finance activities related to the implementation of the book of public goods, which we in the club keep extremely good. The units of local self-government are obliged to charge a fee along with a communal fee and a fee for water treatment, with those 5% of the fees that also took place yesterday in the water debate highlighted. However, we believe that this is good, because it can be excluded here, it can be excluded, it is not exclusive, it can be excluded if the units of local self-government cannot do so or do not want to do so for Croatian waters. Water charges shall be paid for the application of water and other use of water, and for the use of water services, except for the general use of water and for the free use. And it is used to collect and keep records of supplies, use, control, state of supply of water and take measures for rational use, for water research, construction, reconstruction and rehabilitation of public water supply state buildings in order to reduce losses. The debtors of this fee are defined in Article 23 of this proposal. The amount of compensation and correction coefficients shall be determined by the Government of the Republic of Croatia by means of a regulation, and, due to the suspension of the concession on public water supply operations, the water service provider shall charge from the obligor the amount of 10% for the compensation for the use of water, which it shall pay in the state budget. Water protection fee is paid for pollution, and is used for the preparation and implementation of water protection plans, monitoring and quality-finding, as well as for the construction of state-of-the-art public sewage disposal buildings. It shall be paid on the basis of the quantity of water released, or on the basis of the production or import of mineral fertilisers and plant protection products to be placed on the market of the Republic of Croatia. The calculation of the fee is based on the quantity of waste water dropped, and it is good that a deadline is provided for setting the installation obligation for measuring the quantity of technological wastewater released. All of these fees are revenue from Croatian Waters, and the following two are reduced to regional self-government, i.e. county. And that's the fee for the melioration drain and the irrigation fee. The fee for melioration disposal is paid on agricultural land, in the area of the unit of regional self-government, in which buildings for detailed melioration disposal were built and the county was owned. Because of the devastation, the devastation and the large part of the depreciation of these systems, this fee has not even been called... However, by bringing them into a functional state, so I will remind them that in the last three and a half years more than 40% of the system has been brought into operation, they should only be maintained, but the new Water Act also creates assumptions that qualified ones of regional self-government and manage, care and maintain them, and that should be financed precisely from this Melioration Disposal fee, meaning that the counties are self-exploiting, but also collecting. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The irrigation fee is paid on agricultural land irrigated from buildings owned by the county, the revenue used to finance the maintenance of those systems, and the counties are authorised by their decision to prescribe compensation. The national irrigation and management programme for agricultural land and water in the past three years has created a prerequisite for the delivery of water for irrigation to about 15 thousand hectares, an increase of 67% compared to 2004, and you also gave me conditions for prescribing and paying this fee. I would like to remind you that there are also 70 irrigation projects in the territory of the Republic of Croatia for about 48 thousand hectares. And the two fees paid, which are reduced to the level of units of local self-government. It is a development fee, taken over by the Law, as I have already said, to the municipal economy and completed in accordance with the water management strategies. It's used to finance construction of municipal water buildings. It is calculated by means of a water service account and is the income of a water service provider. The representative body of the local self-government units was introduced, and the possibility of being introduced by the county was opened to protect the springs in the sanitary protection zones when increased investment is needed and for the smooth construction of municipal water buildings in the service area. So in both of these cases, income goes to local self-government units. We at the Croatian Democratic Community Club believe that it is good that this fee ensures a smooth development of the water system, in line with the programmes and state and local investments, as well as the degree of preparation of the project documentation. We'll keep this in motion to create and coordinate, meaning both vertical and horizontal, and programs and project documentation. The accession fee is used for the same purpose as the development fee. The payer is an investor or owner of buildings and other properties. Income is also a unit of local self-government. It shall be paid on one occasion when joining the municipal and water buildings and towards the surface. It is new that the Government of the Republic of Croatia will prescribe the maximum amount of accession fee, and we believe that this fee and everything related to it is well regulated by Articles 59 to 64 of the proposed bill. I would also like to stress here that from this fee, this fee or part of the fee will be used as its own component for the withdrawal of European funds. The Croatian Democratic Community club supports this bill for the following reasons. So the law regulates decentralisation of funding with clear competences in the national, regional and local sectors, providing a sufficient transitional period for adaptation, in line with all those involved in any way in the water sector, providing sufficient resources for quality water care set out in the Water Strategy. Because I will remind you that last year we have adopted a strategy for the implementation of this Strategy, so reaching the EU standards over the next 15 years takes about 53 billion, we hold that this law provides a framework here and therefore we support it Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-10-0.u45066	On behalf of the HNS Club, Ms. Danica Hursa. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-10-0.u45067	Dear Mr. President, Your Honor, Secretary of State, Your Honor, Madam Director, colleagues and colleagues. At the very beginning, I will say that representatives of the Croatian People's Party will also support the bill. The water economy financing law lays down resources and resources for the financing of jobs and purposes which, in accordance with the Water Law, implement water management, the way in which the rates and the amount of funds are determined and the way in which individual obligations and the collection of funds and other issues related to the achievement and use of those funds are to be identified. This Water Economy Financing Act is in line with the Water Management Strategy and further with the European Directives 2000 and with Directive 91 of 12 December 91. The financing of the water economy is based on the principles of the pay user, i.e. the pay polluter, which means that part of the funding for the water economy is provided by the source charges paid by water users or water pollutants. The second part of the funds shall be charged in accordance with the strategic clause B13 of the water management strategy from the users of the property in the construction or existing assets as goods protected by the flood defence system, streams and ice on the waterways. The sources of funding for the water economy under the Law are the state budget, water compensation, the budget of units of local and regional self-government and other sources of resources. And I'll just count three kinds of water charges, the first water compensation that Croatian water incomes are, and that includes water contribution, water treatment fees, water use fees and water protection fees. Second, the water benefits of the county’s revenues are the compensation for the melioration disposal and disposal fees and the third water compensation which are the revenues of cities and municipalities’ budgets, which are the development and accession fees. I'd like to make a statement on what we're making at the HNS Club as comments, or I'd like to make a paper first. The water compensation referred to in Article 5 of points 1 to 4 shall be intended for the revenue of the state budget, in the previous proposal the revenue of the Croatian Waters. However, it is proposed in Article 5(9) that the development fee which can be determined by the representative body of the units of local self-government, the income of the public water service supplier, is why, when in the previous proposal, it was the income of the unit of local self-government. Is there a reason for that? It is further unclear whether the applicant referred to in paragraph 1 was referring to a meliorative draining fee or to a irrigation fee. Namely, the reference to Article 50 does not correspond to the type of compensation and purpose... Article 50 is an irrigation fee. And the further observation is our opinion on Article 45 to 50 whether the level of irrigation fee is determined by the representative body of the regional and regional self-government unit. If so, it should also be written as well as for the amount of the Melioration Disposal fee, in Article 43, because the decision referred to in Article 50(2) does not provide for that explicit. And in the end, I would only repeat the position of the CNS which has been expressed in the Report of our Committee President as well as in the previous discussions, and it refers to the payment by the affected rather than by the quantities of water delivered. There is no need to explain here and convince anyone of the state of our water network. We all know that from the source to our home watermeters in that transport there is a 40% water loss. It is clear to all of us that this water should be paid, that water will ultimately be paid by each of us, every citizen of ours. That's why I'm undermining and appealing, the funds in the reconstruction and reconstruction of the waternets are necessary and urgent. Once again, the representatives of the HNS Club will support this bill, but I ask that these remarks, which I have made, be made manifest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-10-0.u45068	Thank you very much. It's up to Club IDS and Mr. Representative Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-10-0.u45069	Your Honor, Mr. President, Your Honor, Your Honor, Mr. Secretary, I'm absolutely against this law, and I certainly won't vote for it. Let's go first with a few quotes, first of all on page 2 which the Committee president also quoted, the funding of the water economy is based on the principles of the pay user, i.e. the pay polluter, which means that some of the funding funds for the water economy are provided from water charges paid by water users etc. There are, as we have heard from the Secretary of State, three types of water compensations, these are the water benefits which are the revenues of Croatian waters, which are the water contribution, water treatment fees, water use and water protection fees, the water compensations that are the revenues of the county, the compensation for the Melioration draining and irrigation fees. And the third water compensations that are revenue from the city and municipality budgets are development and accession fees. The new Law shows this about financing the water economy is partially complemented by the purposes and way of calculating water charges, and when we talk about these water fees, we have these water contributions, it is paid to build buildings, and it is used to prepare and implement flood defence plans. 8% goes to local self-government, so why don't we say 30% or some larger amount than 8%? How did that 8% happen? Then we have a water treatment fee. It shall be paid on real estate other than agricultural land used to carry out operations and measures of preventive regular and extraordinary defence. So we have a fee for using water that is paid for using water and for using water services. The water service provider shall charge from the obligor a fee of 10% for the use of water to be paid into the state budget. So we have a water protection fee to pay for water pollution, and it's used to prepare and implement water protection plans. So we've got a melioration drain fee. It is paid on agricultural land in the area of the regional self-government unit. So we also have a watering fee. It is paid on agricultural land irrigated from irrigation buildings owned by a unit of local self-government. So we also have a development fee. It's used to finance the construction of municipal water buildings. The development fee shall be calculated by means of the water service bill and the income of the water service provider. And normally we also have a connection fee. The accession fee shall be used for the same purposes as the development fee, but shall be paid once when joining the municipal, water, construction facilities etc. These parafiscal intrusions, gentlemen, I don't know how many there are, 8.9, are simply a disaster. Which is too simple. I'm surprised by the fact that until today, in "Croatian waters" there is no more serious affair because the monopoly that Croatian Waters has at least is unbearable. Second, Croatian Waters had 2 billion and 93 million kuna in 2009. In 2010, it will have 2 billion 358 million kuna. It's an incredible money, gentlemen, 10 times more money than the 2010 tourism ministry's budget, and you know that tourism will have to save the country's economic base next year. I had a chance to talk to these many from the Croatian water and sewer group they also brought me or delivered their remarks. It is clear that this point or Article 24(1) of this Law is crucial, and they state here that "although the proposed provision is in line with the water management strategy, we consider this provision unacceptable as we point out on several occasions regardless of the transitional period of 5 years and possible corrective factors which are not presented." The explanation is the problem of the loss on the network, which all predecessors spoke about, which is the purpose of the proposed solution. It is not possible to resolve in such a short time without extremely high investments, etc. And now let me kind of translate it into a dictionary that people will be able to understand. This Article 24 and 25 will lead to a collection of at least 10 water prices and perhaps 30, and in some cases certainly more than 30%. I'm deeply, deeply convinced. Water lines would mean we should be paying for this affected water in the future. So we should pay for those losses. If the loss in Zagreb's water supply is due to an old network, for urban installations etc., 50%, now let's see who's going to be transferred to by the "Holding" or their plumbing? Well, it is clear that when they are in a difficult economic situation anyway, they cannot provide 500 million kuna or 1 billion kuna for new investments in the area. In the Istrian waterway "Buzet" loss that covers the entire northern Istria and the western coast of Istria, the loss in Croatian proportions is the smallest, but again the loss between 17% and 18%. It's somewhere on that European level. In one pulsed water supply, the loss may be over 30, and it may be 40%. To whom will this loss, or water coming out of the pipe into the canals, be transferred underground? It is clear that this price will be transferred to the final user, i.e. the consumer. And I say in such material and economic conditions it's at least one rude legal solution. Dear gentlemen, let's just not mess with it. At the moment when citizens are financially vulnerable, when the economy is destroyed, when only in a year, so in this year, we lost 75 thousand jobs, and richly this trend will continue in 2010 and increase or expand any fiscal or parafiscal burdens at least is rude. Finally, we are at risk of these communal services and the introduction of new fees in my court is at least irresponsible. So much if this Water Economy Financing Act is passed I can only tell the citizens to prepare that the water price will eventually pay 10, 20 I don't know, 30% more than they pay today. It's a consequence or a direct consequence of this law. The waterworks, on the other hand, that which is also incomprehensible to me under the proposal of this legal solution, will no longer be able to monitor, for example, those works that carry out themselves. He won't be able to get inside those houses for example. design new water lines, etc., they'll have to order all this from the outside. I assure you, gentlemen, it will cost several times as much. Every project will have to be revised and I also ask you not to simply play with one organized activity. I will also mention that we are in the area of the operation of the Istrian water pipeline "Buzet", that means bustness, care, positivity, hunting, Buje, Umag, Novigrad, Vrsar, etc., without one kuna from the state budget,... is something else, pulled about 600, maybe 650 kilometers of water installations since '93. here and the winding up of this space from about 60% raised to 98% I claim that this part of the western coast of Istria, the inner Istria, is today when it comes to the connection to the water installation better solved than it was settled in a rich Toscana in Italy, it is better settled than it was settled in one Carinthian in Austria, it is better settled than it was settled in one rich Bavaria in Germany. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But today when I have these provisions in front of me, I can only tell the designers to control engineers, in the waterway, let's say Buzet that this law "leaves them" without a job. It is not easy for anyone, at least one Buzet, but the same will happen with those designers or supervisors in one Pula, in one Rijeka, on one Krk, in one Sibenik, in one Daruvar, Split, Zagreb, Osijek or Vukovar. Why do they bring such a legal solution? Because this construction lobby, meaning these projectors in large projects that are connected to offices, I dare say with our ministers, take on a job or take on a job by destroying an orderly activity. They don't care about the destruction of that service in a water line called Buzet, Pula, Rijeka, Sibenik Zadar, it's important to them that they simply work. And it's actually the background of a measure like this. It doesn't make any sense here. Which unification in designing and so on. Finally, these few designers who remain on the periphery the next day if they want to resolve their existence will have to move towards Zagreb and so on. This law will be behind me. I'm afraid of leaving a wasteland in that activity. And where does that go again? This sort of leads to a segmented privatisation of water supply in the Republic of Croatia. First, it will go to privatise monitoring, or designing. It's a crime for me. Tomorrow they'll go to privatization I'm safe, maintenance, and maybe the day after tomorrow they'll go to privatisation and the distribution itself. And they'll only stay under the state of those springs. It's just one trend in which we're going to have a chance to follow in the next period of, say, ten or fifteen years. That's how I read the provisions of this law. The law means preparing the ground for privatisation of that activity. I claim that Croatia is not ready for this. In particular, they are not ready for these employees in municipal services, especially our citizens cannot agree to this. Why am I against it? On the other hand, we see that Croatia's waters will have one astronomical budget of 2 billion 358 million kuna in the coming year. Well, that's just terrible. I said 10 times as much money for that as it goes for tourism. One center is managed by 2 billion 358 million kunas. And then why are we surprised at the development of Zagreb, discrimination or the lagging of the periphery. Because all the money goes here and then is distributed more frequently by party criteria than by need criteria. All these laws are passed by the label P.Z.E. means European law. I say it's not European law. And if it is European law, it is certainly an anti-Croatian law. It is not the first time that the Parliament adopts these anti-Croatian laws, but what is proposed is simply too much and so let it go to the second reading. I think someone opened or buzzed on those waters, and if we question that, then we're questioning the normal functioning of the state. We questioned the functioning of Croatian highways, Croatian road, INA, now we see Post office banks, Podravka, our shipbuilding has failed. Why touch what works that way and that has even one social security mechanism for not knowing thousands of employees in such public systems. Let us not, gentlemen, become obedient slaves and ultimately lose our ability to influence the conduct of our utility companies. And what is most important to the citizens at this point, let them be told how much their accounts are going to be bigger than this year's.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-10-0.u45070	Thank you very much. There is one correction to the incorrect allegations, MP Niko Rebic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-10-0.u45071	You claim by adopting this law that the water will collect between 20% and 30% to the citizens. That's what I keep incorrect. Now citizens in certain units of local self-government are paying 3 kunas somewhere, and about 18 kunas. Just by adopting this law and the Water Act, by introducing service areas, so the price of water will be the same in a densely populated city, as well as the uninhabited edges of islands. So it's going to be completely even. And I think this is the only way for citizens in service areas to pay the same price of water. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-10-0.u45072	Thank you very much. On behalf of the SDP Representatives Club, representative of Luke Denon.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-10-0.u45073	Madam Vice President, representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues. We have before us a proposal for a Water Economy Financing Act which will be supported by the SDP club. And now it would be normal for me to get out of this pay phone and sit down. Since the law was passed and was agreed after a long time with those who needed to say something about this law, it seems to me that some things remain to be spoken of and might have been better arranged in this law. How is it one of the laws that bear the label P.Z.E. and which has been done in accordance with the principle of full reimbursement of costs from water services, which translates into that water has been characterised as having economic value, which makes the expenditure necessary to ensure its availability and protection, and in order to build and manage and maintain water systems and the water price value must be expressed. This principle, translated from the European Union, when elaborated through articles of this law, raises the question of whether this water will be more expensive to the end-user, i.e. the citizen, the economy, entrepreneurship. Now we have heard one answer as an incorrect assumption that the water will not be more expensive. I also believe that as this proposal for a law on the financing of the water economy, water will ultimately be more expensive for us citizens. As the financing of the water economy under this new law is based on the principles that the user pays. So it's for sure that the user, and that means the citizens, that means the economy, that means the entrepreneurs will certainly have bigger powers let's say so. Since the resources for this funding are state budget, the budget of the units of local and regional (regional) self-government and other sources of funds would be good if we could in some ways say what we are in the units of local self-government, regional self-government. And here it was said that this law was somehow going towards decentralisation. I'll try to say there's no letter in this law about decentralisation at this point. And the legislator said no new compensation was imposed against the existing legal arrangement. So it would be interesting if we had already agreed with the European Union that the legislator at least in this introductory section told us how many such fees and in the European Union, at least one example that you have told us how many such fees there are in the European Union when you say we have not increased any compensation. It is conditionally said that what was before in the communal fee that we did increase by two. And when you look at how much of these fees are sources of funding from the water economy are water charges, water service prices, and water benefits are water contribution, water treatment fees, water use fees, water protection fees, Melioration draining fees, irrigation fees, development fees, connection fees. So I'm asking you if these parafiscal allegations that we're about at this point in time, the country is located if you didn't know in the crisis and in the recession tried to tell you to impose if they don't, not all of them, but at least to shrink. There's no sign in this law that they're going to shrink. However, they will also increase what seems to me not to motivate entrepreneurs to start an economy in this crisis, with these additional parafiscal pressures, to get out of this crisis. And of course, when the argument is read that the billing and collection of the water charges referred to in the paragraph is now not repeated in the interest of the Republic of Croatia, that the billing and charges for the melioration disposal are in the interest of the unit of regional and regional self-government, that the calculation and payment of the compensation for development and compensation for the accession of the unit of local self-government. You know what I'm missing here? And what's in the interest of the citizens? Because at the end of this, at the beginning of how it says that water has its price, that water pays the end-user and that in that price of its fees, which are that of course water would be protected or made available to everyone why you did not mention anywhere which is there then, if all is in the interest of units of local self-government, state budget and local self-government units where there is the interest of citizens. You haven't said anywhere where the citizens' interest is. But how the prices after this law when we adopt it will certainly be higher. But you must know that the price is not only an economic category, but at this point for the citizens of the Republic of Croatia is also a social category that does not have a single word in this law. And you said yesterday in the introduction of the Water Act that the law was on the web, that it was available to the citizens. And this one was on the web and the citizens were available and they could make their comments. I ask you how many citizens of those who will pay for this water have the opportunity to get through the web to these laws, to understand first and foremost how they are written, when these great fees will not know what the ultimate price of the cubic water they have to pay for using something that is primarily a constitutional category, because water must be available to everyone. At what price? So as I do not repeat now that the amount of this fee is determined by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, except, of course, what is in the jurisdiction of the county, and that is the compensation for meliorisation, then the question of this decentralisation that you have been saying about how all the heights of these contributions will be determined, will be determined by the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the units of local self-government will not have an impact on the level of the water price delivered to their citizens. Also, when the Government of the Republic of Croatia regulations the level of water contribution then it is said that units of local self-government will belong to 8% of the water contribution charged in their territory, and Croatian waters will be obliged to once a month recognise this amount to the budgets of local self-government units because these funds will be used for the construction and reconstruction of coastal drain structures owned by local self-government units. I don't know how you agreed to that 8% since the communal fee is no longer going to be this way it used to be. It is obvious that the money will leave the area of one county, one city, one unit of local self-government in Croatia's water, and they will mercifully return 8% for the reconstruction and construction of coastal draining units owned by local self-government units. My colleague Cain, he's gone, he's gone to an election campaign. But it's picturesque and it's obvious that in these recent times when it was raining, then you saw Pula all flooded, even so some other towns of Trogir or I don't know which. It's these storm drains that were supposed to be dealt with, but with 8%, I don't think that's gonna be possible. It is also an interesting solution in Article 20 where the regulation referred to in paragraph 1 speaks of the amount of the water treatment fee, can also be arranged by way of exemption from payment, release and relief, and the obligation to charge the water and exemption fees from that obligation in which the obligation to pay the water treatment fee is assumed by the Croatian waters. And it is said that the regulation of Article 76 of this law will regulate the procedure for the release of relief and exemption. Then it's interesting to read that article. So much for decentralisation. The Minister's rules provide for a more detailed calculation, a collection of water charges, except for a melioration disposal fee, the one concerning the county, means everything else. Irrigation fees, development fees, accession fees, and in particular the obligors, basics, accounting periods, provisional and final accounting, content of the statement of compensation, payment deadlines, tralalalala, tralalalalala. It's all determined by the minister. And why, then, we have rewritten or brought the law into line with the good practice of the European community. I doubt that's where the minister does it. Because this is where the minister works. The law with these articles before this 76 should simply be adjudicated, thrown away and said here is the minister who will then determine everything, and we have nothing to worry about anymore. All we care about is, of course, how much that water price will end up being for the citizens. Another article is also interesting. And that here these water fees, the height, the price, how much they will be, who has the right, who collects them, who doesn't collect them. Well, since Croatia's waters obviously don't have enough people, they don't have enough infrastructure to make these water revenues, then they left part of it to local self-government units. The units of local self-government will get a modest 5% for manipulative costs because they did it. 5% also receive units of local self-government and administration, i.e. county, because part of this work works on behalf of Croatian Waters. But it's also interesting in Article 5. I can't figure out how to charge water, which is a contribution to water management, to water use, to water protection, and all of this, there are eight of them somewhere. In addition to the purposes prescribed in the articles governing the purposes of certain types of water compensation, we said what they are not to repeat, it is interesting now and this second. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. So it would be interesting to know what are the public powers of Croatian Water, which we finance from the price of water, and not specifically mentioned in these provisions, as well as other operating expenditure Croatian Water. It would also be interesting to hear what other business expenditures of Croatian Waters, which are charged here in this way, which seems to me to be not transparent enough. And finally to say that the law is what it is, that under the firm that it is agreed with the European community, additional impositions increase, increase in times when the crisis is and the recession is, that the minister who is authorised to determine those heights as I said earlier will certainly not be merciful and you will be much bigger and ultimately will lead to the economy and entrepreneurship, and of course we ourselves will pay the price of this agreement with the European Union, in the end because the bill comes to our charge, because it is also worrying that other than these real things for which these fees will be used, it remains unresolved that these are the public powers of the Croatian roads that will be financed and which are other expenditures of business of Croatian waters, I apologize, which we will have to pay from the price of water. As such, the law could have been much better, much more concise and much more precise, that, ultimately, when we pass a law like this, a citizen knows whether that water will ultimately be expensive for him or it will remain equal or cheaper for him. The law as we read it all speaks of it being ultimately more expensive, which is not a good law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-10-0.u45074	One correction to the incorrect allegations, MP Boris Matkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-10-0.u45075	Thank you. Madam Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State. I would like to correct the incorrect quote of my colleague Denona, who said that there is neither, exactly, nor d of decentralisation in this law. So that's not true. It's quite another thing, and it's that essentially the intensity of this law is decentralisation, because two actually transfer fees to regional and two to local self-government, both through regulation and through harvesting. And you actually killed yourself after you killed yourself, you told the truth, and you denied yourself when you said it, and that's actually a concrete proof that you didn't exactly state, because you said it yourself, one part of the water contribution goes to local self-government units to build and reconstruct the building of the coastal drain, and that's 8%. So you listed it yourself. You killed yourself compared to the previous statement, I think I'm glad. I didn't have to fix it, but here's the line.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-10-0.u45076	Let's move on with the debate. It's on behalf of the HSS Representatives' Club, representative Boris Klemenic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-10-0.u45077	Thank you very much. Madam Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State with an associate. As regards this final proposal of the Water Economy Financing Act, it is adopted in order to comply with the 2008 Water Strategy and Water Management, the General Water Directive of the European Union and... Directives of the European Union. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] As regards the very principle of full reimbursement of costs of water services, in this principle, the Republic of Croatia is in line with the general directive on EU waters, and according to the water management strategy in such a way as to ensure that in the areas of public water supply and public disposal, there is 137 in the Republic of Croatia, it is not possible to achieve the principle of reimbursement of costs from water services. For this reason, in the price of water in addition to local components, this is the price of water service and development fees, the central state, or central state, must have its own fees, which are compensation for the use of water, and water protection fees, which are collected centrally but return to local areas for the construction of municipal water buildings. This principle was also declared in the 2005 amendments to the law, but it lacked the local components that we now see in the Water Law, and in the Water Economy Financing Act. The other principles, the financing of the water economy, which is also supported by the subject law, are the remuneration paid by the beneficiary for the use of water, the water treatment fee, and the irrigation fee and also the pollutant pays applicable for the protection of water. This means that part of the funding for the water economy is provided from water charges paid by water users or water pollutants. In addition, it is proposed that the remaining water charges be charged in accordance with the Water Management Strategy against users of the property in construction, which is a water contribution or an existing asset, and this is a compensation for water treatment as goods which are currently protected by the flood defence system, streams and ice on the waterways to which you are charged and served. The Water Management Strategy has taken over the principle of co-financing of municipal water buildings in full, and not only bus facilities like today, thus achieving the integrity of the investment and ensuring the integration of the final consumer, as well as the return of part of the costs of the funds invested through the price of water charged by end-users. This achieves compliance with the requirements of IPA programmes that exclusively co-finance such projects from source to consumer to consumer to surface water discharge. The sources of funding for the water economy are the state budget, water compensation, the budget of units of local and regional self-government and other sources of resources. The Law also provides for three types of water compensation, central, regional and local water compensation. In relation to the existing legal arrangements, no water compensation is imposed and the Law on the Communist Economy has been adopted and, in line with the EU, the Water Framework Directive and the principle of full reimbursement of the eligible development and accession fees. Subject law abolishes the compensation for the extraction of gravel and sand resulting from the ban on the exploitation of gravel and sand in accordance with the Water Act that we had yesterday at the debate here in the Parliament. In this law, a solution is proposed that water compensation is a water contribution, a water treatment fee, a water use fee and a water protection fee is a dedicated revenue of the state budget. The Law on Waters, which was previously discussed, provides for the financing of rain drains in urban areas from the budget of the local self-government unit, and this Law provides that those environments have the right to 8% of the water resources to finance construction and reconstruction of the construction of the coastal drain in urban areas. One opinion, reflection or observation is that we at the HSS Club believe that maintenance should be covered by the same means and 8% of the water contribution. Otherwise, this is the first time that at the state level, funds are systematically planned for a minimum flood defense in local areas, many of which have now been in extremely serious difficulties in financing this important activity. The water contribution is paid by investors to build buildings and used to prepare and implement flood defence plans, carry out operations and prevention measures, regular emergency flood defenses, construction of basic water treatment facilities, and for the construction of maintenance and regulatory and water protection structures. Since two-and-a-half years have passed, sufficient resources for the intended purposes are also provided, the construction of regulatory and protective water structures and water contribution funds rather than from the state budget, which has so far been the case. In line with the improved solution, the provisions of the previously discussed Water Act governing the public water well-being in the final proposal for a law on the financing of the water economy provide for the financing of the necessary activities for the implementation of the registers of the public water goods from the water contribution funds. And the Government of the Republic of Croatia regulations the height of the water contribution. We also support the proposed solution to the multi-annual problem of calculating water contribution and lawless builders in the way the transitional provision says and I will quote: “The water contribution is calculated and paid on buildings that were built before 16 February 2006 without a legal act on permitting construction. Where, after the entry into force of this Act, these buildings are subject to specific rules on spatial planning and construction, they shall apply for a solution to the state of play or to the confirmation of the state of play.’ The water treatment fee is also paid on real estate, except for agricultural land and is used to carry out the activities of preventive regular and extraordinary flood defences, the construction of buildings for basic melioration drains, the construction of mixed building for meliorations operated by Croatian waters. The obligation of the unit of local self-government to charge and charge a municipal fee is also prescribed to charge the compensation for the water for the property paid and charged by the municipal fee, thus achieving the economicity of the collection of the same fee, the same base, the same bond being processed in one procedure and there is one payment card. In order to encourage public undertakings to use water rationally and to worry about losses in their network, the provisions governing public water supply have been formulated so that the users of this water service fee are provided, not more end-users. And that the fee is charged on the amount of water affected at the source rather than on the water delivered to consumers. The Government of the Republic of Croatia has been left with the regulation to prescribe correction coefficients for the reduction of that base. Since this is a fairly large newspaper, it can cause the liquidity of one part of the municipal operators, i.e. municipal enterprises, and a transitional period of five years is foreseen for this. The assumption is that there will be major problems since we are all aware of the state in which our water supply systems are, that the loss from that control number to the consumers themselves is from 30% to even 60%, depending on the municipality or city, and the question is whether these 5 years will be enough to regulate this water supply system. As public water supply as a non-economic activity or activity outside the competition excluded from the concession regime, there is also a replacement fee for the lost concession fee of 10% on the compensation paid for the use of water. Replacement income is shared between the state and the local self-government unit in the area where sources are found in accordance with the Law on the financing of units of local and regional self-government, compared to 70% of countries, 30% of local self-government units. Water protection fee shall be paid for water pollution and shall be used to prepare and implement water protection plans, monitor and determine water quality and take measures to protect them and finance the construction of highways and public sewage disposal. The part of the provisions in this charge is to comply with the requirements of the HUP and the calculation of the compensation is based on the amount of waste water dropped. Industrys are mandatory, according to the Water Act, to have wastewater meterers, for all pollutants that do not have a water flow meter the rule of how many entrances and exits, i.e. The quantity of water released shall be equal to the quantity of water delivered. However, in this case, the accounting and charge rules for industry are prescribed by a fixed technological loss of supplied water in the event that the water-exhausted meters are not installed or are not used for any other reason. In accordance with the requirements of the HUP, fixed technological loss is prescribed by industrial branches. In addition, in accordance with the HUP proposal within one year of the entry into force of this "Croatian Waters" law, all contracts, independently of their name, concluded with bonds for the protection of water that release technological waste water which are recognised as water loss in a technological or similar process, will be cancelled in order to move this new way of accounting. The law also provides for the compensation for connections used for the same purposes as the development fee, but is paid once when joining the municipal water buildings towards the surface of the building that is connected. The connection fee obligation is the investor or the owner of the building or of any other property that is connected. We also welcome the proposal from the Government of the Republic of Croatia which prescribes the highest amount of accession fees. The irrigation fee shall be paid on agricultural land irrigated from irrigation buildings owned by a unit of regional, regional self-government. The revenue from the irrigation fee shall be used to finance the maintenance of the irrigation facility owned by units of the regional self-government authorised by its decision to provide for compensation for the maintenance of those irrigation systems in its own possession. This fee has not been prescribed until now, however, by implementing the National Irrigation and Management Programme of Agricultural Land and Water over the past 3 years, conditions have been created for the delivery of water to end-users and for irrigation of cca 15 thousand hectares, which is approximately a 67% increase compared to 2004 when about 9,000 hectares were irrigated, thereby creating preconditions for the regulation and payment of the fee in question. Under the current "Croatian Waters" law, in the transitional period of 3 years, they were in charge of the calculation, collection and use of a fee for melioration disposal and the maintenance of buildings for detailed melioration disposal with the intention that, in most cases, due to the war consequences and insufficient financing of the abandoned building for the detailed melioration drain, they would then be handed over to the units of the district self-government for maintenance. A significant part of this work has been done to date, and the rest of it will be held by Croatian Water Waters for water treatment. And finally after all this mentioned club HSS will support this law because we think the law in question is systematic and detailed and gives a good framework for the effective functioning of the matter. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-10-0.u45078	Thank you very much. And we have a final debate. On behalf of the HDSSB Representatives' Club, MP Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-10-0.u45079	Thank you, Madam Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Secretary of State with an associate, colleague and fellow MPs. When I listen to my predecessors in a club debate, a man can't really decide, but when we look at the objective articles in which they are proposed by this law, I think the HDSB club will be abstentioned in voting this law. I'm going to take this out of my position mostly local and regional self-government problems that are related to or related to this law as well as to the law that was yesterday, the Water Act. In view of the provision that we also talked about yesterday that the funds collected through the water economy financing means, which is water compensation, the water service price then the water contribution, the water treatment fee, the water use fee, the water protection fee, so it goes to the Ministry of Finance. However, it is a certain centralisation, and also by other provisions of this bill, which states that the Government of the Republic of Croatia rules with the regulation the amount of compensation for the use of water, so that I do not further explain what this is really about. In accordance with Article 62 of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013, the Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article. The height of the accession fee determines the representative body of the unit of local self-government, say the Municipal Council of some of the municipalities which are in, here in Brod-Posavina County by the progress and construction of the Masteral Waterway "Eastern Slavonia", so the village was passed by a waterway, a highway or its arms, its parts. In the last paragraph of this article, the law states that "the government of the Republic of Croatia prescribes the maximum amount of compensation for joining the proposal of the Water Services Council established in accordance with the Water Act and it is a one-time fee." Now, we have an example of some villages right in Brod-Posavina County where the highway water line has passed but people do not join the water line although it is progress, civilization progress, although it is one achievement for our county believe me that in our villages a relatively small number of people join the water line, the highway "East Slavonia" with springs, underground springs in the area of the eastern part of the County of Brod-Posavina and Western part of Vukovar-Srijemska, so Sikirevci, Šamac, Štitar, Babina Greda, Kopanica and Gundinci, there are the richest sources, underground sources of water, drinking water in the Slavonia area, and perhaps in Croatia. And what's that for? Do you really have to if it's already priced for these people, for people in Slavonia who are as we know and at least I believe that no one would mind if I told the poor Slavonia for whom the prices of the connection to the water line are very high? For them, they're high and must be paid once. Wouldn't it be wiser if it could be paid back in some periodical wars, six months, a year, so that we have a clear number of connections to that water line of ours? But here's the provision, so that's it. When it comes to drinking water and delivering drinking water, therefore, it is in any case a very significant price of water. Our water distributors almost all in Croatia claim to have losses between 30% and 60% on average about 40% are losses. The average also fits the Slavonic Shipyard with losses of about 40%. I have to point out here that there are others and I'd say illegal water losses that local self-government slightly tolerates or a little grumbles about these things. It's about bypass outside the clock that measures water consumption to fill the pool making home what those commercial ones where "losers" water are very, very high. I have to say that local self-government and supervision of the inspection have been slightly glare, given that there is a certain political or similarity of certain such calls to the consumer, and then a little glare. Furthermore, each of our local self-governments since we're a football people and we love football without any fees is spent mostly drinking water to say drowning stadiums, auxiliary stadiums, etc. If I told you how much the debts of football clubs in Slavonski Brod or Brod-Posavina Water County, in the Shipyard, you'd be upset here. But that's what you write off the transfer, etc. So we all have losses that are 40%, and that are also paid by end-users, and there's a lot really in objective losses because of the old network, etc. but there are losses that are not objective but are actually illegal, but are criminal or, with the knowledge of the executive leader in local self-government or regional self-government, they are born in silence, and they are paid by small people by the users of the water network, end-users, or consumers. We talked here about irrigation and irrigation fees, we talked about increasing the surface area from 9 to 15 thousand hectares. And yet I have to do it because of such optimistic prognosis, and I don't want to be pessimistic ever, but I'd be even bigger. But, unfortunately, I know that in the pilot project "Irrigation" in Brod-Posavina County in Davor municipality, it was planned for the ministers' decisions and arrangements with the county to irrigate over a thousand acres of fertile land oran. Unfortunately, here I know that this shrugged down slowly less and less, now there are 400 and some more hectares of surfaces that should be irrigated for the purpose or in terms of the pilot project to increase the irrigated surfaces in Brod-Posavia County, and thus throughout the Republic of Croatia. I also got a warning, we talked about fishing and aquaculture the other day, so please Mr. Secretary of State have asked me to tell you that in the price of fish, especially in smaller fish stocks, so the price of fish, the water fee almost takes place, or 30%. Whether some redistribution of certain obligations, compensation, contributions may be made, etc. and because of the need for the development of our aquaculture, so this water compensation will bring these fish producers into one of these, I will not say reasonable, but the measure that these people can survive on the market, that these people can produce for our Croatian market, especially as it comes to the production of domestic indigenous fish species, which I would say again because we love Croatian, special importance and special quality, Croatian quality. Furthermore, it is not in all these articles of the law here, it is about water compensations that are incomes from Croatian waters or local or regional self-government. You're, I'm a witness, and some of our ministers were involved in a high-speed rafting. We have various tourist shows and promotional shows on our waters. You're also witnesses. We all know that, we read on the front page, who turned and who didn't. It's a good thing they got out of it alive and well. The organisation of such rafting of such tourist content certainly leaves part of the polluted coasts, which should again be arranged by Croatian waters or local or regional self-government. Is there any fee on this? And is it besides making tourist agencies without any other giving in terms of giving to Croatia water and improving the water economy and our coasts, our rivers being wild and, as I say, peaceful, to fill a part of that cake, so Croatian waters with these fees, and perhaps right where aquaculture is concerned we can get a small percentage to fix, so in this alignment we could do something in this direction, which would be clear for the benefit of the total citizens of the Republic of Croatia and the Croatian waters and Croatian states? Furthermore, by reading this proposed law, clearly there is a concern that because of the possible increase in water prices, where distributors are brought into relatively unfavourable, relatively speaking, an unfavourable position may occur in many cases. And then you really need to ask yourself, is it bankruptcy and otherwise bankruptcy as a prerequisite for privatisation, which is actually to tell the paradigm in the Croatian state that it was created, or is it really a matter of some kind of far-sighted and far-reaching consequence of this law privatising such companies and actually all water resources. Time will show whether it is or not, but clearly it should, as counterpart Cain expressed concern that this could happen. In any case, the HDSSB club since this brightens yellow, and I don't want red, given all these doubts, so here I was also constructive and a certain proposal to fund water legislation that has two billion and almost four hundred million kunas available for Croatian waters for 2010. And there's something else I wanted to say. Namely, one practical case where we pay that water supply. We pay for the water supply and where nothing has been done to regulate or bring them into harm's way. No, here on the island of Vir, there is no sewerage, or waterway that is now being introduced, and let alone the sewers of 10,000 septic caves there are which people built themselves, but they charge themselves neatly. One small question for the secretary of state. Therefore, here is because of all this that I have presented to the HDSSB club and its representatives will be abstentions, not against but abstentions in the vote of this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-10-0.u45080	Thank you very much. Before we proceed with the individual debate, I would like to inform you that Article 207(2) is in line with Article 207. The Rules of Procedure have expired time for the application of the debate for 10 minutes. We're going to an individual debate. It's Agent Niko Rebic's turn.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-10-0.u45081	Dear Madam Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. The adoption of this Law on the financing of water legislation is necessary in order to bring legislation in the water economy into line with European Union legislation, as well as to ensure sufficient resources to ensure the implementation of water protection measures in order to preserve the good condition of all water in water areas. This proposal for a law on the financing of the water economy should stress that there will be no introduction of new fees, but will retain all existing water charges to be complemented by the purpose and to partially change the way in which the reckonings are applied. The sources of funding for the water economy are the state budget, water compensation and the budget of units of local and regional self-government. The important news in this bill is that the compensation for the use of water so far paid by end-users at the price of the service is now becoming the obligation of the service provider, as well as that the compensation will be charged on the total water concerned, not as so far on the quantities sold. If we know that the losses are in some cities and over 50%, then it is clear that this law will force operators to systematically start dealing with measures to reduce water loss on the network. Now, if the recovery of water loss in the network is an important element of the Water Management Strategy in that water management strategy, it is found that the acceptable level of water loss on the network is up to 20%. This is enough to talk about the big problem and it is clear that there is no service provider who could solve it overnight without becoming in difficulty with business. It is therefore good to provide that, during a transitional period of five years, the compensation for the use of water is to be paid on the quantities of water delivered in which the recovery of losses will be financed. The Government of the Republic of Croatia will set the amount of compensation for the use of water and correction coefficients that reduce the amount of compensation. These measures should result in a reduction of losses within a few years which gives sufficient time for the service provider to be well prepared. Other water charges are water protection fees, water contribution, sand and gravel extraction fees, water treatment fees, Melioration draining and irrigation fees. What's new in this bill of law is a water contribution. So local self-government units account for 8% of the water contribution charged in their area. Croatian waters which charge water contribution are obliged once a month to guarantee this amount to the budgets of units of local self-government. Local self-government units can use these funds exclusively for the construction and reconstruction of coastal drain structures owned by local self-government units. The paper, i.e. the existing legal arrangement for the extracting of gravel and sand, which was paid on the basis of the applicable law for the exploitation and extraction of gravel and sand in the area of importance for the water regime. This fee shall be abolished as a consequence of the ban on the exploitation of gravel and sand in the area relevant to the water regime according to the draft water law. The Water Economy Financing Act is in line with the Water Management Strategy as well as the Water Law and will certainly improve the situation in this area, and I will support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-10-0.u45082	Next up for debate on the turn of representative Nada Cavlović Smiljanec.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-10-0.u45083	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State with an associate, co-workers and fellow MPs. So the final proposal of the Water Economy Financing Act shows that the applicant accepted certain proposals that were tabled in the parliamentary debate during the first reading of that law, and explained the reasons for this adoption and the law was indeed improved in relation to that proposal that we had in our first reading. At the very beginning, I must say that there are eight types of compensation offered by various bonds, and that is for entrepreneurs, and it is certainly too much for citizens. We see that from the existing bill that we are discussing today, the compensation for the extraction of gravel and sand is left out in accordance with the Water Act. We see that this law introduces two more fees in addition to the existing fees, and that is a fee for development, and a fee for accession, which can be made by units of local or regional (regional) self-government. The undertaking of the development fee and the payment obligation of the price of the water service, meaning each economic operator, while the payer is the payer for the construction of an investor or owner of a building or other property. The introduction of these charges, as well as the determination of their height, is placed in the jurisdiction of the units of local self-government, which on the one hand means a new burden on economic operators, and since the height is determined by the representative body of the unit of local self-government, will also mean the same position on the market because of the different amounts of these fees. I'm going to talk about the individual fees set out in this bill. So I must say that even when I first read the law, I suggested that the contribution of Croatian Waters be managed, however, we see that the water contribution remains. However, in some ways his redistribution was made, 8% means it belonged to local or regional self-government. The reason I asked, or suggested that you... This water contribution, above all, is that it would reduce the giving of which economic operators... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] investments, and in the year of recession and crisis in which our country is instigated by investment. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It is interesting that in his argument regarding the height of that water contribution, the applicant considered that the water contribution level was not destimulating, and this is the reason why it should not be reduced or abolished. I'd like to warn you of another illogicality regarding the payment of the water contribution. It is paid in three zones, as I said to the investor, and this division in these three zones has no reasonable explanation and because they are under other areas of the Republic of Croatia, this zone B entered all areas except the city of Zagreb, and the protected coastal sea, and the area of special state care. This is how the same water contribution is paid by investors in the smallest place in our country, as well as the one in the centre of any city in the Republic of Croatia. Furthermore, when we talk about other fees, the applicant also did not take into account the comments concerning the payment of water compensation for the freshwater aquaculture sector. We proposed that the sector be exempt from paying water charges, and instead to introduce one fee and that compensation for the use of water for the production of fish in closed waters, which would then apply only to the sector. I believe that this is necessary because of the specificity of this production, which the water uses only as a medium to grow and return back to the repient from which it was taken in the same or similar state. In addition, there are no such water charges in the countries of the European Union, which are our direct competitors in the production of freshwater fish. We see that with this bill of law, it proposes that compensation for the melioration disposal, which has not been called up so far, be placed in the jurisdiction of units of regional, or regional self-government. I have to say that the assessment of the arrangement is almost 40% of the system from the detailed melioration discharge that was brought to function, the surface, and that is actually a flat-rate assessment. This will result in the maintenance of the third and fourth-row channels belonging to local units, which will create a special problem for those units of regional self-government that have a large channel network such as the one in question. The Virovitica-Podravska County from which I come, where the channel network is nearly 3,000km long, is a question of how many counties will, above all, be able to maintain the network because of the financial resources in the first place. The solution so far has been far better, the principle of solidarity has been respected, and Croatian waters have maintained all channels in the Republic of Croatia, and now we will have a situation that units of regional self-government will maintain third and fourth-row channels, while those first and second ones will remain in the jurisdiction of Croatian Waters. The division itself is not good, and in practice it will cause problems because of the interconnection between these channels. In addition, there is a new cost for units of regional self-government, due to the establishment of new services, then there is also a question of the collection by farmers, which will result in my fear that there will be a complete disorder of the canal network and a constant threat of floods. Besides,... the determination of the level of compensation for the melioration discharge shall be... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] in a way that it is corrected by a coefficient based on the cadastrian class and individual cadastrian culture, oranica, vineyard, orchard and the like. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] As regards the compensation for irrigation paid on agricultural land owned by the units of the regional (regional) self-government and which has not been set up so far, however, the implementation of the national irrigation programme for agricultural land management, as the promoter puts it, has created all the conditions for the delivery of water for irrigation to end-users for irrigation of 15 thousand hectares. It is good that the applicant has changed the principle of irrigation charge, and instead of the unit of surface, i.e. the amount of water as a base suggests the quantity of water delivered through irrigation buildings, i.e. the units of the irrigated land area, which cannot be measured to determine the amount of water for irrigation. However, I must say that the Government of the Republic of Croatia programme for the period 2008-2011 stated that at least 60 thousand hectares of agricultural land would be irrigated and a decisive move would be made to complete the first phase of the construction of the Danube-Sava channel. Until today, we've seen only 15,000 acres of irrigation. It is tragic that the Republic of Croatia, when water is used for irrigation, stands at the very bottom of the scale, water only means 1% of the surface, while European countries, for example Italy, Romania, Bulgaria water 20.30%, and Albania over 50% of the agricultural land. And precisely because of the slow progress of the irrigation project, the drought caused great damage, special droughts were known during 2003 and 2005, where damages are estimated in billions of kuna. The adoption of this law should provide sufficient resources to implement water protection measures in order to achieve the good condition of all water in water areas. That is what the Proposer states. But experience so far suggests that despite the large funds, which are collected from the title of compensation, as well as a large number of compensations have not solved the major problems facing the water economy. It is not sufficiently invested in the conservation of drinking water springs, the recovery of pollutants. Furthermore, little is invested in the construction, reconstruction and regular maintenance of water buildings, flood water protection systems, as well as the water draining system of surface and underground waters. As a result, major damage to agriculture, the water economy and other activities are primarily due to the occasional occurrence of excess water and floods, or droughts. Despite the large revenues collected from these laws of prescribed fees, I must say that there is still an unsatisfactory level of the population's involvement in the public water supply system and in public sewage systems. There is also a major problem with water losses in the water supply system, and insufficient use of water potential as insufficient flood protection. So there is a question of where all the funds from so many fees paid by citizens and entrepreneurs end up, as these funds are available by Croatian waters. Because we have seen revenue Croatian water rises year by year, water economy problems do not decrease and everyone who pays... fees do not have any control over how to use the collected funds. I must say that it is known that Croatia's waters are a recordr in income from different fees, by collecting Croatian water charges they earn more than 14% of the total untaxed revenues in the country, so in 2007, they achieved revenue of $1.758 billion, and in 2008, they plan to increase revenue from 100 million kuna more. That the revenues of that company are indeed substantial is evident from this bill where the proposer states that over the past two and a half years, water contribution revenue has been so high as to ensure sufficient resources for the purposes financed from this contribution so that there is no longer a need for some of these funds to be financed from the state budget. Despite these huge revenues, the involvement of citizens of the public water supply system is only 76%, to the public discharge system barely 40%, and only 23% of waste water collected by the public sewage system is cleaned. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-10-0.u45084	Thank you very much to my colleague. For some time now we have guests at a gallery in the Parliament, I want to greet them here are students from Pula. Welcome. The next is the debated representative Vlatko Podnar.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-10-0.u45085	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, Secretary of State, Madam Director. I will just say a few words about some illogicalities in this law, for the simple reason that it says in the introduction that water economy financing is based on the principles of the pay user, i.e. the pay polluter, which means that part of the water economy funding is secured from water charges paid by water users or water pollutants. Obviously, there are some illogical reasons why when it comes to water protection among other things, a fee is also paid for a manufactured or imported mineral fertiliser which is ultimately paid by a farmer. Now, we have one illogicality. The state provides support for agriculture, while at the same time Croatia's waters are in some way taking away these support through the price of artificial fertilisers. Especially for where the soil is poor with minerals, it's not so fertile, so we take the malts no more than we give it. Another illogicality refers to the water treatment fee in which agricultural land is freed under Article 13, which is why it is clear to us, meaning because of agriculture, and we know that it is on agricultural land and the impact of mineral fertilisers through nitrates and nitrates and pollution of groundwater. What I've submitted the amendment for, obviously, is detachment in the Ministry as if we're not in the same ministry and forestry and water industry. We all know that the total area of the land part of Croatia's forest is about 50% of the area. And it is the forest that cleanses and creates new amounts of water, when we talk about drinking water, so it turns out that the purifier pays the water treatment fee, and basically, the user or the pollutant pays the water treatment fee. This knowledge in the European countries is also long ago known and, for example, the very supply of the city of Vienna in Austria is based on the protection of a large forest complex under the Alps, and from this complex the forest is collected drinking water and brought to the city of Vienna for the use of citizens. You also have a case in Frankfurt in Maine or in Basel where water from the river or those purified waters are sterilized and re-controlled to return to the forest just to clean up that water and re-squeak for drinking water for the needs of citizens. You also have in the Water Act in Article 113 that, above all, protection from floods and erosions is the first and most basic indication of shading, cultivation of wooden species, in order to prevent erosion and lush flows. Obviously, there's something we haven't gotten along with the forestry department. Croatia also speaks in the Law on Forests in Article 3(2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the Forests and is now talking about the protection against erosion, the protection against floods, the purification of water. What happens when the climate changes that have occurred and are happening on a continuous basis, but also by the influence of man, especially the meliorisation of agricultural land, where the lower forests in Croatia are just because of this melioration threatened by the simple reason that the oak oak oaks known to our Slavonic oak are dried, why not then Croatian waters, or raise the level of groundwater, to reduce the drying of that same oak. For this reason, I have submitted this amendment and I hope that the Proposer of this Law will accept it because the forest and forest land are really the purifier of all water. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-10-0.u45086	Thank you very much. Next is the debate Mr. Agent Ivan Bogovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-10-0.u45087	Thank you, Madam Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr Secretary of State, Madam Director, colleagues and colleagues. Today, we are discussing a final proposal for a law on the financing of a water economy that determines the sources of funding for jobs and purposes which, in accordance with the Water Act, are being implemented by water management, the way in which the rates and the amount of funds are determined, the way in which individual commitments and the collection of funds and other issues relating to the achievement and use of these funds are being identified. The principles on which the financing of the water economy is based and under the applicable law, but also on the proposal for a new law, as clearly provided for in Article 3 of the final proposal, are based on the basic principle of the user's polluter pays this principle which I stress and the final proposal of the Water Act specifically means that the funds for the financing of the water economy are provided from water charges paid by water users from the water system, i.e. water pollutant and from the price of water services paid by the users of those services. The second part of the funds shall be charged in accordance with strategic clause B13 of the Water Management Strategy against the users of the property, water contribution, water-finding fees, water-tightening fees as a good that protects against floods, floods and ice defences... The proposal for this law lays down resources for the financing of the water economy and that water compensation, water service prices, the state budget, the budget of units of local or regional self-government and other sources. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The main reasons for the adoption of the new Water Economy Financing Act are, on the one hand, in the need of the harmonisation of national legislation in the water economy and on the other hand, with the acquis of the EU and, on the other hand, because of the reform of the municipal sector provided for in the final proposal of the Water Act. It is important to stress that the new Water Economy Financing Act is partially complemented by the purposes and methods of calculating water charges. This law provides for the possibility of prescribing and new compensations in accordance with the Law on municipal management as an example of development and construction compensation, i.e. accession. The development fee may be introduced by representative bodies of units of local or regional self-government, and would be paid by bonds of payment of the price of water services. The compensation would be introduced in cases where increased investment in the construction of public water supply and the construction of public draining and treatment of waste water with the aim of equating, or even development in the entire service area is needed in the case of the possibility of using water services. The development fee would be charged through the water service account and would be the income of units of local or regional self-government that made the decision on the calculation and collection of fees. The compensation for the construction of the final bill will be able to introduce units of local self-government for the connection of buildings and other properties to public water supply and public sewage. These decisions are the income of units of local self-government whose representative body, by its decision, determines the amount of compensation and how it is calculated and charged. The funds that are realised on the basis of the accession fee are used to finance the construction of public water supply and public sewage and waste water treatment buildings in the area of local self-government units. I will still look back on the compensation for the melioration drain and the irrigation fee that the incomes of the units are of the area, or regional self-government, and which so far have not been called for justifiable reasons. These fees shall be paid on agricultural land in the area of units of the regional self-government in which the buildings for those purposes have been built, and shall be paid by owners or other legal owners of the agricultural land. The reasons for which these fees were not paid were the devastation and depravity of the system of detailed melioration disposal and because there were no more significant irrigation options based on system structures for these purposes. Today, opportunities have changed significantly since in the past few years almost over 40% of the system of detailed melioration disposal has been brought to function and work continues. The implementation of the National Irrigation and Management Programme created conditions for the delivery of water to end-users by about 15 thousand hectares of agricultural land, which is an increase of 67% compared to 2004. Finally, I want to give full support to the adoption of the Water Economy Financing Act because I believe it is a law that will contribute to better management and more rational use of water. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-10-0.u45088	Thank you very much. It is up to the debate for individual debate, MP Ivan Hanžek.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-10-0.u45089	Thank you, Vice President. Namely, I will try to be brief in what we have initiated during the public debate both through the Association of Cities and in the context of the discussions we had on the National Water Council. In fact, funding for the water economy is certainly a complex, complex business that includes the issue of development, but also the issue of solidarity. Unfortunately, past-time developments in monitoring the spending of these funds do not go hand in hand by those who advocate that, in fact, with minor or larger changes, the existing system remains. My main observation was that Croatian Waters should remain as an institution protector of national policy and water development strategy, that unfortunately "Croatian Waters" are in all authorities, I stress this to those who would eventually correct wrong allegations, was an institution closed to the public. From this I have received the answer, and probably the secretary of state will use this invitation to give an explanation for those who have not heard it, therefore there is an extremely large dissatisfaction in the units of local self-government and therefore is an exceptional dissatisfaction with our citizens. Namely, there is no longer the functioning of a system in which local self-government and "Croatian Waters" jointly plan and implement projects regardless of the financing system whether participation and participation of local self-government and "Croatian Waters" or Croatian Waters themselves are already receiving telegraph or telex notifications during the year we are going to edit the channel and these labels, inform citizens that they are not causing problems in the realization of this project. What is equally important to me, which I stood for, but did not get the approval of the proposing, which is to increase the percentage of the resources allocated from the water contribution to local self-government units. In fact, 8% is 3 kunas and 20 lips per cubic metre of 40 lips, and then it is actually those who bring in new investors, who are working, especially Greenfield Investment, in a situation where they provide the investor with a complete infrastructure, and that from the water contribution to the treatment of the disposal of coastal or waste water, in fact all the funds paid by the investor go to the state budget and are used on various keys and various basiss. My pledge was to be a minimum 10% percentage that should remain in local self-government. I agree that one major part should be the subject of solidarity, while another 10% of Croatia's water industry in agreements and plans of local self-government builds or builds on the territory of local self-government where water contribution has been collected. Clearly, this is not closely understood to be built only in this area, but also to build buildings that use the local self-government in question and extend to other local self-government. I think I would especially like to emphasise and call for one of our conclusions to be that plans and programmes of Croatian Waters should be on the agenda of the Croatian Parliament. We are only discussing the financial part in which we see revenues, expenditures, expenses, but our voters, and we ourselves do not see what will be done in the area of the county or local cities and municipalities or even in the area of the region. This will continue if we do not change it to cause dissatisfaction with the citizens, but also with the profession and with the part of the local administration and institutions. So I think it would be good for the competent ministry to ensure that such reports and such plans are on the Parliament's agenda, at least once a year, that the project and programme of six-year investment and procedures are on the agenda, and that local and regional self-government can then be prepared with their resources for activities that will take place in a certain period, so we find ourselves in half a year, representatives of Croatian Waters, in particular I have such a case, that we need to participate with 400 thousand in the arrangement of a stream that will eat the road that is unclassified. We didn't predict in the budget, we didn't predict in the plans. And then, well, there's no bigger problems, the audit has an understanding. But by looking at the dead letter on the paper, the review can be predicated and said, which is why you did it when it wasn't planned. So, in order to alleviate these problems, but in order to jointly plan and jointly develop an extremely important component of our development, I think it would be useful if I had not already managed to win these financial... that at least these in terms of transparency, today popularly speaking, the work and plans of Croatian Water and Water Economy institutions be from the internet to the debate in this House. Here's the bottom line. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-10-0.u45090	Thank you very much. The next in line for the individual debate is representative Dragutin Bodakoš.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-10-0.u45091	Thank you very much. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, State Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. So the Water Economy Financing Act was visible... to identify the sources of funds to finance operations and purposes that are in line with the Water Act. Sources of funds accumulate I see you from this through the state budget, water budget fees of units of local and regional self-government and other sources. Normally, it is important that these funds are sufficient, and since this is also the law that we are harmonising our legislation with and with European legislation, we need to consider it and set it up to achieve the main objective. And what is the main objective? Well, it's the preservation of the good condition of all the waters in our water area. This is certainly important because there is less and less healthy water in the world. Although when we look from space at our planet, it looks blue and we think it has plenty of water, but drinking and healthy water is little, which we can use for both humans and animals, for plants. Therefore, in order to preserve its value in the present, and more in the future, we must take care of it. At the same time, however, what is important is that water also serves as a significant factor in the development of the economy. This water often generates income, and this is why the issue of these importances of water charges that need to be collected and which serve to finance the water economy has one of the basic tasks. It is to preserve the safe condition of the water streams, to protect people, to protect objects primarily from floods. Because according to some data, the damage in the last 10 years since the flood was more than 2.6 billion kuna in Croatia. It means that funding through water charges is important for these water streams to be preserved and maintained at a good level. However, I would particularly stress, for example, the fees for melioration draining and irrigation fees. They are directly relevant to the development of agriculture as such. The issue of draining, the editing of channel networks, it has a direct impact on the economy of Slavonia and Baranja, because in the slightly larger rains the Slavonian fields swim. And that's why I'm asking myself what it's like in other parts of the world, because setting up land in Slavonia and Baranja is still the best issue of these drains, sewers, etc. However, any abandonment of them normally leads to major problems. As far as the irrigation fees mentioned here are concerned, I don't think that at this point in time their fees are a priority, because much more work is ahead of us than we have to do just to increase the number of hectares we need to irrigate, rather than start with these charges. A colleague of Hope’s spokes so as not to repeat himself and his status today. Given the many things that have been said about this, I would just say one more thing, and that is what I often say about the direct link between water-related fees and the development of freshwater fishing. They are unreally high and water charges for this branch of production and are one of the reasons that there has been a halved number of hectares of freshwater ponds from 12000 to 6000, and also water fees are involved in the cost of one kilogram of fish from 13 to 15%. All this brings together other factors that there is no competitiveness of this production on our market, and also particularly in European. That is why, and the issue of amendments that I have provided for the introduction of compensations for the use of water for indoor fish farming should be aimed at setting this specificity through this law, and also at specific regulations, because companies using landwater for closed water farming should be exempt from paying these fees under Article 5 and the level and manner of paying for the use of water for indoor water should be subject to one specific regulation under this proposed amendment, that the fees for the use of water for the production of fish in a closed area have one specificity. What's the big deal? Well, it's important precisely because of the specificity of this freshwater production. This water used is not a source of production. So it is not spent as in some other productions, but it is one medium in which that cultivation is done and that water is returned from where it was taken in the same or even according to some data and in a better state. Therefore, we believe that there is one legitimate need for such water, the use of that water in freshwater ponds to be paid under one specified rule and for the rest of those benefits to be excluded. Because precisely if we want this state of freshwater fishing to stop this alarmity of reducing exploited fish areas from the beginning of the 1990s, then we should also give a certain incentive through adequate payment of these water fees through this proposed amendment. Otherwise, which is why it's important. Well, it certainly is important because the water benefits of our neighbouring countries as well as the Member States of Europe do not have all these benefits that our freshwater production has, and that is why they are in a better position and more competitive in their production. Also, sometimes freshwater fishing had one significant and foreign inflow through exports. Today, it was saddened by the fact that even greater imports of freshwater fish than exports, and since we have since 1900 and early of the year, early 20th century and certain infrastructure, means built these ponds that still the countes in Slavonia did not know how to open, perspective, experts, breeding genetics, experience, tradition of saying which is more than a hundred years old I think we should, with this approach to water compensation, allow for the development of freshwater fisheries. Finally, I would also like to point out that the government programme of the Republic of Croatia for the period of office of 2008, on page 52, said that fishing, too, said that it will be working to reduce the water production fees for freshwater ponds. So that's what the government's programme has already said, and it would be good for it to be adequate and formulated in this law, so that we know that under such regulations we will manage ourselves in the next period and restore the development of freshwater fishing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-10-0.u45092	We have one replica at the debate of our colleagues Bodakosh. Representative Goran Heffer.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-10-0.u45093	Thank you very much. Dear colleague Bodakosh, I'm glad you touched again on the water compensation issues in freshwater fishing. A few days ago in a discussion on the regulation of the fisheries market, we also pointed to that. And that you pointed out the fact that 13 to 15% of the fish's price is on water charges. I would feel free to say that in the countries of the European Union, no country has more than 10% share in the total price. So it's almost like half the VAT. The average is about two percent, two, three percent, and the Czech Republic as the largest producer of freshwater fish is zero percent. But what is the level of the amount, for example, for the Belomanastian part, is the pond. That's about 200, 300,000 kuna. So, if we were to focus such funds on the regulation of ponds, then surely there would not be just about 50% of the usability of those potential areas for the cultivation of freshwater fish. And I also join your proposal that this segment of compensation for freshwater fish farming is something in which the Republic of Croatia can certainly in one much, much stronger way show an interest in developing this very profitable branch of the economy, i.e. the agricultural part to say so. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-10-0.u45094	Replication response, Agent Bodakosh.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-10-0.u45095	Thank you very much, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. So, through this economic part, the value and competitiveness of this production is also very important that freshwater fishing and farming is, it is also drawn up with the National Strategy and Action Plan of Biodiversity of the Republic of Croatia where it is both explicit and indicated that freshwater ponds are of exceptional importance for the preservation of biodiversity and should be treated as such and offered competitive business. What does it matter? Well, besides that fish on the ponds, we have a diverse flora and fauna. In particular, we have a large number of birds that also serve for tourist purposes, but also for hunting tourism. All that if these ponds, and I said from 12 to 6 grand, is a reduced number of acres of ponds, all if, as it is called, it's going to die and not just that production of freshwater fish, but that other part, and that's the flora and fauna that connects to these ponds. Not to mention the question of floods, because these ponds are also certain retentions, where excess water that appears can also accumulate in cases of floods. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-10-0.u45096	Thank you very much. We have reached our final application to the Final Proposal for the Water Economy Financing Act. Representative Mariana Petir.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-10-0.u45097	Thank you. Madam Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, MPs and deputies, Madam Secretary of State, Madam Director. The Water Economy Financing Act and the Water Act are actually an inseparable couple, although we only separated them last night because we finished one debate yesterday, the other we continue today. It must certainly be said that if we have a lot of objections to one of these laws, we will have a lot of objections to the other of these laws. If we don't do something right in one of the laws, it will reflect on another law. I am pleased that those of our pains that we had in May, when we were actually discussing for the first time the Water Law and the Water Economy Financing Act were somehow over, so I can say that by reading this final version of the Water Economy Financing Act, I see that most of the remarks that were then made and adopted by the promoters. Of course, this Water Economy Financing Act, as well as the Water Act, is based on our strategy, but also on the key principles, on which it has long been warned, that they should be subject to this very legislative regulation, which is the pay user, i.e. the pay polluter, and the principle of full reimbursement of costs from water services. The proposal for a Water Act that we discussed yesterday in Article 206 provides that the price of water services must contain a basic price and a social price. The social price is the price paid by socially endangered citizens for the quantity of water delivered, necessary for the basic needs of the household, and this social price cannot be higher than 60% of the basic price of the water service and that is, of course, the principle of social acceptance of the water price. This provision must also be contained in the establishment of the price of water services for the public, and in this part, in my opinion, it is a great responsibility, right on the units of local self-government in the formation of these prices, but at the same time the entire water management system that must also be economically sustainable. According to the proposer’s opening argument regarding this law, it is apparent that there are three types of fees. Although my predecessors have repeated it several times, I will repeat them because I have one amendment in that particular segment, which I would like the promoter to consider and, of course, accept. So three types of water charges, water charges that are the revenues of Croatian waters, these are water contributions, water treatment fees, water use fees, and water protection fees. Water compensations which are revenues of the county, compensation for the melioration drain and compensation for irrigation, and water charges which are the revenue of the city and municipality budget, development and accession fees. Contradiction has just been said by newspapers in the existing legal solution. Article 5(6) states that water contribution, water treatment fees, water use and water protection charges are intended for the revenue of the state budget, not Croatian waters. I consider this a mistake, I believe not on purpose, because in all the explanations of the law, as well as all the work versions that we have discussed so far on the working bodies, and on the National Council for Water, it was exactly the opposite in the legislative proposal, i.e. what we should stand for under the Water Law, which is that these all fees are the revenue of the Croatian Waters. Therefore, Article 187 of the Treaty on the The Water Act states that the business of Croatian Waters is financed from water charges. In view of all that I have stated, I submit an amendment to Article 5 requesting an amendment to paragraph 6 in that sense, i.e. that the income from the compensation for the water contribution, the water treatment fee, the water use fee, and the water protection fee will be the arrival of Croatian waters. This can be supported by additional arguments, because here is the Croatian Parliament's budget for 2010. The State budget states that the water charges are the original revenue of Croatian waters. There has also been no analysis of the benefits and losses compared to the current and short-term liquidity of Croatian waters, so that such a legal provision can be implemented. There have also been no analysis of the benefits and losses taken from the Croatian Waters' responsibilities from that aspect of the projects that Croatian waters have taken over and are working on. There were also no protocols on how to transfer these funds into Croatian Waters programmes. What is more important, here is the Croatian Parliament, this week discussing the Health Insurance Act, where the opposite process is currently taking place, means the funds from the state budget, are returning to HZZO to the extra- budget fund. From that point of view, here's believing that this is an accidental mistake, I ask that it be corrected and that my amendment be adopted. I also want to say a few sentences regarding the treatment of the economy through this law. There's been a lot of comments from HUP before. I am pleased that these remarks have been considered and are largely adopted. I'd say two examples. One is a fee for using water. It pays therefore for the capture and other use of water, and for the use of water forces. And we know that we have recently discussed here the hydropower plant "Lesce", a concession given by the Croatian Parliament to Croatia's electricity industry. According to Article 23(3) of this Act, an amount of 10% shall be charged on the compensation for the use of water and shall be paid in the state budget within the time limits prescribed for the payment of the water charges. Also a water protection fee is paid for water pollution. The fee calculation is based on the amount of waste water dropped, not on the input, and it was an observation precisely of the economy, because it is quite clear that part of that water is lost or installed in the technological process and does not come out as waste water. So this system that you've now predicted for me is much more just. Industrys are required under the Water Act to have wastewater meterers, and for all pollutants that do not have a water flow meter, the rule of how much input, i.e. the quantities of water released equal to the quantity of water delivered. However, in the case of industries, the Regulation, the accounting and charge of these fees shall prescribe a fixed technological loss of supplied water, in the event that the waste water meter is not installed, is not correct or is not used for any other reason. I think that this proposal that we have today has been significantly improved in relation to those previous versions and if the amendment that I have proposed is accepted, which is on the trail of the law adopted by this Croatian Parliament and the state budget, I will in that case support the Water Economy Financing Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-10-0.u45098	Thank you very much. We've completed the debate, or we've exhausted all the reports. The word was requested by Secretary of State Zlatko Krmek.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-10-0.u45099	I would like to thank Madam Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. Here, at first I want to thank all of you who took part in today's debate, but I also have to give answers to certain questions that have been asked here especially from clubs, so I'd start in order. At first, I want to say there was a question about the development compensation for why the income of the utility company is. It is just the association of cities and municipalities, so the owners of municipal companies have asked to make this model, they will approve the development fee and municipal companies will, based on this act, mean to raise money on their account and use for the purposes for which they are designated by their owner or city or municipality. There have been a lot of questions here about local losses in local water supply networks. What I want to point out again clearly and tell you what's been touched somewhere in the debate, that's this truth, we've made a few pilots where we went to some utility companies and we've put money there to determine exactly what it's about, whether these are losses because the network is bad, bad valves, etc., or there's something else, and that's illegal water use. We have to say that in certain areas we have found it means that this ratio is about half-half, as much as the losses were the loss of water and ultimately it is paid by the citizens, because the plumbing has all the inputs, the wages of electricity, the workers of course. This model of charge for the use of water for affected water from groundwater or surface water sources clearly shows and will make clear to the utility companies that we have to watch out for water, have to take care of it, and, most importantly, we will, through the use of water, provide money for the resolution of these losses but will certainly not provide support for illegal use of water. Here we had a few questions about water prices, whether prices will go up. I would like to say again that through the sublaws that are most important, and we have made that clear on both the parent board and on all the other committees that the government is considering ways to help the economy in terms of water compensation, which means that for certain branches the water compensation is reduced, I must say first and foremost, and we have made that public on the parent board for regional development that we will take the ponds through sublegal acts, i.e. the activities, i.e. the fees that will be prescribed there, means that it will be minimal and that there will be no more than 2% of their total annual revenues. Here's the deal we made, and I think by this question, we've actually said the answer and given the answers to many of your questions. What needs to be added was a speech about irrigation. Irrigation is, I must say, extremely important for the economy precisely because through irrigation is the fastest return of the money invested. I can say that we currently have a Gat irrigation system in Belize, we released the Bastica system in Zadar County the other day, we are also building a irrigation system in Međimurje and we currently have about 40 smaller projects that will be completed in the total area of 48 thousand hectares in the next three years. That is also the answer to that question, and finally I want to say that through the debate that we had on the committees, we have adopted amendments to the Committee on Legislatives which, in a certain part, improve this text of the Law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-10-0.u45100	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate under this final draft of the law. We'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-10-0.u45101	We move to the Final Proposal of the Water Economy Financing Act, it was an emergency procedure, P.Z.E. Number 488. Proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. The review of the amendment is divided into benches. I ask Mr. Krmek to show himself about these amendments. First Mr. Dragutin Bodakosh's representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-10-0.u45102	The government does not accept the amendment for reasons because no group of legal persons who are bonds of water charges can be exempted from this law. What we want to add is that through sublaws we will regulate this branch of the economy in a way that we will reduce the water use fees to about 2% of the total annual income of these ponds.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-10-0.u45103	Mr. Representative Dragutin Bodakosh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-10-0.u45104	Thank you very much, President of the Croatian Parliament. Well, Mr. Secretary, we've been saying this for a very long time that we're going to regulate that part, but I'm afraid freshwater fishing will disappear while we regulate, even though the government's programme said it will work to reduce the water-based compensation for freshwater ponds. Why it's necessary, and you see that the government has said and there's a time to do it, here's a chance and put it in this law. Because the specificities of exactly freshwater fishing as the production that uses these waters not as a resource in production, but as the media in which this production takes place. I think that this is why the issue of water-related benefits that are very high and which burden this production should be regulated in such a way that they are freed, because companies and outside Europe are working on freshwater fisheries, they are also freed entirely from water-based fees and that is why those neighbouring countries that were once behind us in the production of freshwater fish are now members of the European Union, and they have also developed this production and have gone far ahead of us. What's even more characteristic, here last year was that we had bigger imports of freshwater fish than exports, so we're becoming an importing country of another production that we can produce in a very good way. But normally the legal frameworks need to determine that. Thank you very much. Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-10-0.u45105	Thank you. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 2nd Amendment of the Representative, Marijana Petir, to Article 5.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-10-0.u45106	The government accepts the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-10-0.u45107	This amendment becomes an integral part of the proposal. 3rd Amendment of Mr Emil Tomljanović to Article 5
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-10-0.u45108	Given that we have accepted the amendment of Commissioner Mariana Petrir, and the same subject is we propose that the MP withdraw the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-10-0.u45109	Representative Emil Tomljanovic withdrew this amendment in line with the explanation he received. 4. Representative Tatjana Šimac Bonačić on Article 12.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-10-0.u45110	The government does not accept this amendment for reasons because, based on the analysis, the amount of the water contribution has led to data that 8% of the water contribution collected in the area of cities and municipalities is sufficient to build or reconstruct the existing systems of deforestation.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-10-0.u45111	Mrs. Tatjana Šimac Bonačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-10-0.u45112	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I'm very sorry you didn't put this amendment on the table. I wanted to increase the percentage with him as you know the water contribution that remains to local self-government units, which is actually charged in that place. Namely, construction of buildings is mostly done in settlements, and this is why surface disposal is being solved by municipal devastation facilities for which the local self-government unit is responsible and responsible. However, some units of local self-government are in very poor shape regarding the state of municipal infrastructure facilities. We are also witnessing a flood with heavy rains and water applications. So, that's a number of years, of course. That is why, by increasing the percentage of water that remains for local self-government units, resources would actually be increased to address such a problem, i.e. regulation and protection of water buildings and other buildings. No matter what principle of solidarity you have listed, there are no real criteria to determine the resources for individual plums. And I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-10-0.u45113	Thank you. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment of Mr Vlatka Podnar to Article 13.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-10-0.u45114	The government does not accept this amendment for the reasons that we have stated in relation to aquaculture. So, there's no possibility of exemption for both forest and forest land fees. What we're trying to say is that through the sublaws we will also, given the state of this economic branch, also make sure that these fees are less than they have been before.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-10-0.u45115	Thank you. Mr. Representative Vlatko Podnar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-10-0.u45116	Thank you very much, Mr. President. So yesterday, in my discussion, I was talking about the introduction of forest and forest land into the water regime in general and the state of drinking water. The other thing and the generally useful functions of the forest that this very water cleanses and protects any soil from erosion and streams. Therefore, it is in accordance with the Law on the Forests and therefore I demand a vote. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-10-0.u45117	Thank you. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. We have an amendment to the Sixth Legislative Committee on Article 50.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-10-0.u45118	The government accepts all amendments to the Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-10-0.u45119	So the sixth, seventh and eighth amendments of the Legislative Committee have been adopted and become an integral part of the bill. I am voting on the final draft law on the financing of the water economy. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? The bill was adopted by a majority of votes, 93 votes in favour, 13 abstentions and 1 against, together with the amendments adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-10-0.u45120	Let's move forward with the next item of the agenda - Final bill on amendments and additions to the Law on Public Roads, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 487. The Proposer of the Law is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, you have received the proposal in boxes. On the occasion of the establishment of the agenda, we accepted the proposal from the Proposer to discuss this legislative proposal in an urgent procedure. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the The Registrar's emergency procedure combines first and second readings, and you can submit amendments until the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Maritime Affairs, Transport and Communications. You received the reports at the session. As you can see before us is already a representative of the proposer, State Secretary at the Ministry of the Sea, Transport and Infrastructure, Mr Zeljko Tufekčić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-10-0.u45121	I would like to thank Madam Vice President, the honourable parliamentary representatives and MPs. We have before us the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Public Roads, the Law on Public Roads, which was adopted in 2004, these are its seventh amendments and additions. The last amendments and additions concerned its alignment with the Law on concessions, and these amendments and additions to the Roads Act are introduced 2 major changes in relation to the existing legal solution. In particular, they concern the establishment of a new public road legal regime as a public good in general and the issue of compensation for the financing of public road construction and maintenance with the Excise Taxation Act is harmonised. Therefore, in accordance with Article 4 of the existing Law on Public Roads, public roads in the Republic of Croatia are considered to be general goods so that they are not entitled to ownership or other real rights on any basis. Accordingly, real estates that are managed for construction, reconstruction and maintenance of public roads become generally of interest to the Republic of Croatia. Public roads do not enter the property of persons who are legally authorised to manage them and all of this in a certain way also ensures special protection of public roads as a good of interest to the Republic of Croatia. In practice, in terms of economic exploitation, governance and public road management, road land and other land on which buildings and installations are built, for the sake of public road needs, there are certain problems that arise precisely from the fact that all land which is functionally or economically connected to the public road according to the procedures of the regulated law are previously translated into a system of general goods. Therefore, according to the existing arrangement of the entire property that is managed to build a public road, it enters the general good regime. Such a situation leads to the fact that much of the exorbitant land is often not used for the purposes for which it could be used, e.g. for agricultural production, despite the fact that that part of the land does not enter roadland, or does not enter the corridor of public road. Furthermore, according to the existing regulation of the general good, the infrastructure built on or outside road land is falling on the burden of persons authorised to maintain the road, not persons registered, specialised and equipped for such operations and who should manage those facilities. Following comprehensive analyses, it is necessary to approach the reform of the public road legal regime in a way that, for all public roads, with appropriate restrictions that allow an optimal relationship between public road protection objectives as a good thing of special interest for the Republic of Croatia and objectives related to effective management and public road management in order to establish a legal regime for public roads to be owned by public-law. So it's owned by the Republic of Croatia. This proposal establishes a public goods regime in general use outside legal traffic where only the rights of duty and the right to build narrowly defined buildings, municipal, energy, water-economic etc. can be acquired. the use of road land to carry out accompanying activities. This will also address the issues of taking over the maintenance and management of the infrastructure built on road land, the possibility of exporting the infrastructure outside the road, the compensation for agricultural land, forests and forest land owned by the Republic of Croatia, the deadlines for taking over the maintenance and management of buildings built on or outside roadland. Furthermore, the maintenance and management of municipal, water-economic, energy and other buildings built for public road purposes will be taken over by persons registered for these jobs. So "Croatian waters", "Croatian electricity" etc., which will achieve effective and professional use of such infrastructure. As the introduction also said, this law is in line with the Excise Taxation Act. According to the Law on excise duties adopted in July this year, the rate of excise duty on motor gasoline and other oil derivatives used as fuel is prescribed. The prescribed level of excise duties also includes the amount of existing charges from the price of fuel for the construction and maintenance of public roads. So, the existing two times per 60 lipa Law on Public Roads so far prescribed as the income of Croatian highways and Croatian roads became an integral part of the excise duty, meaning a special tax on oil derivatives. And according to the law, this has become the income of the state budget and subsequently gets all the characteristics of the tax which will certainly simplify both payment and payment control. But what is important, by this law, means a special law, a resolute law continues to ensure that at the same amount, equal to 2 times 60 lips from the state budget, "Croatian roads" and "Croatian highways" will be paid as safe financial revenues for the construction and maintenance of public roads. So, from this point of view, nothing essentially happens because it continues to ensure the financial stability of these 2 companies by law established for the management, maintenance and construction of public roads. These amendments to the law also exempt the electronic toll system from the application of the Law on electronic money institutions. Since the law has changed seven times and complemented it has been designed to produce refined text. Finally, it should be pointed out that the development of this legal solution, apart from the professional services of the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the State's Attorney's Office, was really and most innovative legal experts from this part of the law. We ask the adoption of an emergency procedure, but first of all, because of the fact that the law needs to be brought into line with the Excise Taxation Act in order to avoid double-counting for this fuel price fee from 01.01 next year. In fact, the Excise Taxation Act enters into force on 01.01 next year, so in case we don't change, that is, if the Parliament doesn't amend this part of the law this law would happen that the bonds of application of one law and another law would be forced to calculate the kuna and 20 double. Here, therefore, I request the vote of the law by emergency procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-10-0.u45122	Thank you very much, Secretary of State. The committee's rapporteurs, as I can see, are not in the hall, so they don't want to take a word for it. I'm opening a debate. We have four applications for a club debate. The first is on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club in turn representative Ivan Bozovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-10-0.u45123	Madam Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Today we are discussing a proposal for a law on amendments to the Law on Public Roads. Public road is well of interest to the Republic of Croatia in general use, and public roads cannot acquire ownership rights or other real rights on any basis. In accordance with this and the real estates that are managed for construction, reconstructions on public roads are generally of interest to the Republic of Croatia. The most important legal effect of declaring public roads is the general good exclusion of the public road from the general ownership regime, and therefore the possibility of being on them on any basis such as for example. legal work, law, court decisions or other competent authorities acquire property and limited real rights. As a result, public roads cannot even be implemented, they cannot be established forcible rights in insurance procedures, and public roads do not enter the property of persons authorised under the law to manage them. This also ensures special protection of public roads as a good of interest for the Republic of Croatia. Public road is entered in land books on the basis of a powerful licence as a public good in general use and as inalienable ownership of the Republic of Croatia with the right to manage Croatian highways d.o.o. on the highway, Croatian roads d.o.o. on the state road, county road administrations on the county and local roads, and the administrative body of the City of Zagreb which manages the public road. Public roads within the meaning of this law are roads that depend on their social, transport and economic meaning are classified as one of the following 4 groups. Highways, state roads, county roads and local roads. They are classified on the basis of the criteria adopted by the Republic of Croatia, and the public road classification act, which determines highways, state, county and local roads and brings them up with the minister responsible for transport and publishes them in the National Journal. In order for public roads to be managed quality, built and maintained, it is necessary to draw up planning documents. Plans for building and maintaining and managing public roads are a public road development strategy. The Croatian Parliament adopts on a proposal from the Government a strategy laying down the objectives and plan of public road development in the Republic of Croatia in accordance with the Strategy for Spatial Planning of the Republic of Croatia. The strategy contains an analysis of the state of highways, state, county and local roads and the need to develop these roads. Basic criteria for the construction of highways, state, county and local roads, as well as the proposed criteria of highway building and state roads, the need to maintain existing highways and state roads, the principles of maintaining county and local roads, and the proposal for criteria of highway priorities, state, county and local roads. The government of the Republic of Croatia shall adopt a public road construction and maintenance programme for a four-year period in accordance with the strategy. The report on the state of the long-term objectives of road infrastructure development established by the public road development strategy and the implementation of the public road construction programme was submitted once a year to the Croatian Parliament. Priority in the construction and maintenance of highways, state, county and local roads and the need for public road development has been established by a strategy based on spatial, transport, technical, demographic and economic analyses with economically justified traffic technical solutions to increase capacity security and traffic flow. Public road construction and reconstruction activities include construction and other design with investigative works, design of equipment of existing transport signalling facilities and other designs, professional assessment of studies and projects, purchase of land and buildings and accommodation of municipal and other infrastructures, the classification of works of construction, organisation of professional surveillance and control of installed materials and works, organisation of technical examination and the promotion of public roads, and the assignment of public roads and facilities to use and maintenance. The right to build and manage highways and certain roadways on the state road can be obtained through concessions, it includes the right to use highways or buildings on the state road, as well as the right to reconstruct and maintain highways and road facilities on the state road during the duration of the concession contract or the right to use roadland to build accompanying service facilities and carry out activities, catering, trade, fuel supply services, service services, etc. The same law does not allow concessions for county or local roads. In practice, in terms of economic exploitation, governance and public road management, road land and other land on which buildings and installations are built for the sake of public road needs, there are certain problems since the legal regime of general goods is extended to all real estates that are managed for the construction, reconstruction or maintenance of roadways, regardless of the fact that a large part of these properties are not in the public road corridor specified by the public road project, but are only built to move or build new municipal and other infrastructures. According to the existing Law on Public Roads, the entire real estate that is managed to build a public road is entered into the general good regime and whether the entire area of the awarded property is covered by a public road project or not. Such a situation leads to the fact that much of the exorbitant land is often not used for the purposes to which it could be used despite the fact that this part of the land that does not enter roadland does not enter the corridor of public roads. The next of the problems identified by the existing regulation of the general good becomes the infrastructure built on or outside the road land resulting in maintenance and use of that infrastructure falling on the burden of persons authorised to maintain the road, not persons registered, specialised and equipped for these jobs. Such a solution is economically ineffective since infrastructure is maintained by a person with no knowledge, skills, personnel and equipment to perform maintenance operations effectively, and infrastructure. This law therefore proposes to ensure the uniform administrative status of the built public road as a public goods in general use outside legal traffic on which no right to ownership or other real rights other than the right to service and right to build municipal, water and energy buildings as well as the building of electronic communications. With the possibility of providing roadland for use in order to carry out the following activities, provision of public road users services would lead to adequate and economically efficient public road management and management. By bringing in the purpose of and using part of the awarded property which is not necessary for the construction and maintenance of public roads, and the maintenance and management of municipal water economic, energy and other buildings built on or outside roadland for public roads would be taken over by persons who are registered, specialised and equipped for these jobs, which would result in optimal economic efficient use of that infrastructure. Due to the proposed measures to amend and supplement this law, which achieves the establishment of a new public road legal regime as a public goods in general, outside legal traffic on which no right of ownership or other real rights can be acquired, other than the right of service and the right to build up municipal, water and energy buildings, as well as the building of electronic communications, and the specific right of use of road land to carry out the accompanying activities of the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community, gives support to the adoption of this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-10-0.u45124	Thank you very much, very much. On behalf of the HNS Representatives' Club, representative Danica Hursa was reported. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-10-0.u45125	Dear Madam Vice President, distinguished secretary of state with an associate, colleague and colleague. Here's a comprehensive report from the secretary of state, so I'll skip the opening part. I will repeat only the consequences, or I will read only the consequences of this law because it is the most important thing that this law gives us. Therefore, under number one, better management and maintenance of public roads are expected. Ensuring unity, legal status of the built public road as a public goods in general use outside legal traffic on which no right of ownership or other real rights other than the right of service and the right to build up municipal, water and energy buildings, as well as the building of electronic communications, while retaining the possibility of providing road land for use in order to carry out the accompanying activity of providing public road users. Under three arrangements for the specific legal status of certain properties on which a public road was built in such a way as to establish the same legal regime by law for the entire route of public road. Under the four detention purposes and the use of a part of the authorized property that is not necessary for the construction and maintenance of a public road. Under the five maintenance and management of municipal, water-economic and other buildings built on or outside roadland for public road purposes will be taken over by persons who are registered, specialised and equipped for these activities, which will result in optimal economic efficiency and professional use of the infrastructure. That's where we expect it. Electronic toll systems will not have the treatment of electronic money. And the last item. The provisions on payment of compensation for the financing of construction and maintenance of public roads will be harmonised with the new Taxation Act. What I would personally like to say is that I was disgusted by the State Secretary's statement that in the corridor of existing roads it would encourage agricultural production. Well, for God's sake, I guess not! I'm threatening to travel daily on my terrible Zagorje highway and when I see that near that highway, a plastic is placed. And when I look inside, I see it's strawberries. I wonder and complain in advance of all those that will consume those strawberries. So, Secretary of State, I beg you, I don't know if it was a slip, all just agricultural production in the corridor of existing roads no. I don't think it's necessary to explain why I keep it inadmissible. And let me, since it is about roads, about public roads, since I am a representative of the Croatian Zagorje, I must again publicly say that my county is about the beginning of events in relation to investment. So again, despite the fact that I asked the Secretary of Staff a question on my current watch, and I expect the written answer here to be asked and to point out the need for reconstruction of the old Zagorje highway. The highway has passed all reconstruction deadlines. The highway is a road transport road driven by most Zagorac and Zagorki, of course, because they are unable to pay toll on the existing road Macelj – Zagreb. I also ask the government and the rest ministry when they will approach the construction of the Zabok – Krapina connect road. Namely, part of the highway was installed in the highway Macelj – Zagreb and the Government, i.e. the rest ministry made an obligation to build a joint road as an alternative for this built-in. And the third question concerns the fast road of Oroslavje – Marija Bistrica – Popovac. It's a road that means life for our eastern part of the county. All of you who have not been in our beautiful Croatian Green Zagorje I invite you to come and take a look and take a ride on these roads and then you will understand and understand why I am newly appealing and calling for the Government and the Resord Ministry to take priority of reconstruction and the construction of roads in Croatia Zagorje. Namely, my county intends, has the resources to develop among other things and tourism religious, medical. As you know, we lie on springs of thermal water. What is a disabling factor is exactly the impossible road in our Croatian Zagorje. There, once again, I ask the Resort Ministry, or the Government, to pay full attention to the reconstruction and construction of roads in Croatia Zagorje. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-10-0.u45126	Thank you very much. We have one correction to the incorrect allegations, MP Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-10-0.u45127	Thank you, Madam Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Here, colleague, I wanted to correct the incorrect assumption that the condition of the roads in Zagorsko-krapinska County is not saying that it is wonderful, but according to its characteristics, the road in Brod-Posavina County is in a very similar state. There is also a county road there, so Zdenci – Brcino towards Požega which is still able and in the phase that macadam predicted it. So, the macadamic white road, and the county road. So, sorted by y base. Furthermore, I also wanted to tell you that indeed, I would not eat those strawberries, which, when it comes to agriculture itself, have been made quite certain that the roads, therefore arranged, paved, reconstructed, would help to get to the agricultural areas themselves and to get to the market. So, perhaps not, here I am correcting that part that helps agricultural production in some way, in that sense. I wanted to, for example. just say the word, state the example. Namely.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-10-0.u45128	Time, buddy. Correction.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-10-0.u45129	Here's a second. In Brodo-Posavina County, the road Slavonski Kobaš-Bebin, which is not paved, would surely quickly lead to the market in Slavonski Brod if it had been paved, but it was not. Thank you very much. Here's nothing else.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-10-0.u45130	Thank you very much. It is up to debate on behalf of the SDP Representatives Club, representative of Luke Denon.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-10-0.u45131	Thank you. Madam Vice President, representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues. I will have to say on behalf of the club that here I am personally, on behalf of the club we will support the Amendments and Supplements of the Law on Public Roads with the final bill of law, but here I will personally state with regret. Of course, because this, if memory doesn't cheat on me, is the third amendment to the Law on Public Roads, so it would be good if we got one final version to know what's changed in that law, because this is how it is. What? ... Yeah. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Because this way you can't really hold your head, or your tail, which is one important law, as he looks at all. So it's pretty hard to manage. Then we'll have that basic remark, if I recall you wrote, in October we had an amendment to the law, when we matched it with concessions, then now at the end of the year we're going to get an emergency procedure because what's important is changing. What difference does it make? I'm not a lawyer so let me as a person who isn't a lawyer ask you, so try to answer me what it is, what's the important change? In fact, if I have read it correctly, and I do not understand it, the public road in the Republic of Croatia is the basis of the law so far, and in Article 2 of the law they consider general goods so that they cannot acquire ownership rights or other real rights on any basis. In accordance with this and the properties that are managed for the construction, reconstruction and maintenance of public roads, they become generally of the interest of the Republic of Croatia. The most important legal effect of declaring public roads is the exclusion of public roads from the general ownership regime, and therefore the possibility of being on them on any basis such as for example. legal work, law, court decision or other competent authorities acquire property and limited real law. This is why public roads can't even be implemented, they can't be established by forced... rights in insurance procedures and public roads do not enter the property of persons authorised by law to manage them. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] All this in a certain way also ensures special protection of public roads as well as of interest for the Republic of Croatia. Now it's a legal formulation. In this law, it is fundamental that this legal formulation of the proposed amendments and additions to the law achieves the establishment of a new legal regime, public roads as a public good in general use, outside legal traffic, also stands if it is a general good, on which property rights cannot be acquired, nor other real rights, other than the right of service and the right to build up municipal, economic and energy buildings. Where's the difference? So the general good where it is quite clearly defined, that if it is of general interest to the Republic of Croatia, I doubt it is the property of the Republic of Austria, I doubt it. Here, when a legal regime is declared to be a public good in general, then the Republic of Croatia can be registered as the owner of the public goods. There's probably a difference in legal interpretation, but in real terms, I don't see that there's any big difference. Because so far we've had a system where these roads couldn't even sell, because no one could get into... Right. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So the roads were pretty safe. We left out here in an explanation, when it goes to public good, we left out a part of this general good, so I don't know if now that the Republic of Croatia is registered as owner so don't let God come into bankruptcy, so God forbid someone else can become the owner of that road or road, or everything that's along the road is, I'm not sure. I am not a lawyer, please answer what is the basis and what is the difference between the general and the public and why we went to such a formulation, that the Republic of Croatia is then entered. I understand that by this law you wanted the property legal relations created by construction, reconstruction, maintenance of public roads to be extremely complex and determined by a series of... very distasteful regulations. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The systematic amendment of all these regulations would be a very long process, a very uncertain outcome, etc., and therefore the proposed solutions seek to adulate the problems identified in practice with minimal legal intervention. The solutions offered are proposed only to amend and supplement the Law on Public Roads, in that scope which will ensure the creation of an effective and consistent legal arrangement which will remove the problems observed in practice. That's how you do it, for example. with regard to the problem of maintaining the infrastructure, built on or outside roadland, of a large number of possible, proposed the solution to which this problem is effectively addressed, without the need to enter into a very complex ownership relationship with regard to that infrastructure, often arranged or at least determined by a series of other regulations. With this kind of explanation, which is why we're changing it, you're saying it's a general mess. We have general chaos so far as you say, and now we're going to wipe it out, or by one law, we're going to kind of cancel it out without getting involved in what's general chaos for the rest of us. What does that mean? I am not suspicious, but if it is the property of the Republic of Croatia, and if it is said to be not, it must be in general use outside legal traffic, and that they cannot be acquired the right of ownership or other real rights. The state can sell it anyway. Well, if it wasn't in the end, we'd sell the freeway to sort out the state budget somehow, because when it's generally good, it's a little harder to sell, but when I own the highway, then I can do with that good whatever I want. Well, it seems to me that this is how the law was quickly passed, by emergency procedure, hiding some kind of trap, and I can't detect it, so let me say out of my ignorance what may not be true or not true. But I'm afraid that sort of infrastructure, you said, that this way, the one who owns the road, or the one who has the road control he built, will not be able to maintain the infrastructure, which he's been doing so far. He had an infrastructure expert, a roadside infrastructure, which serves either the road or does not serve the road, and there's a road corridor that I like to call him is what's for the road, what's not for the road. There goes the Janaf corridor from that infrastructure, there goes the gas pipeline of the same infrastructure, there goes telecommunications, the same infrastructure. Will it be that he is not the owner of the Croatian road, he is not the owner of who, but the owner of the state so we will give it to someone else to manage, but whoever has managed it so far has maintained it, and not certainly the workers of the Croatian highway, someone else has managed or maintained that infrastructure. We are now going to give it to someone else, so we have defined it so strongly that it does not know who the other person is, because the buildings referred to in paragraph 1 and Article 7 of the new Law, Article 24, one says highways, Croatian roads, concessionaires, do not maintain this municipal infrastructure and energy building, but they will do so on the maintenance and management of persons who are under a special law or decision of the competent authority made on the basis of a specific law in charge of their maintenance and management. Tell me what special laws are, special decisions, special... who's the electrician, write down who it is, that we know who's going to take over what new people they are. It's just not clear who these people are. In Article 2, you say that the public road is registered in land books based on a valid and useful permit, public good in general use as an inalienable property of the Republic of Croatia with the right to manage Croatian highways, on highways, Croatian roads on the state road, county road administration on the county and local road, i.e. the administrative body of the City of Zagreb on the county and local road in the city of Zagreb. Great. But if I remember correctly, part of our roads is in the concession, so let's say BINA Istria has some kind of road concession, because what, she doesn't have that right and really forgot from this article to quote and BINA Istria or some other concessionaries that I don't know about, so I would pray if I had the right to put them on again not to experience another amendment and supplementing this law. I also don't understand, so don't do me, I'm not a lawyer, so don't judge me very much, but in article 11 of this Act, the property fee is owned by the Republic of Croatia. Read what we have now said is that it is the property of the Republic of Croatia, and otherwise it is owned by the Republic of Croatia, which is when public roads are reconstructed or maintained on property owned by the Republic of Croatia. This means, in the case of detachment from the forest economic area of forests and forest land owned by the Republic of Croatia for construction, etc., no compensation shall be paid. I guess when it's built by Croatian roads, when it's built by county roads, when it's built by municipal and city institutions, let's kind of understand that we shouldn't pay but what if a concessionaire comes to pay the concession x and won't pay any fee. Some stranger comes to build a road, we let him build and pay nothing, I don't understand why someone who's a stranger, who's not for the greater good, who's going to charge that road wouldn't pay a land fee owned by the Republic of Croatia, I don't understand it at all. I don't know why, it's kind of out of my ear that someone who comes here doesn't pay anything. I understand that the county, I understand that the state, I understand Croatian roads but I don't understand that someone who is, and he can come build a road that doesn't pay. And tell me another article, so this is important, then there's something irrelevant that's been used to change the law. So in Article 13 of the Law, although this was well resolved, the issue of liability for damage to the vehicle is proposed in a different way due to a sudden attack of savages on the public road. Namely, the hunting law stipulates that liability for the damage to the vehicle is borne by the driver unless it has adjusted the speed of traffic conditions on the road, so that it can act on traffic or sign in due time, or otherwise by the legal person who manages the roadside on which the damage occurred. The right to hunt is exceptionally borne if the damage is conditioned by carrying out the common hunt. So don't, please, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't. We have the Hunting Act, whoever's the tenant, pays the rent, the hunting grounds must be fenced, so let him have some responsibility because the livestock goes out somewhere, not that it's all responsible for the driver. I think it's extremely incorrect that on a small door like this, you're leaving the driver to blame or not alive for everything. Hunters are not guilty of anything, but the driver is always guilty. Also, Article 62, where the sources of public road financing are now listed 11 of these items, and then you said that in article 63, the level of the toll for the use of highways and buildings with charge of bridges, tunnels, viaduct and the like. The level of toll and toll collection system referred to in Article 62 shall be determined by the Croatian highways with the consent of the Government, I agree. And for public roads in the concession, the beneficiary of the concession. Put an end to the government's consent. Because if I pass the Učka tunnel in the BINA Istria concession, I ask you to then and with the agreement of the government of the tunnelary, that the government knows why Croatian roads and highways should have the consent of the Government when they determine the toll because that is some kind of social category add that whoever is in the concession must, with the consent of the Government, that the Government knows what they value, here it is. So, I told you at the beginning we will support this law, as it is, and please give one final version to know what it is. If you put a decimal point for the government, if it's possible to put it, see if you've forgotten about those concessionaries somewhere, and if anything else, let the hunters answer for something not just to hunt. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-10-0.u45132	Thank you, Agent Denoni. I see he's a little bit of a wake-up caller. The next and last reported club under this final draft of the law is on behalf of the HSS representative Boris Klemenic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-10-0.u45133	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, the Honorable Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Well, I won't be as long as my colleague Denon, but the same few sentences about these changes and additions to the Law on Public Roads. In fact, these amendments and additions to the Law on Public Roads are more detailedly regulated by the legal position of public roads and I believe that we will all agree, and the construction and maintenance of public roads. Public roads are considered generally good in the Republic of Croatia so that they cannot acquire ownership rights or other real rights on any basis. Accordingly, real estates that are managed for construction, reconstruction and maintenance of public roads become generally of interest to the Republic of Croatia. The most important legal effect of declaring public roads is the exclusion of public roads from the general ownership-legal regime, and therefore the possibility of being on them on any basis, such as legal work, law, court decision or other competent authorities, acquire property and restrictions on real rights. As a result, public roads cannot even be implemented, they cannot be established forcible rights in insurance procedures, and public roads do not enter the property of persons authorised under the law to manage them. All this in a certain way also ensures special protection of public roads as good of interest to the Republic of Croatia. Furthermore, a clear statement of the provisions of the law is prescribed that the cost of the construction of projects and construction of municipal, water and energy buildings as well as the building of electronic communications on public roads is borne by the investor of these buildings and is also required to bear all costs with the removal of existing municipal and other buildings outside the roadland. This avoids, i.e. correcting the existing arrangement under which the general good becomes and the infrastructure built on or outside the roadland, thus providing maintenance and use of that infrastructure falls on the burden of persons authorised to maintain the road, not on persons who are registered, specialised and equipped for those jobs. Such a solution is economically inefficient since infrastructure is maintained by a person with no necessary knowledge, skills, personnel and equipment to carry out the maintenance and infrastructure operations effectively. I will now list a few more questions that this law, i.e. amendments and amendments to the law, are being arranged. These are: exemption of the electronic toll system from the application of the Law on electronic money institutions. Payment of compensation for the financing of construction and maintenance of public roads, maintenance and management of infrastructure built on and outside the road land, extradition to move the infrastructure outside the roadland. Incomplete expropriation to move infrastructure outside roadland, change of maritime goods border to build reconstruction and maintenance of public roads, abolishing public water supply status owned by the Republic of Croatia for construction, reconstruction and maintenance of the public road and further issues that I think is unnecessary in this debate to repeat in particular, given that we have all received this proposal. However, citizens will be particularly interested in the provision of Article 13 of the amendment and the addition of the law, which suggests in a different way to address the issue of liability for damage to the vehicle due to the sudden attack of savages on the public road, which Denon, on behalf of the SDP Club, also spoke about. Namely, the Hunting Act stipulates that liability for the damage caused to the vehicle is borne by the driver unless it has adjusted the speed of traffic conditions on the road so that it can act on a traffic or sign in due time, and otherwise by the legal person who manages the traffic to which the damage occurred. Exceptionally from this provision, damage shall be borne by an authorisation of hunting rights if the damage is conditioned by the conduct of the common hunt. Such a provision deviates from the mandatory and legal principle that the damage caused by the fertilisation of gamers corresponds to the person who manages the hunting grounds from whose territory the game originates which caused such damage by the criteria of objective responsibility. Furthermore, this provision of the Hunting Act which intervenes in the objective responsibility of a person who manages the hunting grounds unfounded and unfounded is affected by the basic principles of Croatian mandatory law and the Law on Mandatory Relations, and objective responsibility is transferred to the person who manages the road on whose side there is no causal link that could be the basis of objective responsibility. Therefore, it is proposed that public road managers are responsible only if they have not acted in accordance with Article 7 of this Act. I will give an example, in Zagreb County last summer road situation Velika Gorica-Kravarsko when the works on the highway, i.e. the Zagreb-Sisak highway caused the mass flight of savages from their domestic terrains, i.e. the terrain on which they felt safe every day, on those on which wild animals felt most often themselves, but because of the lack of knowledge of the terrain, it was these splendours that were daily, the damages of both material and other natures, which were borne by drivers. And those suffered by savages, not to mention many situations when children in damaged cars witnessed such attacks and were forced to watch a heart attack, for example. How he guesses. Although this article regulates only responsibility for... the damage caused by the savages should oblige the performers on public roads to protect both drivers and savages by setting up a temporary fence in areas where it is certain that the habitats are savages and that the game will be upset. And finally, given that we have heard a lot here today about these amendments and additions to the law, the above-mentioned amendments and additions to the Law on Public Roads, we consider it essential to remove current obstacles to effective public road management and maintenance. Therefore, the HSS Representatives' Club will support this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-10-0.u45134	Thank you very much, Agent Klemnic. All the applications for the hearing have been exhausted. The word was requested by State Secretary Željko Tufekčić.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-10-0.u45135	Thank you, Madam Vice President. I thank Mr. Klemenic for helping me in my part of the job by explaining I mean especially this part of the part that concerns hunting and damages done by the savage. I'm not a lawyer either, but I'll try to explain these questions to you, these legal doubts. In fact, what is the fundamental difference between the common good and the public good? The fundamental difference is prescribed by the Constitution and the Law on Property and other real rights. In general, there is no title of ownership. So no, it's not in the ownership-law regime at all. So the owner is neither the Republic of Austria nor the Republic of Hungary, no one, because the general good public good in general is owned by the Republic of Hungary. and above all, we are talking about land owned by the Republic of Croatia, and after the construction of the road to obtain a useful permit, then it becomes a public good in general use. Until then, land and then remains owned by the Republic of Croatia. By building and obtaining an administrative permit, it becomes public good in general use. To show this on a concrete example, if some water line is located on road land so far since road land is generally good, there is no title holder of ownership itself and all that is on it is generally good and there is no title holder of ownership. So this water pipeline, which by nature would be owned by some kind of utility company or some other Croatian water is generally good. Now it stops being. So it's not going to be a good thing anymore, it's going to be possible to exercise the right to build or some other real right. The land will always be owned by the Republic of Croatia, but some kind of building will be able to be owned by someone else. And that someone else will run it and keep it. So far, it's been like HAC paying for the maintenance of all such HEP facilities, these ones. So there's a fundamental difference. As for the fee you mentioned payment fees, so far it's been good, so it wasn't owned by the Republic of Croatia, so the Republic of Croatia paid. Now it will be owned by the Republic of Croatia so there is no point in paying itself something. When it comes to concessionaries, it is always the obligation of the Republic of Croatia to grant land and move some existing installations located in the area of the future public road. In any case, it is the Republic of Croatia who will buy that land... if it remains the owner of that land, will not be the owner of the concessionary. I think this part of the hunt that Mr. Clemenic explained, I don't think there's any need. As for the price, you mentioned prices and consent, it means that the prices at HAC are determined by HAC with the previous consent of the Government, and that is not the case with the concession. That part of the law doesn't change. You read the existing article of the law. However, that part is also not the subject of the law, as the part is being settled by concession contracts. The concession contracts also provide for a way of determining prices. And it's almost exclusively a case to get the i.e. requires prior consent from the concentrate. So the Republic of Croatia, i.e. the Government must give prior consent, I think usually concession agreements are a prescribed way and an increase in prices in terms of transport, to rising prices etc. The increase in inflation is also defined by possible harmonisation of toll prices with some other developments. She's prescribed. Right when the concentrate, the concessionary has and how to raise the price. If the concentrate does not allow it then it usually compensates the consior from its own means of not raising the price of the toll. Here I think, I hope I've been able to explain a part of it. I thank all the clubs for the debate, and I thank everyone for supporting this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-10-0.u45136	Thank you very much. With this final word of the proposal's representative, we have concluded the debate on this final draft of the law. We'll vote on it when the conditions are met. At the same time, I'm concluding this first morning session at 3:00 a.m. on the agenda. I will remind you of the choice of members of the State Attorney's Council, and immediately thereafter the Final Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on State Support for Agriculture and Rural Development. Thank you very much, and I wish everyone a good time.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-10-0.u45137	We move to the Final Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Public Roads. It was an emergency procedure, P.Z.E. No. 487. Proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. I am voting on the final draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Public Roads. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? This law was adopted by most votes, 89 votes for, 9 abstentions and 1 against.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-10-0.u45138	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, we continue the session. - Selection of members of the State Attorney's Council, Proposer: Committee on Justice who carried out the procedure of proposing members of the State's Attorney's Council on the basis of Articles 144 and 145. Law on State's Attorney's Office. The proposal for an act has been sent to you by mail. The chairman of the board. No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. ... Come on, all right. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] HNS club, Mr. Representative Miljenko Doric. He went into the... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-10-0.u45139	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I won't take up much of your time, but we thought in front of the club we'd say a few words about this very important subject. In fact, we witnessed that these few days, especially yesterday, we were dealing with the criteria of progress in the judicial profession. We talked about the Justice Academy and the Law on the State's Attorney's Office, and this is just a continuation of that series of laws that have the same goal. The attempt to select absolutely the most qualitative personnel for individual functions in the judicial system is, in this case, the State's Attorney's Office. Namely, colleagues and colleagues have a whole series of suggestions ahead of us. I'm not saying our Justice Committee didn't do a good job, but I think they did the job properly, and we have candidates in front of us today who are being sent to us by the state's attorney. We have candidates in front of us who have sent us rectors of our law schools and we have clear candidates in front of individual clubs in the Parliament. And what prompted me to consider this matter at the club first, and to give you here in a few minutes is the conclusion, where it is said: it is proposed to the Croatian Parliament to elect 10 members of the State Attorney's Council, all proposed candidates of authorised applicants, in brackets 30, because they are found to meet the conditions for choice. This word of the conditions for choice moved us to report. What do the terms mean? And can we possibly do something better in the future? We at the club concluded that the state's attorney might have done his best and bravest job. He took very clear criteria, above all territorial representation, but then of course both professional and moral qualities, reputation in the profession and together with an extended College of State's Attorneys in a secret vote between always three candidates for each place came up with a single name. And of the 18 proposals, we came, according to his proposal, to six. Namely, he suggests 6. I think that's correct. I think they did the job bravely to the end. They had the strength to say that we had 18 reported, suggested, but we reduced it according to the criteria of the profession to just 6. And they're obviously suggesting we support them. I agree with that, I totally agree with that, and that's why I volunteered because here we are a little bit now in a situation that we are the ones who are going to have to choose two from the six proposed candidates by the Dean of Law College, and that by the six proposed candidates, we will choose two again. I would very much like the deans also suggested to us of six two that are significantly consistent with quality, because if you've been through their resumes a little bit, colleagues and colleagues, then you'll see that there's a big difference with the professional ops of these six candidates. From those who have left relatively little trace in the profession, to those who I would say very high-quality international recognition in their professional work, which is very good. I was a little confused that we were standing here in a report from our Justice Committee, for two members of the State's Attorney's Council from the ranks of professional professors, a meeting of the Dean of Law College established candidates in the next row. The next one confused me a little bit, thinking it was probably some sort of order of priorities they gave. But if you enter the materials they sent us, then it's not, it's not the order. They didn't say anything at all, but they gave us six names, and now it's up to us to go through their lifes and decide. It also happens with members, or candidates in front of clubs. My colleagues and colleagues, I would like to try to ask our Committee on Justice, so that he can suggest to us in the future. Yet you are men of the profession, yet you are men who know this system much better than I am a doctor. I would very much like you to suggest to me the basis of the professional, qualitative criteria which of those six are in one group and the other we should support. In the Council of Europe, I am sitting as a member of our delegation, and there, when judges are elected from the Court of Human Rights, there from three proposed candidates from each country always come down to one, based on professional criteria, lawyers sitting on that committee. And it hardly ever happened that at the plenary session, parliamentarians would vote for someone else. The profession is respected, the attitude of the profession is respected, and the desire is clear that this system is improved to clearly those of some limits that can be based on the arguments available to it. Therefore, it is the request of the HNS Club that we continue clearly to go in the right direction, but to be even more courageous in the future and that you who are legal professions and who are sitting in the Committee on Justice may even suggest and which of them have advantages over other candidates in order for this council to truly do its job better and better in the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-10-0.u45140	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. In accordance with Article 231 of the Financial The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, on the election of members of the State's Attorney's Council, will be held in secret vote. Since the number of candidates proposed is higher than the number elected, we will vote when the conditions are met. First, I'd like to read the result of the vote for members of the State Attorney's Council. Out of a total of 153 ballot MPs to elect members of the state's attorney council, 101 MPs were accepted by the deputy state's attorneys, with 101 MPs and MPs voting. There were no wrong ballots. The candidates received the next number of votes. Igor Bijelic didn't get any. Josip Čule 37, Danica Damjanović 5, Snježana Frković 36, Jozo Jurčević 62, Bozena Jurković 4, Darko Karlović 93, Darko Klir 93, Željko Krpan 34, Zvonko Kuharić 64, Višnja Lončar 62, Drago Marincel 2, Krunoslav Stjepan Rajačić empty, Vlado Sirotic according to this same blank, Radovan Shantek 1, Tanja Šušak 59, Zvezdna Verk 31, Milojko Vukković 3. I declare that Jozo Jurčević, Darko Karlović, Darko Clear, Zvonko Kuharić, Višnja Lončar and Sanja Šušak were elected as members of the National Attorney's Council of State. I declare that out of the 153 representatives of the ballot for the election of members of the State Attorney's Council in the order of the university professors of legal science received 101 ballots and voted 101, invalid 1. The candidates received the next number of votes. Igor Bojanić 4, Davor Derencinović 65, Zlata Đurđević 90, Silvija Petric 5, Sasa Šegvic 29 and Petar Vejic 5. I declare that Zlata Đurđević and Prof. Davor Derencinović. I declare that out of the 153 MPs of the ballot for the election of members of the State Attorney's Council from the ranks of the Croatian Parliament, 101 MPs received the vote and 101, there were no invalid votes. The candidates received the next number of votes. Ingrid Antičević-Marinović 79, Davor Bernardić 5, Stanko Grčić 3, Mario Habek 4, Milorad Pupovac 8, Josip Salapić 83. I declare that Josip Salapić and Ingrid Antičević-Marinović were elected as members of the State Attorney's Council of the Croatian Parliament. Congratulations to the members of the State Attorney's Council on the election and I wish them a lot, a lot of success in their work.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-10-0.u45143	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. Here's a brief introduction and an explanation. Like all countries in the environment, the Republic of Croatia has faced the consequences of the global economic crisis, which is evident at negative economic growth rates this year. In preserving macroeconomic stability and creating conditions for recovery and stable economic growth, it puts great emphasis on the implementation of such a fiscal policy that will ensure the liquidity and stability of the public finances system. Accordingly, a reduction in the expenditure of the state budget for the next period is planned, which will take place to a certain extent in the agriculture sector through a reduction in the budget for the implementation of the support measures in agriculture and rural development. The year 2010 is the most important year in adapting legislation and implementing preparations for the application of the European Union acquis on support for agriculture. In light of the latest knowledge and assessment of this Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on State Support in Agriculture, the following issues are settled. The threshold for the calculation of modulation from 36 thousand to 100 thousand kuna is also increased, a correction of the amount of incentives for... corn seed in 2008, also extends the deadlines for the implementation of the national rural development programme and sublegal rules governing local support for multiple compliance and rural development measures. The implementation of income support is also improved. More clearly, the resolution of inspection supervision in the second stage is defined and the rights for direct payment of the producer of the fruit material produced and declared in 2008 and sold in 2009. It is also important to note that the draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law will have no effect on the state budget and will be implemented through the redistribution of already approved State budgets for 2009. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-10-0.u45144	Thank you. The Committee on Agriculture, Fisheries and Rural Development, the Committee on Law? I'm opening a debate. SDP representative club Mr Dragutin Bodakoš. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-10-0.u45145	Thank you very much, Vice President of the Parliament, Mr Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Here we have here today the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on State Support for Agriculture and Rural Development with the Final Proposal of the Law and can only conclude that there are no 6 months that we have passed the Law on State Support for Agriculture and Rural Development where the Proposer pointed out that changes are necessary both in order to adapt to the system of the common policy of the European Union and because the current system cannot meet the challenges of global change which are very much reflected in Croatian producers. These are the first sentences in the material of the 6th month, and we thought that it would make one turn in this whole support system. However, and then we pointed out that these were not support coordinated yet in Europe, there was talk that these were transitional, etc., but here we got a new law and we thought that we had solved some things. But already today something that has been firmly promised that the Government and the Ministry of Agriculture have been trying to see us change from this. And it will, as it has been before change, go through here today we have 8 articles, probably soon there will be new changes likely to be 10 or less articles, but what is important and what I want to emphasize is no one will ask what money is behind it, how much our producer loses and how much it may get because there is no one in the budget, in these changes there is not just a single value. I will try to illustrate in this article 5 what this article 5 says, and it says Article 82 is deleted, it is an article that, here, we delete 82 and what we delete. It is explained that the incentive is reduced from 2250 kuna for rape corn, in 2008 and will be paid at the initial height of 1250 kuna as the amount of the incentive for feeding plants. I'm putting myself up now that we're going into one chronology, how it even came to be that corn with 2250 kunas is being stimulated. It all happened this year, and on January 8, 2009. The Government of Ivo Sanader by means of a regulation that regulates certain questions from the Parliament's section, which was the term when Parliament did not work, adds in the current Law a new line, behind the corn grains, wheat and rye a new line that reads corn per hectare 2250 kuna. Neither did the Parliament discuss it, after that system to confirm this regulation. The question arises as to why such a regulation was adopted immediately after the new year, so the local elections were probably at the door, so it's not bad for us to raise our support for corn, and so the Parliament will confirm how much money it was then no one asked or it didn't matter. However, in the 6th month of 2009, when I made a new Law that I said something at the outset, someone at the end of Article 82, the Law adds that the incentives for the descent of corn seed in 2008 would be paid at the height of 2250 kuna. Gentlemen, when this House passed this bill, the descending corn had long been eaten and it was well known how hot it was, what revenue per hectare and total production. But no one said anything about it at the time, and here I am today to tell you that it was sown in 2008 in 29 thousand 892 hectares of the surface area of the descending corn. That nature was 37.5 tonnes per hectare and that total production was of a million 120 thousand 226 tonnes of total production. The production index compared to 2007 was 156. Based on this data, I have now calculated that the rape corn needed to pay 67 million 257 thousand kuna. Many have likely had that calculation as much as 10, 50, 100 or more hectares will receive funds. No one was talking about that money at the time, but it was written that these money would be worth it. The next question is, what is this rape corn used for? There was probably a reason why he put on and that the support premium was increasing. This downward corn is primarily 50% dairy for cows. We also know the milk situation. Peasants' protests at 6th of the 7th of the month. A few days ago, these protests were again required, as well as the result of the 7 - month promise. Both today's prime ministers and Vice-President Polancec were told to intervene for market interventions to milk producers and 180 million were then given to milk producers over the next 6 months. That's six months. It passed last week, and now that these producers have again come to Minister Cobankovic's office, this extended to 31.03.2010, which is probably the new 100 million. And what's next? This ministry either accepts new promises or new amendments to the Support Act. It is this chronology of Article 5 that I have expressed to show that it must not be done because for the success of the economy it is necessary for the state to give certain gauges, which are in this case also these support in which and with which the entrepreneur can work, and not to change them every little bit. That is why we cannot accept this way of reducing this downward corn because I believe and therefore we have given our 4 MPs an amendment to Article 5 to delete it because this particular reduction of support for the 2008 rape corn to those 29 thousand hectares will certainly damage those who have counted on such support. Those who are primarily dairy producers and who have just calculated and supported the cost of the milk. With this depriving of support, we are making them even more difficult to deal with. I think that we should give the producers the opportunity that they have certain gauges with which they can count from the state and on this basis also create a certain price of costing a liter of milk, not solving with promises, or when they appear before the ministry, I don't know before any institution and therefore give them the opportunity to use one pressure and those who work and who don't work well get some funds. That's why I think if we've already brought in such a provision and we said it would pay off, I think it's more correct to pay off than to take off that support, to go back to those 1250 kunas, no ministry has forced it to raise to 2250 kuna and not to reduce that amount for those 29 thousand acres by nearly 30 million kuna instead. As for increasing the modulation threshold in this section, I think that's good. It's good in a situation where we're going to catch an even bigger number of these because certainly up to 100,000 aren't some people who are going to get rich even though such modulations were in the previous law. Unfortunately, however, this was neither beneficial nor implemented. It is good that 95% of the OPGs will be excluded from these modulations, but the question is also, what does it mean that 5% of the total number of users takes 57% of the support? I think that's why it's the ministry's obligation to return this amount, these 5% of the users, through modulation, and to use it in rural incentives, in the rural part, because unfortunately, according to these further provisions, the weakest and those nursing households probably won't be able to get into the VAT system, and they could very easily be left completely unencumbered. Therefore, this part of the modulation should be strictly implemented and these 57% of the incentives for these 5% of total users to return to this part for rural development and thus enable those who are not, who will certainly become social cases, to be given some of the support for their development through that part. At the end of this section relating to the adoption and demand of an extension around this National Rural Development Programme by the end of November 2010, and 11 months, respectively. You set your own conditions, although that part would be better and we talked about the National Rural Development Programme if we wanted to withdraw some funds and they would be over 50% of European ones, then it would certainly be better to do it as soon as possible and to discuss it as quickly as possible and thus try to get in as quickly as possible when we are in this situation to withdraw those funds. Here's what I can say on behalf of the SDP club and think about the amendment that we've given will be about our vote for these amendments to the law on state support. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-10-0.u45146	Thank you. The club of representatives of the CNS Mr. Representative Zlatko Koračević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-10-0.u45147	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President, representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues. At the beginning of the Croatian People's Party club will support this bill. In fact, the facts and witnesses are that we have one literally ruins in the legislation governed by agricultural production and that we are trying to bring with us a series of laws to some order and create a legislative basis, and that we could use the funds available to us at the moment of entry into the European Union and 2012 at the time of entry into the European Union. 242 million euros, 2013 438m euros or a total of 680m euros as potential. And, unfortunately, according to all simulations, this potential is less than half with concrete projects and concrete programmes, and therefore this law goes back to the legislative procedure after 6 months, so that as many things as are normal in some order, and in the end of 2013, we will end up with a negative balance, in other words we will use a financial envelope that is made available to us for the agriculture sector, rather than paying European taxes. I would like to remind all of us and all of you that in June 2003 a common agreement was adopted on the reform of agricultural policy within the European Union, in 2003. That, by adopting the reform, the Union has stepped into a completely new common agricultural policy which has its deadline by 2013, that the reason for the decision to accept the reform was more and one of the most important negotiations within the World Trade Organisation in the area of trade in agricultural products and that the reform on agricultural policy to the European Union, the European Union has instructed all its main trading partners, and, above all, developing countries that as the world's largest food exporter, it is ready to leave the model of agriculture that causes serious disturbances in the world market for agricultural products, gradually reduce and remove export subsidies and increase availability to the European Union's common market. Agriculture is given an entirely different dimension, which is to care about the general good, environmental protection, preventing people from leaving the village, developing rural areas, safe and quality food and strengthening the economic power of the region, animal welfare, etc. I repeat in 2003. We're in 2009. How much we have done in this segment in law and practice, I repeat, in order to get closer to the objectives set by the European Union in 2003, and since 2013, it has changed the model and adapted to new conditions and new opportunities. The reform of the common agricultural policy requires farmers to meet the conditions in the field of environmental protection, healthy food, identification and registration of animals, the reporting of diseases and animal welfare or a total of 19 different directives. Areas must be processed in accordance with good agricultural and ecological practices in order to avoid abandonment and other environmental problems. Each Member State must ensure that the areas that will remain as pastures when the country enters the European Union will be treated and guided. Namely, why am I saying that? We at the Croatian People's Party Club that these particular facts are the basis and basis in which Croatia as an organised state of the sea, either had to or should have led a agricultural policy and brought agricultural policy into line with the objectives of the European Union given our certain entry into the European Union. And what is most important is to ensure and ensure a very clear strategy of agriculture during this period which we at the club of the Croatian People's Party have always warned, especially during every debate, regardless of the law in the agricultural segment we discussed in the Croatian Parliament. And we believe that based on these principles and respect for these particulars, that only in this way can Croatian producers occupy a very specific plan and aim of production for one longer period, not as an example for us. Each new minister brings some new incentives, some products achieve three basic incentives, and in any case, depending on the need to buy political or care for one segment of this country, and this segment I am talking about agricultural policy, rural agricultural economies today is in an extremely difficult situation. Honor of exceptions, but a great deal that were forced not to process what they had, who were forced to leave that production they had, who were forced to react at the moment when real water came to their throats and when the government had to normally intervene with fire measures. However, 2012 is very close, not to talk about all other years further. And there may be one reason why this assembly has never discussed the situation in agriculture since 2002, and according to the new Agriculture Act, only a report on the situation in agriculture will be published in the National Journal and this is a form of transparency of information proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia according to the segment of agricultural economies. I am this Law on State Support for Agriculture and Rural Development, we at the Croatian People's Party Club want to warn three things. First, multiple conformity. What does multiple conformity mean? We have also warned of the consequences for the agricultural economy of respect for the multiple compliance defined in Article 8. In fact, multiple compliance is nothing more than adherence and implementation of the 19 directives as part of good agricultural practice. And I think it would be a good idea for the Resort Ministry to do one survey and to see the scale of how many farmers have ever heard of multiple compliance, which means for them. Which for their economy means multiple compliance and whether they are even aware of what multiple compliance means for their economy, that it is investing in the economy. What is our financial situation in agricultural economies, are they even possible? Is there any way I can invest, and we're making a legal commitment? The fact that a large part of the agricultural holdings is over-indebted. The fact that buyers don't pay within some normal payment period. The fact that product prices are falling, that the prices of the input are rising, and at this point on average 78% of the farms in Croatia do not have adequate accommodation and farmers will be forced to continue to deal with livestock production while respecting this multiple compliance, build and storage facilities. For example, in Varazdin County, I would like to remind myself that respect for the nitrate directive on the basis of the 2003 agricultural list, standing or rather speaking, a total of 78m euros will be needed. On one example, it costs 40 cows, an investment of Circ. 50,000 euros. From what means will the peasants invest it? In fact, all of this is stated by us at the Croatian People's Party club, we make it clear that we need to invest far more energy and will and money and knowledge than with the proposal to amend something that is a European obligation, but we do not evaluate and treat European negotiators as good students when we bring into our legal provisions something that we are not realistically able to achieve. Furthermore, an integral system for the administration of direct payments or better put ar at the system. As far as we know, in order to enroll in the ar code system it is necessary to bring a possession or ownership list. And now I'm asking you colleagues and colleagues, if anyone in this country is familiar with the situation on the ground at all. How many OPGs have arranged property-legal relations, have we conducted any campaigns to enable people to edit the documentation as quickly and easily as possible. And this is one example where a peasant will have to invest, because unless he invests, unless he enters this system he will in an indirect way because he will not be able to achieve an incentive or a direct way to be sanctioned. And that raises the question that these people's frames were created by the state, which is the basic task of helping these peasants. And that story could come down to a clean comparison, you got a fishing stick, you know where the fish is, but you don't have a flax and you don't have hooks. Further, modulation system. In paragraph 2, point 2 is replaced by the following: Four percent is a little weird. That means those who get more wages less. And I think that, above all, every country within the European Union, every EU country, within the European Union, would have its own agricultural policy and way of paying for support. And I believe that Croatia should determine the top maximum in obtaining support, because in the environment of Croatia there are countries that consume it and with them it is quite different. Some have a limit of 20 cows and 100 acres or so. But in countries where it's not that modulation, it's a lot bigger. The rule should be, if you get more and more you need to take, because the cost of production at 5 hectares scattered into several parts and 200 hectares in a piece is not the same. If the incentive is the difference in price due to type and method of production then we should behave as well. We therefore propose that modulations in the class between 100,000 and 2 million and 160 be significantly less than proposed now. And to support more than 2 million and 160 to be significantly larger, and I'd say 30 and 50%. And finally, as this law is actually of a technical nature, we at the Croatian People's Party club will support it. However, we also warn of the unseriousness and creaminess of the proposing when the laws are proposed. In six months we're talking about the same subject, that there's no vision. But I also warn of non-compliance, of proposing individual solutions within one and the same resistor. Whether the latest personnel update at the Ministry of Agriculture, rural development has a chance of putting things in the area that will be good for agricultural producers we will soon see. However, farmers with full right have to be extremely disappointed in this area. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-10-0.u45148	Thank you. The HDZ representative club, Mr. Representative Kreso Filipovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-10-0.u45149	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State with a co-worker, co-workers and fellow MPs. Here is a proposal for an amendment to the Law on State Support in Agriculture and Rural Development adopted by this House just over five months ago or more precisely on 3 July 2009. At the beginning of this debate, I would like to say that we from the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community will support the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on State Support for Agriculture and Rural Development, as we have done in particular in the adoption of a completely new law, which in this pre-accession period is practically the basis for the gradual adaptation of the national support system with the common agricultural policy of the European Union, in the area of market price policy and rural development policy. Of course, the adjustment of national agricultural policy, with the common agricultural policy of the European Union and the reform of the support system, did not start yesterday, but lasted for many years, practically since 2001, when we passed a new law, until the day that the Agriculture Act was in force. And that is why, although the substance of the proposed amendments and the addition of the law is not further reforming the support system in the Republic of Croatia, I will say a few sentences on the development of the national support system for agriculture in the past period. So let us remember that the Law on State Support in Agriculture, Fisheries and Forestry was passed in 2002, when it was practically a significant turn in the agricultural policy of the Republic of Croatia. The established system of support which was implemented by the middle of this year was significantly more transparent, and more financially generous year by year compared to the previous system. From that point of view, there is indeed one of the key mechanisms for implementing agricultural policy in the Republic of Croatia, given the fact that at that time we have taken the view that it is necessary to fully separate commercial support from those non-commercial ones. It means those aids that are intended to be produced for the commercial agricultural holding. At the same time, assumptions were created for the start of structural reforms of Croatian agriculture by introducing a model of capital support, and support for rural development, which were eventually improved both in quantitative and qualitative terms. I would especially like to emphasise here in 2004 when the operational programme for the development of bovine production and the operational programmes for the raising of multi-annual plantations was adopted. Of course, several more operational programmes have been adopted in the coming years. So, this approach over the past years, when much more money has gone to equipment and technical technological improvement in production, and through operational programmes to increase the volume of agricultural production, particularly in the case of fruit, grapes, olives, and meat and milk, has certainly contributed significantly to the structural reforms of Croatian agriculture. Of course, it also raises the overall competitiveness of Croatian agricultural producers. The mentioned fact that the increase in production volumes is today proved to be extremely important through the negotiation process with the European Commission, in terms of production quotas, and the overall financial envelope, where they are taken for their determination of certain reference periods. This simplifies the fact that the larger agricultural area provides greater production, and the higher quantity production gives greater chances for larger production quotas, as well as for higher financial resources, which, according to the preliminary envelope, is shown to be correct. What we consider necessary is highlighted as a problem when it comes to the agricultural support policy, which was faced by all the countries of the former accession to the European Union, and today the Republic of Croatia, is the one divide in which they were at the moment of accession to the European Union. In particular, while the European Union has major problems with surpluses in agricultural production, which is why through the reform of the support system, four in the last 15 years, is seeking to reduce production and production support by introducing a single payment scheme by economy, while at the same time preserving the sustainability of agricultural production and achieving the highest standards in terms of product quality, human health, animal welfare and environmental protection. On the other hand, all accession countries, mainly as today the Republic of Croatia, have problems with the deficit in this production and are more difficult to increase and produce in order to create negotiations with the European Commission, before entering the European Union, have better negotiating positions. Therefore, to achieve this goal, a policy of support that goes towards raising the level of production, and strengthening the competitiveness of agricultural producers, as in particular the Republic of Croatia has implemented in the past few years, but it is also crucial to go towards the gradual adoption of European standards through legislative and institutional adaptation in order to be fully able to withdraw funds from the European funds for agriculture by entering the European Union. It is precisely the new Act on State Support for Agriculture and Rural Development, adopted this summer, that assumes the gradual adaptation of the national system of support with the common agricultural policy of the European Union, in the area of market measures for price policy and rural development, which also allows an appropriate transitional period for our farmers to better prepare for a competitive performance on the common but extremely demanding market for agricultural products of the European Union. So the policy of support governed by the State Support Act, which we still have today, is at a certain pace with the support policy in the European Union, which is quite understandable at this point. Since such an approach is permitted, we from the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community, we think it is good that we have kept it until the entry into the European Union because it is in the interest of our agricultural producers. As I said in the opening section, the Amendments and Supplements of the Law on State Support for Agriculture and Rural Development does not foresee any significant changes that would mean further adaptation to the support system, with that support system in the European Union, but rather a few changes which are primarily said I would try to adapt to the current economic situation in Croatia, with the aim of easing the consequences that could have, and which could most easily be hit by small, mostly family agricultural economies. So the proposed amendments and additions to the law bring us the next newspaper. There's an increase in modulation threshold from 36 to 100,000 kuna. I'm not going to talk about it in particular, they were talking about my predecessors. The rate of support for the income of agricultural holdings is increasing from 12 to 24 thousand kuna. It enables the exercise of the right to incentives for fruit material, which was produced and recognised in 2008, sold during the first half of this year. The deadline for the preparation of the National Rural Development Programme is hereby moved, bringing it into line with the deadline for the adoption of the National Programme for Agriculture and Rural Development, as well as the deadlines for the establishment of certain sublaws. In a better and more appropriate manner, the members of the committee shall be appointed to resolve complaints against the solution of agricultural inspectors and their professional conditions. I am not going to talk too much about Article 5 because my colleague Bodakoš said a lot on behalf of the club, so he almost devoted his whole and discussion to Article 5 and I don't think it's necessary to repeat what this article regulates. Finally, the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community will support the adoption of the proposed amendments and the addition of the Law on State Support to Agricultural and Rural Development, primarily for the reason that in one part, respecting the current difficult economic situation, it aims to contribute to and contribute to the most vulnerable groups of family farms. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-10-0.u45150	Thank you. The club of representatives of HSS, Mr. Representative Boris Klemenic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-10-0.u45151	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State with an associate. The Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on State Support for Agriculture and Rural Development will deal with several issues of which we hold several of the most significant. We've heard in previous exhibitions an increase in modulation threshold from 36,000 kuna to 100,000 kuna. The current threshold for the application of modulation by a holding of 36,000 kuna and condition that support recipients below that threshold have been excluded has proved to be too low in practice. In particular, this amount today is inappropriate in view of the current economic situation and the situation in the agriculture sector, which is the most severely affected by the group of economies that have annual incomes from 40 to 140 thousand kuna. It is therefore worth mentioning that accepting a proposal that increases this threshold to 100 thousand kunas enables the exclusion of 95% of economies from modulation. On the basis of the payments for the 2008 production year, it was found that, in the category of up to 36,000 kuna, almost 80,000 agricultural holdings, it was estimated that by increasing the threshold to 100 thousand kuna, it would be excluded from the calculation of the additional modulation of around 8,8 thousand and 800 agricultural holdings which were the recipients of around 19 % of the total support. So the modulation system would cover about 4800 major economies and we all know that these 4800 economies make up all 5% of the total number of users. It's a very small number, but it's worth more than 57% of the total support based on direct wages. The increase in modulation thresholds to 100 thousand kunas is consistent with efforts to exclude approximately 95% of direct payment users from the application of mandatory modulation. As regards the alignment of the right to direct payments to producers of fruit material, we also heard in the debate that certain producers of fruit material faced the problem of achieving incentives on fruit material due to the difference in date and manner of submission of payment applications for fruit material in accordance with the applicable law on state support for agriculture and rural development and the old State aid law in agriculture and mining. The proposed transitional and final provision stipulating that fruit material produced and recognised in 2008 and sold from 1 January to 15 June 2009 will be eligible for payment for the production of fruit material in accordance with the State Support Act for Agriculture and Rural Development if they submit the request by 31 December of this year. It will enable the exercise of the right to direct payments and those producers of fruit material that have not successfully achieved so far. The part of the implementation of the income support model is about nomotechnical improvement in the text concerning the continuity of the implementation of the income support model at the amounts which have been applied so far, and it was necessary to specify the intensity of the support. So so far, the 12 thousand kuna that stands in the current law without any indication of whether the farmer or the economy has increased the intensity of the support to 24 thousand kunas, with the indication that this is by the agricultural economy, sees the addition of four rural development measures. This Proposal for a Law reduces the amount of incentive for maize seed in 2008. It is therefore proposed to delete the provision of Article 82, which regulates that incentives for rapeous corn seed in 2008 will be paid at an amount of 2250 kuna. In order to reduce budget resources, the incentive for rape corn was subsequently increased in 2009 in accordance with the base amount provided for in the Law on State Support in Agriculture and Fisheries, which amounts to 1250 kuna per hectare. It is also important to point out that the deadlines for drawing up the national rural development programme and sublegal rules governing local support for multiple compliance and rural development measures are being extended. In view of the additional need for harmonisation with the EU acquis, it is proposed to extend the deadline for the creation of sublegal regulations governing local support, multiple compliance and rural development measures. And up to a year since the law was passed. By doing so, the deadline for the adoption of these sublaws would be the end of July 2010. It is also proposed to extend the deadline for drawing up a national rural development programme by the end of November 2010, i.e. for an additional 11 months compared to the current law. In this way, the deadline for the adoption of this Programme shall be aligned with the deadline for the adoption of the National Programme for Agriculture and Rural Development set out in the Agriculture Act. This brings together the harmonisation of the hodograms of the adoption of these two documents, of which the first programming document is in line with the requirements of the European Union, and of the second programme document of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, which determines first and foremost the multiannual budgetary framework and the ratio of budgetary expenditure between the first and second pillars of the agricultural policy. The appointment of members of the commission to all state officials in the Ministry has been extended in order to carry out inspection surveillance more effectively in the second instance. According to the current provisions, the commission consisted of two agricultural inspectors and one state official from the ministry. The proposal for amending and supplementing the Law will not have an impact on the state budget. It will be implemented through the redistribution of the already approved state budget for 2009. In order to reduce the incentive for sine corn from 2250 kuna to 1250 kuna per hectare according to the estimates, the payment of the users will be reduced by around 25.6 million kuna. Additional payments are estimated in 2009 for fruit material produced and certified in 2008 and sold by 15 June 2009 will need to be allocated around 12 million kuna. For these items for the incentives of production surpluses of around 25.6 million kuna, it will be re-allocated to items showing a lack of funds due to the reduction of the total agricultural budget. Correct me if I'm wrong, Secretary of State. And the change in modulation thresholds will not directly affect the overall agricultural budget but only the allocation of funds between incentives and rural development funds. Namely, by increasing the modulation threshold from 36,000 kuna to 100 thousand kuna, it will be excluded from mandatory reductions in accounting rights by 7% of the additional about 8 and a half thousand agricultural holdings in 2009. This will reduce the amount of modulated funds for estimated €13.8 million. This amount will reduce the additional inflow of funds intended to finance rural development measures in accordance with Article 18(4). The Law on State Support for Agriculture and Rural Development. We in the HSS Club estimate that these changes and additions will help overcome the consequences of both the financial and economic crisis in the agriculture sector, and we know that support in rural development is one of the most significant foundations of small family economies in maintaining their production. We know that we aim to preserve as many family economies as possible and to better prepare them for the competition that awaits them in the EU. It is therefore necessary to take all the measures at our disposal to create conditions for our agricultural producers, i.e. enable them to overcome the problems they have today, which it has brought with it this year and which will follow us in the following year 2010. And eventually, the HSS Club will accept this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-10-0.u45152	Thank you. One correction, Mr. Representative Dragutin Bodakosh.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-10-0.u45153	Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, I would like to correct the false allegations that Mr. MP said will be reduced by 25.6 million kuna for the descending corn. However, since according to official data, 29,000 892 hectares were radiated, it should be 29 million 892 thousand kuna, but worse than that, too, in 7 months. when Article 82 was adopted, it was brought here to end this now. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-10-0.u45154	An individual debate. Ms. Representative Nada Cavlović Smiljanec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-10-0.u45155	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State with an associate, colleague and colleague. Well, for seven months. This year, we passed the Law on State Support for Agriculture and Rural Development, and when this law was passed, it was said that it was an extremely good law that it is European and as such necessary for Croatia. However, it should be remembered what kind of environment, or what was really happening in agriculture during 2009. In short, the total chaos is becoming more difficult for farmers and disrespect for this government's deadlines for the incentives that farmers were entitled to. I remind you that no incentives have been paid today for 2008. Part of the incentive was paid through vouchers, during the night the right to return capital investments was abolished. As much as you can trust this government. This year we were faced with peasant protests because of the low ransom price of wheat. The price of milk is halved. We know that many dairy farms are closed, peasants are sold cattle for debt, but throughout the year, promises have been made to raise the price of wheat and the price of milk protection, ministers have promised, peasants have gone home and after a month nothing has happened, or none of the promises have been respected. The situation in agriculture is never worse. The peasants, especially from Slavonia, have never been in a more difficult position. So how is it possible if, for years from the state budget, really significant funds are allocated to the agriculture sector and to incentives? On the one hand, we gave incentives to our peasants, and on the other hand we allowed the enormous imports again, which directly destroyed our peasants' domestic production. The farmers of Slavonia are really on their knees. They don't really know what to produce anymore, and they don't have anything to do with it, they don't have the means. Those who sow wheat this year because of the extremely low buying-in price of wheat as blackmail by the redeemers around the buying-in price of the wheat were doing business at a loss. They don't have the means to sow. I told the ministry instead of money, he's giving the peasants a voucher, but the villagers need money, not vouchers. And we see in the 2010 State budget the funding for agriculture has been significantly reduced. This law proposes a reduction in the amount of incentives for corn corn sowing in 2008 that Bodakoš, on behalf of the SDP club, said quite a bit. There is no money for peasants who were expecting an incentive for a 2250 kuna corn rape, and the reason it is said to be a reduction in budgets. As much as you can trust this government, first you promise to delete it from the law. Finally, I would like to say something about Article 19(2) of the Law since the application of that article has been delayed for a number of years. According to Article 19(2), the condition for the achievement of the original payments for the family holding which in 2009 achieved more than 12,000 kunas of income tax receipts must be in the status of the taxpayer, i.e. those holders of agricultural holdings will be taxpayers of income tax. I would now ask the secretary of state here, I really come from Virovitica-Podravska County and the peasants are not familiar, or is it not clear to them whether this means that all those farmers who during 2009 have achieved incentives greater than 12 thousand kunas must automatically be taxpayers of income tax? If that's the case, then I have to say that this is a really low amount of incentive to enter the income tax system means automatically and to keep business books for peasants, it also means that peasants must have their own accountant. So they also have to issue their accounts, so one new financial burden for farmers and I think that this amount of 12 thousand kuna is really too low and that it should really be considered or maybe that amount should be increased in any case. I think that this article is well interpreted because we see that this article, i.e. this item 2, will apply 01.01.2010, and farmers almost know nothing about it. We know that they have so far, regardless of how much support they received, had the right to be enrolled only in the register of agricultural holdings, and this newspaper means now that the application of this article can say that farmers will indeed be made more difficult by their position and means this automatically not only increases the costs of keeping books and paying income taxes but also increases the costs from the title of the contribution because the contribution paid by farmers who are not bonds of this income tax is significantly lower than the contributions paid by farmers in the income tax system. They are almost equated with income tax bonds from independent activities. And finally, I'd like to say hello to you for increasing that modulation threshold by 36 to those 100,000 kunas. I think that provision is really good, but what is worrying and what my colleague Bodakosh also said in front of the SDP club is a worrying fact that these 57% incentives, i.e. support, receive only 5% of the users. These are significant large agricultural producers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-10-0.u45156	Thank you. Final review, State Secretary Srecko Selanac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-10-0.u45157	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. as first of all, I would like to thank the honourable parliamentary representatives and representatives for this constructive discussion. I would just point out, perhaps even underline some things that are relevant to both the law and the support system, that is, these changes that we are also proposing here. It is mentioned here that in 2003 there was also a more significant reform, i.e. a more significant shift in the conditions of fostering agricultural production where direct support was given, i.e. direct payments, but also on various rural development models that should have helped small and small farmers. I would just like to note that it was in 2003, 2004, but in Croatia we have also introduced in our legislation into our system of agricultural support a model of support for rural development. And these amendments to the law are also the continuation of this adjustment, i.e. the continuation of this process of adapting and sharing direct support from support related to support for rural periods, i.e. smaller, smaller farmers, not even always dealing with agricultural production. It is also pointed out here on several occasions through working discussions that the support in Croatia is well developed and that we fully agree, because we can see that our support system in the Republic of Croatia is very well developed. We can compare it in any element with aid in the old Member States, especially if we look at the support that existed in the new Member States before they entered the European Union, then we are far, far ahead of all the new Member States. This support is also more developed with us, both by volume, by the number of different cultures of different support systems, but also by the amounts that we as the Republic of Croatia pay to our agricultural producers. What is also important is that we are now in exactly one very intense adjustment process, the legislation of the European Union, and we can say that our support system needs to be fully adapted to the support of the European Union and built into it all necessary specificities. Normally, this process cannot go in one document and normally this process will take place step by step and we will gradually adapt it as possible through our opportunities, but also our users' incentives as they can adapt to them. It has also been said on several occasions that the European Union support system is likely to change in 2013. It will certainly be improved, it will surely suffer certain improvements from the members of the European Union themselves, so they can also now announce that new models are expecting us, or new adjustments to that system that are coming through the next few years, especially in 2013. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-10-0.u45158	Thank you. I'm closing the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-10-0.u45159	We move on to the Final Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on State Support in Agriculture and Rural Development. It was an emergency procedure, P.Z.E. No. 484. The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The amendment was submitted jointly by representatives Dragutin Bodakoš, Goran Heffer, Nada Čavlović Smiljanec and Vlatko Podnar. I would like to ask the representatives of the proposer to be informed of the proposed amendment to Article 5. Mr. Happy Selenec, State Secretary. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-10-0.u45160	Mr. President, the government does not accept an amendment with an explanation. The 2009 budget provided for agricultural support is lower than the commitments created, and therefore there is not enough resources to pay for the difference in the amount of the incentive for maize seed in 2008.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-10-0.u45161	Here you go, Mr. Dragutin Bodakosh.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-10-0.u45162	So this explanation of the roof should have been said five months ago when article 82 was brought, or when the corn was as such included in the premiums. Otherwise, as for that, it was already known that in 2008, 29892 hectares were heated and that it cost 29 million 892000 kuna. It was the month of July when the law was passed in 2009, then the sinister corn was already so river and spent. However, the fact is that it has been calculated in costing, and primarily 50% of the cow's meals, for milk production is just a sinister corn. Therefore, by harmonising this support, we bring these producers into an even more difficult economic situation and it is not strange that they come, they came in the seventh month, they come in at 12 months and interventions are done on the final product – milk, instead of the inputs being those of quality and such that the cost price is acceptable. I think that, in particular, I also said in the debate, that the conditions set by the state should be worth at least a year if we expect the businessmen to work on them and to be positive. Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-10-0.u45163	Thank you. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. Thank you very much. I am voting on the Final Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on State Support in Agriculture, Rural Development. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? The law was passed by a majority of votes, 92 votes in favour, 7 abstentions and 4 against.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-10-0.u45164	Next item: - Final proposal of the Law on the Regional Development of the Republic of Croatia, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No 483 The debate was conducted by the Committee on Local and Regional Self-Government, Law, European Integration, Development and Reconstruction, Regional Development, Forestry and Water Economy. You received the reports at the session. State Secretary at the Ministry of Regional Development, Forestry and Water Economy Carlo Djurasic will further explain the proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-10-0.u45165	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished parliamentary representatives and distinguished parliamentary representatives. At the beginning of my present presentation of the draft final law, the proposal on the Law on the Regional Development of the Republic of Croatia, I would refer to the importance of regional policy in the Republic of Croatia and the need for its coordinated design and leadership and its place and role in the EU accession process. The task of regional development policy is to enable all our regions to achieve their potential, exploit the opportunities for sustainable development and the well-being of their inhabitants. In this regard, paying further attention to areas lagging behind in development. All of us here are very aware of the negative effects of deepening political economic development inequalities. A result of which there are great differences in living conditions in different parts of our country. We will take one example of that gross state-owned product per capita in 2007 in our most developed county i.e. The city of Zagreb was three times bigger than in Brod-Zupanija and Vukovar-Srijem County. Also when comparing administrative i.e. NUC levels of the NUC region, we see that the most developed central Croatia is almost twice as developed as Pannonian Croatia. This is indeed one more reason to consider the measures that should be taken to balance and bring these differences to an appropriate level. The current sources of funding for regional development in the Republic of Croatia in addition to the domestic component and our budgets also relate to the pre-accession European Union funds, so that we have benefited from these funds about 145m euros per year. By entering our country into the European community, i.e. the European Union, these funds will increase significantly. In order to show you the importance and importance of the European Union's handover to cohesion policy, more than 35% of the European Union's budget is going to cohesion policy, i.e. regional development within the European Union. And this amounts to 38 billion euros annually compared to 865 billion euros in the European budget. That shows two things. It shows great attention and sensitivity of the European Union towards regional development and cohesion policy, and points to a major problem that the European Union also has and does not hide because of the huge differences in the development of its members. As a country, by joining the European Union, we will use certain structural and cohesion funds. These structural and cohesion funds for 2012 will amount to around 1.8 billion euros. Whether or not we will withdraw that money depends on our absorption capacity, or on the possibility of attracting that money to ourselves. We will have this opportunity, and we will also need to participate in the European Union, i.e. by paying European taxes somewhere at 610m euros per year. Unless we have an absorption opportunity to withdraw it, it may happen to us as some countries that joined the European Union in 2004 and 2006 that have failed to withdraw the funds they have invested in the European Fund. So that's another reason why we need to make frameworks, that is, to pass this law, how and how we will strengthen our capacities, both absorption and human, because people are very important, people who make projects. And not projects by our standards, but projects by European norms. Because in Europe, we will have our own competitions in the European Union. There's never more money than projects, at least I don't know. And we will be able to make our competitors one Bavaria or another state. Like Bavaria is a region. There are 80 million inhabitants and it is one region in Germany and it will be our rival, let's say, in getting some projects. So we really must prepare well for what awaits us I'm sorry, $8 million. [[/Intruder Shakespeare: A little too much Bavaria would have 80 million. You'd have a little too many 80 million Bavaria. Eight, yeah, yeah.]] Thank you, Vice President. Also, I would like to look at how regional policy in the Republic of Croatia has been resolved today. It was solved in a fragmental way, i.e. It is implemented through four separate laws. So, through the Island Law, through the Law on Areas of Special State Care, through the Law on the Mountains and through the Law on the City of Vukovar. These are laws which essentially deal with the resolution of the consequences of war or some other consequences that occurred over time as a population depopulation and migration. But they don't bring anything new and they don't deal with development. So we have some areas of special national concern that, for example, have been achieved by municipal and social infrastructure, one might say envious development, while at the same time having unemployment static. Which means that this should solve these problems in one systematic way, and that is why we propose this law that would combine these things together and solve them in the best possible way. The draft final proposal of the Regional Development Act takes all of this into account and lays the legal basis for the management of regional development policies in the Republic of Croatia in line with the practices and requirements arising from the pre-accession obligations of the Republic of Croatia towards the European Union. In addition to introducing an innovative approach to regional, development policy, the draft law on regional development takes account of and on compliance with the requirements and basic principles of the European Union in this area, such as the principle of solidarity, the principle of equal opportunities, the principle of partnership and cooperation, the principle of strategic planning and the principle of pooling of financial resources. The proposed law addresses several very important issues for our country. The practice of partnership is introduced as a basic method of working in the design of regional policy, a single model of evaluation and classification of units is introduced in the area of local self-government. Basic planning documents are set out through which regional development is programmed, thus bringing the matter into line and a uniform basis for the management of the overall regional development policy. The role and responsibility of regional policyholders at all levels are clearly defined. Since the Law on Regional Development of the Republic of Croatia systematically addresses the issue of objective classification of units of local and regional self-government towards the degree of development, and encourages competitiveness between municipalities, cities and counties, which is very important in order to launch development based on quality projects that are important for certain areas and necessary for their long-term sustainability, and since it is a prerequisite for the introduction of quality changes that are important and for the implementation of cohesion policy in the Republic of Croatia such as strategic planning, harmonisation of objectives and priorities at local regional and national European level, the Proposer believes that the adoption of this law is necessary in order to create the necessary preconditions for balanced economic growth and development of the Republic of Croatia, and a reduction of gaps with a European average. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-10-0.u45166	Thank you. The committees. Committee on Regional Development, Forestry and Water Economy, Chairman of the Committee Mr. Representative Zlatko Koračević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-10-0.u45167	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State. The Committee on Regional Development, Forestry and Water Economy of the Croatian Parliament discussed at the 24th session held on December 9th and 10th 2009, the proposal for a law on regional development with the final draft law, which was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia to the President of the Croatian Parliament by the Act of 26 November 2009. The Committee shall comply with the provisions of Article 88. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament held the debate on that draft law in the capacity of the home working body and did not object to the proposal from the Proposer on the application of the emergency procedure in its adoption. In the opening statement, the proposing representative explained the reasons why the adoption of the Law on the Regional Development of the Republic of Croatia is proposed. It is thus pointed out that this proposal for a law does not only mean further harmonisation of our legislation with the acquis of the European Union in the area of regional development, but it represents a normative framework for both staff preparation and effective use of EU pre-accession and structural funds for specific programmes and regional development projects. The members of the Committee are familiar with the written opinions submitted by the Association of Cities in the Republic of Croatia on the Proposal for a Law on the Regional Development of the Republic of Croatia with the Final Proposal for Law. Following the opening presentation of the proposal's representatives by supporting the adoption of this law, the majority of the committee members assessed that it should have been adopted significantly earlier and in order to improve the regional development of the Republic of Croatia. However, in the ongoing debate, most committee members expressed regret that this law did not precede the adoption of a regional development strategy, as the association of cities in the Republic of Croatia said in its opinion. The debate further noted that a key role in reducing social economic inequality at regional local level will play such a regional policy which through the law will clearly define criteria, objectives, deadlines and control mechanisms for building overall development potential. It is therefore stated that this law, but a future regional development strategy, needs to create preconditions for all parts of the country to be able to contribute to national sustainable development and competitiveness and better linking local and regional needs. This will be achieved if there is greater integration, the uniformity of our budgetary and European costs. In this regard, the opinion is expressed that there is a concern that, as a result of the staff indemnity on the basis of the payment of the European tax, we invest more funds than we are able to withdraw from pre-accession and later structural funds for concrete regional development projects. During further discussion, I ask the question why the regional development strategy is being adopted in accordance with the duration of the Government Programmes Strategy, and then the priorities set out in the Regional Development Strategy are also guidelines in drawing up the Strategy of Government Programmes, i.e. whether this is also foreseen for strategies in other areas. It draws attention to how it would be good for the implementation regulation to regulate both the content and methodology of the strategy, as proposed in Article 14 of the County Development Strategy. Some committee members have voiced the view that, because of the role and importance of regional development for the entire economic development of the state in the law, it should be determined that the regional development strategy is also adopted by the Croatian Parliament, as was the case for many other sectoral strategies, water management strategies, sustainable development strategies, energy development strategies and others. But since it is proposed to bring the same to the government for a three-year period, a wider public should be involved in its preparation and production. In the debate, the assessment of the degree of development and of the classification of units of the regional, regional and local self-government in the law required a clearer set of criteria. Namely, it is unarranged which is why no area has been taken as a criterion in the configuration of the ground for those units, then it is not more clear why everything enters the income per capita, because... e.g. do not pay municipal fees, and some do, and suggested that it would be good and useful in implementing this law to do a full analysis by county to assist local self-government units in preparing and developing concrete regional development projects. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Supporting the principle of partnership at the level of the statistical region in the selection and development and monitoring of projects, it is proposed that the content of the implementing rules relating to the Partnership Council be more clearly regulated in such a way as to regulate its establishment. The board members also supported the proposal of the Association of Cities in the Republic of Croatia to make a decision on the classification of units of local and regional self-government, made by the Government, public and transparency, published in "The People's Journal". In addition, attention is paid to the need to include the Croatian Parliament in the report on the implementation of regional and development policy, in a way that the Government submits an annual report on the results of the implementation of the Croatian Parliament's central programme. Although the debate estimated that this law, as well as the future regional development strategy, will need to be changed significantly after the entry of the Republic of Croatia into the European Union, the majority of the board members supported its adoption. At the end of the debate, the Committee submitted a proposal to submit a number of amendments to that law in the debate. On the basis of the debate held, the Committee on Regional Development, Forestry and the Water Economy of the Croatian Parliament decided to propose to the Croatian Parliament to adopt the Act on the Regional Development of the Republic of Croatia with the following amendments. First, Article 18. In Article 18(4), the word "basement" is added after the word "linked to". Explanation. This amendment shall specify more precisely the content of the implementing rules relating to the Partnership Council. Second, Article 27. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Explanation. This amendment allows the public and transparency in making a decision on the classification based on the calculation of the development index, which is one of the principles of regional development and respect for the principles set out in the European Charter of Local Self-Government.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-10-0.u45168	Thank you. You can stay with your colleague right away. HNS representative club, Mr. Representative Zlatko Koračević.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-10-0.u45169	Thank you very much. We at the Croatian People's Party club were in an extremely large dilemma whether to support this bill or not. After all, I think we'll support him. I repeat, I think we'll back him up. Why the dilemma? To talk about the need for an institutional structure of a mechanism and a system that promotes regional development, which is the importance of regional development, I don't think there's any need to speak, each of us knows that. Especially all those who've been able to run a local administration. First of all, the municipalities and cities, and lately the county. Because according to the current system, the counties are a completely unnecessary institutional, institutional part of the local administration. It serves only the transfer from the state budget to users within the county. And we consider it to be more than one billion, one billion and 700 million euros to be our potential in terms of funding projects necessary for regional development, we believe that the regional development strategy should first of all have been adopted long ago in this Croatian Parliament, not in the Government, as it is now proposed, but in the Croatian Parliament as the only public representative with the original election mandate. Also in the plan of the previous Sanader Government, for the period 2008-2011, the adoption of the Charter on Local and Regional Self-Government in full, the first quarter of 2008, the adoption of the regional development strategy of the Republic of Croatia by 1 May 2008, the adoption of the Law on the Regional Development of the Republic of Croatia by 31 December 2008, and eventually set up a joint team to develop a strategy for fiscal decentralisation and the Law on the financing of units of local and regional self-government by 30 June 2008. Have any of these been brought in? Zero. Neither the adoption of the Charter of Local and Regional Self-Government, nor the Strategy of Regional Development, nor the Law on Regional Development, and that the strategy of fiscal decentralisation, the law on financing other than those cosmetics that we had to do recently because of the poker machines, pools and these things, was made nothing and this is the government's decision, or the government's awareness of creating the infrastructure necessary for regional development. At the same time, we all know that because a broad public debate was carried out and a strategy on regional development, it was implemented, we were involved, the public was involved, a strategy that was almost yet in early 2008, the law on regional development as a consequence, quite different than this, much more detailed, much more precisely determining the obligations of certain institutions in the system of regional development starting from the central state to the local level. However, why these documents did not enter the parliamentary procedure and why they were not adopted. Why are we now brought into the time scissors if we do not adopt this, we have definitely missed the last such institutional option, the last such possibility in creating an institutional framework for the preparation of opportunities and potentials opened to us by entering the European Union, which is measured in over a billion euros. And the question of how much we're really going to be able to use it, it's an extremely big question, and nobody in this country can give that answer today. In addition to that dreary assessment that we will pay more European taxes than we will withdraw funds, because we do not have projects and programmes, we have not created them, institutionally we have not set up the system, and then it can probably happen that because of the higher amount that we will pay as a European tax on the other side of the smaller amount of withdrawal, that with that difference we will practically finance the development of some other European regions, Bavaria or others. It can happen very easily to us if we withdraw less than we will pay the European tax. Why was it not brought, but be careful she passed the public debate, however, the government did not come, a very simple answer. This Strategy and this Law prescribed very clear criteria based on which certain units of local administration, based on which a certain unit of regional administration has the right to the resources of the state budget, and no more division of funds from the state budget by the basis of political resemblance, no more buying political support with state money because the rules of games and criteria are laid down. Intersectorally, the ministries need to cooperate, logic says inter-resour ministries are working together on projects in certain units of local self-government, and this is the Strategy and the Law is prescribed. Here in this law, unfortunately there is no such thing. The long-term financial strategic framework that counties, municipalities and cities have a vision, have some certainty that they can plan long-term projects, this law applies to three years, the law is not valid for three years, but the strategy is submitted for three years and, under this Bill proposal, the Strategy gives guidance to Government programmes and it is an integral part of the government's programme. It is difficult to connect logically, but I must logically connect because we do not have other programmes, so we are now forced only on government programmes that are bound by the Budget Law, when we talk about regional development. Therefore, we ourselves have brought ourselves into a very awkward situation because we do not accept transparency, we do not accept a system that enables real needs to be addressed and, on the other hand, to enable individuals in the bodies of the state administration to use the criteria of the need for the development index, which is a great thing, and I am glad that the Government has accepted the amendment of the parent board after assessing the index of development of all municipalities and cities and counties to publish it in the National Journal, because it was not, that municipalities and cities have an institutional possibility of appeal, objections and everything else. It is a pity that those 5 criteria that enter as criteria for assessing the index of development of a particular municipality, city or county, it is a pity that they are not specified in this law, it is a pity for transparency. However, in the Strategy of Regional Development, and we hope that the Government will bring it into the deadlines prescribed in this Law, we hope that it will be known, that it will be transparent, that it will not change depending on when and where and at what time a single municipality or city should be placed in an assisted area, we hope that this part will be transparent, but I repeat, the damage is that in this law, this bill does not say so. We at the Croatian People's Party Club think when we talk about regional development, that, above all, implementation mechanisms and what this law is not fully satisfied, we hope that the strategy, that the implementation mechanisms must be met through responsibility for managing at all levels, central, regional regions, that the management of the regional development system must go through an institutional structure which is not fully resolved in this proposal, and different from that of the first Bill proposal that has never seen the light of the day in the Government or the Assembly, because now we have a vertical of the Resorial Ministry of the NUC 2 Regional Development Agency, where NUC 2 regions will be represented by the Partnership Council which will decide which projects from each county within NUC 2 regions will have a passage or will not have a passing point, and the Partnership Council is only an advisory body consisting of representatives of the public sector, civil sector and economy, which is fully logically, however, that will be the regional development of which will be necessary. However, county development agencies are solely in office or other bodies in office that programs that are eventually created or born in a particular municipality, city or county to be inserted, are listed in the central register, but connecting at the county level. And we believe that at the Croatian People's Party club, we believe that at the county level it was also necessary to build a partner council institutionally through this law because at the level of the county within municipalities and cities it is necessary to define what development projects are, and generally who is going to determine which local projects are in line with national projects and that we support those local projects that are part of national projects. Therefore, a whole series of questions are open, but given that we have been brought in, literally, into a time-constraint when we literally need to react in a way, let's do nothing but do nothing, in this sense and for this reason the Croatian People's Party will give support to this law, but we are convinced, above all we believe that the regional development strategy should be discussed by the Croatian Parliament and I think it would be a minimum of courtesy for the people we represent in the Croatian Parliament, according to all those regions that have given us the support to represent them in the Croatian Parliament. I think it would be minimum courtesy to discuss the regional development strategy right in the Croatian Parliament, if we do not already have the opportunity to discuss the regional development strategy in the Croatian Parliament it would be minimum courtesy for the government to submit a report to the Croatian Parliament on the effects of the implementation of that strategy itself. I am sorry that the proposer did not adopt the amendment, and it was a proposal from the parent committee. However, as we have made it very clear, unfortunately, all the facts and developments and developments tell us in favour when we discussed the State budget for 2010 that we will be discussing the rebalancing soon and we are almost confident that we will be discussing the rebalancing soon. I am almost certain that soon we will also be discussing in this Croatian Assembly amendments to the Law on Regional Development, and the Committee on Regional Development, Forestry and Water Economy will be held for 1 month. and hold one thematic debate on the regional development strategy already when we do not have the opportunity in the Croatian Parliament to discuss it, we will discuss it within the Committee and try to give through the Committee guidelines to the Government which are our opinions as parliamentary representatives and what messages we represent in the Croatian Parliament in terms of the development of a future regional development strategy which was already one version made in 2005 under the Ministry of the Sea and what else is next. And I repeat in 2008 in the framework of the Ministry of Regional Development, however, unfortunately it did not get its verification at both the Government and the Parliament, and I repeat, we entered the time-share of cca 2 years when we need to prepare and obtain over a billion-and-a-half potential, but if we succeed in at least the part that we, unfortunately, will pay, which is 609 million euros in taxes, if we succeed that part covered we have made one big step. Therefore, regretting the inaction we will support this proposal of the Regional Development Act.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-10-0.u45170	Thank you. One correction, Madam Representative Dubravka Shuica.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-10-0.u45171	Well, there were a number of incorrect allegations, and in his pessimistic presentation, Mr. Koracevic said among other things that this House was not discussing the Charter of Local Regional Self-Government. As far as I know, it has been ratified in its entirety by the European Charter of Local Regional Self-Government in this House. Another incorrect allegation that the only public representative is the Parliament, and not the government. Of course, it is not true that it is the Government, and if we are to discuss this matter, then the real public representative in this matter would be Parliament's County House and if we could discuss regional policy, and since it has been abolished we remain through these other aspects and trust the Government that the regional development strategy of Croatia will be adopted to the satisfaction of all regions and all units of local administration and self-government. I'm sorry I couldn't rephrase on this.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-10-0.u45172	SDSS representative club, Mr. Representative of Mile Horvat. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-10-0.u45173	Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Secretary of State. I will try on behalf of the SDSS Club to say our position and our view of this legal text and the whole issue that has initiated this legal text to be passed. So, like my previous colleague who spoke from HNS, we discussed this text at the club, and we were in a great dilemma of what the final view of this text was taken. However, while respecting what we were told yesterday and on the board, respecting the fact that this issue is currently not regulated by any regulations, so that there is some kind of legal vacuum in this case, and respecting the fact that this should be regulated as soon as possible we will most likely use this proposed legal text and support it. However, because of him, he also suffers a certain debate, so I will try to look back on the legal text itself, as well as some other things. So, in any case, this law is as long-awaited as the regional development strategy itself has long been expected. Unfortunately, neither presented nor delivered to us, nor debated, and the law has long been prepared. We even have information on the board that he's been prepared for years for such legal text. Thus, he is expected to do so. We in the SDSS were expecting and we still expect this text to solve three key things. First, to solve the framework of uniform regional development itself, but to be in some way a realistic solution to uniform regional development so that it is not just a declarative single premise. Here it is expressed, the frantic data on how large is the diversity of the development of certain regions, individual local self-government ranges from 1 to 3, and even from 1 to 50, so it is even said that in the area where I come from, and this is Baranja there is a high standard of municipal equipment, but unfortunately there is a so-called standard. one African unemployment. Thus, these are some tasks that we need, or frameworks, to set up the frameworks so that these tasks can in some ways begin to be solved. Another thing is the expectation of developing instruments capable of withdrawing as much funds from the European Union funds as possible in favour of local and regional self-government. I'm going to say something later on that instrumentation when I analyze that provision of an article that applies to the development agencies themselves. And one of our third expectations is that through this text the final image and state of economic power of all units of local and regional self-government is given to make a rough list of all these units of local self-government so that we can see about who's on that rank list of local self-government units. As regards the 2010 budget analysis, we said there was a need to urgently adopt the Regional Development Strategy Act, it is necessary to define clearer criteria to help units of local self-government from the Croatian budget during the year. And when we said there was a need for financial empowerment of local self-government units in certain areas in the following year precisely because of these all pre-accession and restructuring processes, etc., then we certainly didn't think it would be resolved through a law like this that has everything in its construction of only 34 articles. We expected him not to be principled so much as he's principled, we expected him to give us some more concrete solutions, to give us some more concrete criteria throughout this problem. We know that in legal practice there are several ways of adopting and regulating legislation and laws that have the ambition to seriously deal with a problem. If it is a serious problem, they do so in a way that all institutes that are important to the details of this law are foreseen and the offices, and in their disposition and sanctions, etc. And we also have cases where less popular cases are done in the way that it was done in this text to set up a broad framework, and to develop these institutes to trust some executive authority. In this case, all we are talking about and what has caused the most is some kind of dispute over this text, that all these institutes are left to the work of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Now I'd like to say something about the text itself through an analysis of some of these distinctive articles of this law. First of all, I would say something on Article 4 which says that in one of its declarative formulations, it says that the particular promotion of the development of assisted areas is based on the mutual solidarity of all citizens. I agree it's a good, nice formulation. I'm just asking a practical question. Who will give up their development projects in favour of less developed regions in that very high index of development because it would respect this principle of solidarity? I think it's one of these more rhetorical phrases that's welcome as the introduction of this text. But I don't think that's really going to be the basis for this regional development. In Article 12, we have a number of planning documents on regional development policy where it is said to be a strategy for the regional development of the Republic of Croatia still a strategy for the county development strategy, etc. In this respect, we do not understand the correlation between the county development strategy and the regional development strategy. I think that correlation in all of those elements, that it would work out as it should still be a little more precise. In Article 14, I see that the PUR document has been left out. So he's obviously no longer some kind of development document we've had so far. At the same time in paragraph 4, we are talking about the definition that the contents of the county development strategies are governed by the minister responsible for regional development. I may be misreading this, but that's what it says. So that's one maybe nomotechnical thing to do. But the content of the county development strategies is governed by the minister. I don't think that's a good formula. That this should be defined in some way differently in the text itself. In Article 17 where we are talking about the Agency for Regional Development, we say that it is established by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, which is, of course, the possibility allowed. However, if we say that in the last year of legal texts we have established a series of agencies as operational bodies of individual ministries, then I see no reason why this agency is some kind of case... so we don't set it up by law. Why are we setting her up specifically now and editing her by the government's act? It is also quite dry and in general are the competences, activities, activities, jobs and the size of the agency mentioned here only. I think it's too important for this whole strategy to be formally defined in that way. Article 20 refers to instruments for the implementation of regional and regional self-government, i.e. the development of regional and regional self-government. Here I assume you're thinking about county development agencies. Some counties already have certain experiences and positive experiences. Those agencies are working. They even have a certain educational character where the schooling of the students at the agencies is possible. However, what I'm saying is that this definition is given the opportunity to be even a commercial society. Experience has it, especially the experience from Slovenia in the town of Kranj, that when they moved into the whole thing, they had agencies that were on 100% of the city's budget, and then it was easier for them to put them on the market. So when they put them on the market, then they mostly put themselves in the position of strong economic operators, economic operators, because they paid them well. And all those projects they did were practically subject projects, not local self-government projects. And when they realized that it was actually the brakes of local self-government development, then they came back to a model where they said that these types of agencies had to be public institutions in the majority, i.e. almost 100% ownership of local self-government and are financed from the budget of local self-government units 75%, and 25% were allowed some space to finance according to the project. So here I am, if it's going to help in this whole concept as some kind of experience from where I come from, I was free to bring it out here right now. And the most important thing for us is Article 22 self-assessment of the degree of development of local self-government units based on the development index. The development index is contitiated by the son of qua non of this entire law and the whole of this project. Why do I say that? Because it will later result in a series of other repercussions. And for that very reason, I think that in this text, the bar in those basic framework elements we should have presented and installed the elements on which to evaluate and measure the index of the development of individual units of local self-government. We put them here in certain categories, and we think we did the job, and at the same time we authorised the Government of the Republic of Croatia to do it with some of its criteria, and then, later on, it classifies them into these degrees of index development. I don't think that's good, that we should have built it into the law. Because as soon as it was incorporated into the law, the provision of the law would automatically be subject to some kind of public debate and public criticism and could be manifested by interested units of local self-government, etc. etc. There is some thought and concern that during some time when this institute is installed and when it is implemented in practice that it could be a criterion for the abolition of certain units of local self-government. Those low-development units are afraid that they might be hit directly by such a reorganisation. And it would be good to be officially told what the relationship of this legal solution to the existing texts, i.e. according to regulations relating to the Vukovar City Fund, to special state care, etc. Since it is not visible here, and there were words that they are parallel, that they are some acquired rights that will not be abolished with this text, and the questions of the people on the ground are exactly the opposite of whether they will be abolished with this law, so it would be good for you to tell us. And finally, our assessment is that this text should have been brought much earlier, that it should have been passed before even before the budget was adopted, because in our opinion, we would have avoided those discussions from this assembly where I had been very uncomfortable to control the budget of the Republic of Croatia because of the help of certain units of local self-government, and then, when we establish these criteria, we will see that these assisted units of local self-government remain in the first lowest category of indexation of their development and that they will certainly fall to regrettably be supported with this legal text.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-10-0.u45174	Thank you. SDP representative's club, Mrs. Mirela Holly. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-10-0.u45175	Thank you, Vice President. At the very beginning of the presentation on behalf of the Club of Representatives and Representatives of the SDP, I would like to say that the SDP Club will support the adoption of this Law on the Regional Development of the Republic of Croatia, although our assessment of this bill is neither stink nor smell nor harm nor benefit from it. Why? Because we also pass this law for formal reasons for painting so-called paint. The pro-European Croatian facades, in this sense, are afraid that this law will not prepare us very much to quote the effective use of the pre-accession and structural funds of the European Union. In fact, if we have not so far built mechanisms for the use of European Union funds, we are afraid that we will not build them even better by this law. In addition, civil servants and officials working on these funds assure us that Croatia is very good at using these funds in any case significantly better than other countries that are new members today, so they recently boasted of more than 80% of the use of these funds, which, if true, is not a bad result. Although the proposal is being built on the possibility that this law means, I quote: "an intervention in the right to local and regional self-government" or a reduction in the autonomy of local actors in the concept of their own development is that in some exceptional cases the state should significantly intervene in the affairs of local and regional self-government because these same authorities have proven in many cases to be incompetent to solve some extremely large, I would say even burning problems that have an extremely great impact on Croatia's negotiations with the European Union. I am specifically talking about solving, i.e. not solving the problem of management, i.e. waste disposal in the Republic of Croatia because we do not have a waste management system in Croatia almost today in 2010, and we do not have a waste management centre. Who knows, perhaps today we would have had in the construction of not one but perhaps five or even ten waste management centres that Croatia a few years ago, and when the state administration saw the inability of regional and local authorities to solve this huge communal problem, the resolution of this problem took over. The law declared in Article 10 speaks about local autonomy. But nothing is said what happens if units of local and regional self - government have shown that they are simply unable to solve some burning problems without State intervention. This bill relies on the so-called so-called law. three statistical regions: northwestern, Pannonian and Adriatic regions. But the fact is that these three regions have never lived in reality, so the question is, how is this law going to change that? Another problem with this bill is that the introduction of the document says that this law will not have a financial impact on the 2009 budget of the Republic of Croatia, which is probably and precisely because we are at the end of the year. But it will certainly have any financial effects on the 2010 budget and not a word about it here. Why is this law going to cost? For a simple reason, because it foresees the obligation to adopt several more planning documents of regional development policy, and making such documents is not free, and it costs even more to implement them. When it comes to the fact that certain counties and local self-government are already having major problems financing some basic development documents, such as space-planning documents, it is seen that this law will cost too. The law in Article 8 refers to the pooling of some financial resources, but does not specify from anywhere which sources. In addition, the law provides for the establishment of a regional self-government agency, and that will cost. Although there is already an Agency for Regional Development of Croatia at the state level, which was founded in 2008, we are not sure what the agency has done for Croatia's regional development so far. We're afraid of nothing, and we're not optimistic that it'll be more effective in the future. We also see the possible problem in the present political impatience between HDZ's central government and those regions in which HDZ is not in power, thus jeopardising the partnership and co-operation provisions, by the fact that it is a partnership of a declarative rather than a binding type. Article 9 does not explain the way in which the implementation of regional development policy will be monitored and evaluated, and Article 10 on sustainability is referred to as the development of the diversity of cultural wealth, without any explanation of what this specifically means. The law provides for the government to adopt a strategy for Croatia's regional development, but the law does not show whether the government will consult local and regional authorities when drawing up a strategy, in which way and to what extent it will follow guidelines from lower levels. We also ask why this strategy is not brought by the Assembly of the Republic of Croatia, such as other strategic documents, and this should be a really important strategic document. Article 22 discusses development indices, in such a way as to show that the Government still has no idea how and how to define this development index. In Article 25, which speaks of the classification of units of local self-government, we have one category more than those that classify units of regional self-government, five instead of four, so the question arises if many local self-governments are clearly so poor that they are below 50% of Croatia's average, should we not first seriously work on a significant reduction in the number of local self-governments. That despite the pompous announcements of Prime Minister and Resolute Minister Mlakar did not happen, and it seems that it will not happen, it seems that we are working on a first step here as well, and only then first. I also warn that Article 33(2) on the adoption of a regulation on the central base of development projects referred to in Article 15 is not an paragraph 4, as the proposal states, but a paragraph 5. should therefore be corrected in the draft law, i.e. in the law at the end. Finally, we stress that this law is nothing but a decor law, and therefore we must have no illusions that Croatia will move towards a more even or even regional development. There will be no harm, but there will certainly be no benefits, and that is not something that should cheer us up and please us.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-10-0.u45176	Thank you very much. Followed by the HDZ club and on behalf of the club, respected representative Nevenka Marinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-10-0.u45177	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. The Croatian Democratic Community club supports the bill. We know that one of the most important chapters in the negotiations between the European Union and the Republic of Croatia is regional policy, because it has more than 30% of the European Union budget, but the development of programmes related to regional development and their implementation requires a clear administrative organisation that includes cooperation between the public and private sectors. In order for the Republic of Croatia to join the Structural Funds of the European Union at all, it must show its ability to plan and implement regional development policies, in accordance with the practice of the European Union. The matter of regional development in the Republic of Croatia is not systematically regulated so far by a general regulation that would enable the building of an appropriate system of planning and management of regional development policies. There is also a lack of coordination mechanisms for development activities at the level of the central authorities of the state administration, but also of central levels with lower levels of the administrative system of the Republic of Croatia. This reduces the need for legitimacy, but also the mandate of the central authorities of the state administration for effective and appropriate policy-making of regional development, based on modern principles and practices, which ensure the optimal impact of development policy measures. Regional development policy is a public policy, i.e. systematic activity in accordance with the principles laid down by the Regional Development Act, which runs the central state, helping and supporting balanced and sustainable economic and overall social development. The partners of the central government are units of local and regional self-government, but they must be the responsible partner in this process. Regional policy does not directly enter politics and related issues, relations between the central state and units and regional self-government, but focuses on the development of the country as a whole, ensuring the necessary coordination, but also the distribution of rights and responsibilities between existing levels of public governance. We believe that this part is quite well regulated by the articles of this bill. Making regional development policy from the central level does not mean intervention as it has already been heard here, meaning it does not mean intervention in the right to local and regional self-government, nor reduces the autonomy of local participants in creating their development. On the contrary, it protects local autonomy on the basis of one of the fundamental principles of regional policymaking. This proposal is a legal basis for governance of regional development policies, a partnership practice is being introduced in the design of regional development policy, and I believe that we have raised this scale quite far, quite high, because through the European Union programmes, we have done a lot of work on partnership from those basic school examples in the design of the meanings of regional operational programmes, but also in the development of a programme for the overall development of cities and municipalities. It also introduces a model of evaluation and classification of a single system of criteria, which is also good, sets out the planning documents that are quite well defined here, determines the role and responsibility of regional development policyholders, but the role and responsibility of units of local and regional self-government, means also in the concept and creation, but also in the conduct of regional development policy. The fundamental principles are institutionalised. The law will be, this bill means it will be an instrument for building regional development management systems and will open up the possibility of identifying the promotion of development potentials in different parts of the Republic of Croatia. This should also be served by plan documents of the county level. So here I will remind you that there should be no problem with these development documents, because some counties such as Zadar County have already made another developmental, meaning another generation of development projects, which, with very little changes, will become county development strategies, at the level of municipalities and cities are also made meaning total development programs and now only needs to be brought into line with the state-level development policy. So planning and implementation of regional development policy is organised one part at the central level but this is where only a vision of development is done in the whole of the country and another is the level of the county where the development is independently directed but of course in accordance with these overall general objectives. Certainly, the principles of decentralisation are respected, but also the principle of subsidiarity, which is good that it is introduced into this bill. Despite the view that the diversity of regions from natural, geographical, social economic and political aspects is a great wealth for the state and the advantages are not yet used enough or managed systematically in an appropriate manner. Well, this bill of law, along with its shortcomings, will allow us to engage in a better solution to this problem. I expect this proposal too to be a good framework that will contribute to overall national growth and development by creating such conditions that will reduce social and economic development inequalities between NUC 2 regions and counties, but allow assisted areas to become competitive and set up a framework for co-ordinated national, regional and local initiatives aimed at improving and economic and social development of the country. Here, along with these expectations but also a proposal for a regional development strategy to be adopted as soon as possible, the Croatian Democratic Community Club will support this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-10-0.u45178	Thank you very much. We have a correction to the incorrect allegations of the esteemed representative Gordan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-10-0.u45179	I will correct an incorrect allegation which is that this Law is a framework that will allow for the regional development of Croatian cities, counties, etc., on the contrary it may be a foundation but will not be possible because there is no support in this Law in the budget for the following year, and I will say something about it in my debate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-10-0.u45180	Thank you very much. The next registered club is the Club of Representatives of the HSS, on behalf of the Club will be spoken by respected representative Boris KLemenic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-10-0.u45181	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. At the beginning of the debate on the final proposal for a law on the regional development of the Republic of Croatia, I would refer to the importance of regional policy, in the Republic of Croatia, the need for its coordinated design and leadership and its place and role in the EU accession process. A careful analysis found that the necessary amendments and additions of the Regional Development Act should be implemented in the area of the legal framework in order to establish a stable and coherent legal framework for regional development policy management. The implementation of the law enables the promotion of the European Union's principle of governance of regional development and creates a basis for future harmonisation of specific laws governing the issue of regional development. As a candidate country for membership in the European Union, the Republic of Croatia is a beneficiary of pre-accession European Union programmes, and when it becomes a member of the European Union, it will be able to use the European Funds and become part of the implementation of the European Cohesion Policy. The objectives of the same policy in the balanced and sustainable development of all European regions and through its implementation in Member States are to finance investments in transport, environmental protection, regional competitiveness, and the development of human potential with the aim of increasing employment and employment. These areas covered by cohesion policy are of particular interest in each country, and are also recognised as drivers of development from local to central level in the country. Since the integration of national and European objectives will take place during the membership period, the law on regional development that lies ahead lays the foundations of strategic thinking at local or regional level.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-10-0.u45182	Just a minute, I'm going to have to warn the MPs and the SDP MPs that the consultations on this point are done outside the assembly. Please.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-10-0.u45183	Thank you. Since the integration of national and European objectives will take place during the period of membership of the Regional Development Act, which is ahead of us, the foundations of strategic considerations at local or regional level are set. Strategic reflections today, and by taking concrete activities, will allow for the preparation of all counties, cities and municipalities to participate actively and quality in European funds or the implementation of cohesion policy. Subject law creates conditions for excluding targets at national level, which is why, as a planned document of regional development policy, defines the regional development strategies of the Republic of Croatia, which we have heard a lot about today and the county development strategies. These documents shall be closely linked to a modest document at national level which lays the foundations of budgetary financing for a three-year period, which is a strategy of government programmes, which has been adopted since 1 January 2009 as the first basic document to define a multi-annual programme of targeted state budget. The planning process for European Union funds is based on programmes and the application of the principle of occurrence of events. Since programming is programme-funded, only well-set and defined programmes are financed. That's what the new Budget Law was done to us. A commitment to strategic planning and the development of a three-year strategy of the government's programme has been introduced to directly influence the allocation of funds within the budget itself. This proposal for a law on regional development aims to achieve the integration of county development strategies through a regional development strategy with a three-year strategy of government programmes. Only in this way can the sustainability of the implementation of all these strategic documents, as well as in the future the integration and integration of all levels with the European policy. I believe that most of the people present here will agree that the task of regional development policy is to enable all regions to realise their potential and take advantage of the opportunities for sustainable development and prosperity of their inhabitants. In this regard, paying further attention to areas lagging behind in development. The achievement of this objective requires the joint and coordinated action of a number of partners. Due to the growing deepening of social economic divergence and development opportunities in different parts of the country, as well as the efforts of the Republic of Croatia to fully integrate its economy and market into a global context, the need to define regional policy is recognised as one of the priorities. The objective proposal for a law on the regional development of the Republic of Croatia takes into account all of the above and lays the legal basis for the management of regional development policies in the Republic of Croatia in line with the practice and requirements arising from the pre-accession commitments of the Republic of Croatia towards the EU. It regulates the objectives and principles of governance of regional development of the Republic of Croatia, planning documents, authorities responsible for managing regional development, assessing the degree of development of units of local and regional, regional self-government and reporting on the implementation of regional development policy. In addition to introducing an innovative approach to the regional development policy of the Republic of Croatia, the law on regional development also takes account of compliance with the requirements and other principles of the EU in this area, such as the principle of solidarity and orientation of means of equal opportunities, partnerships and cooperation, strategic planning, pooling of financial resources, monitoring and evaluation of sustainability and local autonomy. Since the Law on Regional Development of the Republic of Croatia in a systematic manner addresses the issue of objective classification of units of local and regional self-government according to the degree of development, it will serve as an instrument for building a system of regional development management that will at the same time be uniform in the entire area of the Republic of Croatia. This law also sets out a legislative framework for the introduction of qualitative changes that are important for the implementation of EU cohesion policy in the Republic of Croatia. Finally, after all that has been mentioned in this debate, the HSS Club considers its adoption to be very important and inescapable and will support it in that sense. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-10-0.u45184	Thank you very much. We have also reached the last registered club, which is the HDSSB club and respected representative Boro Grubisic. Here you go. And, I apologize, before it was a correction to the incorrect allegations, the esteemed representative of Zdenka Chuhnil.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-10-0.u45185	So let me correct the incorrect quote of my colleague Klemenic. In fact, he spoke about how the government programme strategy is aligned with the regional development strategy. Since we do not have a regional development strategy, it is not even possible to coordinate it. And I think you've once again shown how we're going the other way around. The regional development strategy may be a summary of the county strategies, but it must be first adopted in order to then bring all acts on the basis of it. It's so impossible to reconcile exactly the strategy of government programs if there is no strategy.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-10-0.u45186	Thank you very much. Now, we're going to hear an exhibit on behalf of the HDSSB Club, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-10-0.u45187	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Secretary of State, colleagues and fellow few. Here's every time I say it in these late afternoon hours, here go still these MPs, and those who should hear it the most. Namely, the proposal of the Law on Regional Development of the Republic of Croatia is indeed one name that I would say by one writer how proud and beautiful it sounds, and in fact it is a common, milky world of guides by which the Government of the Republic of Croatia and this ministry are spraying EU officials by colouring their eyes, staining their eyes, and also to citizens, especially those regions that have been in the Republic of Croatia since '91, '92. For 18 years, they have brought the region of Slavonia and Baranja to the beggar stick. It is truly embarrassing of all the governments of the Republic of Croatia that we have experienced the once-indicated, rich and noble Slavonia we now have the poorest region according to all indicators of economic, financial and other shifts and aspects of all these indicators that the Government of the Republic of Croatia will put into the criteria that are spoken of here, that I am not now looking for an article in this law. Once upon a time there was a Kingdom of Croatia, Slavonia and Dalmatia in Austro-Hungarian times. A three-way kingdom, that's her name. Today there is, I would say this by paraphrasing this three-way kingdom, 3 NUC Republic, so somehow, 3 NUC Repbulik in which there is no Slavonia or Dalmatia or Croatia. It continues to insist that there are neither historical nor other parameters to determine the regions and give some form of region in the Republic of Croatia, although there is a chapter in the pre-accession negotiations with the EU on regionalisation and regional development of the Republic of Croatia. When here in this on the page. 2 We read that regional development cannot be identified with regionalization, that will be your answer to this introduction, i.e. The introduction of some new regional units by any change in the territorial structure of units of local and regional self-government, etc., so the new law has no purpose of changing or changing the systems of local and regional, so these are counties. It is interesting to use a permanent regional and regional term for counties. So let's say county self-government, so why do we lie to ourselves all the time? Regional or regional, no, county self-government. Well, that's simpler, and plus, just one word, county, not regional, and then regional, don't tell me. Although it says this, behind the score, so divorced, although the system makes an important component of the framework for managing regional development policy and largely determines solutions. So the first part of the sentence denies the change in territorial structure, and the second sentence says although the structure is very important to determine the development of the region. That's cute. According to statistics that indicate that statistics are very convenient science that has that half-empty and half-full glass, just to use one example, for the achievement of standards and those criteria that you don't speak of here, but they exist as a degree of fiscal capacity, as a gross social product, as an unemployment rate and all others, and not defined by your criteria, Dalmatia should reach European standards at the current pace of development for about 30 years. Slavonia as I see it today and which makes up 5 counties of those Slavonians, so Virovitičko-Podravska, Osijek-Baranja, Požega-slavonska, Brod-Posaviska and Vukovar-Srijemska were cut off from Novska territorial and Daruvar which are also Slavonia for some other reasons would take 60 years to reach standards at this rate of development as it is today. 60 years to meet European Union standards in these criteria. Now, you tell me, Mr. Secretary of State, what are we actually talking about here? What is the proposal of the Regional Development Act if we do not have, in this particular sense, a strategy of regional development that is done or prepared by the Government of the Republic of Croatia? And he's been strategizing his strategy for how many years. And we do not have it and it will not be discussed by the Croatian Parliament but by the Croatian Government. Why are we not negotiating a regional development strategy in this House? Come on, you tell me. Is that a secret? Or is this the orientation of the Government of the Republic of Croatia that was told to us here when former Prime Minister Sanader took office, and the current prime minister in which he writes literally that Croatia is based on the Adriatic orientation of the Republic of Croatia. It all comes out clearly, and that's what it all comes out of. Only you, Ingrid, laugh and you and Kalmet have contributed to that. That is why, and because of this orientation, I think that Zadar should raise the monument of Minister Calmeti and not tomorrow to discuss him and his effects on the state of Croatia, HAC, etc. In Article 4 of this Act, you speak or speak of a special incentive for the development of assisted areas. Supported areas. Today we have municipalities, parts of the county and cities of special state care. Special State care or assisted areas. Well, it's okay. It's okay. It's okay. There is still talk of solidarity. Here we are again at the Solidarity Fund that once existed in the former state, the one in which the Republic of Croatia and Slovenia and Serbia supported undeveloped Kosovo, Macedonia, Bosnia and Herzegovina as undeveloped. Mr. Secretary of State, you know well how many times Mr. Cain has been as a representative of the regional party, so Istria has complained about the fate of Istria, which is how much money is being allocated to the state register and nothing returns to it. So how can you expect and we can expect solidarity, when from this pay phone from this House comes these messages from a regional and a regional party at all. As soon as something gets to them in the far west, I won't talk to Istria, they're advocating autonomy. Slavonia never did that. Slavonia has always been and remains part of Slavonia and Baranja remains part of Croatia and on the defender of their country of Croatia. But laws like this, regional development like this, then the strategy that's being adopted. I wonder if there's a strategy on purpose? Is that on purpose? Because the strategy certainly shows those criteria by which these counties in Slavonia and Baranja belong to the mass of that money and assistance from pre-accession funds to catch up, to arrive, to achieve evenly this new one, to achieve one equality and equality of development of all corners of Croatia, which is not the case now. And you can't convince me and that's what the World Bank for Reconstruction and Development is talking about, that's what the Croatian Bishop's Conference is talking about, that's what everyone who comes to Slavonia and by standard, and by the looks and by the general aspect and by everything, and that's what the facts and economic and financial and everything else are talking about. So, what are you waiting for? What you are waiting for in the Government is more and by adopting once a real regional division, i.e. regionalisation, real regional development, the equilibration of regional development and the adoption of a development strategy in order to even the whole country to be, that at least there is quite an ego in terms of these so-called. Your indicators. In Slavonia, Osijek, there is a Regional Development Agency of Slavonia and Baranja, which has 8 employees in Brussels. That's what I think you know, even though that fact is usually denied. The Regional Development Agency is working to run for the Slavonia and Baranja projects of those who want to join the projects. Clearly, given the political elites that rule individual counties, some counties that have HDZ executive authority do not want to be involved and do not want to use the services of the Regional Agency of Slavonia and Baranja. It is not called the Osijek Development Agency, but is called the Regional Development Agency of Slavonia and Baranja. And we have called a hundred times for all the counties that we consider to be Slavonian and Baranja, respectively, to freely run their projects through the Regional Development Agency of Slavonia and Baranja. Unfortunately for the narrow party interests, it's not done because of the narrow parties' views. That's sad. Well, the state can bring in these papers that don't mean a damn thing. So, you yourself said in Article 12 that the plan document of regional development policy is the regional development strategy, which is adopted by the Ministry i.e. the State of Croatia. So where's your strategy? So where is she? And you're offering us a final bill. And there's no strategy. So give it a pull. This is no way for you to bother us like this as Parliamentarians with this at all. Partnership council, interagency between kingdoms or among counties. What county? In the NUC region of northern Croatia, and northern, eastern, I don't know what you called it, as you called it, the Karlovačka, Sisak-Moslavina, Bjelovar-Bilogorska and these five of ours, to say our Slavonian counties. It is not known which is worse than if carlovacka is or whether it is Požeško-slavonian or Brod-Posaviska. God forbid! So give it once, Mr. Secretary of State, for once, we also have Mr. Cobankovic, who is dealing with this problem, whose portfolio it is. Well, give me one more time so I don't know what to say. I don't want to pray, because Slavonia didn't deserve to pray because she defended this Croatia, gave half the victims in blood for this country, and the relationship to Slavonia is disastrous. And we can't go on like that. And this budget has been passed, and now you're offering the Regional Development Act, and the budget has already been passed. And I said here when I commented on the budget it's going to be "who's got more and who hasn't got nothing." And so it is. Now you're bringing us the Regional Development Act, and you adopted the budget 15 days ago. So what do we need him for? What do we need him for when there's some money to go to for 2010. What does he serve us for? There's no strategy. Not yet until someone else settles, until some other neighborhoods are settled. And that's not how you can do it and that's why you say here in article 19 that the work of the partner council will be attended by scientific communities, universities. How many at sea, Mr. Secretary of State? Pula, Rijeka, Zadar, Split and Dubrovnik. How many of them are on land except for Zagreb, which is the university of our entire Croatia. Just Osijek. So what are we talking about here, so you see what this is all about? That's why we have more objections, but I'm running red. The HDSSB will be not only further against, but also harshly against such a law, a bill of law and cannot agree to such things, not to say a worse word than this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-10-0.u45188	Thank you very much. Three are correcting incorrect allegations. First of all, Honorable Representative Gordan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-10-0.u45189	Thank you very much. I would correct Mr Grubisic's incorrect quote, which is that Croatia is regionally directed towards the Adriatic. Unfortunately, there are counties and especially in the Adriatic that are still less developed than they were in the 1990s. Let's just say we're talking about Dubrovnik-Neretva County, so we have these counties on the Adriatic, too. The Dubrovnik-Neretva County is unfortunately now less developed than it was in the 1990s and lags behind the rest of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-10-0.u45190	Okay. The second amendment has Arsen Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-10-0.u45191	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I would correct the same assumption that Mr Grubisic, in the context of the abandonment of Slavonia, spoke of the government's Adriatic orientation. It is true that the Slavonian counties of Vukovar-Srijemska, Brod-Posavina and Osijek-Baranja and Virovitica-Podravska have less GDP than the 1990s. But that goes for both Dubrovnik-Neretvanska and Sibenik County. Thus, since many debates are now being held in public about assigning jobs are not a problem in the Adriatic orientation, but in the Jaran orientation when jobs are assigned to their mates. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-10-0.u45192	This argument is not exactly corrected by an incorrect quote. The quote was correct. Thank you very much. And yet another correction is an incorrect allegation, respected representative Boris Matkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-10-0.u45193	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So I would correct my colleague Grubisic in an incorrect assumption that here in this law I think there is no order and that a mess has been made. On the contrary, just the opposite of my colleague Grubisic. So through all of these items from one to four, you will be classified in a specific category depending on the degree. Therefore, order is being introduced, order is being introduced, and everyone will have a position. Now as far as it goes, do we want order or mess I'm about to introduce order. So there's order, not disorder because you're classified regionally and locally in four groups and that's it.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-10-0.u45194	Injury of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-10-0.u45195	Mr. Vice President, I wasn't talking about classification or non-classification at all. It's some ancient term unclassified. And Mr. Matkovic, you've put us from HDZ well in the worst country in Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-10-0.u45196	All right, there's been everything here, and there's all these things about correcting the incorrect quote, and there's no need to call for a breach of the Rules of Procedure, so at this point we're going to get over it. At 5 p.m. and 26 minutes, the time has elapsed for individual debates to be reported, so we finally have five more individual debates reported. Let's take it in a row. First of all, Honorable Representative Gordan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-10-0.u45197	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. The first thing I have to say when I'm discussing this law is that I'm sorry that there is no Minister of Regional Development present on such an important subject. It may be a gesture indicator of how this government is accessing the whole problem. I will agree with the evaluations that are in place in Croatia today, which is that, unfortunately, Croatia is developing unequally, that one part of the Croatian helmet is lagging behind the other part of Croatia, which might be a different government orientation would not be so. Those who I would say and the government that first recognized this problem is the Government, the coalition government in 2000, 2003, which, if you will remember, is the first set-up of the Regional Development Fund and has given significant resources to support projects within the county. Unfortunately, here we see that this fund doesn't work very effectively all these years. He is accompanied by many affairs, and lately, he is being reduced from the means he should use in his work. And therefore, of course, when we always discuss the law, it is as a principle of good, we give it support, we are all for the idea that Croatia is developing evenly. But you should always look at the documents that are accompanying. So we should look at the budget of what he says next year about the regional development of the Republic of Croatia. What can be read out of the budget is exactly what I said. So, a constant reduction in funds to the Regional Development Fund and it will have around 4 million kunas less available this year and about 30 million kunas less than it had two years ago. Another feature of the change in the budget is that this government and this budget proposal are going towards the fund, the funds are now being deployed by the projects, which means that they are being taken away from the counties to see which projects could be the most useful within their units. It goes in the direction of centralisation of funds. It's about 80 million kunas that the fund will be deploying from next year. It won't go on like I said through the county, it'll go on at fund level. There, of course, we cannot support such a way of thinking that goes after further decentralisation of Croatia. But when we talk about this problem, it is also very important to see how Croatia has been developing all these years, which regions were the ones that have lagging behind. Here I have a scientific paper that's very interesting. However, it is the work with which the data are concluded as of 2006, meaning the last three years are gone, but this definitely gives one indicator of the unbalanced development of the Republic of Croatia. So from this data, this is classified here in five regions, and when you take the ratio of GDP between 2005, i.e. at the end of 2005 and '90. It is seen that Croatia has had an 8% growth. So all these years, 8% of GDP has grown from the '90s. A year. But eastern Croatia, we are talking about Slavonia Countys had a 20% drop in the period, while northern Croatia, central Croatia had a 12% and 24% growth and again what is said in contrast with what it had in the presentation of counterpart Grubisic in front of the HDSSB, the Dalmatian region, or southern Croatia, the Dalmatian counties had a 5% decline compared to the 1990s. So these counties, those who had fallen, were less developed economically in 2006 than they were in the '90s. A year. Unfortunately, such a situation is not good. When we talk about counties, the biggest drop had one of the wealthier counties in the 1990s, Vukovar-Srijemska, which had even a 20% decline compared to the '90s. And there is concern, unfortunately, the care of the government and government, unfortunately I must say, according to certain parts of Croatia which are simply not supported enough. What is important is to note that the SDP recognized the problem before the previous parliamentary elections and came up with a concrete proposal. You'll all remember, two were programs, one was colorocularly called three times thirty-three, and the other was four times four. So 3 times 33 was an effort to change the priorities of regional policy, according to the model that support is given in 33% of entrepreneurship, 33% in the innovation of new technology, because we all know that there is no development without new technologies, because Croatia cannot compete with the work and cost of countries that are much cheaper than we are. So we have to go to new technologies. And the third one was 33% in the development of regional and local infrastructure, because we know we're still in a lot of trouble with local infrastructure, which is often, not to say just damaged during the war, and there's a lot of problems still with demining, etc. The second is the four times four proposal, and here we recognize that it goes into four regions with different four industries, that the whole story is bound around it. So to find some program, something to say in Slavonia, it can be agriculture, of course forestry, etc. It means that industry, some growth, employment, would be created around something, and in this way try to come up with a particular policy of regional development. Of course, we also asked for a new phase of fiscal decentralisation, as I said in this case in the new budget, is exactly going in the opposite direction. We believe that 20% of public revenues must be on the disposition of local units. So these are some of the things that we have proposed and which were both concrete and which indicated that certain regions might start. Unfortunately, as we see today, Slavonia as one pre-war rich region and with great potential, today has absolutely no support from this government. I'm not going to talk about the support of agriculture, because we all know that the mass of these support goes completely wrong, that there is support, and that there is absolutely no productivity, employment of people, economic growth, etc. So here at the end of my debate, I will say that I will support this proposal as well as other representatives of the SDP Club, but I am not satisfied with the orientation of this government and I do not think that it seems enough for Croatia to develop evenly. I have no illusions or hopes that under this law something will change, because the law in the Agency's strategy and other things can be passed, because if there is no political will, desire, space, even the financial space, because our budget is as we always say, and Minister Schucker is saying 90% in default, so where do we find money to support local units? So, here, in the end, I can't support politics, I'm going to give support to the law. One more thing I forgot to mention is what I saw in the budget that an additional agency will be teamed up next year. So we're going back to new jobs. The agency, the cost of the agency will increase by about 5 million kuna. In the following year, most of the funds go into new employment, which is again in proportion to what the Government of the Republic of Croatia advocates, which is to go to a more rational public administration. So I think there's a lot of room in the state services to fill in the staff of that Regional Development Agency, and there's no need to go for new employment, or new costs. I say five million kunas planned next year for the agency. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-10-0.u45198	Thank you very much. Replicu has a respected representative, Boro Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-10-0.u45199	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I'm not sure who's in contradiction here. Namely, you said yourself that compared to the '90s. The year of GDP decline in Dalmatia was 5%, in Slavonia by 20%. So it's all from those numbers that are very exact clear. Furthermore, at the time of the coalition government from 2000 to 2004, you said you had made some kind of shifts. Believe me, Slavonia didn't feel any movement, and you can see it from the static data of all our counties at the time. Maybe the money went somewhere else, maybe they went then maybe not to some regions I mentioned, maybe they went to Victor Lenac, maybe they went to River Bank, but mostly they didn't go for regional, enough, I'm saying for regional development so they don't get me wrong. And then over this little room 3 with 3 or 3 times 33 and 4 times 4 etc., you know that little bar, and there was a lot of crocodiles. I agree with you that the Regional Development Agency is just one new imposition and its expansion and payment of new officials, an official is something that is not in line with the principles of the anti-recession policy of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-10-0.u45200	Thank you very much, and the reply to the replica has a representative of Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-10-0.u45201	Thank you very much. I said, I did not say that Slavonia has evolved more than Dalmatia has developed, but I want to say that Croatia is developing unequally, but not towards the Adriatic but unfortunately towards Zagreb where everything has been concentrated alive and that there should be a little more expendation and resources for other parts of our country. The second thing, I said that we recognized the 2000s and that's exactly us because you were then a member of the HSS and part of that coalition government. So we recognized the 2000s need for regional Croatia to be supported. One fund was for development and employment, and that will be remembered by the Regional Development Fund. So 2 funds that had significant resources every year, and that was the idea and motto of the coalition government, which unfortunately got lost somewhere, that is, the meaning of that whole story has disappeared in all these years. So, of course, you and I will agree that, i.e. you and I agree that Slavonia needs more help, but we need to help both Dalmatia and other parts of Croatia, said counterpart Bauk, Siben County, who is terribly devastated and unfortunately we have no development and no economy in it. So I know our intensity is the same, and our arguments are about the same.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-10-0.u45202	Thank you very much. There's an individual debate on the part of the esteemed representative, Luke Denone. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-10-0.u45203	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So, we have before us a proposal of the Law on Regional Development of the Republic of Croatia with a final bill of law and the matter would be very simple if such a law could all be supported, but it is obvious that at the moment when we adopt this law something that seems to me to be wrong, and first of all, that one cube that remains empty in those European stories and now a cross plus as we have done this job, and in fact it is shown that, according to the regional strategy, that regional development, and this government is engaged in a campaign, verse and that it has now thought to pass a law that is only one fig leaf, so we have fulfilled a single house, and nothing has changed significantly. So let me just say a few things about how a lot of illogicality is written in this law too, at least that's how it's written, when it's said that in this opening statement, regional development cannot be identified by regionalization. the introduction of some new regional units, any changes in the territorial structure of units of local and regional self-government, etc. The new law has no purpose of changing the system of local and regional regional self-government, although this system makes it important, I repeat an important, component of the framework for managing regional development policy and largely defines solutions regulated by the Regional Development Act. So we argue that there is no need to infiltrate regionalisation, i.e. better quality regionalisation of the Republic of Croatia, i.e. decentralisation, and in fact without this new regionalisation, there is no need for this law, as the legislator himself writes, to be operational and to be quality, and to make other economic social developments in the entire territory of the Republic of Croatia more evenly. In any case, there is another fact that says in this law that policymaking is regional development certainly does not mean intervention in the right to local and regional self-government. It would be, when read like this, very well written, but when you read in part two of that law, where strategic planning of regional development is discussed, then Article 14, which is already mentioned here, unnecessarily, says that how decentralised it is and how uninterrupted and not intervened, it is said this way "the content of county development strategies even the methodology of production and evaluation and other issues in this respect is regulated by the minister responsible for regional development." Now, if it's decentralisation, if it's released freedom for regional regions to make their own vision of their own development, then obviously the law is contradictory in interpretations which we aim at this law. It is said that by law, this law has also respected partnership. So the partnership was respected in a way that, say, one of the partners should be the Association of Cities, so the local self-government unit, as they were consulted about this law too, they expressed their dissent by adopting this law at this point. Now, this partnership didn't show up in action because one in those units, in the Association of Cities, isn't just one, all of which means the entire Republic of Croatia, all signs, SDPs, HDZs, HSS, they're all inside. They're in the best interest of this law being passed properly. Clearly, this partnership was not respected in this way. And tell me if we pass this law, and we'll bring it, that I'm not reading what's written now, it's obvious that parts of some laws that have contributed to equalising the development of the Republic of Croatia, such as the Law on the City of Vukovar, the Law on the Mountains, the Law on the Islands, will obviously be slowly raised by these laws, and that we'll wait until this one is in some way operational because it will show if it goes to that indexation as it says that part of those regions that have enjoyed the benefits of these laws because we've brought them forward more evenly and equally, it's obvious that, by this indexation, part of those units of local self-government will be developed, it simply won't be able to fit into any indexation that was made here. And finally so very late. Why hasn't the strategy been adopted? You know when the law is first passed, and the strategy we've already discussed somewhere, and we've only got in mind, I'm looking at it in a different way. If we don't know where we're going, then we can come anywhere, which is interesting which times we've come to where we haven't been. But it's obvious that this kind of law-making without strategy is obviously not going to end well. And by all accounts, we will, of course, as they said on behalf of the club, support this law. But I don't think we should pass laws that won't be operational, which will bring further interference to Slavonian, Adriatic and I don't know what kind of recommendations in a small country like Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-10-0.u45204	Thank you very much. Two replicas have been reported. First of all, Honorable Representative Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-10-0.u45205	Thank you very much. I'm going to remind you of my colleague Denon, and that's the government's gesture I'd say about adopting a regional development strategy. In 2008, former Cobankovic said a sentence in Plitvice Lakes "The strategy of regional development will be brought in by the end of the year". In 2008, it ended long ago, 2009 will end the next 15, 20 days from the strategy... And that's the biggest problem we have when we talk about regional development. No political will. Ministers change, members of coalition partners change in place, but no movement and no political will to help certain regions in Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-10-0.u45206	Thank you very much. The second line has a respected representative, Zdenka Chuhnil.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-10-0.u45207	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, you have expressed concern about your colleague Denona based on the indexation that there will be a particular county, i.e. probably regions, since we have three and within the regions themselves. But I still have to express my concern because this fundamental law, the Regional Development Act, practically speaking about the development index, does not speak at all what parameters will be used in this indexation. And I'm afraid at some point they can be even arbitrary. I know you shouldn't have talked about their stake in... but that certainly should have at least been said which would be economic, social indicators with which the index would count and on what basis the index would be calculated, further normal. And not to say, after all, and on the basis of all that and to finance. This way we're deprived of basic data, and I don't think any law can go into anything that doesn't have a base regulated by law.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-10-0.u45208	Thank you very much. The replica will be answered by a representative of Luke Denon.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-10-0.u45209	Yeah, I've expressed that fear knowing how we do it. But now that we are warning and through this debate of the illogicalities that are in this law are written, I believe that when the legislator goes, he goes operationally to implement this law, he will not fall for such things. I think, then, even though it says here that regional development policy will, therefore, not directly enter political and related issues of central state relations and units of local, regional self-government, but focus on developing the country as a whole by ensuring the necessary coordination and distribution of rights and responsibilities. I believe that this will be managed, although I have the opposite opinion, since in that positive part of the local self-government unit, they must be confronted with state authority, if we want greater decentralisation. I don't speak negatively, I speak in a positive sense. And in that conflict between local and state authorities, we can then realize a lot more and more quality data than we've ever done before.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-10-0.u45210	Thank you very much. We're continuing an individual debate. The last individual debate and the esteemed representative of Denesh Shaw. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-10-0.u45211	Thank you very much, Vice President. Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. I'd like with a few words to get involved in this debate and say the following. As far as the status of the asked question here was concerned, the status of existing agencies is probably still there, but I know the same about this not feeling, but the Regional Development Agency. It would now be unnecessary to set up another agency next to it. I guess that concept might fit in. Furthermore, given everything that has already been formed and established so far, I could say in the interest of developing an area from village to capital, I think that this development component is present from rural local committees to a level that is maintained. And here we actually have something in administrative authority, so in state bodies, then we have other associations that are also involved in the development of a particular agency, we have associations of various kinds. And I'm a little afraid it's gonna be on that people's full of midwives. But I hope that is exactly the law that will do that to resolve these competences. But not to be alarmed in accordance with this Article 19th, a very nice name has been given here, says the partner council of the statistical region. It's all right. I think if it acts like an advisory body, I assume it's so imaginary. Because here in Article 19, we are talking about the composition of who will work in it. As soon as we talk about work and work, that work will probably have to be paid. And if it happens to us that as usual and as our people say our jobs, we have such a man who assumes that he knows very well that he will gradually professionalise himself. If that happens, then it threatens to create a professional institution between the state level and the county level, which is probably not the aim of this law. At least I guess, more of that coordination, that advisory role. Furthermore, here I would say the same two words. A colleague of Zdenka spoke about the contents of Articles 24 and 25. I think those parameters are familiar with what those five are, I think they do. However, it may have been good for a complete explanation to perform at least two, three counties or five, six municipalities right now to see. Because that's the kind of data I think we're dealing with, so let's see a mild combination of what that would mean right now. We spoke here I don't know the County of Neretva, Slavonic, etc. If those calculations had already been carried out, we would have had a quality combination to see where it is in that sense. At last, it is not a problem that engulfs any rights of national minorities, but I am convinced neither should the law write anything about it. But I'm also convinced that exactly the application and this law will ensure development and those areas by every logic where national minorities live, because equality is not about writing on the entrance to the village something in two or three languages. But the equality is that this village is lit up, that it has water, that it has sewers, that it has all these basic infrastructure facilities. I sincerely hope that there will be just that in that sense one contribution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-10-0.u45212	Thank you very much. And now for the debate of the esteemed representative of Ratka Gajica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-10-0.u45213	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I'm going to make some remarks here that I'm afraid of, first of all, because somehow I don't believe that the intensity of a law that has a pretentious title won't be implemented. First something in the introduction before I say anything about the text of the law. The law should regulate the establishment and implementation of regional policy, I think by content, by proposition, by holders and other elements to implement what we want, what we plan by law or otherwise, so we should regulate the design and implementation of regional policy. It is, I must go from there when it comes to the content of the law simply with the idea of whether or not it will pass. You're Mr. Secretary of State. At one point you said you're being arranged. Unfortunately, I don't think so, but it's just that matter is indicated in very principled categories. This is primarily not about encouraging regional development, but about regulating regional development, which is simply to say the leverage of the economic development policy of the Republic of Croatia. That's not so irrelevant. We want to manage what is called regional development in some way the overall development of the Republic of Croatia. And if we adopt this law in a zeit note in time and for the purpose of meeting some of the requirements and criteria of the European Union, then I think that we are actually responding to what Brussels is looking for, and what the need of the Republic of Croatia is not to answer that question as a whole, and that seems primary to me. Now something about the text of the law. First, to be very simplified, perhaps even incorrectly simplified in such a statistical way. This topic of the Regional Development Act cannot be put in the 35th article in a good way, it is simply not possible. Now, I'm going to give you a few things that I think support. You have when you speak in the law of the objective, then the link between priorities is balanced and sustainable development. When it comes to the principles of development policy, solidarity, equal opportunities, partnership and cooperation, different sources of funding, monitoring and evaluation, are consistent and balanced, respecting autonomy etc. Those are all principles. Those are all principles. Something more concrete about planning. This is the Strategy of the Republic of Croatia and the Strategy for County Development, etc. And now that I'm going to get my impression, my opinion is whatever you want to bring it down to the next thing. To believe undivided that the Regional Development Act can produce the effect that we want it to have, in my opinion, has to have three things inside. The first is to identify, evaluate, determine the degree of development I suppose for the sake of wanting to determine the imbalance in the development of certain areas. There's another thing in there, and it seems relatively well worked out. The other thing that must be there is operational planning, which means measures and tasks, etc. The pace in which these plans will be implemented to remove what we have determined or to fix what we have determined. And the third thing that must be within the law is who is the bearer of these plans both in the design and in the realization and who is ultimately responsible for these plans, that these plans will be realized. These two things, so this determination of the degree of differences in development is in there. And how are we gonna fix that? The plans, the carriers and the responsibility we don't have in law. And I think the lack of these two important things is a huge lack of this law. I'd like it to be realised without these items. I don't see how that's gonna be on its own. And that's exactly why, and I said a little while ago, I'm afraid this law will not realize the purpose and purpose that we give the title and that comes from our wishes and expectations for it to happen. Thank you, Mr. Vice President.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-10-0.u45214	Thank you very much. And before the debate is over, there is another replica, the esteemed representative of Luke Denon.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-10-0.u45215	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Representative, you have well noticed that it is necessary to respect regional policies of a region for the implementation of regional development. Unfortunately, as it says here in the law without regionalization. Now, if these regional policies can't be implemented, they can't be implemented as it says in this law, when it's still in our heads we have statistical regions so let's say the Adriatic region is from Istria to Dubrovnik. Try telling me how, I don't know how, but this partnership that will then come up with a common development of such a region I doubt that we'll ever come up with quality projects that will satisfy everyone, so let's say now we're going to develop I don't know the need to build a tunnel through Učka, because we need to connect it to the railroad. I'm sure it won't work. It's a development project that won't be able to pass. But also those regional policies that should be free, such a policy must be missed by the minister, because if he does not miss them then there is nothing. For nothing, the region, or the county, perhaps a common two, the three counties are considering development in one good direction, if the minister does not miss it there will be nothing. Here's the same lack of this law. I think you should trust more people who work in local self-government units, yet they're not so much I'd say... that they are not able to properly lead the development of their region to the well-being of their citizens in the region, and of course to the well-being of citizens throughout Croatia. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-10-0.u45216	Thank you very much. And a reply to the replica by the esteemed representative of Ratko Gajica.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-10-0.u45217	Well, dear colleague, you can't and can't implement any regional development policy unless there's a regional development plan. What I agree with you is that this is a disadvantage. We should have a strong connection between the regional development strategy which I also think should fit this House. And regional development plans that I think the Government of the Republic of Croatia should be responsible for, not the Ministry. And I agree, too, and so I say a little while ago that I'm afraid that this law, as it was made, will not guarantee, that we will have these plans and that we will have this connection, and that we will have the bearers and that we will ultimately know who is responsible for doing so. As much as I agree, I don't know how it's gonna go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-10-0.u45218	Thank you very much. And five more minutes on behalf of the HNS club, there is a respected representative, Zlatko Koračević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-10-0.u45219	Thank you very much. So I would especially like to emphasise, namely the topic of regional development, it is certainly worth quite a lot in the preparatory part, and also in the discussion, in the debate in this Croatian Parliament, a very different dimension, quite different terms than it happened. So on behalf of the club, I would like to point out once again that regional development is possible only if we create a system that will allow all parts of this country to contribute to sustainable development and national competitiveness, better integration, above all local, regional needs with available national resources for regional development, that we need to make sure that the rates of growth of less developed units in the long term outweigh the growth rates above the average units, and also not to limit the growth of leading regions and, in any case, it is not a very simple task. Secondly very important, and this is what we have seen in the budget, that the capacity of our national budget simply does not have the opportunity and does not give opportunities for regional development and it is questionable whether at all in the capacity of the national budget we have enough of the necessary national components in any project, so that even now we have and do not know how many of these projects have been made. Therefore, it is very important how transparently the development index will define municipalities and cities and counties that will enter the area of assisted areas, and it is also important that the state enables municipalities and cities and counties through fiscal decentralisation and through support from the state budget, based on very clear criteria, and not on political ones that have up to one stage of completion, to prepare them to the necessary phase and which is prescribed, and that we then have or launch regional development in the frameworks of possible, but I repeat to us a great threat to the capacity of the national budget, and I hope that Minister Schucker, who took over that function and as Vice-President of the Government, will take account and that we will need support and a resorient ministry, and all of our municipalities and cities that what they belong, what has the opportunities, what gives them the opportunity, will also give them the opportunity to realise.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-10-0.u45220	Thank you very much. And on behalf of the promoter, the closing statement was requested by State Secretary Mr. Carlo Djurasic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-10-0.u45221	Honorable Vice President, distinguished parliamentary deputies and parliamentary deputies. I really do, thank you for all these comments. I'm sorry that you're gone, but it's just talking and I'm glad, it's talking about the seriousness of the subject, it's saying that you, too, that this House has realized that this is an important law, that this important topic is for discussion and that I'm really happy. In order not to forget, I would like to start by saying that the motion for an amendment from the session of the Committee on Regional Development, Forestry and Water Economy in the Assembly held on 10 December 2009. So, like I said, I'm really happy about the way you respected parliamentary representatives and MPs got involved in this debate, because this really is one important matter and it's not so easy to approach. That it is important, we all know that for 6 years it has been in preparation, that is, in 2002 it has already started to think about it, and in the last two years the draft of this ministry, and the actions have been intensified to this extent that we have held 124 workshops on the ground, and that all relevant factors of this country participated in the drafting of this law and the Regional Development Strategy. So from local, regional, to state self-government. I still have to look back at some of the comments made here even though I have participated in all the parliamentary committees and I have tried to explain to each of them what regional policy is, which is regional law. How much does the EU mean? I said that at the beginning of my presentation. If one EU invests 35% of its budget, or 308 billion euros per year in regional development, that is to say, 2 things in cohesion. It says it teaches this great importance and another, I am sorry that there is no parliamentary representative of the esteemed Grubisic, talking about the problems that exist in Europe in terms of regional development and even development. So we're not isolated from it. I must also say that such a law as we one Romania passed in 1999, 10 years before it became an EU candidate, and we all know well that in the first 9 months. Romania has failed to attract a single centre from cohesion, or structural and cohesion funds. Therefore, I agree that it can always be more, that it can always be better, but as proposings we consider this to be a good basis, I will say again. A good framework that will normally be as I said before it has no experience in the EU will show whether it needs to be changed or not. And that's why he looks so simplified. The second point is why he looks so simplified. All laws are passed pyramidally from top to top, so something is written and applied down. This law is quite the opposite of what the English would say... I'll say from the bottom up. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] This means that this law runs from the smallest unit, meaning from local units, from the city, from the municipality across the regional unit to the central unit. For example, nobody mentioned that project base, which I think is one of the most important things because without projects, we will not withdraw a single euro from the EU. The base of projects is the base which is the basic unit for withdrawing money from structural and cohesion funds. E a database full of local and regional units. As much as they'll charge it, they'll pull the money back. I would not agree here even with the conclusion that this law does not go in terms of decentralisation. And where you'll be more decentralisation that local and regional units have their own strategy, have their own agencies preparing projects, have that privilege to nominate things themselves, but also the responsibility to respond unless that money is withdrawn. I don't want to get into a tight debate here, but I have to say that these three statistical regions are not and they're not going to require some great human capacity or money. They are put there to identify certain envelopes from the structural and cohesion funds belonging to these statistical units according to the development index. And how much money they're going to withdraw again depends on these down units. I'd also like to look back on one important thing that's gotten a few times through whether this new derogation law remains four laws? No, he doesn't derrogate them. Last year we passed a Law on Special State Care, which is valid until 2016, and will they change, will they see any changes in the EU? They will, because the EU neither recognises areas of special state concern nor mountainous or lowland areas, it knows developed or undeveloped. And so he knows areas that need to be helped. And that's it. However, the rights acquired will not be changed. Also if they are particularly we have in these areas of special state concern for the entrepreneurial zone. These entrepreneurship zones are based on the law and have a foothold in it, it won't change in 2 years, so they'll say they don't have those entrepreneurs making it easier, that's for sure. So let's get this thing straight, too. And another important thing I heard was that our budget does not predict development, that our budget does not recognise enough regional development in 2010. I can say from the point of view of my ministry, our Ministry of Regional Development, that our budget is at the level of last year before those 2 rebalances, meaning 2 billion and 150 million kuna and that it is the only budget in the Republic of Croatia that 89% goes into development. Believe it or not, 89% of the budget goes into development. Therefore, I am also sorry that there is no honourable parliamentary representative Grubisic, but by chance I came from one ministry before which is important, I know the numbers that have been invested in Slavonia, I agree that it is always small. And I can also say the data from my Ministry current that, let's say, 10 days ago I visited Brod-Posavina County are currently investments in Brod-Posavia County 400 million kuna. In this time of recession, I think that's quite enough when at the same time we invest 82 million kuna in Dubrovnik-Neretlian. Therefore, I know that Slavonia was killed, but this government and this ministry are taking care of areas that have suffered some casualties. From all this, I could be here, here's a lot of hints to answer, I hope, as the chairman of the board said, in one month. There will be a thematic session where we will be able to talk things out, where you will be able to hear something else most likely new. And now in view of all this and how this law is conceived, the Proposer suggests once again that this law be passed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-10-0.u45222	I thank Mr. Secretary of State. I now conclude the debate on this item on the agenda, and therefore today's work of the Croatian Parliament. We'll vote on this point when the conditions are met. And for tomorrow, I announce the start of work at 9 am and 30 minutes first by voting on the debated points, followed by a debate on a proposal to launch a trust issue for the Minister of the Sea, Transport and Infrastructure of Bozidar Kalmeti. Here I hope that these 11 MPs and representatives who are in the hall will have enough time to inform their colleagues and colleagues about this schedule. Thank you very much. See you tomorrow.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-12-10-0.u45223	We are moving on to the Final Proposal for a Law on the Regional Development of the Republic of Croatia. It was an emergency procedure, P.Z.E. 483. The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. The government has submitted an amendment, but we do not vote on them, because in accordance with Article 109. The rules of procedure become an integral part of the final draft law. The amendments were also submitted by the Committee on Regional Development, Forestry and Water Economy. During the debate, the proposer's representative accepted the amendment of the Committee and is not to be voted on. They become an integral part of the final bill. I am voting on the final draft law on the regional development of the Republic of Croatia. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? I find that most of the votes, 84 votes in favour, 17 abstentions and 2 against the proposal for a law on the regional development of the Republic of Croatia, together with the amendments adopted before that, is so under discussion. Thank you. We will also vote at the end on lists for the election of members of the State Attorney's Council but after the debate which will take place on the next item of the agenda, because it needs a secret vote, etc. Technical preparation should be carried out and therefore. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, we are moving to - a proposal to raise the issue of confidence of the Minister of the Sea, Transport and Infrastructure, Bozidar Kalmeti. Proposers of 32 members of the SDP Club of Representatives. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Article 113 Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. You received the proposal by mail. The government was very clear about this proposal. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Does the Proposer want a representative? Who? ... Okay. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] On behalf of the promoter, he will explain the proposal for this item of the agenda, Mr Zeljko Jovanovic. Here you go.
