ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-18-0.u27561	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues. At the 48th session held on 10 February 2009, the Croatian Parliament Legislative Committee discussed a report on the regulations adopted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of legal authority, which was submitted to the President of the Croatian Parliament by the Government of the Republic of Croatia by an act of 9 January 2009. The Legislative Committee proposes to the Croatian Parliament to accept this report on which the Committee has no objections and, above all, not constitutional and legal nature. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-18-0.u27562	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the SDP club, Mr. Representative Josip Leko. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-18-0.u27563	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, honourable representatives of the government, colleagues and fellow MPs. Unfortunately, in Croatian legal practice, the same thing is repeated over and over again. The Government of the Republic of Croatia derogates the laws of the Republic of Croatia and is not authorized to do so. The constitution, however, says the parliament can authorise the government to handle in a different way some of the issues given in those powers. But the Constitution doesn't give the government the right to change and supplement the law. In particular, it amends and complements them outside the authority of the Government's power law. Thus, the Government of the Republic of Croatia adopted a regulation amending the law on the Croatian National Bank, i.e. whether or not on foreign exchange business, foreign exchange business, so the Government attracts itself to jurisdiction, or derogation of the law, so as to say that the new paragraphs 2 and 3 will be added to the law, in accordance with Article 28(6) and Article 63(1) of the Law, so that new items will cease to apply as of 1 August 2009. Foreign exchange law. And it'll last until when? This can only last until 9 months this year, as the Law on Government Powers of the Republic of Croatia was passed last year at 9 months and the duration of the authorisation is only a year. Just a year. It is the creation of legal uncertainty, the creation of legal uncertainty, the derogation of the jurisdiction of the Croatian Parliament and, more importantly, to say the matter, the government has passed this law as a law harmonising the Croatian legal system with the legal property of the European Union countries. Then individual representatives and even clubs said, for a reason now it is necessary to fully liberalise the foreign exchange market until Croatia enters the European Union and whether monetary measures are needed to promote and help the economic policy of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. That's when the government smoothly rejected it. However, when it came to the situation that it is important for her to keep national interests in times of crisis, then the government reaches for a regulation with legal force under the law but past the Constitution. It could have arranged this area in a different way until the 9th month of this year and left the law in force. She didn't do it. If we agree that this is how the government works, our responsibility ends for the regulations, but our responsibility becomes for the implementation of the Constitution, for respecting the Constitution. The same thing she did with the Law on Sport and the Law on Payments, this could be accepted as an arrangement that the Government has fully in accordance with the Constitution, on the salaries of judicial officials, with the fact that it would be correct in the legal standard that it stands in the regulation itself except that it will be published in the national newspapers that this Regulation works while the authority that the Government has is acting. They'd fix that, raise the level of legal certainty. All those who enter the National Journal and take a look at this regulation must seek the basis on which it was adopted, and only then shall they specifically determine that this regulation can only take effect as long as it lasts under the law given the authority of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. I think it would also benefit the interests of the legal certainty of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, the legal entities and the Government of the Republic of Croatia and nothing would harm them. That is why I think we should vote on individual regulations, on giving it so to say ex post confirmations, on the verification of the regulation in this Parliament rather than in the group report. In this way, the Parliament would strengthen the regulation, such as the law, the veterinary regulation, not the veterinary law, the regulation on the salaries of judges and not the law, and the foreign exchange regulation should ask the Government to prepare an amendment and supplement of the foreign exchange law, and then we would have a law that will last until it is changed and while it is the interest of the Republic of Croatia that liberalisation should not be the way we designed it under the government's proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-18-0.u27564	Thank you. We have one correction, Mr Emil Tomljanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-18-0.u27565	Thank you very much. Mr. President. An esteemed colleague has incorrectly established, I quote, that the Government is not authorised to adopt such regulations or regulations which, among other things, amend certain provisions of the law. This is simply not true. The government’s authority is found in Article 87. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia on the one hand and, of course, in the law passed by this House. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-18-0.u27566	Thank you. On behalf of the HDZ Club, Mr. Representative Emil Tomljanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-18-0.u27567	Thank you very much. Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. I will also point out in the introduction that the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community supports this report. Therefore, we have before us a report on the regulations adopted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of legal authority. By using the powers laid down in the Law on the Power of the Government of the Republic of Croatia to regulate certain issues in the Croatian Parliament's section, the Government adopted the following regulations at its meeting on 19 and 24 December 2008 and on 8 January 2009, therefore during that time period a total of 6 Regulations. First, the Regulation amending and supplementing the Foreign Exchange Act, the Regulation supplementing the Law on Sports, the Regulation supplementing the Law on the Payments of Judges and other Judicial Officers, the Regulation amending the Law on Veterinary Use, the Regulation amending the Food Act and the Regulation amending and supplementing the Law on State Support in Agriculture and Fisheries. It is very important here to point out that these regulations, which the Government of the Republic of Croatia has addressed from the Croatian Parliament's section, have been adopted in the first order in accordance with the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and the Law on the power of the Government of the Republic of Croatia to regulate certain issues from the part of the Croatian Parliament. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia states that the Croatian Parliament can, therefore, repeat, empower the Government of the Republic of Croatia at the most in a time of the year to regulate certain issues from its territory other than those, here we have constitutionally taxed situations where this must not be done by regulations, other than those relating to the development of the Constitution of established human rights and fundamental freedoms, national rights, electoral system, establishment, detour and method of operation of state bodies and local self-government. The Croatian Parliament has delegated, it is the institute so-called Legislative delegations and the entry into force of the Law on the Power of the Government of the Republic of Croatia to regulate certain issues from the part of the Croatian Parliament of its legislative power to the Government of the Republic of Croatia for the period from 15 December 2008 to 15 January 2009 and from 15 July 2009 to 15 September 2009. As all those regulations were adopted at the cabinet meeting on 19 and 24 December 2008 and 8 January 2009, the government was found to have served within the legal time limit. I repeat, within the legal time limit. Similarly, none of the Regulations shall, by its own content, enter into the exclusive legislative powers of the Croatian Parliament and of the cited Article 87(1). The Constitution and Article 1 of the Law and the Government of the Republic of Croatia complied with the obligation laid down in Article 3 of the Law and submitted a report to the Croatian Parliament within the legal period of time on the regulations adopted. And in conclusion, of course, in theory and practice, there is always a question of when and under what conditions the Government or executive power can reach for legal powers and whether these solutions are against the law or against the law. However, it is very important to stress that in the legal and parliamentary practice of almost all modern countries has become applicable, so there is a constitutional legal rule and constitutional legal standard that reads in the short lines: If the Constitution explicitly allows the transfer of legislative jurisdiction from the legislative authority to the Government, then the adoption of the regulations in question is without question in accordance with the Constitution and, of course, when it appears the basis of the law which passed these powers in this situation, the Croatian Parliament. According to only the above mentioned Club of Representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community will absolutely support this report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-18-0.u27568	Thank you. Correction Mr. Representative Joseph Leco. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-18-0.u27569	Thank you very much, Mr. President. On behalf of the HDZ Club, colleague Tomljanović is well referred to in Article 87. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, but it quite wrongly interprets it because it explicitly states: "Some questions from the Parliament's section, not the amendment of the law. And it's not permanent, it's just temporary. If the Constitution were respected, then the government could not permanently resolve the issue as it addressed the issue of state support in agriculture and fisheries. This decision has been addressed by the Government on a permanent basis because the support for corn has been established at an amount of €2.5 000 and, once the aid is spent, it will not be returned. It's policy-finding correct, but not changing the law. Therefore, if the ruling majority trusts the government, it is its right, but cannot give it on behalf of the citizens the authority that the Constitution has not given it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-18-0.u27570	Thank you. We're moving on to an individual debate. Ms. Representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović. She's gone. Mr. Attorney Gordan Maras. Here you go. He gave up. Mr. Representative Zvonimir Mršić. He's gone. Mr. Representative Davorko Vidovic. He's not here either. Mr. Representative Nenad Stazic. ... Mrs. Representative, Dear Zgrebec. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-18-0.u27571	Thank you, Mr. President. Representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues. I would go from finding, of course, that the government has actually misused the powers of these regulations. I will remind you of the conditions under which she may use such powers to regulate certain issues from the Parliament's section. Therefore, Article 87 states that for a maximum period of one year, the Government may be empowered to regulate certain issues from its part-round, with the exception of those relating to the development of the Constitution of authorised human rights and the foundation of freedom, national rights, electoral system, establishment, detour and way of working of state bodies and local self-government. This is further detailed by the Law on the Powers of the Government of the Republic of Croatia to regulate certain issues contained in the Croatian Parliament's section, which states that it regulates the issues of the current economic policy of the Parliament's section, except for changes in the state budget and regulation of taxes and issues which can only be determined by the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and restricts to two periods: from 15 December to 15 July 2009 and 15 July to 15 September 2009, so in those periods when the constitutional break for Parliament is. And the Government adopted these regulations during the period from 19 December to 8 January, so six regulations during that period. Let us remind ourselves, the Croatian Parliament was sitting until December 13th and remained for two days until the constitutional deadline. The first two or three regulations were adopted by the Government on 19 December. Therefore, there was no reason why such amendments as to the amendments to the Foreign Exchange Act, which were adopted by Regulation 19 December and the Law supplementing the Law on Sports, could not be prepared as amendments to the law and delivered to Parliament for debate because it was therefore known before that this had to be amended in the law. The next regulation relating to the Completion of the Law on the Payments of Judges and Other Judicial Officers actually goes into the budget and it was necessary to resolve this most likely by the Law on the Implementation of the 2009 State Budget, which we also passed during that period, between December 1st and 13th. And the government only settled it on December 24th, 2008. In other words, until when the budget was adopted, we knew that certain rights in the receipts of judicial officials would not be realised in 2009. The two regulations relating to the Law on Veterinary and Food Act, in fact, states in the explanation that this is a compliance with the European Union which has also adopted certain delays, the application of certain standards. It could also not have happened between December 13th and December 24th, so there is no reason to regulate the matter by regulations but could have come into regular proceedings as amendments to certain laws to Parliament. For me, it is actually the most questionable regulation concerning the amendment and addition of the Law on State support in agriculture and fisheries. What happened here? The explanation shows that we had a record crop of corn, although here in the explanation we're talking about a very low average yield, in other words we had large areas of corn-stained surfaces. We usually have a problem with monoculture or a very narrow fruitored, and that's why we have oscillations year by year in the production of exactly two products, wheat and corn. And it's said precisely because prices have fallen significantly, sales prices. The government adopts a regulation amending the State Aid Act and increases this support to 2250 kuna. It should be taken into account that the budget has already been adopted and that this amount of support for corn is not planned for the budget. The assessment is that we heard from the government's representatives that it is necessary to provide an additional 260 million kuna. This means that the Government is directly intruding into the budget item, i.e. there is no means of disbursement of this level of support for corn. I don't think that Parliament has given such authority to the Government, that before that it should have gone into budget rebalancing or by changing such an amount, it is necessary. The redistribution within the budget items is not possible to secure such an amount within the Ministry of Agriculture, taking into account that many of the support is late in payments, to be transferred from one calendar year to another, as our farmers have already become accustomed to. But by means of a regulation, I think it's inadmissible and that the government really shouldn't have done it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-18-0.u27572	Thank you. We have one correction. Mr Emil Tomljanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-18-0.u27573	Thank you very much, Mr. President. It's very short. In the opening part of the exhibition, an incorrectly respected colleague said, I think it needs to be corrected, that the government has misused powers by adopting these regulations. It's incorrect that this is about abuse of authority. These powers come not only from the Constitution, Article 87 which you have quoted, but also from the law passed by the Croatian Parliament. There is no abuse, but these are emergency interventions by the Government in those situations when the Croatian Parliament does not meet. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-18-0.u27574	Thank you. Mr. Representative Dragutin Bodakosh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-18-0.u27575	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, State Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. Allow with a few words or references to these regulations, less from this legal because I am not a lawyer, but more from this second part because I believe that after the final session of the Parliament, the Government of the Republic of Croatia adopted six regulations on the territory of agriculture. I would also talk about this part because the adopted Regulation amending the Law on Veterinary Use, the Regulation amending the Food Act and the most difficult monetary regulation amending and supplementing the Law on State support in agriculture and fisheries certainly significantly affecting what is happening in these branches and areas. Normally, from this point on, there is a marked dissatisfaction with the members of the SDP club, and I myself personally as an individual, that regulations amending the three laws of agriculture only a few days after the cease-over of the Parliament's work. These first two regulations discuss the prolonging of the decision of accreditation of the food veterinary and safety laboratory from 1.1.2009 to 1.1.2010, which is justice by binding on European legislation. But I ask myself, what do we get? Do we delay these laboratories better prepared or continue to buy time and at what stage we are in the accreditation of these laboratories and what we need to do to put them at the level that Europe requires for such laboratories, or that we can get these accreditations as concrete. I think it would be much more correct for the MPs of this House if that change were brought to the Assembly with an explanation and answers to these questions that I have given because we don't know what will happen again in 1.1.2010 with the accreditation of these laboratories. Next, with the adoption of this third Regulation amending and supplementing the State aid law in agriculture and fisheries, as we can see certain obligations have also been made. These commitments are about 260 million kuna for the genus that was removed in autumn 2008. Which, that year 2008, was very much, not to say problematic, which was where everything was happening. From the high prices of this corn to, here are low prices, or prices that have not satisfied our producers. The first half even imported 80 thousand tons of corn for $34 million, and at the same time it was imported, we see from this that it was found that the growing areas were about 28% higher than in 2007 because this very price that was high probably encouraged people to go and sow corn. At the same time, a surplus corn on the Croatian market is created in the harvest because, here, no, it spells 5.5 tonnes wrong here, the average was higher, and that is why a surplus was created on the Croatian corn market, but were enormously low prices. Here it is again shown that the Ministry of Agriculture has not grown up to these situations and that it does not rule, primarily with stock balances compared to production. If they were at home, they would certainly know the situation in production, but also the state of our livestock, and then the policy of corn production would be much better. What's present is that it's already gone from picking up problems because the silos were full. Also, there was an enormous yield of wheat that had the same stalled market, and that wheat was found in these silos, and for corn there was no place because a total of 2 million tonnes of the capacity of Croatian silos, it was certainly a problem to prepare about 2.5 million tons of corn due to the good year. And throughout this game, it is normal and dissatisfaction for peasants that there is no longer a protection price for corn, and offered in a ransom of 62 limes created a great loss for them. They were also putting pressure on the ministry. The response the ministry had seemed to be the only one to drag his hand back into the budget to increase support from 2250 kuna per hectare. However, not through the Parliament, but normally through the regulation, and therefore the end of the Parliament is awaited and such a regulation is adopted. But this, these 2250 and these 260 million, is that stimulating in this situation? Will the manufacturers be pleased with that? Will that also create a market for corn and what is most important increase the profitability of livestock? It doesn't seem to be for the government. It's important for the ministry. They have the opportunity to pass the Parliament's regulation and the matter is resolved at the end of the year when the Parliament does not work, and the problem is present, however, the problem is present throughout the year because what I said earlier, it shows. But why does the ministry and the government seem to be thinking, why should the parliament be bothered because when we discuss it, there would be a lot of questions for the top people of the ministry and asking questions about the minister's responsibility because it is certainly the most responsible for such a solution or failure to resolve this situation. It seems easier to resolve this by a government regulation, but nothing with the regulation has been resolved unfortunately because even regular incentives from last year have been paid, about 1 billion kuna is due for last year's production that has not yet been paid, and now new liabilities of 260 million are coming. However, what is said here and written in this explanation and what I find very problematic is that these 2250 kuna per hectare will also be foreseen for the period 2009 to 2011 according to the concept of a new direct payment model in agriculture during the pre-accession period. I'm asking myself what that means? In this new model of payment of the support that this House has discussed, it has neither heard nor received, but that is why the Government regulation already prejudges what this Parliament will adopt when a new Support Act is adopted. So we're already talking by 2011 this will be. How will they react to that to farmers? Is everybody gonna go back in the corn? The corn we have, the cattle we don't have and so on. However, peasants also again seek 18 lip per kilogram subsidies, regardless of these incentives that were adopted by the regulation and it seems the circle is closing again and everyone wants only money, whether it earns it or not. And finally, when we look at what these regulations bring to us, one question is asked to me, and this is primarily a question to the minister and to the HSS whether this regulation is also the way to divide their voters before local elections or whether they think they have solved the problem of the price and the market for corn, prices and the market for corn in Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-18-0.u27576	Thank you. We have one correction, Mr. Dragan Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-18-0.u27577	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I would, therefore, correct my colleague's claim that in some way the ministry, the government misused the situation and passed the regulation by avoiding that and the debate in the Parliament, etc. related to support. Namely, that's not true. Everyone who has worked in operations, especially the Ministry of Agriculture, knows that some things simply cannot wait, and we are actually very different in whether our farmers need greater incentives or not. We believe that we need to use this period until we join the European Union to maximise the support that the state can to maximise production, increase production and also ensure better quality, reference periods. Because on the basis of production statistics, we are negotiating with the European Union and on this basis we are receiving production quotas. So how much in the coming years we'll be able to produce. So that's where we differ significantly in approach.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-18-0.u27578	Thank you. And in the name of the Government, State Secretary Mr. Stjepan Mikolcic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-18-0.u27579	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. Well, mostly the regulations of the Ministry of Agriculture were commented, so let me try to explain them. These two regulations, which we have amended certain legal provisions of the Food and Veterinary Act, are practically similar, i.e. they are identical in nature because they address the problem of authorised laboratories which are in the function of carrying out an analysis in the context of official controls on food, food for animals and animal health. We have suggested this here to be resolved by regulations, because if we did it in a regular way then we should completely not know how to run the procedure of amending the law and then simply assumes that it is not possible to solve it in a short time, that it takes a minimum month. However, we wanted to harmonise fully this part of our legislation with the acquis with which we are harmonising the full legislation defined by negotiation chapter XII and to place it in the same position, not more restrictively and our subjects who are accomplishing and operating in the segment in question. This means this part of the regulation that defined laboratory accreditation by 1 January 2009. The European Union, meanwhile, expanded on 1 January 2010, and we have also brought this regulation into line in some way and all those entities that are accomplishing here so as to say their part of the activity and income in this problem are in a position to try to coordinate these jobs further this year so that they can do it. As regards the regulation which amended the aid laws which concerned only the amendment of the law on support for the mercantile production of corn, which was increased from 1250 kuna to 2250. To her we really wanted to go hand in hand to the producers and you were talking here. We had two completely different agro-ecological to put it this way in manufacturing years. In 2007, when the production of corn was not only with us but also at the world level and especially in the countries of environments burdened with agri-environmental conditions. There was a weather drought with us and declared and we had a lack of corn for our own production. In fact, in that year a significant part of the corn produced was also used for renewable energy sources, resulting in an increased price that came to a level of kuna and a half and even more than a pound of produced goods compared to the usual in 2007. On the other hand, in 2008, in some ways our agricultural producers were offered this price. They have significantly increased the production surfaces and in the context of this production year, which has enabled record amounts and record production of almost two and a half million tonnes in our country. The absolute ministry of the balance sheets needs me to say so and spending in Croatia. Our need for livestock farming in Croatia is somewhere less than 2 million tonnes. In Croatia, we had almost 500 000 tonnes of extra produced corn, and the year in agri-ecological terms was also favourable in countries in the environment, not only in countries in the environment but globally almost worldwide. This, therefore, resulted in a large offer, and a significantly lower demand or drop in price. The price of corn in 2008 with kuna and a half from 2007 fell to 58 to 60 lips, which literally reduced revenue and almost no income to producers in this culture. I have to say, here's just to compare the higher price and the higher price in 2007 went up the same thing, and the prices of the repromation so that the price of the basic repromation is so mineral fertiliser, say, for the needs of normal corn production somewhere at 5,000 kn. Those prices stayed in 2008 and income, a record yield I don't know now the State Statistics Office came out with data a month ago. We had in Croatia about 8,000, 8 tons per hectare, 8 tons per hectare with this price. Practically, it cannot cover the cost of mineral fertilisers, and where the rest of the cost of seed, protection, fuel, oil, amortisation and all that is needed for the production of corn so that our corn producers in this case were at a great minus, and this is our contribution to stabilising this segment of our agricultural production that will absolutely have positive effects in livestock production that we want to keep at the level that has been in recent and recent years. Therefore, I think we have done a useful thing, and in the sense of this last sentence, the arguments that this amount of support on the trail is a policy of support that the European Union has as we are going to build into new legislation. However, we have been working longer on the aid law, aid in agriculture which will be consistent here, so to speak, the support policy that we will provide and give to our farmers when we become a member of the European Union. This law, according to our plan, will also come into the parliamentary procedure, that is, next month's debate, and you will have the opportunity to discuss absolutely all segments of such a policy. I have to say about our competences we have defined ourselves for the market economy and in the agricultural segment. We signed international agreements. First of all, the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, and also the Agreement with the World Trade Organisation where absolute market relations are those which are in some way the leaders and our agricultural producers, as well as the extent to which they will produce on their agricultural surfaces. And we create frameworks that most of the productions that take place in the Republic of Croatia in the Republic of Croatia can also produce results and achieve a certain income that ensures the existence of all in this activity. Here, that's it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-18-0.u27580	Thank you. We have one correction, Mrs. Dear Zgrebec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-18-0.u27581	Well, it's minor that the long period of change is these two, these two food and veterinary laws. If it is a matter of compliance with European Union legislation, then it is adopted by emergency procedure, so it was possible to do so in December when the Assembly was sitting. And as far as this third regulation concerning agriculture is concerned, it is not that we are opposed to raising support, but under the Government's Law on Powers, it was not possible to do so, as the Government says the age of the regulation can regulate all issues, except for the change in the state budget. And this is about changing the state budget as the budget increases by 260 million kuna not secured in the 2009 budget.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-18-0.u27582	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. And I would like to inform you that the meeting of the Committee on Agriculture, Fisheries and Rural Development will take place today on 18 February at 13:30 in the “Josipa Jelačić” hall. Hall "Centar We are going to the Report on Regulations adopted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of legal powers. The debate is closed. I am giving the vote the conclusion in accordance with the proposal of the parliamentary working bodies: A report on the regulations adopted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia is hereby adopted on the basis of the legal authority. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? This conclusion was accepted by most votes, 76 votes for, 4 abstentions and 34 against.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-18-0.u27585	Thank you, Mr. President. Honorable ladies and gentlemen of the MPs. Therefore, before you there is a final proposal for a Law confirming the financing agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Commission of the European Community for one sub-compartment within the pre-accession IPA programme relating to cross-border cooperation. Therefore, in August 2007, the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Commission of the European Communities concluded a framework agreement on rules for cooperation in relation to the financial assistance of the European Community to the Republic of Croatia in implementing assistance under the Instrument for Pre-accession Assistance of the IPA, which the Croatian Parliament confirmed in October and that year. On 10 December 2007. The European Communities Commission adopted the programme of cross-border cooperation between the Republic of Croatia and Bosnia and Herzegovina, so between the Republic of Croatia and Montenegro, between the Republic of Croatia and the Republic of Serbia, and adopted a transnational programme, so it also adopted this programme on transnational use. So, two transnational programs and one called "Southeastern Europe" and another called "Mediteran". In accordance with this final draft of the law before you, the funding model is such that 85% of the money comes from the pre-accession IPA programme, 10% of the money is allocated to these needs by the applicant himself, so the applicant himself of the proposal for concrete projects, and 5% is secured in the state budget at the position of the Ministry of Regional Development, Forestry and Water Economy, and therefore in this element it is necessary to adopt such a law. In the 12th month of last year, therefore, a financing agreement was signed setting out the details of this cross-border co-operation project. So, as I said, these are the percentages and the total amount of money for Southeast Europe, so for the "Southeastern Europe" programme, about 400,000 euros, and for the "Mediteran" project is about 50,000 euros. Another little clarification. So, in the programmes of this kind here, the programme is used until the latest third year after the adoption by the European Commission. That means we have to spend this money by the end of 2010. Since we plan immediately upon the adoption of this law and the next three laws that are equal in their matter, we go into the range of competitions. That's where we find the element of urgency of this process. Here, I thank you. If there's any questions, I'm here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-18-0.u27586	Thank you. Do the work-body reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the HDZ club, Ms. Representative Marija Pejcinović Buric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-18-0.u27587	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary of State, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. Here these days, it looks like IPA is one of the main topics we're discussing here in the Parliament. So today we're talking about another component of IPA about cross-border cooperation. In this kind of cooperation, the Republic of Croatia has been participating for many years. But what is changing and what is the specificity of this particular programme that we are talking about, this type of cooperation used to take place through the Interrec programs there were a, b, c etc. within which Croatia was involved in certain segments where it was possible and where it was useful for Croatia. In this new financial period, so from 2007 to 2013, Croatia was offered, or other countries, but Croatia has the opportunity to engage in two new programmes, let's say, so that they are new, although the types of cooperation in particular in this work concerning Southeast Europe existed within so-called "Southeast Europe". "Interegatribe" earlier... In which our counties worked very closely. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] What is really new is for Croatia co-operation in the Mediterranean area. We previously had this kind of cooperation within the framework of the border Adriatic cooperation. However, we now have the opportunity to participate in a programme that covers the whole Mediterranean and even some member of the European Union which is not physically related to the Mediterranean, but has an interest in this programme. As the secretary of state said, the programme is for all those partners participating in part of Southeast Europe 400,000 euros, and in the Mediterranean section 53 000 and 20 euros. Therefore, the priorities of these programmes are the creation and development of scientific and technological networks and the improvement of regional research and technical development capabilities, in the area of the environment, the water economy, energy efficiency, risk prevention and environmental protection activities with a transnational dimension. In the accessibility section, for better availability and quality of transport and telecommunications services and in the part concerning urban development, development, etc. policy development, at transnational and regional level. The objective of this programme is, therefore, to support the participation of partners and candidate countries with the Member States of the European Union covering these programmes in the joint activities of transnational cooperation and to meet therefore for us who are candidates with territorial cooperation programmes under the Structural Funds of the European Union. Yesterday when we talked about IPA we talked about in one part and about creating the ability, namely, administrative abilities in the Republic of Croatia related to the use of funds. Here is what this is about is that on such programmes for a whole series of actors in the Republic of Croatia, especially at the level of local and regional communities to develop these abilities. In fact, part of the money allocated to these programmes under the programme is just for the purpose of the so-called programme. technical cooperation, therefore, for the work of those who will learn how individual programmes can be used. Here I would say finally, therefore, that this programme is extremely important and in the context of that as well as other programmes of transnational cooperation because it is about the money used from so-called. The European Regional Development Fund, which is one of the Structural Funds and which, when we become a Member State, will therefore offer much greater resources at its disposal. And as we have earlier determined how much Croatia and how much of our local communities will benefit from it when we enter, it will depend, of course, on how well we prepare ourselves for these programmes during this preparatory period. Although the money that seems to be large here does not seem to support a large number of initiatives, and in fact, its value may be more than the financial amount at its disposal is that it will include a large number of actors in the programmes and that it will actually enable those skills that are needed and get at the level at which it is needed. This is precisely why the Croatian Democratic Community Club supports the adoption of this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-18-0.u27588	Thank you. And the final secretary of state, Mr. Milivove Mikulić.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-18-0.u27589	I thank you. Thank you for your support. So I'm thinking what's said, so in the presentation, I'd just like to add, I think, if I may add two sentences, it's about that, that really financial amounts aren't big but that the administrative process for so, who... Finally, approval and spending this money very complicatedly, that we as a ministry are prepared, therefore, to wait, to say the adoption of the law, that we are joint technical secretariats that are operational, or executive bodies for this matter already prepared, therefore, that they are trained and therefore, I believe that this money will be spent in time. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-18-0.u27590	Thank you. I'm closing the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-18-0.u27591	7., Final proposal for a law confirming the financing agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Commission of the European Communities on the Programme for the financing of the participation of the Republic of Croatia in the transnational programmes of the European Territorial Cooperation of the European Regional Development Fund "South East Europe" and "Meditirane" under the component of cross-border cooperation of IPA pre-accession instruments for 2007, P.Z. No. 259. The debate is closed. I am voting on the final proposal of this law on the approval of the agreement. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? This bill was adopted unanimously by 114 votes. It's about the law so there's no confusion, P.Z. No. 259.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-18-0.u27592	We move to the following point: - Final proposal of the Law on the Confirmation of the Agreement on Financing between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Commission of the European Communities on the Cross-border Cooperation Programme between the Republic of Croatia and Bosnia and Herzegovina under the IPA Cross-border Cooperation for 2007, the emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 260; the debate was conducted by the Committee on Finance and the State Budget, legislation, development and reconstruction. You received the reports at the session. State Secretary of the Ministry Milivove Mikulic will further explain the proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-18-0.u27593	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So it's about the same, the same legal framework and this final bill. In the specific case of Bosnia and Herzegovina, therefore, between us and Bosnia and Herzegovina, the amount of money is higher and is therefore something, around 2 million and 300 thousand euros from which for both sides, whether, therefore, a million euros from which the European Commission is provided by around 300 000 euros are provided by applicants and the difference is ensured by the Government of the Republic of Croatia through the so-called Regional Development Ministry. The same is true of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Again... And we return to about 85% of the money comes from therefore, the European Commission, 10% of the money from the applicants and 5% of the money from the rest of the state bodies. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In order for this programme to be implemented, therefore, in view of the length of our border and of the diversity of interest, we have already prepared two, so we have a joint technical secretariat organised in Zagreb by members of our ministry and members of Bosnia and Herzegovina's resolution bodies and we will also have two antennas, so, two regional offices, let's call it that, one will be in Banja Luka, one will be in Mostar. I say in a substantive sense as regards administrative legal acts, they are equal, therefore, to the symmetric decisions of the Government and the agreements signed, and adopted acts by this body. I'm saying again, he's available for any further questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-18-0.u27594	I am opening a discussion of the HDZ Representatives' Club, Mrs. Representative Marija Pejcinović-Buric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-18-0.u27595	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Here, therefore, we are now facing a series of three confirmation laws, a cross-border cooperation programme with three neighbouring countries of the European Union, and we are now talking about cooperation between the Republic of Croatia and Bosnia and Herzegovina and, as with the previous law, the programme in which Croatia has already participated. What's new is that this time, that we have more money at our disposal. Since the border, therefore, and the number of people concerned by this type of cooperation is the largest in relation to our neighbours, non-members of the European Union, as well as the amount that IPA makes available to Croatia in this context, and on the other hand from their IPA and Bosnia and Herzegovina components about one million euros. It is indeed now because it is a programme in which these millions of euros are, therefore, exclusively for the Republic of Croatia, unlike those in that multilateral programme where we have more participants, so Croatia has great interest in cooperating. This is seen by the fact that in this area acceptable areas that can cooperate in this programme are nine border counties, and so on. Associated areas are those counties that do not border directly with Bosnia and Herzegovina, but for different reasons have an interest in this type of cooperation. That's the kind of county that's five. In fact, when you look at it, you can see that 2/3 of our counties have a lot of interest in participating in this program. What are the priorities of the program? On the one hand, the development of a common economic space, namely the objective of this type of programme, is precisely regional development, cohesion, so cohesion within one country, so cohesion within that area that covers certainly the development of tourism offer and the development of entrepreneurship. Again, of course, all those issues that are always relevant, which are transnational, therefore which cannot be limited and solved well only in the field of one country, therefore the issue of nature and the environment and certainly the availability of services, again thinking about these services concerning transport and other types of communication in that border area. And of course technical assistance in that part concerning the development of institutions and development therefore helps those who will implement this kind of programme. So again, it is about preparing for future structural funds, but not just preparing for future structural funds, because as it is said, there is also quite concrete money available. And what is extremely important and what I would like to plead for right now, if we could maybe conduct a survey and ask you what kind of program you know about, I believe most would remember some programmes regionally, these cross-border cooperations with neighbouring Slovenia. In some ways these programs were best known in public, especially those programs on the Cup, etc. or tourists, whether it's tourism or environmental protection. There were similar programs with Bosnia and Herzegovina. And I hope that in this period where we will use this programme a little bit more will be talked about, because that on the one hand helps those who have not yet entered into this kind of programme to realize that the money available in this part is one significant part of the refund money available to our counties. It is a good part of the county that is less developed, and in this respect I think that part of the public's information on this is also very important to include in the programmes. And I think it will be business and ministry, but also us in the Parliament, since we come from all over Croatia, that we talk more about it and that in fact our local environments are more encouraged to cooperate and work in these kinds of programmes. Here, for these reasons, the Croatian Democratic Community club supports this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-18-0.u27596	Thank you. Mr. Representative Ivan Bagarić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-18-0.u27597	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I am in a certain way joining the debates, i.e. following the debates brought here on behalf of the HDZ Club, by my colleague Burić Pejcinović and Mr Secretary of State. And I therefore point out the importance of this cooperation, not only in this case with Bosnia and Herzegovina, but generally with our environment, or with countries that actually border with the Republic of Croatia, which are covered by this law or by means intended under the European Union in terms of strengthening cross-border cooperation. From the position of these countries, in this case Bosnia and Herzegovina, but also from the position of Croats, so from Bosnia and Herzegovina, and from all those Croatian citizens living in the area, so bordering the Republic of Croatia, I appreciate that these are very important and encouraging means and not only in themselves, but they are also important in a certain way as one introduction of one entire space tomorrow we trust in the European Union, which is not only pursued by the Republic of Croatia, but in this case also Bosnia and Herzegovina. Therefore, these funds, which are intended for Bosnia and Herzegovina, amounting to the total, so when it comes to Croatia and Bosnia and Herzegovina, over 2 million and 300,000 euros are not small at all. So, these are huge funds because of all those projects that can be done, done, and applied to the next day can become much larger because it is expected that the next day the funds, so the withdrawal of funds from European funds in this direction, will be far, far greater, with the aim of cross-border cooperation, in particular, towards Bosnia and Herzegovina. I therefore stress the importance of these projects and, if possible, from this position, I point out from the Parliament the importance of participation of all partners, so not only those in the Republic of Croatia but also those interested in Bosnia and Herzegovina. In this case, I certainly mean the areas directly bordering the Republic of Croatia, and these links are historic, economically very important, I would also say of national interest to the Republic of Croatia. Therefore, the importance of systematic development of the entire area is the interest of the Republic of Croatia, the national interest of the Republic of Croatia, but also the interest of Europe as such. Since the Republic of Croatia is not only traffic-related to Bosnia and Herzegovina, it is also connected in its own way to different water streams. In this case, I personally come from the space of Herceg-Bosnian County, so a high-rise from Bosnia and Herzegovina, which is about 900 metres above sea level where almost all flows lead to the Cetina basin. We know how important it is to preserve healthy, proper water, so clean water, in general the environment and how much it is of interest to the Republic of Croatia when it comes to drinking water. Therefore, in this case, given that it is not only a scientific and technological cooperation but it is actually a co-operation in the area of the water economy, then I hold the area of environmental protection that the next day would be of interest to the entire Split-Dalmatia region in the first order of business, but that so all other forms of cooperation that are quite possible in view of this natural link between the Republic of Croatia and the territory of Bosnia and Herzegovina, I think, first of all, of promoting entrepreneurship, otherwise raising the level of standard and quality of life, as well as tourist offers as such. I would actually conclude my presentation with a call to all those who are interested, not only in writing projects as such, but also in learning how to do a good project because first of all, whether someone gets the funds next day depends on how high-quality this programme is made. We may have extraordinary ideas, but if we don't beat them into good programs, then we won't even be able to apply and we won't be able to get those incentives. So here I am using this opportunity here and this payphone to the public who is watching and listening to this session, and it is also in Bosnia and Herzegovina, so that in a certain way, it can look back on these important means and in a certain way be informed through the Ministry of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, where it will be in the depth of the day of explanations about all this, about the whole project, about the way it is applied, and then, of course, the existing working groups that will help interested people create these projects, and will depend on them to be able to implement themselves. I think that these projects are, in their own way, basic schools in pre-accession funds, excuse me, in pre-accession activities, in this case for Bosnia and Herzegovina and its importance is exceptional and will, of course, depend on the good part and on themselves, so on partners in the Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina, but also on the Republic of Croatia, or the competent authorities. Once again, my support for this law and invitation to all those who are interested in following the pages of the competent ministry in the Republic of Croatia and to inform and engage in these very, very important projects in good time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-18-0.u27598	Thank you. Mr. Representative Boro Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-18-0.u27599	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Here I was beginning to say that in any case I should, and I will personally support this Law confirming the financing agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Commission of the European Communities on a cross-border cooperation programme between the Republic of Croatia and Bosnia and Herzegovina as part of the cross-border cooperation component of the IPA programme with the Final Proposal of the Law. It is clear that for both countries with all the problems they face in transition, so both in Croatia and Bosnia and Herzegovina, the sum mentioned here is therefore worth about 2.3 million kuna, playing an exceptional importance for municipalities in Bosnia and Herzegovina and for the counties in the Republic of Croatia which are, therefore, bordered between the two states. It is 9 counties of the Republic of Croatia and 95 municipalities in Bosnia and Herzegovina. The Brod-Posavia County itself is provided along the Sava River about 130km long and bordered by the Sava River with the Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina. What am I saying that for? So I'm talking about because there are already certain problems, I mean problems, but interests would be better said between this county of Brod-Posavina and the town of Slavonski Brod, the town of Nova Gradiška and all the municipalities that are situated along the Sava River with neighbours across the Sava River. So these are both economic and ecological and tourism and a number of other interests. I am fully aware that, if most, and I have no doubt, will also be for this law, it will certainly improve it in each of these segments of the solution that is needed. Namely, the City of Slavonski Brod and the County of Brod-Posavina have already invested in a measuring station to monitor the quality of air in view of... refineries in the Bosnian Ship and for possible air pollution, and I should say not a measured cell, but as it is already called, an institution or institution that would monitor and water quality, since we know that refineries on this side of the river have very often, very often occur to water pollution. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Since they exist in Brod-Posavina County, I should say the original Slavonian rhythms that do not yet have a nature park label, given that there are ornithological reserves, in any case I expect programmes running through this bill to contribute to the quality of water and air and to the protection of the environment and the development of the economy and in Brod-Posavina County. I do not want to be excluded from the local patriot because I am convinced that in other areas, starting from Konaval, and even karst fields that exist in the western part of Bosnia and Herzegovina and that border, as Mr Bagarić said in the river Neretva and the river Cetina, so where there are problems either in progress or in the common interest of the Republic of Croatia and Bosnia and Herzegovina, therefore the karst fields and water that are located there, then to the river Una, the beauty of Europe, I would say so other rivers that are in the interest, so that they remain completely clean, to remain a clean environment because it is actually our areas that are provided on both sides of the border are actually real pearls of nature. In that case, if we understand it and accept it that way, then in any case, such a programme can contribute to these very characteristics that it speaks of, so one ecologically clean environment on both sides and the Sava River and the Una River and our karst fields in Herzegovina and Dalmatia are, in fact, one and a touristly attractive, attractive tourist, which would then advance the economy of those regions. It is clear that this programme also provides for the promotion and development of the economy itself. So I really have no objection or further debate, but I just think this bill is acceptable. I wasn't talking about the club, but for me personally, and I consider it a HDSSB club. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-18-0.u27600	Thank you. I'm closing the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-18-0.u27601	8, Final draft law confirming the financing agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Commission of the European Communities on the Cross-border Cooperation Programme between the Republic of Croatia and Bosnia and Herzegovina under the 2007 IPA Cross-border Cooperation Component, P.Z. No. 260. The debate is closed. I am voting on the P.Z. proposal. No. 260. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? Proposed Law P.Z. No. 260 were accepted by most votes, 110 votes for and 1 abstention. Between you and me, Vice President... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-18-0.u27602	We are going to the next item Final proposal for a law confirming the 2007 IPA financing agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Commission of the European Communities on a cross-border cooperation programme between the Republic of Croatia and Serbia under the IPA cross-border cooperation component for 2007, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 261. The debate was conducted by the Committees on Finance and the State Budget and Law, and by the Committee on Development and Reconstruction. State Secretary at the Ministry of Regional Development, Development, Forestry and Water Economy Milivove Mikulic will further explain the proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-18-0.u27603	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, here's the third content law. I'd just like what's not said in the past and it's about this one. So the financial amount is about 800,000 euros for each party. The conditions of funding are equal to those before or about equal to that in this particular case we will have an antenna, so the Srijemska Mitrovica area office as regards the area in the Republic of Serbia which will gravity towards such programmes. I would just say that we have already started a program in that space, so one program to mobilise potential users and familiarize them with it, so this week we had a two-day forum in Vukovar where we are all potential users, and there were hundreds of them believe me with the details of the program, and this process will continue in all other counties according to all the laws that have been laid out here. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-18-0.u27604	Thank you. The committees? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. The HDZ representative's club, Mrs. Marija Pejcinović Buric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-18-0.u27605	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, dear colleagues and colleagues. So here is a new agreement with another country that is not a member of the European Union with the Republic of Serbia. Also, a valuable program. So it's about the Croatian side of 800,000 euros worth of the gift list. For Serbia, this is a slightly larger amount, so about a million euros from the gift shop, and areas that are therefore directly acceptable to this type of cooperation in the sense that the Osijek-Baranja County and Vukovar-Srijem County are the border areas of Požega-Slavonska and Brod-Posavia County. So a smaller number of counties and if you look at it relative to the amount available is definitely also about significant money. Types of projects that can apply in one part very similar, so in economic development similar projects in environmental protection. But also a special kind of cooperation between people or as it is in the programme listed people to people. Therefore, even more emphasis is placed on what is, in some ways, a continuation of what was covered by the first European Union programmes used by Croatia. It was a reconstruction program. Certainly an important part as well as that of the previous programme, technical assistance to help users of the programme in order to manage them. Preparations for the European Regional Development Fund and what is important in this matter, counterpart Bagaric spoke about how it seems to him that as far as Bosnia and Herzegovina is concerned, it is a primary school when it comes to the use of European funds. It reminded me of the time when the ministry in which I worked was in charge of this kind of cooperation and when I had meetings, first meetings with Croatian counties in the sense that they were presented with opportunities, so I met with this kind of argument in the sense that maybe it wasn't a priority for some county. They said, so you know these are small amounts of money, besides what can be financed from it are let's say programs that are doing some feasibility study. They say, you know, every big firm will pay you a feasibility study if it's sure they'll get the project later, that's that part of the money that's being financed will go to it. That's certainly true. So there are limits here, too, that can't be financed. However, of course we are far from that, these beginnings of using European funds. Very quickly, this picture and rhetoric changed. So in the years that followed because everyone realized that you couldn't come to a higher stage, so use European funds from structural funds where big money would be available if you didn't take smaller steps, learn and work on smaller projects. And actually that was my answer and it's for those who are just now including the same incentive. So, no matter what the means are, they're useful because you should look at them from the side they bring, so through the gift shop, through the money that we don't have to then separate from our budget, which is especially what I'd say is important at this time the financial crisis that's in the whole world. But certainly inescapable for these projects, perhaps equally important if not more important, consider this learning component, so what the use of these funds means. And so here I plead just as much as with the previous programme as possible, the more information about this programme, the more individuals, the more the institution includes in this will naturally benefit from this programme, but in the future, from other programmes for the Republic of Croatia, the greater. For this reason, the Croatian Democratic Community club also supports this, a proposal for this law to confirm the agreement. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-18-0.u27606	Thank you. I'm closing the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-18-0.u27607	9, Final proposal for a law confirming the financing agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Commission of the European Communities on the Cross-border Cooperation Programme between the Republic of Croatia and Serbia under the IPA Cross-border Cooperation for 2007, P.Z. No. 261. The debate is closed. I am voting on the draft law marked P.Z. No. 261. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? Law marked P.Z. No. 261 was adopted unanimously with 113 votes.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-18-0.u27608	We are going to the next item Final proposal for a law confirming the Agreement on financing between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Commission of the European Communities on a cross-border cooperation programme between the Republic of Croatia and Montenegro under the IPA 2007 cross-border cooperation component, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 262 The debate was conducted by the Committees on Finance and the State Budget, legislation, development and reconstruction. State Secretary Milivove Mikulic will further explain the proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-18-0.u27609	Thank you. So here's the fourth one in this package, the last final draft law to confirm the agreement. It is a financial amount of around 400,000 euros in gifts for the Republic of Croatia, financial ratios are the same as for previous laws. Priorities are like Mrs. Pejcinović-Buric said. Priorities are economic development, tourism and it writes everything in the materials. What's important in this, so we're going to have and in this case we're going to have an area office or an antenna in Kotor. So the intention of this program is to be as close to potential users as possible. So when you look in the set, we'll have four district offices. We've already formed as I said to the Joint Technical Secretariat. In the numerical amount it's 24 people who are currently working on this and we plan to make one whole set of promotions, presentations of these programs on the ground. We started from Vukovar, and our intention is at least four more places along the border, so we make these presentations and make a few of them so in the neighbouring countries, so the countries with which we have these agreements. Here, that's the shortest one after here's four, I think it's a picture, I hope the picture is painted around all four programs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-18-0.u27610	Thank you. The committees? I'm opening a debate. Croatian Democratic Community Representatives' Club Marija Pejcinović-Buric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-18-0.u27611	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I think as far as the type of program is concerned, everything's already been said. So, another programme with neighbouring country, with Montenegro, the amount from the gift shop is extremely generous if it is taken into account that the county that can directly use these funds of Dubrovnik-Neretva County and that it is accompanied by Split-Dalmatia. So, in this case, there are only two counties that can use money, so when you look through that prism, it's really about one good amount of money. The areas are practically the same, very similar to the development of the economy, environmental protection, natural and cultural heritage, certainly tourism. I don't think it should be specifically explained, and cultural space given what two counties in the Republic of Croatia are related to but also small projects to develop cross-border communities. So, another safe and significant project for an area that has already been particularly co-operated in this segment of cooperation, so Dubrovnik-Neretva County. She had in earlier programmes used by the Republic of Croatia so-called The programme "three", which means co-operation with three countries in Croatia, Bosnia and Herzegovina and Montenegro. It was primarily about some projects in the water economy, environmental protection. I think it is quite clear what the interest and benefit of the Republic of Croatia is from this programme. And here, in that sense, I am not repeating what is true for this programme as well as for programmes with Bosnia and Herzegovina and Serbia and that multilateral programme for Mediterranean and Southeast Europe. So, surely the most important message would be to inform as much as possible, the more we participate in this, because really Croatia is not far from membership in the European Union if we are in primary school, I would say that we are in a small graduation and that we have to go through a very fast rhythm and college will be when we use structural funds. Here, the Croatian Democratic Community club supports the adoption of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-18-0.u27612	Thank you. Mr. Representative Frano Matušić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-18-0.u27613	Thank you. Mr. Vice President. Of course I support the adoption of this law, but I would like to highlight a few things that seem important to me about this cooperation, so cross-border cooperation between Croatia and Montenegro. I think it is absolutely commendable that 400 thousand euros are available on the Croatian side and on the Montenegrin side, but it is also important for Croats living in Montenegro, especially in the narrow area of Boka Kotorska, so the area that is closely bound in some way towards Dubrovnik-Neretva County. And so I think that this will be an opportunity in some way for both economic and integration, but we also give an opportunity to our compatriots living in Montenegro, of course, others who want to prove themselves to these projects and who want to work together in fact to develop economically, of course, in other areas that include this law, such as environmental protection and which we find extremely important. Here, therefore, I think it is important to point out that it is still a significant asset because, when considering the budget of the Dubrovnik-Neretva County, it can then be seen that this is indeed important and in this sense we believe in the success of the projects that will certainly appear under these programmes. I know there's a great interest in Dubrovnik's businessmen and county businessmen. And in this sense, here is support indeed for this law which will mean one step in cooperation but also in the economy and in all those projects that are listed here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-18-0.u27614	Thank you. I'm closing the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-18-0.u27615	10., Final proposal for a law confirming the financing agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Commission of the European Communities on the Cross-border Cooperation Programme between the Republic of Croatia and Montenegro under the IPA Cross-border Cooperation for 2007, the emergency procedure, P.Z. No. 262. The debate is closed. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? Thank you. This law was passed by a majority vote, with 115 votes in favour and 1 abstention. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-18-0.u27616	Until the relevant committee that discussed the motions for resolution decisions, the appointment of the Higher Education Council and the National Council on Science and the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on National Declaration on Science, Higher Education and Technology Development, we will skip the debate on points 6, 7 and 8 and move to point 9. - Report on the work of the National Committee for the period from 1 July to 31 December 2008, Proposer: The National Committee shall be submitted to the National Committee. The national committee has submitted this report pursuant to point 2. Decisions establishing the National Committee. You received the proposal by mail. The representative of the committee president, Ms Vesna Pusic, will further explain the proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-18-0.u27617	Thank you. Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. In accordance with the obligations laid down in its founding documents, the National Committee shall submit to Parliament a report twice a year on its work. Thus, through the National Committee de facto, Parliament controls and oversees the overall process of accession and negotiation between the Republic of Croatia and the European Union on Croatian membership in the European Union. We do not have the government's opinion on this report, but since it is the body which Parliament has appointed as its extended hand to say so in overseeing the whole process, I suppose we can discuss without the Government's opinion. The period covered by this report was between 1 July and 31 December 2008 during that period, the National Committee held 9 sessions and in this report you will see the tax-listed and sessions with topics discussed as well as all chapters and in several sentences described the status, so progress or lack of progress in each of the 33 chapters on which Croatia negotiates. In addition to discussions on negotiating positions that must receive unanimous support on the National Committee in order to be forwarded to the Commission further, the Committee has worked and continued to do some other things, also to open the whole process to the public. Therefore, since the committee meetings as you know are closed, the committee initiated this year the organisation of round tables and organised two such round tables between July 1 and December 31st. The function of round tables is to open the whole process to the public. Representatives of any institution, whether NGOs, or organisations, were invited to these round tables depending on the subject. The leaders of this negotiating chapter have always been invited. The main negotiator of state administrations dealing with the topic and always invited experts at these round tables is always and always some representative or representative of the European Commission who participate and round tables are open to the public. Summarys of discussions from round tables are on our website. During the period for which I submit this report, two round tables were held. One referred to chapter 27. - The environment and specifically on the subject of "Hovering waste and local self-government" in a European context. The second round table was held in late September, the second round table was held on November 13th. He referred to our most sensitive chapter 23. - Justice and fundamental rights. That's one of the two we haven't given negotiating positions yet, as you know. And the specific theme was "Raise the efficiency of the judiciary and implementing measures". Both the round table and the other table were of great interest, and the clothes of one and the other round table could be heard in public and the results can be read today on the websites. The additional task we are doing is monitoring the harmonisation of legislation, so at what rate we are harmonising the laws. As you remember, we had a total plan for 2008 to comply with 121 laws. The situation on 31 December 2008 was as follows. Of those 121, 98 laws were passed, another 5 laws were adopted in the first reading, and further harmonised beyond what was the 27-law plan. So it's a total of 125 laws, but since last year we've been pulling 20 more laws out of the plan since last year that weren't passed. But as far as the quantity is concerned, that's where we achieved the goal we set for last year. As for the status of the chapter. On December 31st, so negotiations themselves. On December 31st, the situation was the following. We had, in total, opened 22 chapters, of which we were temporarily, because only temporarily and can, until it was all over, closed seven chapters. 11 negotiating chapters have not been opened. Of those 11 for 9 we submitted negotiating positions, so we worked it out. The National Committee has been processing negotiating positions. Two were not given negotiating positions for December 31st. That didn't happen until today. These are two chapters of the Justice and Fundamental Rights and Market Competition. One related to the judiciary, as you know, the other tied first in terms of shipbuilding as a disputed point. In addition to these types of regular activities, the National Committee has hosted or visited, but we have largely had a number of representatives of relevant parliamentary committees from neighbouring countries that have a European perspective as well as from Member States, since the National Committee is in a way unique in the institutional contribution of Croatia to the whole process of designing ways to implement the process. So we have had great communication in this regard both with the parliaments of the member states and with the parliaments of neighbouring countries that have a European perspective. In December before 19. 12. when our last intergovernmental conference was, the National Committee launched an initiative to invite guests or leave, so to leave Slovenia's stop to choose, to discuss the dangers of the blockade that was becoming and later realized, from the blockade on the Slovenian side of the continuation of Croatian negotiations. Therefore, an initiative has been launched to meet the National Committee with the Committee on European Affairs or European issues of the Slovenian Parliament. So an initiative has been launched to meet the National Committee with the Committee on European... or European issues of the Slovenian Parliament. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The Committee was contacted by the Slovenians, they thought at that time they did not want such a meeting before the New Year, but they accepted such a meeting after the new year and, in the meantime, tentically gave four dates on which such a meeting could take place. I believe that the National Committee is, and at all, parliamentary committees are institutions that can block the position it has created, some kind of stalemate position that threatens to a large extent and change the calendar of our accession. That it is precisely parliaments that can facilitate or at least create, that are involved in creating a positive atmosphere in which it will be easier to find a solution to this kind of problem. However, the meeting was unfortunately delayed with an argument that the prime minister's meeting was announced. I guess we should try, or wait for that to happen first. As for the second half of 2008, I must say as my assessment, since the committee has been appointed by this Parliament to monitor negotiations that there have been certain attempts or initiatives to reduce the activities and particularly reduce the initiative of the board. That several such discussions and evaluations were launched to reduce the initiative of the board. I warn this Parliament that this is wrong, in my opinion, the Committee is an important addition, an instrument, if you want institutional innovation in the process of bringing a country closer to the European Union. This provides an opportunity that has not existed so far in the negotiation processes, which is that both knowledge and potential are being used from both the position and the opposition in parliament in order to achieve a common strategic goal that we have reached a consensus on, and therefore there is this committee, in order to achieve this goal. And I believe that in this respect, precisely because the Committee is something where an institution is built that is new, which should define its competences, which should define its opportunities and for which it is of course important precisely because it has this specific character to take advantage of you, using both the knowledge and the mind of the total parliament. And precisely because the whole committee's working mechanism is not overvote. The third important component, therefore, is one through the board, we are building one new institution, the other is, it is a way to mobilise knowledge and ability regardless of the position and opposition and the third is to raise the importance of the Parliament against the country's key project. Through the active and live participation of the committee in the creation of these policies, and also the resolution of the problems that we have encountered, and Parliament absolutely has its task and has our job, we contribute to seeing parliament as a key institution on such a key project. I therefore warn the Parliament of this phenomenon which occurred last semester because I believe it is in the interest of all of us, in the interests of Parliament, and particularly in the country's interest to stand behind the board and, as far as the initiative and possibilities of the board are concerned, to work actively and actively to create and address the policy and to address the difficulties that we are facing at this point, the Committee will fill its full meaning. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-18-0.u27618	Thank you. One correction to the incorrect allegations, Mr. Representative Frano Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-18-0.u27619	Well, unfortunately, I have to correct an incorrect assumption, because I thought we'd agree on a lot of things, because the board also works out that there is a high consensus on most of the things that are being discussed, but here it is incorrectly evident that there has been an attempt to reduce the initiative of the committee itself. Since these discussions are closed to the public, I have to say for the sake of the public that this was not the case. So there was no attempt at reducing the initiative, the debates we had were democratic and we agreed on how we would function. And they know what the priorities are, which are the tasks of the National Committee and to try to reduce the initiative of the Committee itself, that means that it would try to reduce the initiative of itself. It's about the board members. I think it's an absolutely incorrect misstatement about the committee's work and I don't think you're right to make your personal views that way.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-18-0.u27620	HDZ Representatives' Club. Ms. Representative Marija Pejcinović-Buric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-18-0.u27621	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues. Well, we entered the fourth year of negotiations on Croatia's membership with the European Union, and when we started the process, we had in mind the experience of previous enlargement negotiations, especially the last one that happened, so on the 10 new members of the largest. We had in mind the level of political consensus that we have on this process among parliamentary parties and we had in mind the quality of our negotiating groups that we agreed on together. With all this on the table we expected and such were the announcements that Croatia could conclude negotiations in 2009. Croatia's negotiations, therefore, with those assumptions, could and should have ended by the middle of this year. However, this is not the case, primarily because of the blockade that Slovenia has unilaterally put on the opening and closing, so almost a third of the negotiating chapters could now be said. Why do I mention it in the context of the work of the National Committee? So here is exactly this atmosphere more than ever before in an earlier negotiating period that we discussed here in this atmosphere and with that restriction, I would say, the National Committee of the Croatian Parliament for the Monitoring of Radio Negotiations in the second half of 2008. So, if we could say for the previous work of the National Committee that he followed the rhythm of the negotiations which, let's say by that mid-term as it went to some people during that period, it was a lot of work and beyond, and we really expected that the French Presidency would bring one, as the English says breakthrough, so that we would make a big move in the negotiations, that we would open up everything we had prepared to open up. This did not happen, and the National Committee, given its mandate, should continue to work. I would dare to establish that, therefore, in the last six months, the National Committee therefore followed the rhythm of our negotiating group, or what our negotiators and government are in this context, so given that the authorities of the state administration are mostly those who have to prepare for us here, and that this job has been far stronger than the statistics that the intergovernmental conferences on negotiations during the French Presidency are talking about, so obviously the National Committee has done more than would have expected if it were only to work as a track record of intergovernmental conferences, so in terms of opening and closing chapters. With that basic job, I think the board president talked a lot about it, and I'm not going to talk about it individually. In the last reporting period, the National Committee continued to work on the thematic discussions, to hold meetings with representatives of the diplomatic assembly of other parliaments or institutions, and in this respect, I think that the statistics you all received in the materials on the table show that, in this sense, a great deal of work has been done and so much can be joined by what counterpart Matušić said, so it appears that the initiative of the board was at one level and that, in my view, it was not limited to anything. Although the primary mandate of the National Committee is parliamentary oversight of the negotiations at the meetings of this committee, members were more detailed on other aspects more important for the course of negotiations and the accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union, for example on the harmonisation of legislation with the acquis and on the implementation of the necessary reforms. In one word, the process of the accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union has entered a more layered phase, and this has been very much reflected in the work of the National Monitoring Committee for Negotiations. And finally, we hope that this year the National Committee will complete its mission to monitor the negotiations, and the prerequisite for synquanon to do so is that, with the unquestionable commitment that we have in meeting all the criteria for opening and closing chapters that are large and complex work in themselves, finally separates two important issues that were not really meant to be tied up. And this is a bilateral issue of the disputed border line between the Republic of Croatia and the Republic of Slovenia and the multilateral issue of negotiations between the Republic of Croatia and the European Union. Taking into account the broader context in which negotiations are being conducted, a much more complex and technical methodological approach, the blockade of Slovenia, the question of ratification of the Lisbon Treaty, and not to mention other reasons which therefore make this whole process more complex, the club of representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community of the opinion is that during the second half of 2008 the work of the National Committee was at the level of the challenge and therefore we will support the report in question. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-18-0.u27622	Thank you. SDSS Club, Mr. Representative Milorad Pupovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-18-0.u27623	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. I would like to express my satisfaction primarily as a member of the board and as a member of the SDSS Club by the way the National Committee worked in this meeting. Although I do know that the interest in how this committee works, what its tasks are and which are its fundamental aspirations, unfortunately, is no longer so much in this House. He's not in the Parliament, so then, of course, it's no wonder he's not too much in the government either. I would like to agree with Agent Matušić's intervention, but I cannot agree. Not because I have a personal opinion, but because I have an active experience as a member of the National Committee. This National Committee in this session, along with all the controversy that followed it during its formation, has introduced a new spirit, a new way of working, a new enthusiasm, and has provided an opportunity for new contributions to the government's policy to complete the negotiation process as soon as possible. And the representatives who worked in it, regardless of party membership, were equally under the direction of the president who submitted the report here, in this regard trying to do so. Indeed, almost no chapter, no criterion, no report that came from the main negotiator or those he authorised has been formally accepted, just for the record, but has been followed by serious debates given the interests of the representatives and given how the whole business is conducted. But the fact that in Parliament, and then in part in government, this National Committee does not have the relevance it might have, says that not only the European Union countries are tired of the integration process, but that we have changed our vision in some way, our perception and our energy in this regard. The fact is that there have been efforts to limit this committee's business right to organise thematic sessions and thematic discussions. We can wave our heads as much as we want it to be, but it's just a sign of disagreement, but not the fact that it was. And that's not good. Not a single committee of this Assembly should be allowed outside of this Assembly to restrict the rules of procedure, business rights, and, in particular, the need for more people in this country to be involved in the business of European integration, that these are not just direct people in charge of the government, nor directly in charge of the negotiating teams, but that they are all those on whom tomorrow will be the main business of the overall adjustment and the main job of how and how we will participate in European affairs and these are very often representatives of local self-government, these are very often representatives of the judicial authorities, they are very often representatives of NGOs. These are very often representatives of different industries such as agriculture. And in this sense, exercising, especially exercising relations with this topic, talking to each other and negotiating with each other is something that must be allowed, not limited. Because the job of accessing the European Union assumes a new political culture, a political culture in which as many people as possible and a political culture in which to talk and negotiate will participate. And there will be no will of the supreme who will make decisions and tell others that you will follow. There will always be a place where people will make decisions and have a responsibility to make decisions on behalf of others, but it's something else. It's something else. This is what has been achieved by the legitimacy of positions, choices and functions. But society and political culture, which should operate on the basis of internal dialogue and the internal negotiation process which has sought to affirm the work of this National Committee, must not be stopped. I am not saying this because I would draw attention to anyone, but only to point to one important function of the National Committee that he has according to the Rules of Procedure, which is that in his activity, through public activity, through media, through a campaign in our political space, not only in our political space, but in the entire country if it is possible to create a different political culture. And in that sense, it seems to me that we should stop the trend that clearly exists, which is narrowing European capacity and Parliament and national policy. Because if the European capacity that we can have as a Parliament is limited, which as a state we can have no doubt that the mood among people in terms of European expectations and European approaches cannot be particularly high. As important and powerful as lobbying is, especially for people who are able to do it, especially for people who have enough strength and skills to do it, and thank God we have, and that was the result, and we believe that they will bring it into the future. However, this internal capacity I'm talking about would have to be used. There should be more trust in the Parliament, there should be more trust in the National Committee. Nothing would hurt if we had informal or less informal contacts with representatives of the Slovenian Parliament when it comes to open issues, unfortunately less open today than they were yesterday. Nothing would hurt if we met with Slovenian colleagues from their Parliament at a time when there was still a chance. But unfortunately, we relied more on the services of certain states, believing that they would do it for us. And today it is increasingly evident that unless we do something for ourselves, unless we move our forces into the interest of our nation and our countries, no one else will do it because there are too many of our own concerns, our own jobs and our own obligations. After all, the European Union expects Croatia as a mature country standing on its own feet and making its own decisions, at least that's what I think, at least that's how I feel. And for this reason, I would like to say to my colleagues and colleagues that the SDSS Club accepts this report and at the same time pleads that what is the basic intensity, what is the basic spirit of the work of this committee and what are the basic programming definitions of this committee in this committee to be supported, to expand its capacity, to transfer to as many people as possible, and in this respect there is no doubt that someone in this position will carry out jobs that are not authorized and will take jobs from someone who is authorized to them. Trust in each other is something that four or five years ago in 2003, 2004 and 2005 helped us to rise to a very high level. Unfortunately today, this mutual trust between the people who are on the other side of Mark's square and the people who are here and belong to different political parties is nowhere near any more. So in that sense, our capacity on the way to the Union because of the lack of that trust can't be great. I declare that this opportunity that is not unique but still important is an opportunity to remind ourselves that this trust should be restored if possible. In the interest of those who have chosen us and given the circumstances through which those who have chosen us and the state in whose name we perform are actually going through and going through in the coming months. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-18-0.u27624	Thank you. IDS representative club, Mr. Representative Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-18-0.u27625	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor, Secretary of State, Your Honor, Mr. Representatives. Yes, here we have received this Report from the National Committee for the period from 1 July to 30 December 2008 and here, among other things, it is stated that the provisionally closed negotiations in two negotiating chapters are without a closing criterion. Then, negotiations in 18 negotiating chapters were opened so that I do not now list them from the freedom of movement of workers, the right to perform business, freedom to provide services, through the rights of companies, etc. etc. But that negotiations are not yet open in 13 negotiating chapters from freedom of movement of goods, freedom of movement of capital, public procurement, competition, agriculture, rural development, food security, veterinary and so on, fisheries, then there are taxes without criteria for opening, regional policy, justice, fundamental rights, three criteria for opening, justice, freedom, security, the environment, foreign security, defence policy and so on. It is clear that at this moment, you can say it freely, mainly today, tomorrow, all the eyes of this Parliament of Croatian citizens will be pointed at Slovenia. The atmosphere that is created, well in Slovenia, so maybe it's just not good for us. Some of the statements we have had to listen to in the past period are at least counterproductive from how many kilometers Slovenians would have looked at the sea if it hadn't been freed by Croats, which in some ways may be true, for example. The second Istrian Partisan brigade freed Koper, but it still does not match NOB's spirit as one more ethnic struggle and therefore the statement is counterproductive. On the other hand, the Slovenian Council has honored us with the qualification that Croatia is following NDH, which at the very least offends us. Foreign Minister Mr. Jandrokovic has said in his time that he does not remember ever buying a Slovenian product, which is beneath the elemental jurisdiction, their former President of the Pavleh National Assembly calls on people not to fly on the Adriatic, and his wife is Istrian from Nova Vasi, now whether Croatia, Slovenia, Italian, is irrelevant. He comes to Nova Vas and invites people not to fly to Croatia, and all these gentlemen are one atmosphere that is at least harmful and we feel it best that we live directly along the Croatian-Slovenian border. I will say that only last year, the Croatian-Slovenian trade exceeded $2.8 billion, that the Slovenians exported a billion dollars to Croatia, to them a billion and 100 million dollars, if we add this tourism to the sea, whether on the snow, that trade is somewhere moving at around $4 billion. While on the one hand we have good relations in the economy, on the other hand from one such political atmosphere at this point I dare say there is almost no way out, let alone some bilateral agreement. We see so much that Slovenia is currently seeking the intervention of this Rehn group because it knows that the dispute with Croatia can only be won at the green table, but how, by political means, because it knows that the dispute on the other hand in front of a court where the court would be governed by legal arguments and difficult to obtain. The group Ahtisaari, Badintieri and so on, I don't think it should be controversial for Croatia either, but on one condition that it adheres to the principles of international public law. Slovenians here add that, but they seek both fairness and what I believe should absolutely be done at this time, that if such a group is already engaged in Croatia, that its intervention extends and solves the problem of the Ljubljanska banka, not only so-called "Ljubljanska banka". Unsufficient savings, but also passed on and can be normally called upon to the principles of rights and justice. What is to expect in due time? The next Slovenian maneuver will be about next, they will allow the opening of the chapter, but they are already threatening not to do the same and close, which is even worse, by principle means not neck, but neck. A referendum in Slovenia on Croatia's NATO entry and to maintain it would mean nothing to Slovenia or Croatia. Croatia will certainly be a NATO member in April, but I think such a referendum would be precedentd and it would, in the right sense, turn that word into a crowd gurgling against one another. One people where he would go to another, and after that any dialogue between Ljubljana, Zagreb would be while these teams in power are almost impossible. What saddens me is that today's relations during Mr. Pahor are worse than during Jansha. During Janša, these relations to Croatia were worse than during Rope. During Ropa it is worse than during Drnovšek and so can we say about the Croatian side. The only solution is that either the solution is prolonged in 10 to 15 years, I have been saying this for ten years and that people living at the border are involved because as long as the border is drawn by people from Zagreb and Ljubljana who do not understand Istria, although I clearly do not dispute that they have such legitimacy, the solution will always be brought down to the dictatorship of which the biggest damage will be local population. If someone is for good relations between Croatia and Slovenia, then it is IDS, it is Damir Cain. I live by the border, I understand this mentality on both sides of the border, that it has not previously resolved the status of citizens living in that area. I'd give blood to those people on the other side of the border, but I won't give them land. And that should also be said openly. Another question that is also being asked, is the government meeting at this point in its coming to the European Union? I think this government was much more convincing in 2004, 2005, but it was set in 2008, 2009. In one word, lose your breath, get lost in some way by your partners. Slovenia is not the only problem today. The question is, what are we going to do about this Rehn initiative? I am sure, I am sure, from this place I can publicly say that Croatia will eventually agree. Politics is a bad policy. There's a different policy to be led outside. That Croatia has a problem because of the unfortunate initialized 2001 agreement, it is clear to me that no one in the Croatian government should return to the terms of that agreement, but I also understand that no one in Slovenian politics will go below those standards, and then the question of who will resolve these differences is clear? It is clear that the way we treat or treat, I don't know about this neighbor, the same way we should respect what we say to Ljubljana, treat others as well. But then we see a difference in approaches to both Bosnia and Herzegovina and Montenegro and so on. One of the unopened chapters of exceptional, important for the Republic of Croatia is the status of shipbuilding. Yesterday I told this speaker that I was proud of the Istrian companies and that Zadar helped and one Lenca and one 3rd May and the County of Istria, and I will say that, when it was necessary to write off the 4/5 budget of the city of Pula to help the Uljanic. In the late 1990s it was possible to help shipbuilding. It's almost too late today. But if that's the way it is, then I'll say it out loud, and soon these privatisation tenders will come, so don't let the gentlemen privatize the Oilman. Privatise this other thing which does not go, which only spends, do not privatise "Olinik" which will achieve a foreign exchange income of about a billion and 300m euros over these new constructions estimated at 100m euros, not dollars but 100m euros. If this country were to fight for shipyards or for this Oily as it is fighting for some monopoly in the tobacco industry, etc. I think we'd all be better off. On the other hand, when I speak, don't privatise "Olinik" I also remember the fact that this country wrote down 4.7 billion kuna to Croatian shipbuilding in 2006 last year 4.5 more this year. So in seven, eight years, that'll be almost 15 billion kuna. So imagine that it was heading towards the village, towards Slavonia, Dalmatia, Istria or elsewhere. Of those 15 billion kunas, the Oilman didn't get a single kuna. So if some sectors don't go, now I ask, in Istria, let's say a little economy, etc. There are problems, help us bridge some loans, and people will pay back all that money. I am also surprised that some business banks that can have an impact on the mood of foreign governments are no longer engaged to Croatian membership. All notes are foreign-owned. Last year, 33 Croatian banks made 21.8 billion kunas or 20% more than in 2007. I repeat 21.8 billion kuna. Peace funds from 2002 to 2008 22.8 billion kuna. We're in charge, pension funds are in their possession. We've sold them banks for 7 billion kuna, 7 billion kuna this year, and indeed a man is asking himself the question of where it's going to go. What is also interesting when we talk about this report is that the Chapter is not yet open – the judiciary and fundamental rights. We at the IDS Club on this occasion think we should even internationalize it. We especially advocate the status of the so-called. protected tenants. We think these people have been hurt by these fundamental people, etc. rights and that it needs to be settled. This status of their non-definition takes too long. These tenants did not take the apartments to the owners but did so by the former SR Croatia or as it was called 46th, 47th, 48th or 51st, whose successor to the Republic of Croatia and consequently this country is obliged by us to compensate for the real value of the same and protected tenants by turning them into owners of these apartments in such a way that the late president solved the problem of the villa in Nazor for himself. Pretty much. Clearly, according to the 91st year, with appropriate interest, etc. We, on the other hand, cannot do another injustice by correcting one injustice by denationalising people living in these apartments. No one doubts that those tenants were damaged in 48, 51, or 52, they should be fully compensated. I claim it's possible. Interestingly, at that time someone tells me that the confiscated apartments, for example, were returned to the children of Ante Pavelic and it is known that the confiscation was made because of the collaboration of war crimes, etc. But I do pray that this problem is resolved once. All in all, surely the IDS club supports the efforts of this National Committee. We believe that perhaps even more intensive work should be done in relations with our neighbours, and I want to sincerely hope, to believe that in the Slovenian state it will be reasonable enough and that it will not be a referendum. One nation's policy against another to harm our legitimate interests. As we rejoiced in Istria when Slovenia entered the European Union I want to believe that at least the Slovenian part of Istria will rejoice when the Republic of Croatia will be tomorrow.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-18-0.u27626	One thought came to me to suggest that you give another speech from your colleague Cain and talk about the report on the work of the National Committee because I didn't seem to hear anything about it. I don't know if you heard anything, but.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-18-0.u27627	Maybe you didn't follow me hard enough, Mr. Vice President. I'm surprised you didn't mind others.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-18-0.u27628	I didn't blame anyone. I didn't blame you either. ... I don't know, it looks like everyone else was so distracted that they didn't hear that you were having a discussion about the report. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] The chairman of Mrs. Vesna Pusic's board. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-18-0.u27629	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. Thank you, of course, to everyone involved in the report debate. First of course, I believe that as far as the possibility of taking a personal attitude or not carrying a personal attitude, the whole purpose here is to have an attitude and then to express it. Participatory discipline in this respect is out of place and will not work and will not work. We need a consensus for negotiating positions. The rest are our attitudes. We're adults, we have attitudes, and we need attitudes. And that's the only way we can help the whole project. ... Neither what you say is a colleague Matušić's position on the board and the position we want to discuss before this House you have said your opinion is the question of the initiative and the possibilities of the committee, which is why it is established. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] It was founded precisely because after many years of opposing the European project of one part of the political spectrum in Croatia, a consensus was finally reached on this. And it's a project like it's proven too difficult for anyone individually. It is a project that could succeed right now in the parliaments that are older than ours there is a whole tradition of the general parliamentary initiative. Therefore, activities that parliament is carrying out regardless of the division of the opposition positions. This is our first attempt. The National Committee is the first such attempt to make one joint parliamentary initiative. It's an attempt that, of course, allows us to compete with each other and the purpose is not to impose ourselves on each other, but that those who know something no matter where they sit contribute to the realization of one project. If it becomes more important whether you're from my party or someone else's party, than whether you understand something or know it in solving one problem, then the whole idea doesn't make sense. Then the whole idea is meaningless, so let's close the store. Therefore, the warning is heading towards the Parliament's first attempt to have one functioning initiative or project that goes across Parliament at all. For those of you who understand know what that means, and beyond that, there's no point in talking. So, as far as the National Committee is concerned, it sends information on its activities to all the groups in the European Parliament, the President of the European Parliament, the Enlargement Commissioner, regular information on what is happening on this trip, the entire diplomatic crust in Zagreb accredited in Zagreb from the European Union countries. So keep that communication line open and conditionally speaking to our opposite party, or to the side with which we negotiate. This was mentioned by several speakers, Akcisarev, or Renova's initiative in the direction of the intermedial mission. Since this is not an integral part of what happened until December 31st last year, then it is not included in this report, it will be in a mid-term report for the first half of this year, but certainly because it all happened this year, but certainly one topic that can in itself be interesting for the parliamentary debate for the committee is and will be put into debate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-18-0.u27630	Thank you. Mr. Representative Frano Matušić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-18-0.u27631	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I will try to stick to the agenda of the National Committee Report and I will immediately say that in most of what the President of the National Committee said, it is in fact the high agreement of all political actors in this Croatian Parliament and achieved on the National Committee and indeed the Committee and thus works. I am therefore surprised that the President of the National Committee has in some way misused her position to present on behalf of the National Committee something that was not at all a subject, nor was it any sort of conclusion that anyone or members of the National Committee are trying to actually reduce the initiative of the Committee itself. What you are talking about, the esteemed presidents of the National Committee and dear colleague, was the attempt and insistence of some members of the National Committee to agree on the criteria by which certain people will be invited to round tables and other initiatives. So that's what this is all about. But it's not about trying to reduce the initiative of the board. However, since the debate was closed to the public, I just wanted to explain in fact what it was about so that we didn't turn out to be different. And I think we could express our views and as an actor of what was happening. I can say for sure that there was no discussion at all on the National Committee, and in that sense, indeed, in that sense, my objection is also in the sense of correcting the incorrect assumption. As far as the work of the National Committee itself is concerned, I think that it was really good quality and that all topics were well discussed. He responded to all the challenges that were ahead of him and this new composition, so the formation of the new Parliament, I really think, has contributed greatly to the negotiation process regardless of what is currently happening, so the issue of the blockade of Slovenia. Speaking of which, I think we should all stick to what Prime Minister Sanader said together, and what he agreed with then Prime Minister Jansa, which is that this dispute is settled before the International Court. So it's an insistence on international law. I think it can only strengthen the Croatian position and the fact that during the negotiations of 26 countries at the previous intergovernmental conferences, it has given its consent to the opening of a number of chapters and the closure of the same number of chapters, says enough that Croatia has done everything that was expected of it. And that the National Committee has done its job in quality as far as negotiating positions are concerned and that both the government and the negotiating team have done their job in the best possible way, because it has just received a green light from 26 member states of the European Union except Slovenia. Of course, it is also important to gain 27 consent because we must obtain the consent of all the countries to open, or close, chapters. And in this regard, we also have a significant solution to this issue, which is not just a bilateral issue today, but unfortunately has become a European issue, although all those who have talked to us from the Europarliamentaries to the representatives of the European Commission agree with us that this is a bilateral issue. Because as it was a bilateral issue when Slovenia entered, it did not have to resolve its border issue with Croatia that existed and then as it exists today, then it is quite clear that there cannot be two different criteria for this issue either in the European Union. The second question is what Slovenia is using its positions as a member of the European Union and is currently blocking our further negotiation process. So, the National Committee has indeed responded in the best possible way in all the challenges, and I would say that the debates have contributed to the National Committee just to make the negotiating positions clear and in some way we have given support to both the negotiating team and the main negotiator Mr Drobnjak, who is indeed doing an excellent job, that all the misunderstandings that existed to be resolved on that very part and to receive support, therefore broad support for the consensus support that has always been so. Therefore, I also think that as a member of the board, I can really say all the best about the work of the committee itself and the fact that the Committee has also functioned on initiatives that have been implemented through round tables and collaboration with the media. But I personally think that all together and the National Committee but all together both the Government and the Croatian Parliament, but above all, we must do more to communicate with the public because obviously the Croatian public is not fully aware of everything that awaits us in a very close period. Of course, none of us need to know everything that will happen in each negotiating chapter, but I think that basic things and basic messages and what the Croatian citizens expect will have to try to bring closer to all those concerned and indeed every citizen of the Republic of Croatia. And in that sense, I think we should still work on that communication, and I think there's more and more responsibility and media in transferring what's ahead of us. Here, I personally welcome the report and everything that has been said about the report and the work of the National Committee itself and I support that report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-18-0.u27632	Thank you. Replica Mr. Representative Joseph Leco.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-18-0.u27633	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, I must express my dissatisfaction in a certain way. It can be concluded from the debate that there is a discrepancy among the members of the National Committee on Labour Assessments and Success of Accession to the European Union. And I, as a representative, feel myself completely equal in this House because I represent those who have given me confidence. But I don't know what this discrimination is about, what this discrepancy is about. And we should judge that by our colleagues and fellow MPs, we must vote on the report of the National Committee. I can access that in two ways, to say I don't know, so I won't give a vote, I can trust the president because I think she's more responsible as president. But it doesn't matter what we think anymore than what the citizens of the Republic of Croatia think we have problems with the national committee when we have a completely absurd situation to discuss in the Parliament as if it were a national committee, in front of the representatives, in front of the citizens, and we don't know what. So I'm asking the board president to at least introduce us to what this non-compliance is, what is the discretion? What does colleague Matušić think differently, and you, as board president, think differently? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-18-0.u27634	Replica reply, Mr. Representative Frano Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-18-0.u27635	Well, fellow Leko, if you had listened to me more carefully, then you could clearly conclude that there is no discrimination when we talk about the work and the success of the negotiation of the National Committee, is there any difference about our position? I made that clear and said it at the beginning. Therefore, counterpart Pusic said at the outset only that there were attempts to weaken the initiative of the board. And I said and explained what was going on, and I don't think there was that weakness, because I'm an actor of these events. Obviously, there are differences in thinking and attitudes, but that's not the position of the National Committee. No matter what the president said, it is not the position of the National Committee. And we never acted that way or I realized any initiative that was on the national committee as an attempt to reduce the initiative of that committee. A colleague is, it's her right to understand it that way. But I'm saying, it's really neither burdened the work of the National Committee nor reduced its initiality, in any area, nor in any part of it. And that is why, indeed, there has been none, nor is there any discrepancy when we talk about the work and the success of the negotiating process, especially with regard to the work of the National Committee itself, I say, all decisions, everything that we have discussed has been made by consensus and in this sense I can only express praise and say that the National Committee has indeed worked in the best possible way and has responded to all the challenges, and yet all the negotiating positions say so, there are only two other negotiating positions left. Not because of what Mr. Cain was saying, it really has nothing to do with protected tenants. The negotiating position in the judiciary is brand-new, and none of the countries that entered before us had a particularly negotiating position. Only Croatia got, probably because of experience, when negotiating with countries that came before us, but only Croatia got this new chapter. And in that sense, it's a chapter now not to go into details, but it's certainly not because of what counterpart Cain was talking about because it has nothing to do with it or anything about negotiating positions.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-18-0.u27636	Mr. Representative Dragutin Bodakosh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-18-0.u27637	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. This report that we have received as a representative, for me it has a certain meaning because in the first place I have a feeling of one of the main drivers that we as Parliamentarians even see what's going on and about this, not just being informed through the press or something like that. That's why this report from 1 Corinthians 1. 7 to 31. 12. The National Committee shall, according to its scope, give me a personal indication of the situation in Chapters 11 of Agriculture and Rural Development, 12. Food Safety Veterinary and... Sanitary control and 13th fishing. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I think and I think that all these three chapters are very important for our country in the negotiation process because they enter into an area of economy that has special meaning for our citizens involved in this segment of life. However, this time, the end of each chapter remains a commentary of negotiations not yet open. For these three chapters, I think that in particular this 11th agriculture and rural development is one of the most difficult and comprehensive chapters, the screening started at the end of 2005 and it was precisely European common policy that was regulated by many binding rules that we must adopt and ensure their implementation in order to be able to deal with the competitive pressure we will have from the European Union, because almost half of the European Union's budget is being wasteful of this common agricultural policy which is now emerging and rural. We have 10% gross income on agriculture, and estimated that about half a million people work on these agricultural holdings and 10% of the working population earns income from this activity, means that food is particularly evident. We had opportunities in the last year to see what it means to be self-sufficient in every country that has its own production, especially at times when there are insufficiently certain components for food production, whether it's wheat or any other. Croatia thinks it can achieve this self-sufficiency with good agricultural policy, but what is happening with us? We still don't have any of that, we're still a growing importer. The imbalances are growing, and the negotiating positions see from this report that they were handed over on 8 September 2008, negotiations are not open. However, this House does not know anything about these positions, it has not received any information. Why? I think that when it came into line with these legal gains of the European Union it was established that there are a number of measures of Croatian agricultural policy that are in line with these acquiss. What's the status today? I think today is the condition of whether all of this in these positions is solved or if there are still problems. One of the problems that I keep thinking and moving is the Support Act, because we know that those changes brought by this Assembly were the product of the coalition agreement of the ruling parties and there was no harmonised model towards the European Union. The new law, and today we've heard something about it, is being prepared. Is he the obstacle to opening these negotiations or something? Normally, this chapter is likely to need to be harmonised further, as is this Support Law, and there should be no problem at that time. Of course, the question of Chapter 13. - Fishing, I think in that part is an even worse situation, the question of ZERP is already a distant past, and it has been a major obstacle in its time. However, these obstacles unfortunately occur now both in a more difficult and larger scale, and this generally viewed report is taxing us the conditions that occurred between 1.7 and 31.12. With negotiations in this year 2009, the situation seems to suggest that we will have a very difficult time completing negotiations by the end of 2009, especially as we continue to listen to certain bickerings with Slovenia, normally through the press. There has never been anything concrete about it here, and as a Parliament other than this report by the National Committee, we do not get any concrete information from the government or the resolution ministries. And that is why I think that this National Committee has its meaning and that we should support it, that is, we should continue to have certain visions that we get, even through this committee. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-18-0.u27638	Thank you. One rectification of an incorrect allegation. Mrs. Marija Buric Pejcinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-18-0.u27639	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, here's what I'd do to correct the inaccuracies of my fellow Bodakosh that the government, that only this committee gives us information about the negotiations. In fact, the government regularly submits every 6 months a report on the negotiations, therefore this is the occasion in which the government shows what is happening in the negotiations and the occasion in which you, if you are interested, can ask. We discussed such reports, and I believe that a new report will come soon, so they will be able to talk about it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-18-0.u27640	Does the board president want it? Yeah. Ms Vesna Pusic, president of the National Committee, final review.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-18-0.u27641	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues. Thanks again to everyone who's been arguing. To answer a few comments or questions that have been discussed. As for what was encouraged by counterpart Leko, as regards the report of the National Committee, it taxfully lists everything that the National Committee is in charge of, how it has done so, as well as the state of negotiations. According to the logic of the chapter, the National Committee can, of course, monitor the dynamics of the negotiating team. When the negotiating team closes its negotiating positions, the National Committee discusses it. In this respect, the whole thing is not controversial. What the controversy occurred in is when you build a new institution like the National Committee, in which way you can use it to really contribute or minimize it and choke it that it doesn't possibly have any significant function. It's a key dilemma. Depends on how you set your goal. The purpose of these discussions today is to maximise the opportunities of the National Committee and exploit the potential that exists through it, not to choke and gradually marginalise throughout the process, especially now that the whole process is in a very difficult crisis. Because the whole process of de facto doesn't go forward, regardless of what our decision is to solve the issue of closing criteria, regardless of how we didn't formally get them from the commission, but only informally, so that we meet the conditions so that at some point when the whole thing is unblocked, we end up very quickly. Of course it's smart to put it that way because it's the only thing we can do for our own benefit right now as far as the negotiation process itself is concerned. But of course, in order for this process to be unblocked, it should be done at least by both legislative and executive authority, and very likely what counterpart Cain said in a small segment had to do with this subject, which is local self-government. There's a lot local self-government can do. There's no doubt about that. It's because it's really people who feel it on their skin. As far as the information on the negotiating positions is concerned, it is true that Parliament has no information on the negotiating positions. That was the decision. I'm absolutely open to discussing it one more time whether or not to. The reason is that in the negotiating positions, the main reason is that negotiating positions require delays that are not certain that we will get, and for some it is almost obvious that we will not get with the idea that negotiating positions before they are accepted are raised certain expectations that will then not be met and through this creates some kind of negative climate. That makes sense. That argument makes sense, and those delays we're looking for are very different. In some chapters a small number is clear, in some chapters of complicated, different levels of importance. And finally, as far as the round tables are concerned, you mentioned an incentive in agriculture. We discussed on the National Committee that our first round table this year would be exactly the model of incentives in agriculture how to move with the existing one. However, since we have to follow negotiators here because they, the negotiating team, are still working on that task, then it will be our second round table. So somewhere in the spring, the first one will be on the subject of “Social Exclusion. ” This is, regarding the topic related to Chapter XIX – Social policy and employment, and some of which we also heard yesterday in the debate about these European funds which are precisely for this problem of social exclusion or to address this problem we will use. So this will be the first, and the incentives you colleagues have mentioned will be an absolutely different topic as soon as we agree with the negotiators. I thank everyone again.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-18-0.u27642	Thank you. I'm closing the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-18-0.u27643	Report on the work of the National Committee for the period from 1 July to 31 December 2008, Carrier: The National Committee of the Discussion has concluded. I am voting on the following conclusion: "The report on the work of the National Committee for the period from 1 July to 31 December 2008 is hereby adopted. A year.". Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? Reports on the work of the National Committee were accepted by the majority with 113 votes in favour and 2 abstentions.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-18-0.u27644	Until the reports of the Committee are distributed in respect of points 6 and 7, we will move to point 8, which is - The final draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the National Foundation for Science, Higher Education and Technological Development of the Republic of Croatia, the emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 258. The Proposer is the Government. The debate was conducted by the Committees on Law, European Integration and the Committee on Education, Science and Culture. The amendments were submitted by the Legislative Committee. State Secretary at the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports Drazen Vikić Topic will further explain the proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-18-0.u27645	Honorable Ms. Representatives and Mr. Representatives, Mr. Vice President. The National Foundation for Science and Higher Education and Technological Development of the Republic of Croatia was founded in 2000 and started building project financing procedures in science and higher education in 2004. In the past four years, the foundation has created human resources assumptions for implementing European standards in project financing, and the government has therefore concluded that the time has come for the project financing to be transferred to the Fund for Science and Higher Education and Technology Development, and has proposed a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the National Foundation for Science at its session on 29 January. In this way, it will be possible for science in Croatia to be more stable and continuously funded whether project financing is going to take place through the foundation, through... projects, and institutional funding will be implemented through the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports, with the exception of the cold drive of institutions, except for the acquisition of the capital equipment of scientific recruits, a certain amount will come for so-called Intramural, internal, internal projects of institutions where certain amounts fixed for such institutions will be assessed. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Therefore, it is in some way a proposal that goes towards best European practice and we believe that it has come, a mature time that we in Croatia are able to introduce such a new system with the fact that the scientific system will actually profit in our opinion. That would be brief, Mr. President. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-18-0.u27646	Thank you. Committee on legislation, on European integration, Committee on Education, Science and Culture, Chairman of the Committee, Mr Petar Selem. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-18-0.u27647	Mr. Vice President, dear secretary. The Committee on Education, Science and Culture of the Croatian Parliament discussed at the 12th session held today on 18 February the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the National Foundation for Science, Higher Education and Technological Development of the Republic of Croatia, with the Final Proposal for Law, P.Z.E. No. 258. The committee discussed the issue as a parent working body. Before I read this board's conclusion, I must apologize to you for the speed of preparation of this text, a few tipfelers, small errors have been subdued. However, it does not question the consistency of the text. Therefore, a number of issues related to the proposed reorganisation have been raised in the debate, which would put the financing of scientific research projects on new grounds, making this part of the scientific and research work partly independent of the state budget. However, the proposal is not accompanied by sufficient arguments to challenge, leaving in fact an open set of issues and the status and financial nature that are conditional on each other, and it comes down to the need to answer the fundamental question of how and under what assumptions the National Foundation for Science, Higher Education and Technology Development of the Republic of Croatia will assume both the place and function of Article 111. Law on scientific activity and higher education. In addition, it has been pointed out that the current attitude towards the National Foundation for Science, Higher Education and Technology Development has not been satisfactory with regard to its financial training, and the issue will certainly be tightened in case this foundation takes over the central role of funding scientific and research projects. The proposed work reorganisation should take into account the explicit reasons laid down by the Foundations and Foundations Act in force since 1995, which has not yet been sufficiently explained by the applicant. The debate has shown that there are still a number of issues of open-minded concerns, stressing that these issues need to be elaborated more thoroughly and adequately. In this case, which is very important is not an imperative for the relevant Croatian regulations to be in line with the European acquis, but for the aim of the promoter of every praise worth offering such a system of research into scientific research projects, or their funding, which is compatible with best European practice. After the debate was held, the committee took the majority of votes, 5 for and 2 abstentions for the above reasons, and assessed that there was insufficient reason to pass this law by an urgent procedure, in which we also reached agreement with the applicants and adopted the following conclusion The proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the National Foundation for Science, Higher Education and Technological Development of the Republic of Croatia is adopted in the first reading. All proposals and remarks will be sent to the applicant for the purpose of establishing the final draft law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-18-0.u27648	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. A SDP representative club, Mr. Agent Iron Flego. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-18-0.u27649	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues. The Foundation was formally trained for action in 2002. It was organised in 2003, and it took us 6 to 7 years to finally reach that level and the moment when the foundation began to receive those contours that caused it to be founded. So in some ways this act, this proposal is very late. The SDP supports this act or an idea that stands on its basis because it is a significant change in the functioning of the relevant bodies or bodies that will manage science in the Republic of Croatia. Following in this way the best world practices of the United States, National Science founding or European, European science founding,... , Switzerland, Finland, etc. etc. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It is intended to regulate legally the conditions under which the joint scientists of the foundation or agencies decide on the best scientific projects, which allows them to be fully free, equally creative, but at the same time responsible for the structure of the development of science in their environment. In doing so, of course by managing excellence or excellence on the one hand, and on the other hand, competence which is always meant in science as international. Finally, we are getting a bill on this, but this bill is very specific and, in our court, it is in several aspects inconclusive, and assumes certain organisational advances that are not envisaged by it. It is a kind of dualism between project and institutional financing. A project on the one hand, where scientific research projects would be financed, and institutionally on the other, where research institutions would also be financed. Unfortunately, the project funding under the 2009 financial projection would be less than 15%, while the ministry would retain 85%. The institutes, the acquisition of equipment, the financing and approval of scientific recruits, everything would remain in the ministry's management, and the foundation would, in that way, talk about what is proposed in the text, so the title is the trust, the foundation would in this way only finance scientific research projects or their implementing parts, and in that way, basically, such distribution and such dualism would make its functioning impossible, which is what we wish for. Why to take only one small step and why to make only a change in a single segment, rather than a single segment, is not completely clear to me, and we would advocate that this change be significantly deeper and significantly larger than this law provides. Secondly, in order for the whole thing to work in the reorganisation of Croatian science or science in Croatia, there is still some organisational work to be done. I will remind you that in Croatia there are 26 public research institutes that are by law, mostly by law, most of them by law from 1993 were ripped from the university to be alone in the scientific research institute. Since universities yearn for new staffs, new spaces and new equipment, as Croatia as a relatively small and poor country has 26 scientific research institutes that are fragmented, very often and so small that they are barely noticed. There is a mutual need for the reintegration of institutes in universities, which would give universities new personnel and new equipment and new funds and new spaces, and scientific and research activities would get a significantly greater framework and opportunity of synergic functioning, so through their trans or interdisciplinary, which is today a kind of obligation in the organisation of scientific and research activities. So it seems to me that much faster to realize what we prepared in 2003, which is the reintegration of a part of the scientific institutes in universities, and in no case ceases their activity, for God's sake, but it gets different institutional frameworks, and can be organised in universities in the form of institutes, institutes, centres, however you wish. This possible reintegration, and we hope it will happen, should never be mechanically simple. Violent and coercive, but it should be consensual, i.e. so that they may know their interests on both sides of it, on one side of the university and on the other side of the institute. We hope that this will come soon, and then this foundation will, as it is now, whose work is now being envisaged and wants to organise, will gain its much greater meaning than what is now being given to it. And finally, finance we believe that over the past few years the foundation has been financially neglected although it has been doing very significant steps that we had the opportunity to discuss when we received a report from the National Science Foundation, which was largely accompanied by very positive assessments, perhaps superlatives, but regardless of which, the ministry applied to these significant almost strategic steps of the Ministry to the foundation. In her initial phases, the foundation managed to raise 120 million kuna from the state budget, in the last four let's say that she received a million and 870 thousand in the first year of the new government, i.e. In 2004. And everything else was zero and that's something that actually shows true intentions or true intentions and orientation of this government towards the functioning of the National Foundation. So if she's allowed to act then it should be like it's still in some frames. We think that this action of the National Science Declaration should be much and much wider almost unlimited compared to what is now provided for in this law. Secondly, the availability of funding for science is completely uncontrollable in the current practice of the ministry. We do not know and have never received reports, nor are any analytical actions taken into account. Why were scientific resources spent, and how were they spent in the best possible way? Two of course are the criteria to establish that. On the one hand, let us keep a record of how many works have been published in international publications, in the so - called so - called “species. ” "cca revues" i.e. magazines with quote records and to see how successful our scientists and scientists are in their scientific and research work. And the other information, and we're standing here bad, but given the funds invested relatively well because our work costs "relatively little" money and we're relatively efficient here. But it is a very small layer of those who succeed. Another method of monitoring the success of the scientific and research activity is the life of the results of scientific research in the economy, the production of new values, the patents and that Croatia stands disastrously bad, not bad, but catastrophically bad, and it is high time to think of an effective way to spend resources invested in science effectively, to make science contribute to the better environment in which it develops and that, in fact, all of us, besides those who pay taxes, benefit from it. Differently saying that the entire system is being reoriented towards scientific efficiency whatever it might mean then. In addition, with these comments, we have two other suggestions that we ask for serious consideration. On the one hand, it is necessary to think carefully about the name of an institution that would do so, whether it is still about the National Foundation for Science or, in fact, it is the Agency for Science and Technology that has a slightly different profile and a different function. And secondly, if it goes according to this law, then one law cannot change two remaining laws but should intervene in two laws, hence the Law on Scientific and Research Activities and the Act on Foundations. In other words, it takes a whole package to assess this law and this initiative positively. And finally, colleagues and colleagues are about a very serious structural change in the way the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports works and we think that this structural change on the one hand requires a much more serious argument and perhaps a more detailed legislative regulation than this one. Secondly, we think it would be optimal for the ministry to come with a whole series of reform measures in one package of laws, on universities, on scientific and research activities, on the Agency for Science and Higher Education, which is more or less evaluative, on different forms of international cooperation, etc., not to list all the necessary laws and normative acts. It would be much more productive if we had a whole eye so we didn't get what we were warning about, but our arguments didn't come across a positive echo when we passed pedagogical standards, so when we passed the Law on Elementary and Secondary Education. So if we bring what is now in the public debate and it's called the framework curricula, then we'll need to reverse the one and the other law that we've passed in the spring in reverse order. So it would be optimal if the ministry and the government would bring a whole package of measures and present them to the Parliament and then we would be safe on the one hand that the proposed measures are complete and on the other hand to think seriously. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-18-0.u27650	Thank you. On behalf of the HDZ Club, distinguished representative Nevio Šetić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-18-0.u27651	Thank you. Dear Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished representatives of the ministry, State Secretary, Madam Representatives, gentlemen of the Parliament. Allow a few thoughts in front of the Croatian Democratic Community Club on the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the National Foundation for Science, Higher Education and Technological Development of the Republic of Croatia. We also accept that this should be in two readings, as the board has determined. And here it is very clear that one experience and practice that has been done in the last four, five years in the financing of science, and in the development of science at all, is now being upgraded, in line with Croatian experiences, as well as creating a framework for a European step in Croatian science and education, if I may say so. Ladies and gentlemen, when this law is summed up that is not so extensive, you can say in four parts what is really changing. The first thing that changes is the mandatory foundation of the foundation's assets. In order to free some of the funds already this year from 40 million kuna, such a solution has been found and will be installed during this transitional period of funding as funding instruments for scientific research in this current year. So that's good, because the foundation will be able to confirm its activities. Second, the obligation to register 50% of the funds allocated from the state budget as basic assets is abolished until 100 million kunas are collected, thus opening up the possibility of direct payment of the trust from the state budget to finance the programme without the need to secure a double amount of funds. It was an instrument that made it impossible, which paralyzed certain funds, and these resources can now be actively put into science and it is good for all scientists according to standards that are transparent, public and how it can seem and directly can be included in the fund's money. Third, what is important is to say what this legislative proposal changes. It's a regulation to prevent conflicts of interest. In practice, which has been carried out to review the project and some other programme, certain failures have been seen, so that these are prescribed to prevent conflicts of interest, the inability to participate in the trust authorities of the highest state bodies, thus ensuring independence, the inability to compete for members of the foundation's body, their obligation to report any conflict of interest in relation to projects. And what is important to say, perhaps most important in building a financing and decision-making structure around projects and research programmes, is given to the National Foundation for Science and Higher Education, an autonomous and central role in the financing of scientific projects. And that is the dimension that is approaching Croatia in this regard to European experience. Ladies and gentlemen, I think it is important to read Article 2 here. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the National Declaration on Science and Higher Education and Technology Development of the Republic of Croatia. Why? Because right here you can see all the sense of these changes that are written like this. So Article 2 of this proposal changes Article 3 and reads: "The Foundation is established with the purpose of promoting science, higher education and technological development in the Republic of Croatia with a fundamental goal of ensuring economic development and promoting employment. The Foundation shall provide support for scientific, highly educated and technological programmes and projects, and the promotion of international cooperation in the field of higher education. Support includes funding of scientific programmes and projects of particular interest in the field of basic, applied and development research. The Foundation grants scholarships to graduates, post-doctors, and experts in the economy and experts in the scientific and higher school institutions of the Republic of Croatia." Paragraph 2 of Article 2 states: "The Foundation shall open tenders for scientific projects and programmes in accordance with national strategic documents, for the development of science, the basis of which it carries out the application, evaluation, supervision of the evaluation of financial projects and co-operational scientific programmes." This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. "The conditions and procedures for the application, evaluation and decision-making of the financing of scientific projects and programmes shall be laid down in the Regulation on the conditions and procedures for the allocation of funds for the purpose of the Foundation." Here I think you'll agree. This was for the most part to say but how complex a job it is and how much experience is now already included in this law from the previous time. I think this applies to both high school institutions and institutes that we've already heard here and that this framework has now been created, which I think is very, very important. But allow me, in my debate on behalf of the Croatian Democratic Community Club, to point out some other reasons that the Committee also opened such a debate on caution with some of the experiences we have had since 2004 on this. The foundation has so far played a key role in the development of the scientific systems for which it is intended. But now looking at building a whole system of incentive projects to finance scientific activities related to results. We must say that there were also some weaknesses in the existing system, although it was set up to carry out certain programmes and projects of professional evaluation, but since it was happening in this mile of people working together, it was possible for some lines to have conflicts of interest, which is being prevented and what is being rejected by this legislative proposal. Also a large number of projects around 2 000 300 projects reported to the Ministry of Science, when the funds were deployed then we came individually to a very low level of ability to activate funds for these projects. So he wants to change that, too. And it seems to me that these changes will spread out these doubts and the difficulties that have arisen. It is also important for ladies and gentlemen to say that these laws form the basis for the reconstruction of the foundation according to the models of best European practice. Further, the amendment of the law insists on the establishment of its bodies and services and making decisions entirely independent of the state administration body. But they introduce full clarity in preventing conflicts of interest. What I said, and I underline it one more time. The members of the Foundation's services are excluded from applying for projects and must report any conflict of interest. And something else important to say here, and what we often call upon and must not forget, that the adoption of this law will also fulfil the obligations of the negotiating position of the Republic of Croatia for Chapter 25. - Science and research, which is very important. In particular, the national programme for the accession of the European Union, the need to strengthen the national research system and to improve the system of evaluation of scientific projects, scientists from scientific organisations, the recommendations of the common position of the Member States of the European Union in respect of 25, and the European Commission's report on the progress of the Republic of Croatia, the improvement of the system of allocation of state resources to ensure excellence. These are all the reasons why another reading was proposed in order to adopt some suggestions that need to be further considered and finally. On behalf of the Croatian Democratic Community club, I can say that this bill is for the first time depolitizing the financing of scientific projects, because the funding of scientific projects moves from the ministry to an independent professional foundation institution. That's what we need to raise awareness of. And that's a big step, I'd almost say courage, not just for the ministry, but for the academic community to go that way, because that's how we put ourselves on a competitive market, whether it's worth it and what we're doing, how useful it will be for Croatian society, how much growth opportunities will be for the economy. It is also fully coordinated by this legislative proposal by the Croatian system of science with the European Research Area, which is not irrelevant, it is too important. And that's why we support lawmaking. Moreover, the law fully introduces the prevention of conflicts of interest in the review of scientific projects, which is important. And finally this law is the last step for the Croatian science step from the transition phase. Here's a thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-18-0.u27652	Thank you. And on behalf of the HNS Club, distinguished representative Vesna Pusic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-18-0.u27653	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. As regards the urgency of the proceedings, the HNS Club considers that there were a lot of arguments for and arguments against. I will make some arguments against the urgency of the procedure in this exhibition that simply refer to the need for the completion of certain regulations. And as far as the arguments are concerned, the argument for the chief would be to do so until someone figures out what you're doing. I think it's because they might change their minds. So, in any case this is one, it is without further a positive shift and it would be good to stick to this orientation that is this law, it's one small law, it's not the law of course on the national foundation for science, that trust exists, and there is this law there are only amendments and additions to that law. But in a few, or in the first row, they have, carry with them a new one that is significant and which is really rare in our practice, an experience that was simply better quality, which is an experience of selecting scientific projects and controlling results and spent money. So whether the funding of a scientific project produced a result that was at all useful or at least publicized in scientific journals. So the model that has been better and more successful is used and used and replaced by a model that has been bad and has experienced many criticisms and has proved to be ineffective, first of all, as regards the criteria and second of all to bring evil blood into the scientific community and even into this research space. Four or five things that are done with the law that are mentioned here, I'll only warn some of them. So, one thing is to reduce the mandatory underlying assets of the foundation. I have certain questions on that. So, by reducing from 100 million to 10 million, mandatory underlying assets, I interpret this as a release of funds from what must be kept and served as some kind of asset for future money that will make the foundation independent and put that money into scientific projects, i.e. research. On the other hand, I'm afraid, and I'm asking the secretary of state to answer that, it seems to me that she's giving up that project that the foundation is in fact generating some of its own capital that will be able to manage and finance and contribute to a greater separation for science in the future. I may be wrong, but I'm asking you to clear up that part, if it's just one fire strike in a situation where there's no money, you're reaching for the money that was supposed to be the basis for future financial independence, or more independence of the foundation, and you're putting it on the market. It is good that senior civil servants, including ministers, and deputy ministers, i.e. State secretaries, etc., cannot be in the bodies of the foundation and that this is defined by the independence of the Foundation and that at the same time the members of the body of the Foundation cannot compete for the funds of the trust in the term of office in which they are in the trust, or for another year thereafter. Finally, what seems a key point to me is that the foundation is actually starting to change, it's starting to take over the key or the main one, or in time as far as the countries are concerned, the only role in funding scientific projects, and that this is being transferred from the ministry to the National Science Foundation. It is precisely to use models of evaluation, selection and then control the results of projects that the National Science Foundation has established so far. Now, that point relating to the establishment of the foundation as a key instrument in the financing of science. At the same time, he's talking about, in fact, changing each other's laws and from that point of view, it seems to me an argument for another reading because it's about changing Article 111. The Act of Scientific Activity. But in that case, it would probably be logical to change here the Law on Scientific Activity, so we change Article 111 of the law by changing that law, not by changing the Law on the National Foundation for Science, we change the Act on Scientific Activity. So, one law, we're removing the article from the other law. We should probably amend the Law on Scientific Activity to enable this objective, or this purpose, which, or the intensity presented by this law which is absolutely positive, is not questionable, but technically, seems to me to be more appropriate. Now, all this is a good idea and it's going in the right direction, using positive experiences, so the HNS club will support it. The only thing that bumps into one fundamental problem is how much that money is shared. So, we'll make a good foundation, good selection models etc., but the foundation from the state hasn't received any money in the last three years, as we saw in that report when it was on the agenda the National Science Foundation report. Since 2004, the state for science has dropped from 1.2 to 0.87. Trend is exactly the opposite of everything alive, including what was mentioned here, and that is the famous chapter 25. Science and research. In that chapter, we opened it and closed it in one day, as you know, there's no so-called first. solid acquis, so there's no such thing as soft standards. What you commit to is going towards some goal, but you don't have any formal and formalized legal obligations. Now, the European average for science is 2% of GDP. Our program even the foundation program is 3%, and in the meantime, since the foundation was established, it went from 1.2 to 0.87. There is no foundation in the world that can help us. It's a matter of political decision. Do we want to finance science? Do we think science is the instrument of recovery and exit from the crisis of this society or do we think science is a luxury? This law, according to the HNS Club, improves the funding model, but nothing helps a good model of financing if you don't have the finance. If you don't have money, the criteria can be great, but based on smart, well made reviews very objective nobody will get anything. Therefore, the key problem facing it is well and has been shifted in a positive sense structured science funding does not help if science is not funded or if there is no money there and if instead of what we have taken over within the soft acquis as our obligation, which is to increase the issue of science, that is, within these soft European standards, rather than legal provisions to increase the isolation of science. And at the same time, we have been reducing, and since 2004, we have been reducing the separation for science, and then it doesn't lead to the fulfillment of those criteria and obligations that we have made temporarily closing this chapter, and neither will this, in the HNS' view, help us with the improved funding model. Therefore, as a club of HNS, we will support these amendments to the Law on the National Foundation for Science because they are an improvement, but the effect if the National Science Foundation is not on one hand given absolutely nothing money like the last three years and at the same time reduced the underlying capital that they keep, and their main funding, if you remember from the report, was out of interest. Now, that's not 100 million anymore, it's 10 million. The interest is gone too. Where's the money the foundation's gonna have? This year they'll release some of that money. What's he gonna do next year? What are they gonna do years behind that? So that's, I'd say, following the answer that it takes to make this model not only a good idea, but it also makes real sense. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-18-0.u27654	Thank you. We're moving on to an individual debate. We have one application. Dear representative Marija Lugarić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-18-0.u27655	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues. It is difficult at the end of this, not too long, but quality discussions about one small law, but about one big and important topic to say a lot new, so allow me a few perhaps additional arguments on what is primarily what my colleague Flego and now colleague Pusic and two proposals at the end. So I personally have nothing against changing the model of funding for scientific projects. This practice so far that it was all funded by the ministry was not good and this proposal to transfer this funding to a national foundation or elsewhere outside the ministries has my absolute support. I have a few problems about the law itself that I repeat are already mentioned, but allow a few possible new arguments. This law, as already said, reduces the main foundation from 100 to 10 million kuna and everything that has been said so far in the debate, I would like to draw attention to Articles 16 and 24 of the Law. The Law on Foundations and Foundations, which is a general law, must be applied to all foundations and foundations, as well as to this, where the provisions of the Act on Foundations and Foundations say that the underlying assets of the foundation made up by the trustee have been allocated to the foundation in the founding act, etc. It may not be reduced in Article 16 or Article 24 that such underlying assets can only be changed if they increase, which may otherwise be formulated what is mentioned earlier in Article 16. However, although perhaps, but only perhaps, we can find arguments to reduce the basic assets of the National Foundation for Science and Higher Education, I am afraid that we are in conflict with the General Act on Foundations and Foundations, and then the next Act on Foundations and Foundations can lead to this, if administrative supervision is to be carried out and all those instruments under this law and to the final abolition of the Foundation. So a good idea can lead to the end of the foundation, if the Foundation and Foundations Act will be respected, so I ask you to think about it first, and secondly, you give us a real explanation and an answer to that problem. I also have a lot of skepticism with regard to how the foundation will collect money, because not only did the State budget not get the foundation enough funds as it was planned with the original dynamics when we passed the law in 2003, but it is almost a regular phenomenon that if we established some amount of funds in the State budget, in the budget rebalancing we significantly reduced or completely deleted all these funds. And everything culminated pretty much last year when, by the government's decision, not by the government's decision, not by the Parliament, but by the government's decision in October 2008 in a decision to redistribute the funds in the state budget of 5 million kuna planned for the foundation in 2008 from the government's budget to the National Foundation of all 5 million kunas and to raise funds for the zero kuna trust fund, regardless of Parliament's adoption that it should be 5 million kuna. So, not only do we have a nominal and formal reduction, but the government has also given it authority to reduce and take funds for the foundation beyond Parliament's will. So it's one practice that we're going to talk about in another law, but also here as an example that actually the state according to the trust because so far it wasn't a mother, but also the worst stepmother, and now we're going to give even more work, so it's of course that it's justifiable that all those voices that talk about the skeptics are actually about funding the foundation from the state budget. Secondly, I would also like to draw attention to Article 9 of these amendments and to the addition of the law which states that this law amends Article 111 or Article 111 of the Law on Scientific Activity and Higher Education, and indeed in the package with the final text of the law, we must also obtain the final text of amendments to the Law on Science and Higher Education which would have only one article for this occasion which would say Article 111 is abolished because it is not technically acceptable. I'm not even an expert at this, my colleagues who are more involved in this, say even against the constitution that one law amends another law. There's been a lot of talk here about funding, and I'm going to repeat now one proposal I made this morning and on the Education Committee just to enter as an official and formal proposal, which will then require an indication of the ministry in the final draft of the law. In fact, the Foundations and Foundations Act defines that a special law, and I am now talking about this special law, can also determine the mandatory contribution to certain gambling income funds, i.e. the profits of certain state-owned companies. I think, and I would like it to be given a note that investment in science, in excellence, in higher education, in excellence in higher education really is a state priority and that it has at least status as well as sport. I therefore suggest that the final text indicates that even from the means of gambling, one percent can also be allocated to the funds of the foundation. Then by a government regulation, of course, when it determines how these funds will be allocated to at least one small, even the smallest percentage of science being represented because it is a really large amount of funding. Yesterday, in the State Audit Report, we saw that it is very often used in a part of sport and technical culture and that people from sports and technical culture do not spend it at all. Therefore, there is a small one, but as far as the state is concerned, a major step in terms of recognition to say both sciences and excellence in higher education in its funding. And finally, something that is indirectly related to this law, and directly related to some of the other discussions that we had on this law was stamped P.Z.E. So this is a European law harmonising Croatian legislation with European legislation. We were here in the Parliament last week, it seemed to me that we were discussing a plan to bring the legislation of the Republic of Croatia into line with the legislation of the European Union, and then I was talking about abuse to say so. The mark on our laws. This law does not have any criteria, it cannot be considered as a law in which the Croatian legal system is aligned with the European system. And this law cannot and must not bear the label P.Z.E. The amendment, therefore, and the addition of the Foundations Act, is set out in the 2009 legislative harmonisation plan adopted by this Assembly, neither in that plan for 2008, nor in those previous plans. And I don't think any other law on those lists can carry that P.Z.E. mark. and I ask once again here is the Ministry of Science which has done this several times, but also the Government in general not to abuse the argument of accession to the European Union and the beating of these P.Z.E. The seals and di-needs and di-needs because it's really not the case here. If that were the case, it would be in that list of laws that we as Parliament adopt each year on the harmonisation of legislation. That's it. I think, I think, especially after the debate has been held, that in the vote on this bill I will be abstentioned. I support the idea of going in two readings that's the reason for abstention, otherwise the result would be, the vote would be significantly different. But for the simple reason that I think it is necessary to comply with this law on foundations and foundations, i.e. to obtain in some way in the reasons of the law very clear indications, not to say promises, because the promise is most often a crazy joy of funding, i.e. the sustainable financing of the trust and changing and significantly expanding from the state budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-18-0.u27656	Thank you. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Dear Drazen Vikić Topić, State Secretary at the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-18-0.u27657	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament and MPs. I thank you for your constructive discussion, suggestions, corrections, and, of course, the Government accepts that this bill goes into second reading, because we have seen that there are still some things that we have to explain and clarify better. I'd just say that maybe things aren't so black after all. It's growing very briefly, we've been working on the analysis. That percentage of GDP goes in cycles of four years. Now it's in the growth cycle so that that information of 0.87% was for 2006. For 2007, it's 0.98% and some estimates we now have that could be 1.1 for 2008. But of course, of course, science has to be a lot more funded. That funding keeps growing. Let's just remember a little bit more Bologna, this pardon Lisbon strategy where it says that this ratio goes to 3%. In Europe, it's about 2%, I think the average is 1.8 even if, for example, Spain has 1.22 and Hungary thinks it has 0.48. Whether the ratio must be the budget of around 1/3, 33% but the assets of other sources of the economy 66. We actually have a much larger share of the budget at this point, so in this percentage of 0.98% I know it comes from the budget about 0.55%. So we have almost the opposite ratio, and that's why we've brought a whole series of sublegal acts where we can motivate the economy and other entities to invest as much in science as possible. Here, I thank you again. We will accept, consider, and accept another reading. Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-18-0.u27658	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-18-0.u27659	13, Final proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the National Foundation for Science, Higher Education and Technology Development of the Republic of Croatia, emergency procedure, P.Z.E. No. 258. The debate is closed. During the debate, the proposing representative accepted a proposal from the home working body to discuss this legislative proposal in a regular procedure. In accordance with the proposal of the Committee on Education, Science and Culture, I am voting on the following conclusion: "The Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the National Foundation for Science, Higher Education and Technological Development of the Republic of Croatia is hereby adopted. Any comments, proposals and opinions raised in the debate will be addressed to the applicant in order to prepare a final draft law.". Let's please get involved and vote on the proposal of these conclusions. The result? These conclusions were adopted by a majority of 80 votes in favour, 28 abstentions and 4 votes against.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-18-0.u27660	And now we return to point 6 and that is - Proposals for a decision on the resolution of the president and part of the members so far and on the appointment of a new president and part of members of the National Council for Higher Education, Proposer: The Government of the Republic of Croatia has proposed these decisions on the basis of Articles 10, 11 and 115. Law on scientific activity and higher education. You received the proposal by mail. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Education, Science and Culture. You received the reports at the session. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Dear Radova Fuchs, State Secretary at the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-18-0.u27661	Honorable Vice President, distinguished MPs and MPs. The proposal submitted by the Government for the appointment is a regular procedure where the Assembly of the Republic of Croatia should appoint half of the members of the National Council for Higher Education, as half of the members are changed every two years. The proposal, which consists of the candidates that have arrived, found that there are no representatives who would be nominated directly by higher schools, universities and higher schools. It's simply because the candidacy of someone by this part of the higher school system has not arrived and has not arrived. However, we believe that such a proposal can also be accepted and respected by the fact that one member, Professor Sinisa Popovic, is also a professor at the social university in Zagreb. So I'm asking you to consider this proposal and I hope the Parliament accepts it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-18-0.u27662	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? Yeah. The Committee on Education, Science and Culture, the Honorable Peter Selem, Chairman of the Committee. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-18-0.u27663	On February 12th, the Committee on Education, Science and Culture of the Croatian Parliament discussed the proposal for a decision on the resolution of the president and part of the members so far and the appointment of a new president and part of members of the National Council for Higher Education. The opening argument was tabled by the applicant's representative. After the debate, which noted the same fact that Mr. Secretary of State stated that the proportions provided for were not absolutely respected, but it was clear that the objective situation of the application was the same as that of the tender and that, clearly, no one could be forced to report unless it appeared. After the debate, the Committee unanimously concluded that it was proposed to the Croatian Parliament to adopt a Decision on the resolution of the President-in-Office and part of the members of the National Council for Higher Education and the Decision to appoint a new president and part of members of the National Council for Higher Education. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-18-0.u27664	On the boards report board we haven't had until now... You will now have a chance to say something because you will speak for the club. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I'm opening a debate. They're at the clubs first. On behalf of the SDP club, distinguished representative Marija Lugaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-18-0.u27665	Dear Mr. Vice President, allow me to do this first. Namely, my colleague Flego and I, as SDP presidents, voted against this decision on the Education Committee, and it is not true that the decision was unanimously taken. Namely, the report of the board is wrongly likely at this entire speed from the morning, all the speed, that was my intervention, namely the committee did not unanimously determine, I mean you should say since you said it was unanimous. Thank you. Now, as for my speech on behalf of the club, as I said, we at the SDP Club will not support this decision to appoint members of the Higher Education Council, not because we believe that all proposals are bad, but there are also several very good and excellent candidates among them. However, we here as MPs and MPs in the Croatian Parliament have an obligation to comply with the law, we took an oath when we received our mandate in which he said that in his work we would stick to both the Constitution and the law and I think that none of us who took the oath can vote for this decision because it is simply contrary to the law. The fact that the decision is contrary to the law does not even hide representatives of the ministry, counterpart Fuchs said so in an opening statement. Namely, the Law on Scientific Activity and Higher Education very clearly and unequivocally states that the members of the National Council for Higher Education 7 university professors, one of whom should be from the field of teacher education, 2 high school teachers, 2 scientists employed at the Institute of Science and two persons outside the system of scientific activities and higher education. Of these six members we now appoint, 1 person was from the ranks of a high school professor, now not a single high school professor is appointed, and by accepting this decision we will have a National Council that is contrary to the law, and thus this decision itself is illegal. I say again, no matter what we think of individual suggestions. This is the case we had in the past four years ago, and it seems to me that it was quite a similar problem because it was not a respected criterion for regional representation, so as the parent board for education, and then we as the Croatian Parliament returned to re-determination and to a new proposal for a decision to the ministry. That's what happened in some other cases, and this wouldn't be a precedent. In fact, it would be a precedent if we now voiced the opposite of the criteria set by this Croatian Parliament. When we passed the Law on the Scientific Activity of Higher Education, there was a reason why we just defined the composition of the National Council for Higher Education. My colleagues and colleagues, let me remind you that, in fact, the National Council for Higher Education is the highest expert body that cares about the development and quality of the entire system of higher education and in this sense has quite great powers. It is in its work independent of the ministry and directly responsible for its work for us, so to the Croatian Parliament and it does so once a year by submitting reports. From this task comes its composition, and it is really important, whatever it is that we think that representatives of all those are represented by the National Higher Education Council, so to speak, a group or all of those interested entities in the higher education system. This way, the proposed council can tell us, okay, then high schools and professional studies aren't so important or at least they're less important than the university system itself, which I hope is not true and dada, all those strategic documents that we've been making and all those government decisions on the establishment of a university and high schools speak exactly the opposite. So, we will eventually set up universities and higher schools, and then we will not put these same representatives in the highest professional body in the country that has development to do, and among other things, this sector. Therefore, in conclusion, we will, for these formal reasons, be against this decision. And I repeat, not because of the very composition of the proposed Higher Education Council, because there are really several good candidates, but here in the Croatian Assembly, we cannot call for legality, respect for the law, to appeal to all other citizens and in all other areas, and then here to violate the law and the law that we ourselves have voted against. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-18-0.u27666	Thank you. No more reports. Does the proposaler's representative want to take an extra word? No, I don't. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met. Now we'll interrupt the morning session. We will continue at 3:00 with the 10th point of the proposal for a decision on the participation of members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia in the United Nations Peace Mission in the Central African Republic of Chad. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-18-0.u27667	Proposals for decisions on the resolution of the current president and part of the members and the appointment of a new president and part of members of the National Council for Higher Education. The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Ms. Lugaric's representative called. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-18-0.u27668	Your Honor, Mr. President, thank you. On behalf of the SDP Club, I would just like to say that in the debate, we warned that this proposal was set up contrary to the Law on Science and Higher Education and that, in the meantime, here 15 minutes ago, it arrived at your office to change that argument of the Government and that the government in some way, i.e. the Ministry corrected that illegality, I would like to say that the SDP club will vote for this decision, so contrary to what we said in the first debate. But also on the basis of this case, we would like to warn the representatives of both the ministries of this and of all others and the Government that they are coming to the Croatian Parliament in the future with proposals in accordance with the law.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-18-0.u27669	Thank you very much. The debate is closed. I am voting on the motion for a resolution to the current president and part of the members of the National Council. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? The motion for a resolution was accepted by most votes, 110 votes and 4 abstentions. I am voting in favour of the proposal for a decision on the resolution of the President-in-Office and part of the members and the appointment of a new president and part of the members of the National Council for Higher Education. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? I find that the appointment decision has been made by majority of votes, 105 votes for and 2 abstentions, as proposed in the decision.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-18-0.u27670	We're continuing with point 10. - Proposal for a decision on the participation of members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia in the United Nations Peace Mission in the Central African Republic and Chad (MINURCAT) The Government proposed this decision on the basis of Articles 4 and 5. Law on the participation of members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia, police, civil protection, as well as civil servants and deputies in peace operations and other activities abroad. You've received the motion for an act in your boxes. The debate was conducted by the Defence Committee, the Legislative Committee. You've also received reports from the board. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? Yeah. Mr. Secretary of State. Here you go, secretary.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-18-0.u27671	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. You know that the decision of the Croatian Parliament of July last year approved the participation of members of our Armed Forces in the European Union Peace Operation in Chad and Central Africa and in accordance with which our contingent of 15 members was sent in October last year for a period of 6 months. This Decision of the Croatian Parliament proposes that members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia who therefore participate in the European Union peacekeeping operation in Chad and the Central African Republic after the end of the peacekeeping operation on 15 March 2009, continue to participate in the United Nations Peace Mission in the Central African Republic and Chad MINURCAT by April 2009, as stated in section 2 of the decision in question since their replacement would then take place and a new contingent of 15 members of the Armed Forces in the UN's now peacekeeping mission will be deployed within 6 months. Honorable MPs and MPs allow me a brief chronology of the United Nations' activities in the recovery primarily of the humanitarian crisis in Sudan and its overruns to neighbouring countries. The UN peacekeeping mission in the Central African Republic and Chad has been established by the United Nations Security Council resolution since September 2007, and it would say military civilian character with police and smaller military forces that have primarily the task of selecting and training Chadian police officers to oversee and protect and promote human rights. However, the United Nations Security Council resolution of 24 October 2008, in order to create security conditions for a voluntary, secure and uninterrupted return of exiles and displaced persons, is approved for the deployment of a more powerful UN military component to replace the European Union Peace Operation in Chad and the Central African Republic whose mandate otherwise ends on 15 March this year, and the tasks of the European Union were precisely the protection of the population, particularly refugees and refugees, facilitating the delivery of humanitarian aid and ensuring the free movement of humanitarian personnel, so the protection of UN personnel, infrastructure, installation and equipment. The Security Council Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon's report of 4 December 2008 reviewed the current efforts to ensure the support of potential military and police personnel providers for the initial concept of the MINURCAT Peace Mission as well as the proposal for the size and structure of the UN military component of the mission in the Central African Republic and Chad. The Secretary-General noted that it is crucial to ensure that no security vacuum is created when the European Union forces are withdrawn in March 2009, and called on the UN member states, especially those already participating in the European Union's force to support the UN Peace Mission. In January of this year, the United Nations Security Council adopted a resolution extending the mandate of the UN peacekeeping mission in the Central African Republic and Chad by a year or 15 March 2010. According to that resolution, the planned number of peacekeeping forces of the United Nations are up to 5 000 and 200 soldiers deployed in Chad and the Central African Republic, and the operational activities of the peacekeeping forces would be more or less the same as those of the European Union, which means primarily aimed at creating a security environment for the voluntary, safe and lasting return of exiles and refugees, protecting the civilian population, and providing assistance to humanitarian activities in the areas of Chad and the North African Republic with a view to creating conditions for reconstruction, economic and social development. The United Nations peacekeeping mission department called on the Republic of Croatia to continue participating in a UN-led peacekeeping mission. Dear MPs and advocates in connection with the said and since they are primarily part of the humanitarian mission with major and catastrophic humanitarian problems, and in view of further contribution to the international community to the creation of security conditions for the return of exiles and displaced persons, and to assist the humanitarian activities of the United Nations in the areas of the Eastern Chad and the Central African Republic, we propose that the Croatian Parliament make a decision to enable the participation of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia troops with a total of up to 15 members of the United States for up to 6 months, therefore in a single rotation in the United Nations Peace Mission with a mandate that does not change in relation to the current mandate. So as you can see from the attached. The decision consists of two points. One is what I said. Therefore, continuing, a six-month reference to the United Nations Peace Mission in point one. And in point 2, an extension of the mandate, an existing rotation by April to overcome this security vacuum that can be achieved by withdrawing the European Union's forces before taking over from this mission by the UN forces. So, hopefully, I would have had so much to do with this decision of the Croatian Parliament. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-18-0.u27672	Thank you very much. Whether or not the rapporteurs want to take a word on behalf of the board. Mr. Shrem, go ahead. Defense committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-18-0.u27673	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. The Committee for Defence of the Croatian Parliament at the 13th session held today on 18 February discussed the proposal for a decision here. On the basis of Article 64a of the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, the Committee discussed the act in question as a parent working body. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia also held the previous opinion of the President of the Republic and the Supreme Commander of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia on the proposal for a decision. The applicant's representative in the opening statement pointed out that the Republic of Croatia currently has 133 members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia in 15 peacekeeping missions and 276 members in the peacekeeping mission in Afghanistan. Furthermore, the proposer stressed that the decision of the Croatian Parliament of 15 July 2008 approved the participation of members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia in the European Union peace operation in Chad and Central Africa, and that 15 members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia were sent to the Council in October 2008 for a period of 6 months. The United Nations Peace Operation Department has called on the Republic of Croatia to continue participating in a peacekeeping mission under the command of the United Nations. In order to further contribute to the international community to create security conditions for the safe return of exiles and displaced persons, and to assist humanitarian activities, in the areas of the eastern Chad and the northeast part of the Central African Republic, the proposing representative proposed that a decision be taken to refer 15 members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia to a six-month peacekeeping mission. And members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia would continue to participate in the same operation by April 2009 after the end of the peacekeeping mission. Following the opening presentation of the proposing representatives, the debate highlighted that members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia who are in the peace mission have been vaccinated against diseases that are characteristic of this area, and that in the event of the need for the extraction of our forces from the peace mission, there is an evacuation plan both by air and land. In further discussion, the possibility of withdrawing members of Poland from the mission was pointed out, in which case our forces would be integrated with the forces of other countries that are similar to our direction and it was also pointed to the devaluation of acts, namely that the soldier commands a tenth and which is not in line with the standards of other countries whose forces are also involved in peacekeeping missions. Following the discussion, the Committee unanimously proposed to the Croatian Parliament a decision on the participation of members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia in the United Nations peacekeeping mission in the Central African Republic and Chad. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-18-0.u27674	Thank you very much, colleague Sprem. On behalf of the Legislative Committee, does Tomljanovic want to take the floor? No, I don't. We're going to a club debate. On behalf of the IDS Representatives Club, distinguished colleague Damir Cain. He's gone. Then we'll finish his discussion. On behalf of the SDP Representatives Club, colleague Boris Šprem.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-18-0.u27675	Well, I didn't say everything because it's the board's report and this is now going to be SDP's position. Dear Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. It has been seven months since the decision to take part in the participation of members of the Croatian Armed Forces on the EU's peace operation in Chad and the Central African Republic. This is what this Croatian Parliament has decided on. 15. Seven. This is therefore the first time that the forces, the Armed Forces, participated in an operation under the organisation and patronage of the European Union. I would like to note that the debate when this decision that was essential was designed to really send our forces to Chad to the Central African Republic was undetectable, therefore, I note that it was undetectable. But I notice it's 30. 1st, therefore, at this session that is still going on, when a single act is being discussed that actually ratifys the international treaty between the Republic of Croatia and the European Union on the same issue, and our forces have already been there for more than 3 months, there has been a vivid debate in this Croatian Assembly on the same issue. But I'm saying, technically, one case of the same question. This means that in the few months since the debate in the summer, until the debate, something happened in January, a lot of things happened in the world, and a lot of things happened with us. So it's my conclusion, we're feeling increased responsibility and we're being represented in terms of thinking and thinking on the basis of information we're going to act in relation to the proposal that we get from the government, which the President of the Republic gave a positive opinion on. Every time we decide on the state of our forces abroad, we do it with one risk but also responsibility. And it was before the debate that these forces that are now going to Chad and which are already in Chad were increased risk. And we also said why not to repeat now, which for health reasons, which is because of the situation on the ground. And the situation in Chad is not good because the conflict is intensified. The International Criminal Tribunal for War Crimes in The Hague is due to decide these days on the responsibility of the Sudanese President... a war crime. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It is estimated if, since Chad's president is in neighbouring Sudan, the decision is condemned to launch opponents of Chad's president. And in the opinion and assessment of not a small number of analysts, it is estimated that the war is inevitable. With hundreds of thousands of refugees in the area of responsibility in which Croatian forces work, the situation is even more complicated. It is therefore good for this Croatian Parliament to make such and similar decisions at all times and with greater intensity. What the SDP Club proposes to ensure is as good as possible for decision-making in these and other situations, it is the first to have objective and timely information available. I have to note that often the information that I and as chairman of the Committee are more relevant to the ones I read in the paper than the ones I read in the material relating to such a proposal for a decision. So I would immediately tell the Ministry of Defence or his representative here that it would be good for them to at least be the chairman of the board, I don't know if anyone else is interested, the chairman of the Defence Committee to be available, not that he is informed, like all MPs who deal with other issues and situations like this and these challenges. Because we need information about all circumstances, military, political, economic and humanitarian in a country. We need information that is in the background of a particular decision or a proposal for a decision which, in order to be seen from this proposal, is the interests of large forces, whether, as is the case here, one African country or two, the interests of the fight for energy and the fight for raw materials. And whether or not colonial interests still manifest in the modern world are prevailing in this case too. And if I may say it's very important that our citizens know about peace operations and how much they know. Last time he was here, I said January 30th, speaking from some colleagues about how very few citizens know, and that's a fact. Because there's only information that 15 of our members of the Armed Forces are going to Chad, and that's where the information ends. But why are they going to Chad? Why today? How long will that take? What difficulties can our members of the Armed Forces face? There's no information about that in public. Civil power corresponds to citizens, and military power corresponds to civil authorities, in a broader sense to citizens. We have one survey conducted last year that as far as civil and military relations are concerned, 70% of respondents think the relationship is good. However, as for the issue of how citizens influence military authorities, 52% believe that there is such an impact. That's the data I've just brought out here to take care of these facts. And secondly, what the SDP Club proposes is that decision-makers take into account the criteria for making those decisions in the future. Are we in a situation, such as some member states and NATO, that we choose the very actions that we will go to internationally or are we in a situation that we are not in this situation? That's mildly expressed. For example, in this case Africa and Chad and the Central African Republic are not the same as Afghanistan. These are two different situations, and we know that Afghanistan is not a good situation. So it can't be a criterion equal to Chad and equal to Afghanistan. Many countries where peace missions are sent, not just by us, have puppet governments. It probably affects the same way of thinking and who is behind all these governments and with what interests and why our soldier would possibly act there with what risk and with which responsibility we are. By the way, I'd like to inform you that a month-and-a-half ago, the Defence Ministry was in charge of a full analysis of the implementation of the peace operations of the Republic of Croatia abroad, which was accepted by the Ministry of Defence. So I don't suggest it as well as a club of MPs as a conclusion of the Parliament, and when we get that analysis, hopefully we'll get it soon, then we'll hopefully talk about these two issues, but not just about how we can improve our relationship to even better decisions in the state of our peacekeeping forces abroad. Therefore, the SDP club will vote in favour of the proposal for this decision, but note that more attention is paid to the conditions and circumstances where and when the Republic of Croatia will participate in peace operations abroad. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-18-0.u27676	Thank you very much, Comrade Shrem. It's on behalf of the HSS club colleague Stanko Grcic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-18-0.u27677	Dear Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable Secretary of State, colleagues and fellow MPs. At the beginning of our debate, we from the Croatian Peasant Party Club congratulate our members of the Armed Forces, who are in this peace mission under the coordination and command of the European Union, on the successful and professional tasks assigned to them, which contributed greatly to the reputation of the Republic of Croatia on the international agenda. We must conclude that we are actively, with our 424 members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia in 13 peacekeeping missions and operations, contributing to world peace and security, and that our contribution is multiplely greater than some members, permanent members of the European Union, as well as permanent members of NATO alliances. It is evident that we are ready to sacrifice ourselves for general goals, for the achievement of entrusted tasks and objectives, and we are not sure that our contribution is adequately valorised by the International Community. We are trying to get together as responsible members of the International Community and ready to take over the burdens of general security, and in return we need to get a place that the Republic of Croatia belongs to. This mission was established by United Nations Security Council Resolution 25 July 2007, consisting of police officers and liaison officers as well as other civilian personnel. Action is focused on the safe and sustainable return of refugees and exiles, protection of civilians, and the provision of assistance and humanitarian activities in this area, all in order to restore and economic development. The part of the text explaining the reasons and objectives of the decision-making process shall include the following evaluations of the mission. In terms of health threats, the mission is a high health risk, and in terms of safety, the mission is at an increased risk. In this regard, we hope that the Government of the Republic of Croatia has done everything with international partners to respond to the most possible black scenario, and is ready to act in a haste and proper manner in cases of the need to extract our members, possible hostage crises, severe illnesses, wounding or not giving God the death of members not only in this mission but also in any mission, and therefore we think about the procedure on the ground within the mission, the procedure in the country relating to the notification of government officials, the families of our members and the public, and the coordination of activities with international partners on these issues, as well as everything else related to this kind of possible extraction. It may also be an opportunity to analyse our contribution more seriously than other full-fledged members of individual alliances, it is an opportunity to learn from our current actions and engagements, in our previous missions, since we belong to the very top of the countries participating in peacekeeping missions and the 13-mission number tells us about our dispersion in a large number of peacekeeping missions in which we participate with a largely small number of our members. So in this case, 15 members are seen being joined by some other forces from other countries. And that is why we have also mentioned these withdrawal measures, and that is why we need to prepare in due time because we see that we do not depend on ourselves. We would like to point out that larger units with which we could participate on the ground could actually maintain ourselves in certain operations and certain activities and should not be joined in the formation of larger units of other countries. Perhaps we should participate with larger troops in a smaller number of missions and, in my view, we should ensure greater security for our members and I believe we will have greater effects on the international political and security scene. We are confident that our members of the Armed Forces will now contribute to the safe and uninterrupted return of exiles and peace in this area and I believe that they will successfully and qualitatively achieve the objectives set and thus contribute to peace and security. Therefore, the HSS Club supports the proposal for a decision on the participation of members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia in this peacekeeping mission. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-18-0.u27678	Thank you very much, colleague. It is on behalf of the Croatian Democratic Community club, distinguished counterpart Berislav Roncevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-18-0.u27679	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Allow a few words about the proposal for this decision on behalf of the Croatian Democratic Community club, and I will initially point out that the Croatian Democratic Community will support this decision. This is a peace mission involving members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia and about it, circumstances, conditions and everything that follows the preparation of such a decision and proposal was held in this House, as counterpart Šprem said during the month of July, and also recently in late January when we discussed an international contract accompanying the mission in which Croatian soldiers participated, in the format so conditionally in the format of the European Union. Planned somewhere from the third month then will turn into a UN peacekeeping mission. Of course, participation of members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia, and in addition to that of the Croatian police, Croatian diplomats in international peacekeeping missions should be supported because the Croatian Democratic Union values and this House has repeatedly highlighted the price and role of members of peacekeeping missions, participants of other armed forces in the territory of the Republic of Croatia at times when we needed this international assistance. Thank God Croatian sustainability, its sustainability has internationally confirmed its international legal status and is now in a position to contribute as one responsible member of the International Community to the establishment of peace, tolerance and quality democratic, interpersonal relations and in other parts of the world. Of course there is no peace mission where there is no risk. If a peace mission is without risk, it means that relations are such that no one on the side needs to help resolve some relationships, social relations that are disturbed, and here there is no peace mission in this House where there is at least a certain level of risk. We cannot rule out risk and must assume our share of responsibility as responsible members of this House. However, what is most important, and this is the Croatian Government and this ministry that is proposing this decision, which according to its functional competence, is also responsible for another important component, which is to prepare soldiers for participation in such demanding tasks, non-combating tasks, to equip them for their quality participation but at all times no one can ever guarantee that something unwanted will happen, but it is part of a military call. It's part of their professional challenge, and that's what the soldiers themselves have said more than once, that's what we knew when we accepted this noble invitation. A few words about the relations and contribution of the Republic of Croatia to international peace missions. Croatia contributes adequately to its capabilities. We have clearly demonstrated and assessed our capabilities in terms of building a defence system, achieving the level of professionalism and adopting the required standards in a document adopted by this House in 2005 in July, this is a long-term plan for the development of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia, in which we have made it clear and loud when Croatia will be able to reach the level of capabilities, when it will be able to be compatible with the capabilities currently held by members of the NATO Armed Forces of the countries and when and how much it will cost us. Therefore, this participation and this proposal for a decision proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia through the Resort Ministry absolutely coincides with the demonstrated and declared abilities, Croatia does not take on certain obligations for which Croatian soldiers do not have the capacity, does not assume obligations to carry out certain tasks in which Croatian soldiers are not sufficiently equipped and, in our opinion, from the Croatian Democratic Community, it is just the most important thing. Croatia never, I can say at least in the term of this government, was probably so, never driven by any motive that with any inappropriate or premature participation, we do not like anyone, that on the basis of these criteria someone does not assess our ability, our current reach, Croatia has always taken on the obligations of members of the Armed Forces to participate in peacekeeping missions in accordance with the achieved level of capacity of members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia and that is to be welcomed. Of course, Croatian soldiers who participate in the peace mission and who have passed several rotations of the peace mission from the African continent to the most demanding, is the ISAF mission in Afghanistan, which is an additional quality at the level of reaching their personal professional capacity, their knowledge is also used in the unit when returning to tasks in the Armed Forces task force in the field of the Republic of Croatia and of course that this decision should be supported. Therefore, this is a decision that continues the continuity of Croatia's consistency, a decision that continues the continuity of Croatia's drive to be an international factor and to provide peace beyond the borders of the Republic of Croatia and therefore will support the Croatian Democratic Community's decision-making club.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-18-0.u27680	Thank you very much. There are no further applications. The proposer says everything is said in the introduction, therefore there is no need for a final address. That's why I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-18-0.u27681	12., Proposal for a Decision on the participation of members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia in the United Nations Peace Mission in the Central African Republic and Chad (MINURCAT). The debate is closed. I would point out that the decision requires a two-thirds majority of all MPs, i.e. 102 on the basis of Article 227. I shall give the Rules of Procedure, in accordance with the proposal from the parliamentary working bodies, to the vote of the Proposal for a decision on the participation of members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia in the Peace Mission of the United Nations in the Central African Republic and Chad (MINURCAT). So 102 votes are necessary. Let's please get involved and vote on the motion for this decision. The result? This decision was reached unanimously with 117 votes.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-18-0.u27682	And now we move to point 11, that's the - Bill on civil servants' salaries, first reading, P.Z.E. No. 244 The bill is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You received the proposal by mail. When setting the agenda, the Government has given up an emergency procedure and this legislative proposal will be discussed in accordance with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Lawmaking, the Committee on European Integration, the Committee on Labour and Social Partnership, the Committee on Defence, the Committee on Gender Equality, the Committee on Justice, the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities and the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system. We've received logs of the report from all committee sessions. Does the proposaler's representative want to further explain the draft law? He does. Mr. Antun Palaric, State Secretary at the Central State Administration Office. Here you go, secretary.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-18-0.u27683	Dear Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, the honourable ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. The reform of the state administration is a continuous process that all governments of the former, present and future governments must deal with with with with with greater and lower intensity in order for the state administration to constantly respond to the demands of time, the demands of a life that is rapidly changing. The Government of the Republic of Croatia, in addition to the continued implementation of the reform, also has the obligation to adapt Croatia's state administration to European standards in order to apply in this part of the standards aimed at stimulating, retaining civil servants in the state service and attracting quality personnel in order to enable the state to provide its citizens with a quality service in the exercise of public authority. The law on salaries of civil servants, which is now referred to in the ordinary procedure, aims to enable the progress of civil servants in accordance with their results, in accordance with their work, in accordance with their achievements and to enable them to advance through lifelong learning, through lifelong training, by moving through paid classes, so as to allow school preparation or degree of training to reach, but also for those who remain at a certain level of job position, to advance according to the results of work, so that they allow them to move through paid classes. We have 12 planned payment classes and 12 paid degrees, and the trend per pay grade depends on the efficiency of work and work grade. So, the best civil servants who, by nature, things won't be a large number, but they can advance each year for one pay grade, that's about 3% in salary, if the score is outstanding. State officials who are rated excellently, are promoted if twice in a row they are rated excellently, every other year for these approximately 3% in wages. A civil servant who stays every five years is promoted if he is at least four times rated as good or higher. For those civil servants who are not even good, so those who are, and we can call them, who are bad, we did not foresee promotion, but we envisaged the possibility of sorting into a lower complex workplace according to the Law on Civil Servants and Landowners, which is already in force or retaining in the payment stage in which it is located. In addition to this regular promotion, on the basis of a working assessment, we open the space for certain categories of officials who are of particular interest to the state service to receive a salary allowance, and what is considered to be of particular interest to the state service and the height of the allowance would be determined by the Government regulation, namely a variable category, different elements can act on this. And as for work on projects related to the European Union, then these jobs will be a priority, and when that story is done, it may be about projects that are important for the development of the economy or projects in the management of foreign funds that would be regulated by the government regulation. We further overlook the award for exceptional results in the work, therefore, the individual prize in the maximum amount of up to 3000 kuna individually, it is possible that these prominent officials who achieve truly extraordinary results during the year, according to our proposal, receive more of these awards, but the total amount of fees paid cannot exceed two salaries. In order not to overcompensate, it all fits into the ability of the state budget, we predict that funds to pay the prize are limited to 0.1% of the mass of the salaries intended for that part. And therefore, it is for thee to expect that the reward shall indeed be given to those who deserve it. In fact, speaking of a total state administration, I must stress that everything that has been done so far will actually be crowned with two major projects, which is the Law on the salaries of civil servants and the Law on General Administrative Procedure, which will soon be held in the next session of the Assembly as a final proposal. This will speed up the administrative procedure, and it is not, we have not come to the end of the reform, because we have to work on perhaps the most sensitive part, we have to change the morals, we have to change the relationship of officers to citizens, we really need to instill everyone in the minds of civil servants that they are not there for themselves, but rather to get salaries here to serve citizens, to serve the economy, and therefore we will be able to use remuneration instruments through the Law of Salaries, through promotion, through evaluation but also through instruments of punishment, through reduction, by bringing them to a lower workplace, through sanctions through disciplinary official courts and through the work of the ethnic commission to make the state service more and better every day to achieve the goal of being a competitive state, more effective and to be polite, decent, decent and in the service of citizens. I ask the MPs to support the adoption of this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-18-0.u27684	Thank you very much. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? The Legislative Committee? No, I don't. The Committee on European Integration? No, I don't. The Committee on Labour and Social Partnership? Comrade Kunst, he's gone, and there he is, not answering, okay. The defense committee? A colleague of Smrem? No, I don't. The Committee on Gender Equality, colleague Sobol? Nothing. The Justice Committee, colleague Lovrin? Human rights committee and rights of national minorities, colleague Radin? He's not here. And the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system? So on behalf of the board, what we've received from the records is their obviouss. I'm opening a debate in clubs first. On behalf of the SDP club, dear colleague Stazic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-18-0.u27685	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. In 2003, the pre-election promise was less but more effective by the state administration. How did the promise come true? Like the rest of us, no. And a promise to cut VAT, no way. At the time of Prime Minister Racan's administration there were 19 ministries, there are 15 ministries in Sanader's government but 69 state secretaries. Three and a half times more than there were deputy ministers in Racan's government. Three and a half times. The number of ministries has been reduced but there are still 125 ministerial assistants. Or director of the administration just as many as there were. Along with 45 state bodies such as ministries, state offices, state institutions, Croatia has as many as 154 state agencies, institutions, institutes, funds and other institutions, and the government has established as much as 60 advisory committees, commissions, councils and committees. It all costs money. Each of these bodies has its own President, Director, Professional Service, Costs, Compensation to Members, the results of many of them are not particularly recognizable. So in the last 5 years, during the HDZ government, tens of state agencies, institutions, institutes and other institutions that took over jobs from the ministry's departments and hired a large number of people, while at the same time not reducing the number of ministry employees, leading to the emergence of the state apparatus. How much does it cost the citizens? In 2003, spending on government employees was 14 billion kunas. 2009 23 billion and 500 million. So the expenditures went up by nine billion kuna. It is a promise to reduce the state administration and make it more effective. What happened to the civil servants' salaries? In 2003, the average salary was the basis for the salary calculation of 4 thousand 232 kuna and 43 June. In 2009, this base is 5 thousand 415 kuna and 37 limes. The difference is a thousand 182 kunas and 94 limes. That's how much the basic salary for civil servants and pensioners has been increased in five years. So the pay base increase was 28%. So, even though the base grew by only 28% of total salary expenditure by as much as 67.7% and 7.5 billion kuna respectively. If only the base had increased, and not the number of employees, the increase in salary would have been 3 billion kunas and not 7.5 billion kunas. So 3.5 billion kuna is an unnecessary cost. That's the damage that Sanader's government has caused over the past five years. It's only the price of one of the unfulfilled promises of the state administration. The price is paid by citizens through taxes. Let's count it this way. If the number of employees in the state administration had not increased and those salaries were spent as much as spent, then the same 7.5 billion kuna would not have increased the salaries of civil servants by 28% over the past five years but 67%. Or in other words, then the base today would be not 5 thousand and 415 kuna but 7 thousand and 98 kuna. So the money's spent, it's obvious and it's not small. The wages didn't grow as much as they could for that same money. What happened to the promotion in the service of civil servants? They have and have, while the current law is in force, they have certain security. This security of progress guarantees them an increase of 0.5% per year of internship. So their salary is the basis negotiated by the unions with the government, plus 0.5% per year of internships for each employee. Now, this year that increase in base is 6% of what the unions have negotiated, but we have to say that it's not any increase. It's just covering the cost of living in 2008. It was collected as we know all about all citizens, so of course for civil servants and tenants, and food, and clothing, and shoes, and electricity, and gas, and credit wars, in one word of terror. No growth in real wages, no increase in the standard of living of citizens. That standard goes down for five years, five years. This year's better than it's gonna be next. Last year was better than a year before that and five years ago. Salaries are nominally rising, but they're actually falling. It's not just, it's not just for civil servants and tenants, it's worth it to all citizens. As far as it's going to be, no one knows, the government doesn't even know the moment it proposes this law. No one knows what the public service people are waiting for. Every day 400 layoffs, 400 people lose their jobs. And today, as this session of Parliament continues, 400 people have been fired. The prime minister does not want to take any advice, nor does the Economic Council itself, nor does the Economic Institute for whose assistance he has addressed, nor does the opposition, nor does the President of the Republic, he wants to listen to anyone and at the same time does nothing. In such conditions, all are written evil. What that life will look like no one knows. State officials and pensioners now have at least some guarantee. They have these 0.5% yearly guaranteed salary increases, and that means in the future at the end of the job and so much higher pension. It's a guarantee of their social security for tomorrow, the day after tomorrow, for three years, for seven years until they retire. Now it's proposed to end it. So, this only element of their social security government that has done everything in its power to destroy their standard and has not missed one step, no measure that this standard breaks to the lowest possible level is now proposing to them to take that 0.5%. And what does he offer in exchange? In exchange, he offers an evaluation. And who's going to evaluate? Bosses. And based on what criteria, you don't know that. That's not what the law says. This increase in the civil apparatus that came against the promise of voters that the apparatus would be reduced was made so that it was brought to the state administration by party key, by traditional connections, by family ties, by friendship. And now those who have entered into the clerk's apparatus will evaluate those who are in that apparatus and who will enter it. And what's he going to evaluate them for? According to whether they have a HDZ card, they will receive the rating in particular, and if it does not, they will receive a negative rating, so it will be transferred to a lower pay grade, and his salary will be reduced. And this is offered to these civil servants and tenants as a solution. It's totally unacceptable. So, you start paying classes, put them in paid classes any way you want, we don't mind, but 0.5% per year of internships don't touch them, because the 0.5 protects them from your will, from your discretionary assessment of whether you're going to evaluate a clerk one way or another because you like him or not, because he belongs or doesn't belong to your party option. There are no criteria here. When Minister Simonovic rebelled the other day against the way the judges are called, he announced at the State Judiciary Council, then announced objective criteria. That's something we say hello to. He offers objective criteria, not that the State Judiciary Council appoints wives, friends or who knows who or who has a good genetic predisposition, and those without such a genetic predisposition rejects. Minister Shimonovic said it would stop and introduce an objective criterion. I welcome that. In this law, not that there are no objective criteria, but there are no criteria. He practically proposes introducing self-will and full arbitration similar to that of the state administration. The SDP will support any change in the law that goes in favour of civil servants and tenants who go to repeat their standards, that their salaries are increased and that their security is guaranteed, but this bill is not. If the proposer gives up on dropping 0.5% of the bill if that remains in the law, then the SDP can talk about supporting such a bill. Without that, we consider this an attack on civil servants and officials and attempt to blackmail them, so if you want to be a party member. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-18-0.u27686	Thank you very much. We have a number of reports of corrections to the quote. First came the honorary colleague Neda Klaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-18-0.u27687	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Here in all, they are not incorrect allegations of a representative of the Stazic I will correct four. It collected almost everything over the last year. Mr. Stazic incorrectly. It is precisely because here we can testify that even at local level they did not collect utility services, that is, our citizens did not suffer higher prices for municipal services. We are equally familiar with the Croatian public what all countries have done to protect consumers from raising electricity prices. Another incorrect allegation also, for 5 years, the system collapses in the next word of terror and the fourth prime minister does not want to listen to anyone and bend anyone. That's not true. It is precisely because the Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia holds a monthly consultation meeting with all representatives of consumer associations, associations of cities and municipalities through representatives of the unions in order to protect citizens' standards. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-18-0.u27688	Thank you very much. Further, a respected colleague, Berislav Roncevic, appeared to correct the allegations. Here you go, buddy Roncevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-18-0.u27689	... I'll fix only two. [[The speaker is not enabled.]] Mr. Stazic has been focusing on money for the last few days, on millions, but he's kind of forgetting things. Mr. Stazic on this increase in the mass of resources of civil servants is a large part of the payment of claims and deals for violation of the collective contract during the term of office of your authority. It's registered in business years of payoffs. Therefore, much of the money lies in it. You can nod all you want, but you're wrong. And another false allegation, it didn't increase the clerk's apparatus as you say, whatever that word meant to you. He was just adjusting. In the Ministry of Defence, the number of civil servants and subsistences decreased because of such needs. It has increased in those parts where the approximation of Croatian legislation to the acquis of the European Union, it was necessary to establish new bodies. Therefore, we have been defined for this, and we cannot now accept this EU legislation in one part, and when certain obligations arise, then we do not like it.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-18-0.u27690	Thank you. A colleague, Bagaric, also reported to correct the allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-18-0.u27691	Dear Mr. Vice President. I daren't correct the artistic impression of my fellow Stazic because he was impeccable. I'm estimating it with great, and the piece that's done here is every grade. However, one syntagm which he has spoken and which is actually likely... his exposure is to no one the Sanader Prime Minister wants to listen to, nor what he's doing. So it's a completely incorrect finding. Mr. Prime Minister with the Government and with all relevant institutions in the Republic of Croatia is doing everything to actually stabilise the system which is the way it is, and in part, the good work is mostly due to the general movement of the financial world movement. However, it is impossible to listen to, hear and adopt something that is neither well-intentioned nor concrete. From your debate that you brought here, it was absolutely unacceptable anything, no matter how good your intention was...
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-18-0.u27692	You need to correct the quote, and then there's a fellow Stazic and an individual debate, and then the replicas and so there'll be an opportunity to put it all together and everyone will say theirs. But he had the next application to correct the alleged, distinguished colleague Marija Buric Pejcinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-18-0.u27693	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Here, I'm going to correct just one incorrect allegation that I have to admit to myself as the person who was the head of state's administration is extremely insulting, and insults thousands of others who were or were. So, counterpart Stazic said that if he is not a HDZ member he will receive a negative assessment. Please, nice fellow Stazic, there is an evaluation now, there has always been and there will be one under this new law, and believe that the people I know have never evaluated according to that criterion. So that criterion you called is very... Very, very questionable. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] He may have been worth it sometimes when someone else was evaluating, perhaps, but surely in this government led by Prime Minister Sanader it's not a criterion and please don't insult those who evaluate civil servants. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-18-0.u27694	Thank you. We have further reports of correction of the quote. Dear colleague Ivanka Roksandić. Here you go, pal.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-18-0.u27695	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So I will refer to my colleague, Pejcinović Buric, who pointed out exactly what my colleague Stazić said and what is incorrect is that this law will allow all possible officials who are set up by a family relationship, a friendly relationship to evaluate other people. The grades were there. I was the head of a single governing body at a local level and I was estimating people and never and never by any criteria, primarily by party. And it was good for you to pass it on to your colleagues in your local party because it's just happening that your mayor in Sisak-Moslavina County when she can't accept her relatives at the tender then hires her on an act contract. Well, as many employees as there are in the county on a regular basis, there are as many employees on the job contract...
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-18-0.u27696	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-18-0.u27697	Because they're not responding. So don't have double standards.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-18-0.u27698	Correction of the quote, colleague Franjo Lucic. But let's correct the allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-18-0.u27699	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Here's a quote, I won't go any further, because it would take me a lot more time than Mr. Stazic says that even government decisions, these are direct attacks on civil servants, that I don't know what lines to hire. And I would just like to give you an example of Požega-Slavon County and your colleague sitting next to you, Mr. Ronk, who is just doing everything you've been saying. But, well, he's gone, of course he's never in the Parliament, that's your problem, so criticize him. So sweep the trash at your doorstep first, but don't switch it to HDZ. We have an obvious example in Požega-Slavon County where he does everything you say. So, according to what you're talking about and you've been fooling the public for days, you're going out on stage...
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-18-0.u27700	Agent...
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-18-0.u27701	And you're making a play.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-18-0.u27702	Agent, the allegations need to be corrected. We had to see one plate of damage to the Rules of Procedure. Comrade Maras, it's your turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-18-0.u27703	No, no, I don't want to defend my fellow Stazic, I want to defend my work in this higher house and that's what they're doing in principle. Please, Mr. Vice President, Article 209 has been injured. Following the correction in both cases, examples were followed. I will rise every time as long as you or someone who presides does not sanction such behavior. What does it have to do with Mr. Stazic's exposure to the mayor or the mayor of Požega? Well, I don't think it has anything to do with that.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-18-0.u27704	My colleague Maras, in any case, I intervened immediately and I said let's start on the subject, correct the allegations, there is still time to report that everyone should report by 16.47 and that everyone should make their views known. And the correction of the quote was reported by a distinguished colleague, Susana Bilić Vardic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-18-0.u27705	Thank you very much, Your Honor, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Well, here's in a series of incorrect tendencies, but not unexpectedly incorrect allegations that my colleague Stazic made, I'm only going to correct one. I quote, "The government has done nothing for the standard of civil servants." Since she didn't do anything, here comes her colleague Roncevic in his correction. First of all, it has paid back all those debts that we have paid to court judgments thanks to the decisions of the former coalition government in your time to all the civil servants, increased all these years in certain percentages of the civil servants' salaries and, unlike you, who took off those same civil servants, first when you came to power, you immediately took off their salaries. And let's not remember the time past because during your government citizens lived better but that's all they were unaware of.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-18-0.u27706	Thank you. At first there was a correction to the quote, but this second part is already a replica. There's always time for that. Here we have exhausted all reports of correction of the quote. And now it follows on behalf of the Croatian Democratic Community Representatives Club, distinguished counterpart Boris Kunst. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-18-0.u27707	Honorable Vice President, Secretary of State, fellow MPs. I'll talk about the law so you don't hurt the Rules of Procedure if I don't talk about everything and everything. Therefore, since 1 January 2010, the new Law on State Employees' Payments will uniquely arrange the salaries of all civil servants, including the salaries of employees of the Ministry of Defence, employees of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia and salaries of employees of the Ministry of Interior. Now their salaries are regulated by special regulations separate from the salaries of other civil servants. As of next year, such practice should be done and the system of salaries of all civil servants should be uniformly regulated. I would like to remind you that the Government of the Republic of Croatia, in an agreement signed with the Union of State and local officials and subsistence officials at the end of November 2006, has made a commitment to the uniform way of regulating the salaries of all civil servants, and this law fulfils the obligation. According to a proposal for a new Law on the Payments of State Employees, civil servants will continue to be determined as a multiple of the coefficient and basics of what counterpart Stazic said, but without an extra for the work experience. In order to determine the coefficient each official will, at the beginning of the application of the law, be classified as 1 of the 12 payment classes for the new ones on the day of admission into the state service. Employees' jobs will be grouped into categories, categories in subcategories, and subcategories in several levels. Each of the 12 payment classes will have 12 paid degrees each, resulting in one matrix of 144 coefficients allocated in the range of 1 to 5.8. The lowest coefficient is 0.88 and the highest coefficient is 5.11. This will increase the current wage range of civil servants, which is one of the objectives of the pay system reform. During the period of service, the official will be promoted to a higher coefficient within the same pay grade, or promoted to a higher pay grade according to the criteria of his work assessment, labour efficiency and higher education. Payment classes are not new to the civil servants' pay system. By 2001, Croatia's salaries were also determined on the basis of a ranking in the pay grade. But the promotion in the higher pay grade was determined on the basis of a job internship so that the official every 5 years moved to the higher pay grade until he reached the highest pay grade of his job. The novelty is a criterion on the basis of which a civil servant will be transferred to a higher pay grade and exercise the right to an increased salary. In the new law, it comes from evaluations that should respect the quality and quantity of the work of officials, its expertise and ability to relate to work. How are the salaries of civil servants regulated? So now it is paid, the salaries of civil servants and civil servants are determined under the 2001 Law on civil servants and tenants whose provisions have ceased to apply except for the provisions governing salaries. Although the new Law on civil servants has not been applied since 1 January 2006, the salaries of civil servants have not been regulated but the transitional provisions regulate that, until the adoption of a special Law on the salaries of civil servants, wages are determined on the basis of the earlier Law on civil servants and tenants. Otherwise, the salaries of employees of state authorities are now determined on the basis of the coefficients prescribed by the Regulation on job names and the coefficients of the complexity of public service transactions and on the basis of the Regulation on jobs and special working conditions. According to these rules, the salaries of civil servants are determined as a multiplier of the complexity of jobs on which the official is assigned and the basics for the calculation of the salary increased for a work internship of 0.5% for each year of work. Officials working at jobs with special working conditions, customs inspectors, judicial police and others have the right to a special 20 per cent allowance while all officials have the right to add to the difficult working conditions paid for hours of work carried out under these difficult conditions. For example for night work, work on Saturdays, work on Sundays, overtime etc. which is also prescribed by the collective contract for civil servants and seconded colleagues of Stazić. The good side of the new way, the good side remember this good side of the new way of determining the salaries of civil servants compared to the current way of editing their salaries are: First, now the wages are determined on the basis of the coefficients that for each state official's place of work are determined by law or regulation. Under the new law, classes are determined, a total of 12 classes, and in each national body and service in a specific implementing regulation, the classification of payment-class officials is carried out to enable the respect of the specificities and complexity of transactions carried out in a particular state service compared to another. Second, there are increased wage ranges between high-level and high-level officials, which will enable the promotion of high-level educational experts to remain in the service of the state. For a number of years, we have witnessed the problem of leaving the state service by the most capable experts. For the application of the new model of civil servants' salaries, additional resources should be provided in the state budget, which is planned to be provided in the 2010 budget and in the coming years clearly. Additional funds are needed precisely because of the fact that the new law relatively raises the salaries of high-skilled officials. Already, this fact suggests that a new way of regulating wages provides the possibility of achieving the objective of a capable, professional and efficient state administration. What remains the same and further will be the basis for determining the salaries of civil servants through negotiations between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and authorised trade unions representing the interests of civil servants, which also allows trade unions to participate in the creation of wage policy. Second and further, the right and possibility to conclude collective agreements that regulate certain monetary rights of civil servants remains. The collective agreements may determine the competences and powers of the trade unions or, better still, the joint bodies, the Contracting Parties that would monitor the assessment system or propose changes to that system. Where there will be possible objections some of them have already been said by fellow Stazic. The job internship is leaving as a criterion for automatic salary increases, as it did not allow for the respect of labour skills, expertise and attitude towards performing public service jobs. However, a multi-student official will be in a position to be evaluated by an evaluation that allows him to move to a higher pay grade because of his acquired work experience. There's a danger the evaluation won't be objective. I agree here. There is such a danger that it will also be based on nepotism, private or party ties, and that it will not be objective. There are also objections that officials who for justified reasons do not work for a long time will be denied because they will not be able to be evaluated. For example, parental leave for three years, etc. They will have to be cared for by officials who are in the hierarchy above who evaluates a certain group of civil servants. In addition, it will be necessary to develop evaluation models in the period until the law is applied. I fully agree there that a model of evaluation, training and control of the assessor should be established in order to avoid these doubts that have already been expressed by fellow Stazic today. In order to avoid unwanted abuses by the heads of the national authorities assessing officials. But because of everything that's positive here, and I believe that we have enough time until the beginning of 2010 and that part to edit. So this evaluation and evaluation system. The Croatian Democratic Community club supports the proposed law and proposes to the Croatian Assembly for adoption. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-18-0.u27708	Thank you very much. We have one application for correction of the alleged, distinguished colleague Nenad Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-18-0.u27709	It is said that the law, that the bill is good and with these shortcomings over unknown criteria, that these shortcomings will be resolved in the period until the law is applied. It's a contradiction and inaccuracy. Because be careful, if you're going to solve something in the period until the law is passed, then you're going to make us adopt something that we don't know what it's going to look like. And that is the basic objection of the SDP, and that is why we argue that the law is not good in this form. The law without the assessment criteria is not the law. This is the legalization of the self-will of senior officials over the lower ones. It's a correction, it's a correction.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-18-0.u27710	Next, on behalf of the ISD Club, the esteemed colleague, Damir Cain, doesn't see him, means he's losing his right to debate. On behalf of the HNS Club, colleague Željko Vincelj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-18-0.u27711	Dear Vice President, representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues. The assessment of civil servants as the basis for the increase in wages is carried out by the existing State Officials Act of 2005, i.e. the 2006 Regulation, although in principle the intention of the law is good, which is to tie the salary level of civil servants to the results of the work. The result of the work, especially as defined today, does not represent an objective assessment of the work of civil servants but depends greatly on the subjective assessment of the superior. This encourages the promotion of similar officials. In practice, if the officer is not satisfied with the assessment, he complains to the Committee on State Services whose procedures can be very long-term and during which, of course, the official does not belong to the right to raise wages. According to this new bill within one pay grade of 12 of them, a gradual increase in wages through 12 pay degrees is possible. This increase until the 12 payment rates are reached can be achieved with 11 consecutive years rated the best rating. The aim of the proposal is to replace the system of evaluation and remuneration through payments levels for past work, i.e. 0.5% salary increase per year of internships as one of the measures to reward time spent in the state service. We believe that the compensation for the past work should not be abolished, i.e. that the criteria of working experience must also be adequately evaluated when promoting civil servants to a higher level of payment. The law does not provide for treatment in case an official is not evaluated for a year, e.g. he has not worked for 6 months due to sickness, maternity leave or in case he goes abroad for longer education. In that case, he is obviously delayed by promoting salary for at least one year. We believe that in such cases it should be predicted that this year will not be counted in the scoreboard to avoid the unequal position of non-estimated officials for a given year. But, yes, and there are no exceptional situations that everything is ideal and that, for example, Director of State Administration in one county with cca. 150 employees have excellent employees and are willing to reward them with excellent grades and promote them to the next payment stage, they will not be able to do so because Article 18 of the law limits the means to promote the salaries of civil servants of up to 1% of the mass of the pay money. So, if the mass for gross wages, their 150 employees, his 150 employees 10 million kuna a year, the director will be able to receive an extra 100,000 kuna a year for the reward. If the promotion to the next payment rate is on average 3% of the salary, this means that with the remuneration limit to 1%, only one third of the employees will be awarded the highest rating and be promoted to the next payment rate. In the future, how much will the objectivity and subjectivity be intertwined in estimating similarity and incompatibility, family and friendly relationships are yet to be seen. The law also provides for the possibility of obtaining an allowance for certain types of business based on a specific government regulation. It would be important to take care here of the specific conditions that require jobs related to membership in the European Union, language knowledge, knowledge of the institution etc.. The law also provides for the possibility of obtaining a prize for the exceptional effect of a civil servant who, during the year, achieves exceptional results of importance for the work of a state body. However, the decision shall be made by the Head of State on a proposal from the Commission appointed by it. Of course, such a defined provision encourages rewarding the like because it is actually a discretionary decision. It would be important to ensure that the award committee is permanent, that its members are selected through a public tender from the ranks of civil servants of a particular body of the state administration and that a representative of the union of that body participates. And again, as with the award-winning multi-paying fund here, there is a limit of the available funds for prizes for exceptional effect to 0.1% of the mass of the salary funds. In our already mentioned example of a county with 10 million kuna annual salary fund for this type of prize will be able to pay 10 thousand kuna gross annually, which, given the next limit on the amount of an individual prize of 3 thousand kuna, would mean that they can be awarded 2 to 3 such prizes per year. But the legislator leaves the possibility that this award can be paid to the same person more times a year with the sum of the prizes paid in the year cannot be higher than his two monthly salary. The possibility that the Head of State Administration will award only one civil servant on the basis of its own discretionary assessment beyond any criteria richly and repeatedly during the year should not be a legal option. According to some simulations of new salaries of civil servants compared to the existing least satisfied could most employees, e.g. with a mid-level expert on the work of the referents or administrative secretaries. And in those with many years of salary internships will remain practically the same, but we mention all the losses in the 0.5% internship per year, and they will assume that they will not be promoted to new payments based on excellent wage estimates in folk years will fall realistically compared to the current state. The solution to such a situation in which the majority of civil servants will be is that in some ways the work experience in the public ministry is being evaluated. For example, by promoting one additional payment rate every three years regardless of the rating or by retaining 0.5% salary increase for each year of work. On the other hand, it will certainly be possible to meet the head of the department at the head office of the state administration, i.e. Chiefs who would pay with e.g. From the present 7 thousand kunas could grow to 11,000 kunas because their current coefficients are from 1.9 to 2.2. and will be from 3.28, to 4.35. Given the fact that commissioners often set themselves up according to, at the very least, strange criteria, it is clear why the largest salary increase is in this particular place. The law lacks a provision which and under what conditions determines the basis for the calculation of the basic salary, so we suggest that the base for the calculation of wages is determined by a collective contract. The law provides for the promotion of a civil servant for a single pay grade for each degree of education. We believe that in order to further stimulate the education of civil servants, promotion of 2 paid classes should be envisaged in order to obtain higher education. The award for further education is based on this bill much less than has been regulated by the collective agreement so far. According to the current system, 8% for the degree of the master's degree of science and 15% addition to the acquired doctorate, and now according to the proposal of the law cca 3% for each degree of education acquired. Therefore, the basic problems of the law are the abolition of an allowance of 0.5% of the salary increase for each year of the internship, the lack of evaluation of the criteria of working experience in promoting a higher pay rate, the absence of a provision which and under which conditions determines the basis for the calculation of the basic salary, the insufficiently resolved approach to the evaluation of further schooling of civil servants, the treatment of the year in which the official for some objective reasons is not assessed, and the need to prescribe objective and clear criteria, and the determination of the commission for the award of exceptional effect of civil servants. The biggest problem of the bill's proposal is the system of promoting civil servants solely on the basis of the discretionary assessment of the head of the state body or commission appointed by it. This does not encourage specialisation and professionalisation of the state administration, but rather promote similar and nepotism. Furthermore, the proposed coefficients do not further contribute to the professionalisation of the state administration as well as to attracting young and educated people to the state service. The highest wage increase is visible in the leadership of the chiefs who are placed in the ministries in different ways, without respecting objective criteria and according to political and other similarity. On the other hand, the increase in wages among real job holders in state administration bodies, advisers and senior advisers is negligible, while the salaries of the tenants, referents and administrative secretaries, especially those with many years of standing in relation to the current situation, and given the proposed suspension of the allowance for past work and fall, as many will not be promoted to a higher level of payment through the evaluation system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-18-0.u27712	Thank you very much. And on behalf of the HSS Club, distinguished colleague Stanko Grcic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-18-0.u27713	Dear Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and fellow MPs. At the beginning of our debate, we would like to say that by adopting this law, the Republic of Croatia will, in addition to further progress in meeting established criteria by the European Union, make a positive step in the area of harmonisation of wages in the civil service. Its adoption also aims to further formulate the state's determination to improve the overall area of the civil service pay system. Analyzing the proposed solutions, we feel that the bill is solid, but that there are still open issues, at least by public perception. We consider a good solution in the law to create normative assumptions for the establishment of a new pay system that wants to address the perceived shortcomings. For example, fixed wages, the inability to reward employees who achieve excellent results in work, the problem of low wages, high education staff who are just entering the state service. The introduction of a more transparent structure and methodology for the classification of jobs in the payment classes and the possibility of promotion for civil servants who show good results in the work. A system of salaries in the state service is also uniquely arranged, a more stimulating legal instrument for more attractive highly educated experts in the state service as well as other solutions. In further discussion, we would like to point to some open questions. Croatia is on its way to the European Union ahead of an extremely demanding process of its legislation, and one of the most important segments of this process is the harmonisation of the wage system in state services. Although the Civil Service Act was adopted in July 2005, the official system is not surrounded by the adoption of rules governing the salaries of civil servants. Unfortunately, the Republic of Croatia is one of the last countries in the region that has not adopted those regulations. However, this fact may not be bad in itself because on the other hand, Croatia has made it easier to take care of the negative experiences of transition and other European countries when proposing this system. It is known that a major role in the creation of a payment system proposal has budgetary opportunities, legal traditions, rights acquired, union scene and culture of compliance with regulations, the adoption of regulations is only the first step in establishing a system, and its assessment necessarily depends on some other elements in a certain period. The law provides for a civil servant who, over the year, achieves exceptional results of the importance for the work of the state body, can pay a reward of up to 3000 kuna which can be paid more than once a year, with the number of prizes in the year being no more than 2 months’ wages paid by a civil servant. The decision to pay the prize shall be made by the Head of the Authority on a proposal from the Commission appointed by that Head. In this respect, it is doubtful that the award criterion does not mention labour and efficiency assessments and whether the award for exceptional effect can also be given below the average estimated civil servant. It is also asked the amount of the prize that up to 30 thousand kuna per year may be paid by a management official of 15 thousand kuna. If it is known that a public official with an estimate is extraordinary after a year of salary can increase by 3%, then the amount of the increase based on the assessment is asked according to a possible increase based on the prize for exceptional effect. Moreover, the law does not provide for criteria by which one can be rewarded in this way, nor the obligation to publish publicly information on officials awarded for exceptional effect. It is doubtful whether the resulting law can also have the freezing of salaries on a ten-year-old staff who use maternity leave up to the year of their child’s life. Since officials or officials cannot assess themselves if they have worked for less than six months in the calendar year, regardless of the reasons for the officers who go to the care of pregnancy and use compulsory maternity leave up to a year of child's life starting in May of the current year and ending it in July of the following year, they will remain unrated and only in the year in which they started even in the year in which the maternity leave ended. Does this mean that such mothers officers in five years will be able to earn only three grades and will not be promoted in salary by 3% based on a good estimate because they need at least four good or higher grades for that. If their pregnancy is repeated and occurs within the next five years, the legislator could punish them for another child by the inability to promote them until the end of 15 years of government service. It may also be helpful to consider the possibilities of sanctioning and our evaluators. If, for example, a negative assessment of the assessment of one of our officers and the competent court loses the dispute, then it is likely that the possibility of sanctioning the person who gave the assessment is also at stake. At the end of our debate, we want the applicant of the bill and civil servants to show soon that both the purpose and the objective of the law are to achieve, among other things, the standards and practices of European countries, the transparency of the wage system which is understandable and clear, for the same or approximately the same work of paying the same or approximately the same salary, avoiding as many discretionary powers as possible in determining wages, the possibility of vertical and horizontal progress, secure pay, competitiveness of wages in the economy and retaining the highest quality and most professional staff in the administration. All due to this stated club, the Croatian Peasant Party will support this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-18-0.u27714	Thank you very much. No more club registrations. We're moving on to an individual debate. First, a distinguished colleague, Gordan Maras, signed up. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-18-0.u27715	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President, colleagues and fellow MPs, State Secretary with an associate. The basis for the adoption of this law or the basic idea that should lead us is to adequately reward in the state service the work of civil servants so that they can live with dignity from their work and be appropriate to the circumstances in which our state lives, they can say that they have earned decent wages. I will say in the beginning that some ideas and some solutions from this law I support, the idea and matrix that has been made may be a convenient solution but by the second reading we definitely have to correct some things and have to be more clear and precise in order to make any less abuse. As for the public officials themselves, i.e. the cost and salary of the state budget, I believe that the salaries of civil servants must be higher, that they are not at the level and part of the responsibilities of the work they do, and in particular there is an expression when we talk about leading places where in the ministries of people quite often after a few years of experience they go to the private sector, especially where they can earn more money or something else, so there must be room for young people who are highly educated to try and keep them in the public service. What can not be done of course it is not possible to do in a situation where you have an excessive state apparatus, overburdened cost and when speaking in the opening statement of colleagues Stazic speaks of the cost of wages correctly notices in the last five years almost a colleague Roncevic has said not only pay but also other costs, but I say these are only wages 7.5 billion kunas greater and 67.6% higher than they were in 2003, so the mass of the total salary. But unfortunately, the basis did not increase so much, but it was mostly used to hire party colleagues and colleagues to provide certain support and assistance to their colleagues during their working life. What needs to be pointed out and what I do not support in this law is already said by a few colleagues, which is that in situations where someone for legitimate reasons within two years does not work for more than six months that can't be assessed and he loses the de facto right to increase his salary within a certain time. It's not just about women, someone mentioned when a woman goes on maternity leave in two years can theoretically be unrated because she's been on maternity leave twice a half a year. It's also about men. Men can go on maternity leave. So we're talking about a wider number of civil servants who can thus be damaged. As far as past work is concerned, I think this is a rule of law solution when we're talking about no one getting a lower salary than it currently has, given that in the transitional definitions of categories and internships have been defined, and I'm when I've dropped a bill I see that no official will have a lower salary at that time of application of the law. But what's not good is that it's possible for someone to meet at work for six, seven, eight years without getting paid at all. So, a man pleases in that workplace. The basis doesn't have to go up because the law doesn't define it that way, but his salary won't increase. I suggest that if a person meets that job six years later, the salary increases by at least one grade, that would be fair and would be approximately at this level, which I said about 3% in those six years, which is now a part of the past work. I absolutely think it is inadmissible to remain in the law until the next reading discretionary right without any criteria to the head of that body to determine and evaluate without any criteria telling the officers who has satisfied it. There opens one of Pandora's boxes where, not without fear, we can ask whether it will really be the criteria of party-like membership in a particular party that will stimulate someone, to reward someone with an excellent grade, and on the other hand to make someone satisfactory. However, when you have an excellent rating, or extraordinary every year, your salary increases by a certain class, and by satisfying you stay at work, but there is no increase in salary. So we allow one discretionary decision from that leader to do practically whatever he wants. You can theoretically appeal to the Committee on State Services, but how it works in practice. I have had the opportunity to read in the media in the past few days where a cultural ministry official complained about the decision of the head of her ministry, the secretary of state, because she received an excellent rating from her direct manager, or in particular, and on the other hand the secretary of state did not agree to that assessment, and he signed a good, or satisfactory solution. And on the other hand, the lady complained to the Committee on State Services, and after seven months, she got no answer, she writes rushes, etc. I don't think that this committee is going to be able to solve all the force of these objects that are about to arise. Maybe now people don't complain that much because there's no impact on pay. But when we have that element, it's going to be the only way your salary can grow. You can imagine how many complaints there will be and how many complaints there will be that will have to be resolved, and that will simply physically not be possible to implement. That's why I think that part should be worked out more carefully and ultimately give clear criteria by which there will be fewer possibilities for non-transparency at the very least. As far as rewarding is concerned, I think in this section where the Government prescribes certain tasks of particular interest or some other matter, I find less controversial but I find it definitely controversial that you can reward someone at the height of two salaries over one year again by discretionary decision. And in the end, that reward can be when we talk about two salaries for an ordinary employee who has a salary of 3.5, four thousand kunas 8 thousand kuna a year, and for the director of the administration there can be about 30 thousand kuna a year. So one disproportionate that once again enables you to discreetly reward those people who want to, and not necessarily on the basis of results, but on the basis of results, but on the basis of sympathy whether you're party, whether you're friendly, whether you're related. I lost a little voice. And in the end, here's just a summary. I hope that until the second reading of these things that are still needed to be done, that everyone together can accept it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-18-0.u27716	Thank you very much. The time to apply for an individual debate according to the Rules of Procedure expired at 16.47, but that's why we have applications to correct allegations and replicas. First of all, the correction of the alleged esteemed colleague representative Boris Kunst. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-18-0.u27717	Well, here's colleague Maras, if you hadn't had an incorrect quote, you wouldn't have lost a good voice. But I must say, it's incorrect that my colleague Mars repeats what his colleague Stazic said incorrectly. And that's hiring the state administration, that it was a party criterion. Well, look, let's be responsible people, so when we say something like that, let's be specific, so let's say that both the employees here and there by party duty, then we can talk specifically, this remains a rotten grandmother flax to pass her day, with stories like that. And I can tell you specifically with a name and a last name, where let's not now because the late prime minister, I know that only his intervention is still being done today by persons in that place employed under the conditions of others who had better conditions and criteria, so unfortunately they're not... Thank you. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-18-0.u27718	Thank you. We have reports of three replicas. First of all, the distinguished representative of Luke Denon. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-18-0.u27719	Dear Mr. Vice President, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. A colleague of Maras that you are rightly concerned about this... law that will appear in these evaluations, but I would somehow not share that concern of yours since the legislator in one way ensured that it was written like that, but that he put that clause if there was money in the state budget of up to zero one. That means it could be less. And then it can be very easy to happen that in that year you have very valuable people who will try to evaluate the impartial head of the administration, but then there will be 5 among them that should be evaluated to choose three because there will be no money with these two. It's a farce in this law, and that's why it should really be possible for those who are good to have zero five, so combine with this. It would then be a shift of some kind in civil servants if they had security and had some kind of opportunity to advance and finally have that kind of pay. Also when Mr. Palaric returns if you respond to my line then ask him if any simulations of this new bill have ever been made, and for example. when he says compliance with the collective contract for the law. Because it's certain that employees will not agree to the lesser rights in the collective contract they now have, and the simulation does not seem to have been made what it means with a collective contract. And finally, it is not good that in the proposal, at the beginning of this law, we have agreed with it with the European Union. I don't know if it says it in Austrian law, that it's like that or Italian I didn't read it, so I apologize, but we had to take someone to do it to us. From the good and quality management that I think exists, we could have written the law on our salaries ourselves.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-18-0.u27720	Thank you. The answer to the replica of my colleague Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-18-0.u27721	Thank you very much. My colleague Denon and these funds you said, and they're zero one percent not that small. It's about 20 million kuna. ... That, but listen when you have to use very likely will be used. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] 20 million kunas per year of discretionary ministers, etc. I can use and reward the people he thinks should be rewarded. Again, without any criteria, you can choose to be someone because you like him, and perhaps someone can work properly, and he will be rewarded for it. On the other hand, when we talk about concrete examples, I'm not going to name the lady, but I have an object in front of me. The lady received an excellent grade from her direct manager, and there are no objections below, so on her work. But the State Secretary at the Ministry of Culture wouldn't sign a higher grade. He signed... On the basis of which he did so, he did not write in his solution. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It's his discretionary decision and he can do it. Now whomever more trusts the direct manager of that worker or the secretary of state who can, on the basis of his own words, decide whether someone will be evaluated one way or another, we must change that in this law until the next question.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-18-0.u27722	Thank you. The esteemed colleague Željko Jovanovic has also applied for the replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-18-0.u27723	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. You told your colleague Maras how important it is to have quality civil servants because they are in the interest of civil service. However, research conducted just under the orders of the justice ministry in July this year showed that citizens consider the greatest dissatisfaction, according to politicians' work, judges and various civil servants at all levels. It is precisely this fact that between 2003 and 2009, an increase in the salary budget of 70% and that the basis of only 28% has grown tells us that the objective of the whole employment was not the interest of the citizens but of the capture of the party likes. And I can give you a concrete example, let's say at the Rijeka branch of the Croatian Health Insurance Institute, the only criteria for employment is the HDZ party card. So you're absolutely right and I'm afraid this procedure will not get our citizens the services they deserve.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-18-0.u27724	The answer to the replica of my colleague Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-18-0.u27725	Thank you, dear colleague Jovanovic. Now that you've mentioned it creates two negative effects. The first is that it detimises people who work in the state service honestly and would like to work in quality, of course they don't want to work when they see people being hired on the basis of what you said to the party criteria, and most often they don't have a job if they come to work at all is good. And then, of course, the morale of those hardworking officers who would like to determine their job fair and square to do as they've done until then. And on the other hand, the perceptions of citizens of course offered the same goes down and, of course, they are not satisfied with the service they receive in the public service. So double is the negative effect of what you've said and you're doing about 50,000 new employees in five years and the job hasn't increased anything, 50,000 new employees in the state service.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-18-0.u27726	Thank you. And the last replica of the distinguished colleague Biljana Borzana. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-18-0.u27727	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, here's what I'm fully concerned about is my fellow Maras for this one possibility of self-willing in the state administration, but I'd spread the story to that, and that's not what my colleague looked at the part where the worker wasn't happy with. So, here we know that more and more often, although hard to prove we have various kinds of harassment of any sexual, psychic, so far it's been reduced to one, some sort of verbal advance or approach, but I wonder what's going to happen now when it's possible to punish, say, employees, for example. when we have sexual harassment, punish an employee who rejects any immoral offer of his bosses. So now it will also be able to reflect financially on one morale of a person who does not want to agree to any blackmail, and that is what may upset me even more in this story, so that one possibility of self-will and manipulation of this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-18-0.u27728	Thank you. The answer to the replica of my colleague Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-18-0.u27729	Thank you very much, colleague Borzan, you're absolutely right. When this law, according to this law, it is theoretically possible to get a job in one job at a certain pay grade and in payment development and for the whole working life to stay in that workplace without making progress. And you're satisfied, you're happy for that job. Every year you're told, a colleague is good, you're satisfied, but you won't get paid, and 40 years one and the same salary, etc. And on the other hand, if someone sympathises you and you don't have to be any more quality than the other fellow who satisfies it, he'll get paid a possible increase every year and in 12 years he'll have a salary 30 percent higher than you have. And that's the injustice of this law, and we have to change that. And it's not funny, pal, it's not funny. No, it's not funny, colleague Kunst, you can laugh but people aren't funny, like it's not funny to this colleague who complains about the Secretary of State's decision that for no reason has reduced her efforts a year ago and you're laughing at it, and I'm telling you it's not funny.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-18-0.u27730	Thank you very much. It is up to the debate of distinguished counterpart Dragutin Lesar. Here's your colleague, Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-18-0.u27731	Dear Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, I would like to begin by saying that, in my court, this bill is good, it is borrowed, it is not prescribed, but the model that the law provides for is well known in many European Member States of the European Union. In itself, there is something we should strive for in Croatia. But, yes, but the Croatian problem is not the quality of the written laws, but it's our problem to implement all the laws and so on. It's not a problem if you're judged by an honest judge and then even a vague and inconclusive law, it won't affect a decision, a fair ruling by a judge. It's no problem if you're controlled by an honest tax inspector or a foreign currency inspector. It's a problem when a corrupt inspector comes into your control. Since the existence of the state administration of Austria, Hungary has always been and always will be that there is nepotism, likeness and obedience in the state administration. In the state administration, especially since it's business where it is if it's paid and it's not big, and then it's always safe and business unlike those in the economy and on the market. And since I've seen the government hesitate for a year and when it would start to evaluate or what years of evaluation would start as a basis for progress under Article 10. It might be good to consider my proposal to use 2010 for experimental application, and since 1.1.2011, the law has been a full modem because it is likely that both those responsible in the Government and in the Central Office of the State Administration could then see certain shortcomings. It's about a huge number of people, a huge number of working and living fates, and if a year dedicated to rehearsals, and then going into full application, they'd probably prevent possible injustices. So, whether 2011 will be the first year of progress in the 2010 grades, think about it. In particular, what I would like to warn of the provisions of the law itself is Article 10, which has payment classes and payments rates and the Civil Service Union, warns that at the sixth paying class starting with a coefficient of 1.52 should increase to 1.57 in order not to make it possible for senior advisors deployed in that paying class not to get less pay than they have at the moment. I have not checked whether this claim is correct, but they assure me that the existing salaries for some categories of senior advisors are higher than what the sixth grade 1 payment class would achieve, so the coefficient corrections should be at the 1st, 2nd and 3rd level. In addition, the number of years or number of evaluations as a condition for promotion referred to in Article 18 where it is foreseen every five years if it has received at least four times a good assessment. It would be good to think about the possibility of it being good every three years with three grades, and to add in this article a new provision relating to a mass of funds that is not used during the calendar year to avoid being used as a basis for not using the mass but approved from last year, as any possible savings or rational behaviour would otherwise be detimising for that part of the state service. Because if you spend less automatically in one year, you've reduced your base for next year just because there were some reasons that led to that rationalization. Furthermore, in the case of Article 25, I propose that the proposals for the award, therefore for the one-time award, be submitted to the central authority of the State Administration responsible for official relations, that the right to propose candidates for the award, other than the Head of State, have trade unions, but also citizens because the Secretary of State in its opening statement also mentioned kindness as one of the categories. And why, then, the users of the state administration service wouldn't be the citizens who would propose one of the state's reward officers if we were to ask them for an opinion. I also question the transparency of the award-winning civil servants could be resolved if the list, their list, was published on the websites of the central state office on the one hand as information, but on the other hand as well as an incentive for other officials to know who it is. And there's one category of people who, according to these provisions of the law, so a positive evaluation of at least five years is going to retire rather than be able to advance, and that's to those who are less than five years old until retirement. Therefore, they cannot satisfy the cumulative conditions, especially if they have less than four years until retirement to have an increase in wages in that time, so in the transitional and final provisions or in Article 27, it would be extremely useful, smart, well, socially sensitive and humane to these people to follow the provision. And after five years, such a category would disappear more and more from the service of the state service, so that those who have the day of entry into force of this law less than five years to retirement, that their advancement is actually 0.5 per year of internship, or by years of internship, because they have no other possibility of progress until retirement, as far as I understand the law. And in Article 28, I propose a fully clear definition of what is meant by the notion of pay so far so that at the beginning of the application of this law, they do not dispute whether the present salary is included and obtained by accounting in accordance with the regulations which were in force on the date of the entry into force of this law. Because I must remind myself that even in the Labour Act, we do not know and have an explanation of what pay means, of which the salary is made up and I hope that in the Labour Act, which we hope to discuss this year, the Government will accept my proposal that in this basic Labour Act, it is fully clear and unequivocally defined what it is paying for. Since the law was on the agenda announced by an emergency procedure, I have prepared these amendments that I have not tolerated because now this first reading so the Secretary of State has some interests, I would like to give you my amendments as a contribution to my debate and suggestions for improvement for a second reading, I will give you this. And my debate, my colleagues, ends with a reminder, Mr. Vice President also, Prime Minister Sanader still hasn't dared answer my parliamentary question since November 18th last year. It's been three times eight days since President-in-Office of the Parliament gave on the current morning, three times eight extra days. I'm asking you and Mr. Vice President to do Article 189. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament ensure that the Government answers the questions of parliamentary deputies, and I remind you that then the President of the Parliament sent a letter to the Prime Minister and asked for an answer, and now it is no longer that the prime minister ignores me as an agent, but this is the behaviour of the Prime Minister, ignoring both the Presidency of the Parliament and the President himself, because he refuses to answer the question of the MPs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-18-0.u27732	Thank you very much. We have two applications for replication. First of all, MP Zoran Vinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-18-0.u27733	Thank you. Dear colleague Lesar, I hope you didn't mean it when you said that there will always be in the country and there will be nepotism and similarity. I hope it's not even in your political agenda, and I hope that, apart from what we have in practice today, it's not in political party theories or programmes. And in order not to be colleagues of Marasa, there is, that there would be no such thing as a "tired midwife to pass the day" given that this law, that in the future also applies to local officials and subsistences, I will just say that, for example, in Djakova, in the last month and a half days, the head of the Department of Municipal Activities, a member of the HDZ, without a single day of working experience, that even one who was a member and founder of the HDZ, had been with me for seven and a half years. But apparently the gentleman isn't answering. Two interns were also admitted. This means that “a grandmother does not rot on her day. ” Two trainees were also accepted, one of whom is over 40 years old, and there is no day of work experience. It is located at the head of the Department of Social Activities. And one is the application of the economics of the city's headship...
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-18-0.u27734	Time, time fellow Vinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-18-0.u27735	...only as president of HDZ youth in the nearby village. Laugh, Mr. Ivić, as you laugh, you will pass the election.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-18-0.u27736	You're past your time, colleague Vinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-18-0.u27737	I thank you for not warning colleagues from your coalition of such observant listening as “the grandmother of the rotten palm. ”
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-18-0.u27738	We've got two plates of damage to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-18-0.u27739	Dear Vice President, Article 210 has been injured. A Rules of Procedure that says the speaker can only talk about the subject under discussion. I don't know Mr. Winkovic read it, and it says nice if he can read well. He says "the salaries of civil servants" I don't know what kind of local he's talking about. This has nothing to do with local employees' salaries. So he's talking about a subject that doesn't exist at all. Well, today's not the topic of local officials, or we'll expand, so let's go to the locals.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-18-0.u27740	We had another plate of the Rules of Procedure's injuries.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-18-0.u27741	Also, Mr. Vice President, I think my former colleague, under local duty and function, Mr. Vinkovic should know that this law has nothing to do with the Law on Local Units and Salaries. I don't think it has anything to do with your Djakov and who's replacing who, who's the HDZ, who's the SDP. So give your colleague Vinkovic the subject of Article 210 and let's solve the problem.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-18-0.u27742	We now have one more plate of damage to the Rules of Procedure, colleague Vinkovic. You're giving up. Replication response, dear colleague Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-18-0.u27743	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Vinkovic, they're really right. In my political program, there's no nepotism I haven't even written yet, I mean the program, but I'll write it. The NPP, nepotism, similarity, obedience really always existed in the state service and will exist. Only a smart government reduces it to a minimum, a blatant government increases it to a maximum. And all those who think that this law has no direct connection with local officials and tenants are very wrong and are very wrong, because only 6 months after this same model of wages will be applied to officials of local and regional self-government so that it is right to discuss all employees of state, local and regional self-government as a model to be present and to be applied in 2010.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-18-0.u27744	Thank you very much. We've got another replication report, a colleague named Boris Sprem. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-18-0.u27745	Thank you very much, dear Vice President. So, my colleague Lesar, you've really tried really hard to be constructive, otherwise it doesn't work out that you've put out first the thesis that this law is actually good so that you can deny it with a dozen strong counterthesis, that it actually turns out that it's not good, so I'm asking you to correct that initial thesis, because what you're saying after that initial thesis with contradictions is actually saying that the law isn't good.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-18-0.u27746	Thank you very much. Replication response, colleague Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-18-0.u27747	My friend Šprem, the marriage is perfect. The law is more than good. He's with these few adjustments I'm sure the government will accept these remarks by the second reading that you've heard so far and he'll be even better than he is now and I'm not worried about the quality of the law. I am concerned about its application, its respect and therefore I repeat the Croatian problem is not the quality of the laws passed, but the non-quality of their application. I'm an optimist by nature and by birth. You also agreed with me, agreed recently that the government has begun to accept the increasing number of amendments we are giving. I'm for such a great optimist, that I believe all these amendments will accept who will be in the second reading.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-18-0.u27748	Thank you very much. A colleague, Vesna Škulić, applied for the debate further. She's gone. He's losing his right to debate. Next is a debate by counterpart Boris Spremo. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-18-0.u27749	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, dear colleagues and colleagues. I'd be happy if this bill was good. You know, no legal proposal that has 33 articles if only one article that is crucial, so it's not good, then the law doesn't have to be good. So it measures the quality of the law, not just by the amount of articles that you can make it really acceptable. But before the very text of the law, which I would say in relation to its contents, I would say what the government's procedure was in the process of passing this law and what the government's attitude towards the social partners is, above all, to the union in the process of adopting this law. I remind you, according to the statement of the President of the Union of State and local officials and subsistence at the meeting of the Defence Committee, because we, as an interested working body, discussed this legislative proposal, the working group, i.e. the commission for the drafting of this law, was formed in 2006 in the second month. So three years ago. Please, I emphasize three years ago. Then one article came out, and then I learned it from the public in the second month or third, I can't say for sure now, where it was announced that the government's narrow cabinet was discussing a bill like this and that it would soon be on the parliamentary benches. He didn't find himself on the council benches because there were elections. That's how the government rated it for three years, and here's how hard it is for this law to be passed. But then what bothers me as a parliamentary representative and what worries me about the democracy of relations in this House, which is that when the law came in the procedure a month ago, he proposed an emergency procedure. That's not right. This is not correct because of what I said just before, but it is not correct either because the law should only be applied since 1.1.2010 in its essence, so it can be concluded, it is not because of the EU that the law has been proposed by emergency procedure. And it wasn't because of the need to bring it right now, but it was the need for the law to be proposed in shape in a way and to play the union as soon as possible. However, I still thank the Government for accepting the proposal by both SDP and HNS, I think others have suggested, I think that Mr. Lesar is going into 2 readings, and that is one contribution, a possible contribution to those who take seriously the proposals and remarks presented in the first reading, and I hope, but Mr. Palaric is not convinced that you will take due note of the results of this first reading debate and that on this basis you will prepare, but in cooperation with the union that I have stated, therefore to the Union of State and local officials and furniture, a better legislative proposal. And when it comes to the text of the bill itself, which, of course, concerns again, is that the basic union proposal is not respected, which is the evaluation of past work, i.e. the work experience in determining the salary of officials and subsistence to pay therefore depends on the assessment of work, that depends on the work experience, or years of work. And secondly, what's important, what the trade unions are stressing out, and what we're pushing for in the SDP, is that there's not an important model of the award Mr. Lesar was talking about, so now I'm not going to repeat what the union proposed. So give some thought to this model, especially because of this, and Mr. Lesar did not mention that in this commission that would be appointed by the head of the central state administration body, in this case it is Mr. Palaric who would currently be located except for the management officers of your ranks and representatives of the union. This is a good proposal that needs to be considered because it actually achieves a balance of relations between, to say the employer and the employee representatives, and compared to the workers, as regards blackmailing and making decisions about these famous awards. And at the end of the lesson, I hope that whenever the government doesn't have to deal with legal proposals, it will go into two readings because the chances of better legal text are better and will further cooperate with trade unions because they are representatives and protectors of the rights of workers. Do not ignore them but respect them as a very serious partner because of the beauty of our relationship and life in this country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-18-0.u27750	Thank you very much. On behalf of the promoter, State Secretary, Mr Antun Palaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-18-0.u27751	Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. I was referring to the provisions proposed, not to mention the context of lawmaking, and not to wander because everything I hear now, that's what we heard from one secretary, one union that has a bomb name, the Union of State and local officials and subsistence, and it could be misjudged from that name that it gathers all state officials and subsistence. It does not gather everything, but does not gather the majority and has several unions of civil servants and tenants who are more than that in number and strength. We sat with the unions for days and days. In a commission working in this group, negotiating a collective agreement on the provisions of the law, and I will be honest, the remaining disputed addition of 0.5 to those civil servants who, I will call them by name, that is, what content is, which are not good. We can say that they're satisfying, that's the lowest category of civil servants who, well, they won't be out of a job, but we're predicting for them a reduction, moving to a low-level job. So if they're satisfied with their work, if with such results, then they should be satisfied with... And we're going to accept a lot of things that have been discussed today. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] This is undoubtedly a European law and European laws are going by emergency procedure, and therefore the government has proposed an emergency procedure because it builds on European standards. Well, at last, you heard Hannes Freedom that two more open issues concerning the state administration, which is the Law on Salary and the Law on General Administration, and we have completed it, are ready and we are willing to do that part of responsibility so that there will be no obstacle to Croatia's full membership in the European Union. But we will very quickly go out with another reading of this law, a lot of useful things we will use, but the social dialogue has been and has been and will continue to discuss, however, always from one union, from one secretary we hear the same criticisms from which their partners have given up on their part and there is only one issue left after a long, long debate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-18-0.u27752	Thank you very much. Next is the debate of the esteemed colleague Joseph Lek.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-18-0.u27753	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable Representative of the Government, colleagues and fellow representatives. Comrade Šprem, your thesis, or proof that the Government in 2007 in the election year 11.3., Vecernji list, was prepared by the Law on the salaries of civil servants. That's what we can think and be naive that it was an accident in the election year. Then he is gone for two and a half years and appears in 2009 at the 2nd month ahead of local elections. And it's quite an accident, my colleague, Sprem. But it's not an accident that's in the law. The law is full of absurdities. The law is called the Law on civil servants' salaries and the main purpose of it is that civil servants are rewarded according to work and work results. And what's the absurd? So there are no criteria how employees will be rewarded according to work and work results. There's no criteria. There are no criteria. There are some grades that can be given, but based on which there is no such thing. And let me also tell you colleagues and colleagues that will not apply in Switzerland, Sweden or Germany. And you know what our people say? "I know us," "I know us when it comes to grades." So, you need this grade, this... Add that the European Union, the European Union Commission, is objecting to us for the reason that the state administration is a politically dependent administration. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Not only was the European Union appointed two ministers here in the Croatian Parliament as a programme of ministries said we will work to depolitise the state administration. We'll work to depolitize the state administration. So in the Croatian Parliament. And then we get on the benches of the bill on rewarding the work of civil servants without having any criteria. There's one that's not written, that's who I like better will get a higher grade and a higher salary. It's undeniable, you can correct it for the public, there are no objective criteria in the law how the work of a civil servant is valued. Is that more of a punishment criterion? Let's say for an officer at the Department of the Interior. Is it in the IRS to charge a bigger loss or not to let his solutions fall in the second pillar. What are the criteria by which the leader will evaluate his workers? Just obedience, just obedience for now. The second absurdity of this law is the elimination of the value by experience of 0.5% per year of work experience. It's being abolished. But colleagues and colleagues in Article 27, I believe that Article 27 of the legislator says that they will be deployed on the day of entry of this Act according to the years of the total work experience, based on the deployment of a work internship, i.e. work experience. So, it'll start with work experience, then we'll cut you off. Well, these are absurds that can't pass the logic of the legal system. The next absurd is that this award to experience, according to obtaining experience in the service, does not apply to other users of budget money, public money being shared for wages. There are other public officials who will remain rewarding according to experience 0.5 per year of work experience. And all we're going to do is end the civil servants, so let's say in the judiciary, it's going to be 0.5% per year of work experience, education, health care, so it's all alimony from public money. If we add that the observation and recognition here in the Parliament that addiction, political dependence in the Croatian state administration is the main problem and then let us not allow workers to be... They're not there for the head of the government, they're there for the citizens. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I don't care who's head of the ministry or what's the option in power if it's passed outside the law. By the grace of God's Head of State. In these circumstances, I propose to the Government that it is not easy, it is not easy to objectively do the criteria for the evaluation of work anywhere or in the state administration. But if he could at least try to find 140 degrees that's being offered here, he could find 14 of them objectively. No subjective impact on the score. And let him lead them into the law. It's like a first-degree solution doesn't fall at all. There's no punishment on the fine. But there's something else that's important for the state administration's government records. If the lander's okay, it's easy to issue statements from the lander. If the spatial plan is well-proposed and takes many years or urban, urban implementation plan, then it is easy to act as an official. A copy of that will be easier to give. And there's no mistake in that. Let's put it as one of the criteria for the minister and the heads of state. System stability. And in the end, I don't think anything less matters. It is not envisaged, and the modern administration has to provide for a contract to work in the state administration. There are jobs in the state administration that are required only for a specific programme and the program lasts a year, two years, and is particularly paid outside the system, such a worker that you need. I don't know by heart now, but let's say someone who has to monitor the development of nanotechnology in Croatia, there may not be any in Croatia at all, but needs a state administration. So we'll pay for it for two years, let him study the problem, or molecular biology, who's the biochemist. We need them in the state administration, but you can't pay them by this system as you suggest. It is simply concrete to the impact of politics on the results of work in the state administration. It is not allowed and it is the brakes of this country to enter the European Union, it will remain if you pass this law and do not propose at least 15 criteria for the evaluation of the results of the work. It's objective. It doesn't matter if Marco or Janko is in one ministry or another. That's gotta be it. Therefore, God save me our grades without criteria. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-18-0.u27754	Thank you very much. We have two reports of corrections to the quote first. Boris Matkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-18-0.u27755	Mr. Vice President. I'd like to correct my colleague, Lek. I understand him and his exposure that there are no criteria. I think my colleague Leco's speaking in a way that has no criteria is actually deplaced. That's basically politicizing, not what you're talking about here. In fact, the truth on the other hand, in order to measure the classification of a job, requires someone’s expertise. So... It's one of the criteria. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The second is how much he will show his own independence in the work, and that is the criterion, how much he will cooperate with other services and bodies, how much he will cooperate with the parties, how powerful he himself will be, and make certain decisions that are important for the state bodies. That's all the criteria. And besides, the law doesn't even have to regulate this. I'll have a rule book. There's a rule that can work things out in detail.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-18-0.u27756	Thank you, colleague. The second amendment was filed by counterpart Boris Kunst. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-18-0.u27757	Vice President, Agent Leko said that absurd advancement is according to the standard of working experience. Well, I think that must be one of the main criteria of working experience for a man to do. Not only do I agree, but it has to be one of the main ones, so working experience is very important to make progress somewhere. But I also have to remind you, let's think about it from 2000 on what criteria these were that civil servants could have made progress. I don't know either, and I've met with many who thought we should make progress, so there's no criteria they couldn't. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-18-0.u27758	Thank you very much. A colleague named Maras called.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-18-0.u27759	Thank you very much. Comrade Leko, you mentioned a work experience and I will now relate to it. The government has figured out how to save some money in the budget through this work experience. The next year, when this 0.5 increase is no longer applied, in view of the year, the internship will automatically increase the salary fund by 0.5% and by a billion kuna, respectively. Given that the government has certain guidelines or how many categories of grades it is, the assessment is expected to be only 8% of the employees. So half as much as what would be if we all got 0.5%. In this way, by throwing out work experience from fees, the government saved 500 million kunas a year and in some way created a small space to save in the budget, so let's not talk about whether the work experience was made to make it more honest or to spend through some other elements. I think the work experience has been removed from the budget to save a certain amount because this will result in a smaller salary increase than if the work experience remained in the law.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-18-0.u27760	Thank you very much. The answer to the replica of my colleague, Leko.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-18-0.u27761	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Maras, I'm taking the opportunity to say that it's not people who are correcting themselves, it's what he says. That doesn't apply to you. So, if someone said something wrong, you can't correct a man, but you can correct him. And what you're saying is perfectly fine. I have no objections but I would like to repeat that objective criteria mean that most normal average people will find themselves in the same assessment if the criteria are objective. And what's mentioned here is the subjective relationship of the boss to the job, it's not an objective criterion. So, experience doesn't mean that every experience of the same age is the same, but from that fact, we go and then we objectively object to the other criteria so that we can correct it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-18-0.u27762	Thank you very much. Follow the debate further. He's a colleague of Mršić's. He's gone. He's losing his right to debate. A colleague of Arsen Bauk's. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-18-0.u27763	Thank you. Mr. Vice President. A few months ago, a small part of the Croatian Parliament was accepted by a majority of MPs, and thus the entire Assembly took note of the report by the Ombudsman for 2007. What did he write and what does the government suggest here? So he wrote: "The political unwillingness to break in practice the bewitched circle of politically similar and personally loyal after any change in elections or the change of the minister or other head of the governing body is a devastating activity on the continuity and professionality of key management personnel but unfortunately also of the necessary independence and in those cases where independence, impartiality and expertise are crucial to the performance of tasks and functions.". Therefore, you do not have to correct your colleagues because I have read exactly what it says, but it seems to me that what is in the proposal in the first reading was also in the final draft of the law, so it is corrected. It seems that we haven't even received this notice, so that's why this bill instead of combining, so if it's already moving on to a new system of increases in how wages are increased instead of combining the work experience and these evaluations that are spoken of were taken exclusively by the discretionary assessment of the boss or the managing person of the civil servant. This will further reduce independence, impartiality and, unfortunately, expertise key to the performance of tasks and functions. In the situation in which our state administration is located, I think it's much more appropriate, much better and much more affected that if it's already moving on to a new system that it combines with work experience. Although as a person on average slightly younger by age here perhaps generationally would be even better if the work experience had less impact, however I think the proposal is to combine these two factors to be acceptable at this point. Of course, the moment that we, too, reach the leading European countries that are now at the level of the state administration’s expertise, might be more appropriate for that part of the work experience to be reduced in some way. After all, colleagues and colleagues in their student days on television were one series about the British State Administration, it was called "Yes, Minister!"then a second season was recorded called "Yes, Prime Minister!" and in one satirically way, she actually described the functioning of the state administration and state officials in a country like Great Britain, and in a way she mocked politicians as someone who came, who changed and those professional civil servants stayed. There is also a case of civil servants in Croatia who survived several authorities, several states and several systems that adapted very quickly because most of them all they knew to say was that of ministers. And here, of course, I call no one about politics, but more like a way of working. What actually happened in the last few months or years with this bill? So we had this one during the 2007 election year to talk about civil servants' salaries, and then one short creative break, and then another time now, so it was proposed to go into an emergency procedure, and then the government retreated one step back, because of some shortcomings that the MPs pointed to and from the ruling coalition. Let's say, today I saw a report on the proposal for a Law on the salaries of civil servants on the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system. Usually reports from the board, especially those headed by party representatives of the ruling coalition are so dry and bureaucratic, I don't mean anything by it, and the board members unanimously made the following remarks. It is therefore noted that it should be considered that the criteria of the internship are combined with the quality of work assessment criteria because in the field of state administration experience plays a major role. Dependence on the salaries of civil servants can exclusively lead to a subjective assessment of the quality of work, and on the other hand, that the dependence of civil servants on a senior employee who assesses at the expense of the quality of work. It is noted that the measure of effectiveness is very difficult to measure. It was established that the draft law proposed insufficient criteria for the extraordinary award of civil servants, etc. It's a good move for the government to return this bill instead of a final proposal, so it's an emergency procedure to return it to regular procedure. The problem is that today we don't know what the government is actually thinking. In fact, on one of the boards on which I was Government representatives, they defended the need for the law to go into emergency procedures because it has a P.Z.E. code. so that people know in advance what will happen to wages, etc. Although in 1.1.2010 at the session, the plenary session suggested that the law go into regular procedure. We ended up getting this law in a regular procedure, but here after three years we still don't know what the government is thinking and what it wants with this law. We hope that this debate will help the government to understand in the meantime what it wants to deal with trade unions and that in the second reading, if one part of these remarks that I and other colleagues have made is that the law will be in such a form that it can get a lot of support from MPs, of course because governments are changing and the state service remains and it is good that such things are passed by consensus. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-18-0.u27764	Thank you very much. We have one correction from colleague Markovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-18-0.u27765	Well, here's an esteemed colleague, Bauk, who's a little offensive here for our government employees to check out for normal, but to act like they're in this "Yes Minister" series and stuff. I mean, I don't think the vast majority is a member of any party and there's no reason for them to behave, worship, and we're not exactly a people who gladly worship their superiors. What I'm trying to say is, the truth is, you're still supposed to be telling the truth that you're up there in the "Employer of the New Cove" series, right there.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-18-0.u27766	Then it's at the end of "Yes Minister" or yes, boss. Let's move on. Dear colleague Nenad Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-18-0.u27767	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Two features of the debate so far are important on this bill. The first is one distinct though easily understandable nervousness of the HDZ club, which was manifested in numerous corrections of incorrect allegations after the SDP club, none of which corrected from what was stated. At that time, counterpart Roksandić spoke about the local self-government of the mayor Lovrić, and his colleague Kunst later reacted in business by reminding that today's topic was not local self-government, not even when colleague Roksandić said it, but when someone else from the SDP club said it, it is not surprising, because we cannot expect from counterpart Kunst to be principled. Another feature is the recognition of the HDZ club from the mouth of just fellow Kunst that the law does not have the criteria for officials to advance that it is a lack of law, but that the law is good because it has such a shortfall that will be corrected by law enforcement. A law that has a flaw in it is not good at first. The lack should be removed already in the law-making process, and not to say that it is excellent that it has such a flaw hidden within it, but it has nothing to do with the implementation of the law will be corrected. Mana is of such a nature that it cannot be corrected. What will happen to officials and tenants if such a bill is adopted is not a hypothetical issue, so that some of them can go very badly. It's not a hypothetical question, it's quite certain. It's quite certain, because it's already happening. Šikana towards officials and tenants is present in Croatia. A fellow Kunst asks who, when, how, where an example. Well, here's what we're going to do. From the material that was available to everyone, from the report by the occupier for 2007. The attorney general handled the complaints on the K.J. case. the Z. writes with a report delivered by the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities of the Croatian Parliament and the Prosecutor himself. It is very interesting, it is very interesting that colleagues Kunstu and colleagues Djakic are very funny that some citizens of the Republic of Croatia complain to the Ombudsman that his rights, human rights, have been denied. That's funny to my colleagues in HDZ. I didn't hope for anything else. This attitude towards citizens, and the violation of their human rights, is entirely characteristic of HDZ. Therefore, this laugh of colleagues Djakic and his colleagues, Kusta, only confirms it. And now I'm going to keep reading from the attorney general's report. The prosecutor pointed to the violation of constitutional and legal rights by illegal transfer, and with this in relation to the reduction of the right to promotion. He's complaining to the attorney general. At the time of the complaint, however, a strict procedure was also initiated before the complainant's arraignment, and a complaint and documentation accompanying the complaint was requested by the Ombudsman. So when a civil servant complains to the attorney general, then he's still trying to discipline him. The Advocate General delivered the entire file to the Parliamentary Committee for the Protection of Human Rights and Freedoms and only then, by intervention of the Assembly Committee, the disciplinary procedure was interrupted. Now, you tell me, if this law is passed, how will this poor servant advance in his service? So he and Kunst and Djakic and the entire HDZ will laugh out loud, because they are already doing so, and he will be prosecuted disciplined until he is expelled from the service. And what is his protection against the laughter of Kunst and Djakic? Nothing under this law. But we don't have to, the public defender says a lot, but you wouldn't still make him laugh at Djakic and Kunsta, I won't read it. But I will mention one example from the Parliament, from our surroundings known to everyone. Waiter Bernie, you all remember him. He was moved to a less paid place outside the parliament, and was unofficially told that he was too close to the SDP club. The waiter was close to all the clubs, he was a kind, dear waiter, but there he was, not nice to everyone, but because he was nice to the SDP club and SDP representatives was expelled from the parliament service. That's what the paper said. I'm surprised Djakic and Kunst aren't laughing at this. This law represents the law of the chican who is present, as it excludes the protection of officials who now have 0.5% per year of internship. These 0.5% now guarantee that they will not at least be able to get paid, that each year they will get at least 0.5%, so at least through that institute they are protected. But now that institute is being taken away from them. They are left completely unprotected, to the mercy and mercy of Djakic and Kunst, to mercy and mercy. So the more the two of them laugh, the worse these will pass. First the pay, then the transfer, and then maybe the loss of service, who knows. As far as one of the laughers is concerned, he'll be happy if they don't fall down the stairs. State Secretary Palaric says that in talks with trade unions, only 0.5% are disputed for those who are not good. And who's going to judge that they're not good? A palarico? Djakic? Kunst? They'll judge whether they're good or not. And the higher the laughter of Kunstov and Djakic, the lower their score will be. Against such a proposal of SDP law to protect these officials and deputies. It's said here, it's expressed concern for the quality of the law. I express concern for the quality of life of officials and deputies, I express concern for their safety, their right to progress in the ministry. Without Kunst's laughter, they're making progress in the service. That's my concern. I know those protections against those who can't be expected. Well, that's clear to me. I hope it will be clear to those civil servants and tenants, and if nothing else, and then by protest but to prevent you from passing this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-18-0.u27768	Thank you very much. We've got a couple of corrections to the quote, so... A few replicas. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] First of all, correction of the quote, colleague Boris Kunst. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-18-0.u27769	Thank you very much, Vice President. So Stazic, who's on call from the SDP disaster, whose cynicism has no end and... which, with every speech here, I didn't replicate that I wasn't giving him any meaning as he spoke on behalf of the SDP club, because that's what he said on his own behalf, he means otherwise. [[A speaker away from the microphone, you don't understand.]] He said incorrectly that this is legalizing the chican of civil servants, which is incorrect. He obviously doesn't understand, because the question of whether it can understand how he reads this law, that it has nothing to do with the shagging of civil servants, but I'll remind him that he's been in power since 2000, so let him tell me one criterion other than these 0.5% which is an increase in wages, and not a criterion for progress, which he then fought and so much care for civil servants has shown that I can progress? No criteria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-18-0.u27770	Here you go. A fellow Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-18-0.u27771	According to Article 209, I might have answered the question that Mr. Kunst is still... , since he just corrected the quote, then I can't answer the asked question. [[The speaker is not enabled, not understood.]] So if you'll excuse me, Mr. Vice President.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-18-0.u27772	Thank you very much. Further correction of the quote, distinguished colleague Susana Bilić Vardić.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-18-0.u27773	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I am correcting the incorrect allegations of an esteemed fellow Stazic, who here said HDZ representatives are nervous. It is simply not true because it seems to me that the speaker, however dramatic, is much more nervous than me and fellow Marić, who are just in a good mood. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-18-0.u27774	Is he all right? We have three replicas. First up, he's a colleague of Goran Heffer's. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-18-0.u27775	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, I'm glad Mr. Stazic was nervous because he was talking about problems, he was talking about people and specific cases. I also understand that Mr. Kunst is laughing. He's not supposed to, c's, but he's laughing at Mr. Regiment's attorney because he wrote it. He laughs at the authority of the Croatian Parliament and its work. But Mr. Kunst was a trade unionman, then he was very loud in protection, he wasn't laughing, then he was very angry. And he knows that this all comes to an end before a long-standing administrative court, then goes to the European Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg and conveys a nice voice about the Republic of Croatia. That's why the gentlemen are laughing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-18-0.u27776	The answer is not a replica, colleague Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-18-0.u27777	Dear colleague Heffer, first of all, I'm not nervous at all. I'm worried, not nervous. I'm concerned about the position of civil servants and deputies. And why am I worried? I am concerned that we have a government that proposes such a law and that we have representatives who laugh at the mention of human rights violations, who have fun. I don't know, though, whether Kunst and Djakic are only laughing at the occupier whose report they took note of, rather than accepting. Or even a citizen whose rights are violated, I really don't know. That should ask the two of them, because that kind of sense of humor they're showing here I don't have.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-18-0.u27778	Thank you very much. So now we've got again, I've missed one for correcting the quote. Mr. Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-18-0.u27779	Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. I raised time to correct incorrect allegations, but I was...
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-18-0.u27780	I've been watching... I didn't see that plate. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-18-0.u27781	Well, I'd like to correct the incorrect quote of Comrade Stazic, where he claims that he is taking care of the civil servants and that we are laughing. That's absolutely incorrect. Care of civil servants had the opportunity to see civil servants in the time of your reign with 30% reduced wages, that's one thing. And it's incorrect to laugh at the fates of these people, but to laugh at your nonsense, your cynicism and your all the lies you've told in this House of Commons.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-18-0.u27782	Thank you. We have further application for replication. Honorable representative of colleague Arsen Bauk. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-18-0.u27783	Thank you. So, first of all, it seems to me that this is the first time since the establishment of a multiparty system that someone has called someone else in this House. I don't know that Mr. Djakic has gone left-handed, but it has to be noted in some way. It is in some way that raising a little temperature in this debate, quoting allegations from the Ombudsman’s report, shows in fact how many representatives of the ruling majority have taken note of his report. And just proposing a bill like this that had ambition to be the final draft of the law, but here's the fact that it's a bit of a difficult situation that didn't exactly get in line, so the government had to take one step back, shows what the situation is now, and that this is actually an attempt at pre-election legislation. Since, of course, by ruling from the HDZ Club, we are getting contradictory, colleague Stazic, discussions about, views on your statements, here I have also heard that it is always an artistic impression of good and I think that in some way, by trying to belittle the arguments that you have expressed only on the artistic impression, without an analysis of the content itself, they are trying to demean you and the reports of the Ombudsman and, in some ways, the Assembly because he accepted this report from the Ombudsman. And since fellow Markovanovic was quoting satirical...
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-18-0.u27784	Finish it!
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-18-0.u27785	The British series, thank you, so other than "The State of New Age" there's another series in which Rick Mayal plays, and I think your remark on where he finds his inspiration was just at the level of that series. She has a bad name in Croatian, so I won't say it, and in English it's called "The Botto". Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-18-0.u27786	We use Croatian in this payphone. Replica response, dear fellow Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-18-0.u27787	Comrade Bauk, I don't know if it's the first time in this assembly anyone's talking to a friend or naming him as a friend. And I don't know what caused my colleague Djakic to do that. If it led him to what he used to be, if he was, I have no idea if he was in a party, so he talks to me about it with his friend, then he's wrong because I wasn't in that party. But in any case, he's wrong because I can't be friends with whoever's laughing here and making fun of the fate of the citizens, with their human rights and with the attorney general. That's the kind of friend I can't be.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-18-0.u27788	And the last report for the replica. Dear colleague Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-18-0.u27789	Thank you very much. Mr. Stazic, with the content of your debate, I will agree and ask a fundamental question. Who's going to tell a public service worker, perhaps the secretary of state can answer that question, which is the difference when the head of the state body evaluates him with good or excellent. What's the difference, who's going to make that difference? How will that be explained? And then let him answer me who will protect his rights when he, his direct manager, says that you were excellent, and the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Culture says no, was not excellent, was good. Who will protect his rights? Whether the Committee on State Service which has been working on this case for a year and solves it precisely because it does not know how to answer that question, which is the difference, let me see Secretary of State Palaric here answer this question which is the difference between extraordinary and excellent. What difference does that make, and who can quantify it, and whom can this civil servant complain about protecting him? It is unfortunately not available in this law and much is left to the soul, as counterpart Bagarić said in the artistic impression, but when it comes to the rights of workers it is never good. The artistic impression shouldn't be crucial.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-18-0.u27790	Thank you. Replication response, fellow Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-18-0.u27791	I, colleague Maras, really don't know why you're replicating me by asking the secretary of state to make a difference and to specify this law. I think the secretary of state had the opportunity to answer that together with the government to this question of yours when the text of the law was being drafted, so that there were some criteria in it, so that it would be clear what would happen to the workers. It's workers, civil servants and tenants, workers. When their boss kicks them out, they keep getting bad grades, and then they get paid to cut because of a bad grade. What will happen to those who, due to their illness, are not at work who will evaluate them, how they will be assessed by the work of a man who has not worked at all, so they remain unrated. What's going to happen to these people's rights? To that, to those questions, which is the essence, it is the essence of this law and it is the essence of these discussions to protect their rights. What's going to happen to them is we don't have an answer. Instead of answering, we have a laugh.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-18-0.u27792	Thank you. Next up, individual debate, colleague Nadica Jelash. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-18-0.u27793	Dear Vice President, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. From these discussions, it is definitely clear that the most attention in this legislative proposal is caused by the most radical newspaper that introduces this law into the system of civil servants’ salaries, which is the replacement of past work institutes with the Institute of Promotion based on an assessment of labour and efficiency. In fact, this new institute should be more stimulating to attract highly educated experts to the state service because it would ensure better evaluation of the work of civil servants, their promotion and rewarding for outstanding results that are of particular importance for the state service. So the intensity is no longer an orderly, but a decompression pays as conveniently said in the bill. However, I fear that in the realisation of the law, the negative effects of a provision under which the only criteria for promotion in business will be an assessment of work and efficiency above any positive effects. Why do I think that? Because past work is not only acquired by the right to the time spent in the ministry but is a guarantee of work experience, and work experience guarantees expertise and professionalism. One word of quality in the performance of the job, and we are about to agree on this quality of work most important in the state service because it is a condition of satisfaction for citizens, namely taxpayers who pay civil servants. The past work is therefore an absolutely objective criterion for progress in the business, and it is precisely to ensure objectivity is the greatest weakness of evaluation of work and efficiency as a criterion for progress in the work that this law proposes especially when it is the only criterion for advancement, because in this case progress is exclusively related to the will of senior officials, which we find unacceptable. This team is more in today's, therefore, Croatian conditions characterized by the escalating politicisation of state services, the provision of objectivity in evaluation, in fact in a certain way impossible mission. That's why we don't really expect the provisions of this labour assessment law to be applied objectively, but they'll be a good fig leaf to assess the similarity of civil servants. In order to narrow down the space for manipulations and any abuses that have already been mentioned too much today, the best solution in this situation would have been the combination of the criteria for assessing work with the criteria of past work, and this is the more that we have heard this solution already today, on several occasions, prone to trade unions. Such a combined solution is provided for in Article 13(3) of this Act when receiving workers in the public service and deploying to the corresponding pay grade in the pay grade after satisfactory testing work. This deployment is primarily carried out according to the work experience and only then according to the results of the work. Also under Article 27 of the proposed law and the initial classification of civil servants when transferring from this existing system to a new system of wages will be carried out precisely on the basis of the number of years of total employment. Finally, in all the previous discussions that preceded mine, a series of very concrete and very constructive proposals and their inclusion in this bill would certainly make a significant contribution to its quality. Thank you for listening to me.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-18-0.u27794	Thank you very much. Next comes the debate of distinguished counterpart Ivana Bagaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-18-0.u27795	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. I think that, that we have witnessed here today in a certain way one demonstration of what it was and how it was, you have been witnesses and all along it was essentially a replacement of the thesis that is not good and, in fact, because of what debates we have seen here today people in a certain way despise and the work of MPs in the Croatian Parliament. Or maybe it intrigues them, so that's why they're watching him. Therefore, I see that my colleagues are not here, but here I am speaking to him wherever he is and I repeat. So this was simply about replacing thesis where he wanted to say on several occasions that someone here was allowed not to know or even the officials, the tenants, the workers in distress, etc. which is absolutely untrue. So it wasn't about that, it was about his appearance as he is. I rated him really when he was looking from that point of view that I was talking about wonderfully. But when it comes to substance, the essence of its speech was neither directed at this law nor essentially dealt with it. So, of course, people reacted as they reacted and it's incorrect and it's not true, so someone was expelled from the Parliament or moved either that it's a matter of not knowing who's keeping order downstairs and I don't know at the entrance to the Parliament or about the waiter. Therefore, beware that he was kind to SDP representatives. That's crazy. Well, all the people here and all the waiters are nice to all people, including SDP agents, so no one's moving them anywhere. So we say the words so easily, and then when we say them, we're surprised that I don't know either of them's reactions, but we're actually the most responsible for them. We've been listening here the whole time that this law has no criteria, how the grades are going to be done, how they're going to be conducted, what I don't know, unspeakable, how they're going to be, how they're going to be conducted, how they're going to be, how I don't know, how they're going to be, how they're going to be, how I don't know, how they're going to be, how they're going to be, how they're going to be. On the other hand, it was said that, I don't know, there were people in the government and the government who weren't able to listen, who was working on their own and so on, but on the other hand, there were very few concrete proposals, I would say that they were almost gone at all. So there was only criticism for criticism and nothing else. In one good part, I agree with my colleague Lesar when he spoke and spoke as someone who really tried to improve the proposal of this law, and all the other things we heard or much of what was actually the debate that caused here were just criticism for criticism and purpose. It's simply a law or material that takes time. This is one model that will ultimately show its success, and in that time it will be tested and none of our debates will, in particular, make it even better, and will not harm it, but we want to damage our own reputation. On the other hand, when one small analysis is made and a little look at how we are discussing and how we are discussing, then we really highlight everything that is not good and put it first. It's like we're forgetting. Yesterday we created Croatia, yesterday Tudjman said "we have Croatia". Our answer should be built, built. So this law also contributes to the construction of this Croatia, so building a system, building everything that has not been built, so what needs to be improved and what needs to be improved. I personally don't have any objections to this law down here, I have one single question, or one pure thought, even though I don't think I'm an expert in that field, so I'm not sure I'm right at all. So when it comes to evaluations, when it comes to evaluations of civil servants, then the question is asked, I don't think it's the ones who are able to evaluate well, but it's known that people are often out of mind or out of God and asking what reasons I'm not afraid to put and give worse grades because such extremes will be seen very quickly and it won't be practice, it won't be dominant. But I find it more dangerous to give good grades to those who don't deserve it. And we're often inclined and I don't know, all of us here and generally people who work with people, with grown-up people, and not with little kids, so it's a lot easier for a kid to grade, I don't know two or three or five and say you have a chance to get better, but a man who's an adult is not very handsome to give that grade. Therefore, in my view, it might be good to work out a way to evaluate the appraisers, but not in terms of the assessments given by their superiors, but in terms of evaluation and in a certain way to assess those assessments they give. Therefore, it would be good for me to build an instrument that will enable anyone who gives an assessment that there are enough reasons not to always give the best grade when someone doesn't deserve it and that has not just a sanction for it because it doesn't matter as much in this case as it matters, if we can make an excuse like that. So whoever's rated would know in that case that his grader is going to account for his assessment, and so he's going to have a responsibility no more, and I don't know how to make a mistake that I'm afraid will happen and happen when it comes to this law. I thank my colleague Christmas who actually prepared me for a good part of her debate, i.e. left me in the sense that she was commenting because she could not be present here and I have her one written material that actually confirms the good part of what I'm saying and I agree with her because I read good and this material, but also this all that we've heard so far, but one good attempt to make this a simple step more, that this is one level more and that this is one contribution to better evaluation, better quality, which is the most important result that will result from this assessment of quality judgment of someone's work, and that even rewards for this work and in a certain way encourage those who work well, those who do not know, that they are all finding more difficult excellence. Therefore, this evaluation here, among other things, is not an evaluation, but a measure of the 3,000 kuna for an extraordinary contribution, which is very encouraging and very important to me, because it will certainly contribute, I don't know in a certain way, to further evaluate this work and to retain young, healthy, capable people, people who are eager to work, eager to prove in the system of state administration, where it is very important to really keep good and capable of making good and able to make quality decisions, and for the good of this country, or for the good of all, of all of us. Here, thank you very much and my support for this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-18-0.u27796	Thank you. Correction of incorrect allegations, Ms. Biljana Borzana.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-18-0.u27797	Well, here, I would correct the inaccuracies of colleagues who say that on the side of the opposition, primarily in addressing fellow Stazic on behalf of the club, it was only about criticism for criticism without constructive proposals. So, it's absolutely not true, but even giving, the opposition is here to criticise and to put them on the line, since this is the first reading that maybe those criticisms are from the ruling side and hear and install them into the law. You yourself, in your own debate, expressed a certain skepticism, which means that we were in the ultimate line of all these debates that the opposition had made, by the opposition, that we were right. So, what was also proposed constructively that what had been good so far, and this is the 0.5% per year internship left because, I think all of us who came from some service, who we had jobs, and we're all mostly here who we are in the Parliament, so we know well what joy it makes for a man when he pays him a little increase every year, when he gets a Jubilee Award after 5 or 10 years of work experience. So these are some things that shouldn't just be abandoned and we're here today and we're proposing, so here I'm saying, it's not just about criticism.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-18-0.u27798	Replica, Mr. Representative Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-18-0.u27799	Thank you very much, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. So here's a colleague, Bagaric, said he supported this law, and in fact, in this law there are clearly visible criteria and criteria by which civil servants would be evaluated and by which they would gain opportunities to advance and pay. All I want to say and to add that the excellence of someone is measured in his efforts, in his work and industriousness, that surely his industriousness and the effects of this work must be rewarded, stimulated and evaluated. Valuation in such a way will certainly be good and certainly will not contribute 30% of the reduction in salary as it was from 2000 to 2003. At that time, the care of civil servants was certainly at the lowest level, then the care of civil servants who did not give them the will to work, let alone any stimulation but detimulation. At the time, it was a concern that the party ran about civil servants on the margins. Hence, this law will also improve what they experienced during that time, during that lead time that was there. And so today’s concerns are, for sure, the other Nashes and all the others that come out of the party’s ranks of meaningless things that have no footholds and foundations. They don't even have any concrete suggestions. The political relationship, the cynicism, the untrue, the irony that is being brought into the debate on this law is certainly the only thing that could be heard from party lines. And so I'm surprised that I can't face what they've been doing and how they've valued civil servants. The value of civil servants was certainly on the sidelines in those times of party rule.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-18-0.u27800	Injury of the Rules of Procedure Mr. Representative Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-18-0.u27801	Mr. Vice President. I think my colleague hurt Article 214. Rules of Procedure relating to demeaning and possibly even insulting some parties. Namely, the fact that he called HSS, HSLS, IDS, LS parties that were then ruled by him certainly offending them who ruled from 2000 to 2003. And in one part of the insult of the SDP, however, as he has the name of the party, then it might not be possible to put it under the article. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-18-0.u27802	Why would it be an insult to be called party party or party party party?
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-18-0.u27803	I'd like you to assess.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-18-0.u27804	It's just such a mark-up. ... It's like being called a good game or someone. [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-18-0.u27805	It's in chess. I don't think the gentleman meant chess.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-18-0.u27806	Not in chess, but in marriage. He says that's a good game. Reply to the replica Mr. Agent Ivan Bagarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-18-0.u27807	Thank you. So I think that actually the absence of a fellow Stazic who has actually contributed most to this development of this debate, or I would say his escape from the assembly if it can be said the battlefields, is actually proof of lack of arguments and regardless of those praises that I remain for the artistic impression of it is actually agreeing with my colleague Djakic's lack of arguments and lack of really constructive proposals. And unfortunately, this is repeated from the debate and from law to law, and we certainly do not contribute to the improvement of the law or better status and position, or in a certain way to the respect of MPs and the Parliament. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-18-0.u27808	And another replica, Mr. Representative Boris Kunst.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-18-0.u27809	You have well noticed that fellow Stazic has escaped, but it is not surprising. He doesn't have enough arguments to answer, so he ran. Actually, I think that's it, his escape is his program. But I must say that just as MP Stazic tried to deceive the public with his demagogue debate by speaking to his colleague Djakic and to me because in the absence of arguments against this law he did not know what to say, so he tried to speak to us how we underestimate civil servants and tenants. I will remind you, this very same colleague Stazic was in 2000 if memory does not deceive me in the SDP when the SDP was in power. At that time, the SDP reduced salaries to civil servants and tenants on average 30% to 40% and then the colleague Stazic did not release any tears, nor did he mention civil servants anywhere. That's true, I'm talking, and he said the same thing. So he simply then crawled into the mouse hole of his colleague Stazic and also A did not talk about these civil servants and tenants when they took off their pay. And by the way, the epithet of the mother government is exactly the government's greatest epithet of motherhood and the government has just had during the SDP rule.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-18-0.u27810	Gentlemen, don't. You know there's nothing in the replica to be said and don't talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure. ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-18-0.u27811	He's got it, he's right behind you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-18-0.u27812	A colleague can speak in replicas. ... Usus, yes. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Mr. Ivan Bagarić responds to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-18-0.u27813	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I would like to thank my colleague Stazic, who has returned. And here, I believe in all the things that we have said that we will successfully bring an end to this debate and that we will pass a good and quality law. The decision to go to second reading, so the decision, actually the proposal I think was by the government and I think that we all actually supported it together as such is actually the time in which we can improve this law and I believe that it will be so and that, in the end, all these discussions will be essentially less important and the law will be good. And that's the most important thing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-18-0.u27814	Mr. Representative Boris Matkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-18-0.u27815	Thank you. Mr. Vice President. Here, I'm glad that my colleague Bagaric was finally at peaceable, which is good because I don't think these discussions on the left and right are really leading to anything. As a matter of fact, I'm going to start all the debates, later on I need to realize that she started a pre-election campaign for local elections and apparently some are trying to take her place in the starting position, but maybe in the wrong place and the wrong way. .../The intruder can't be heard. It is already your problem whether your colleague Stazic will be mayor or not. Or is that your mayoral candidate, we will not enter from this position. So, at the beginning, I'd say this law is good. I would only say that for one reason, because we find this law in several European countries, i.e. European communities. I don't see why they accepted what worked for them, it wouldn't work for us either. And actually I'd ask all of us here one question at the very beginning, and that's why we always doubt people who have to do something eventually? By doubting other people, those who do so and who doubt them actually doubt themselves. And we should ask ourselves some questions. That's definitely it. Otherwise, this bill which, for the first time, needs to be told by a special law, regulates the status or salary and other material rights of civil servants is good from that position, because what we had so far in the law, that is, in certain articles of the law, that is, it obviously did not work and does not work properly, and we had to bring it into line. That means it was missing, and that's why this bill is before us. And that's the starting position that we all have to actually go from in our debate. Why is he deficient, and where are the faults? Well, the disadvantage is firstly expressed in what we take as the basis of the salary of a civil servant, which is the workplace, i.e. the layout and the base in the calculation, the base times the coefficient on which then clearly the previous one increases by 0.5%. Why is that missing? I mean, the explanation is I think it's at least very simple. This actually means that we do not have exact wages, and this also has an inadequate evaluation of work and results for the result. And yet this means that those who have certain results, and even respectable results, could never have been rewarded, but they evend themselves with those who simply sat down for 8 hours. Thus, neither are they rewarded nor are they rewarded, nor are we able to call what we can call self-inventivity within that responsibility. And that is what is relevant in all of this and making certain decisions, etc. So these are all the things we meet. And that, in my opinion, means that, in fact, the most negative consequence of what has been so far has been that those who have had a longer internship, or long internship, have progressed, and that internship has never actually been checked. And what about the status and salary of higher education, clearly according to this law that we have so far, which are just beginning to work and which do not have that past internship. Well, here yesterday, and before that, a colleague on the left said that young quality people who can actually achieve respectable results leave work in the state service and move to private or financial agencies, i.e. institutions only for one reason, which is a higher salary. And why, now, we're not going to make this proposal good if he essentially prefers exactly what I'm talking about right now. I clearly don't want to say that certain experiences don't mean anything for a long time, but they do mean something. And those who have them in the beginning will by this new law come into a more favourable position and classes and degrees. So I think at the beginning it means it won't be like some colleagues say someone will be less valuable. I don't see it that way. In fact, I see it the way it is proposed in this law, which is that wages in the state service will be valued on principle, equal pay for equal work. And we haven't had that before, or we don't have that yet. It's definitely a starting point by which you should also think very well. On categories and subcategories, etc. And by the levels of these subcategories I wouldn't, but I would point out something that is essentially something that is very important. That classification requires both the expertise and the complexity of jobs and the complexity of work and cooperation not only within its work, but also with others and others around them and with parties, and responsibility, and participation in decision-making, etc. and these are assumptions that we can always take as something that can serve in determining certain criteria. I also see personal quality in progress based on the assessment of work, i.e. efficiency and quality evaluation of that part of management and highly professional jobs. Why mistrust in those who will evaluate excellent or extraordinary, excellent and good. And who's actually going to do it? Well, that will be done by the people who are responsible, who will get a certain responsibility. That too should be considered, not that it will be done immediately in advance by someone who will do so on the basis of some suspicious assumptions some speak of. I'm not looking at it exclusively through the responsibility of the one who's going to do it. He must be responsible and he will be paid for it. So doubting someone in advance, doubting the system, doubting something means doubting yourself and those who support such attitudes. What I'd like to end up shorting because we've come to an end, I hope. It is also positive that the proposer has shown all of these a general tendency to arrange the salaries of civil servants in one whole way and to reward them in the way they achieve the results of the work. That's why I'm gonna support this law. And I personally think that since 1.1.2010, we have enough to get what we call a good 1.1.2010 is excellent.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-18-0.u27816	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect allegation, Mr. Representative Arsen Beuk.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-18-0.u27817	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Corrected the incorrect allegations of a respected colleague, Matkovic, who said that by doubting them, thinking therefore of those who suggest we doubt ourselves. So that quote is multiplely incorrect. First of all, we don't doubt, we're safe. Second of all, we don't doubt, the attorney general's suspicions. As a third, we have no doubt, doubting the government because it has withdrawn the law from the emergency procedure into the first reading. And as a fourth, we don't doubt ourselves, we're safe, and this quote of yours is undoubtedly incorrect. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-18-0.u27818	You have to believe in doubt. Mr. Representative Tomislav Ivić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-18-0.u27819	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, dear colleagues and colleagues. I will support the adoption of this law because I hold as most predecessors have said that it is actually good, and I particularly support the key intention of this law, which is to create a legal assumption that it is more just and rewarding the work of civil servants and that legal assumptions are created for a better possibility of progress according to the results achieved. The existing legislation essentially statesmen's salaries are fixed, they don't depend on how they do their job, what the result of their work is. So it's equally worth both work and hard work. The employer does not have the opportunity to reward those who do their job in a quality and efficient way, as there is no special space to punish those who do not do their job properly. So the same gets those who consciously and responsibly do their job, as do those who do it less conscientiously and less responsibly. The same gets those who do their job with quality and efficiency, than those who do it less effectively and qualityfully. I think it's absurd and unsustainable, and I think that this law, regardless of some of the doubts that are expressed, should be absolutely supported, and I'm sure that it will eventually, and until another reading, probably in that sense, correct itself. There's been a lot of talk here about past work. It was essentially based on everything, although this past work in terms of quality and performance was not measured and measurable at all. So, it is questionable whether this institute, for me it is unquestionable that it is not a good institute, and I think it is much better that what is proposed by the new law is that through the assessment of the quality and efficiency of someone's work progress, to get a thicker canvas bag, that it is absolutely in the spirit and time in which we live, and the fact that all the countries of the European Union have about this kind of regulation and the fact is that in all these countries there is an evaluation of work. The evaluation has been done with both of us and so far. Of course not everyone is happy with this way, but it must be evaluated and it is up to us that during the time ahead, there are possible corrections to be made if certain irregularities are observed. So, in short, I support this law, because it will open up the possibility and space for those who do quality and good work to be paid better than those who do it less quality and weaker. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-18-0.u27820	Thank you. Mr. Representative Miranda Mrsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-18-0.u27821	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President. So here we are discussing the Law on the Payments of Civil Servants, and I would like to begin with a quote, Mr. Palaric is here, and there, sometime last year, when we adopted this Law on Civil Service Officers, I quote: "In the future, civil servants will not be able to be convicted of criminal acts primarily related to corruption, marriage, family and youth, property, sexual freedom and sexual disorder, and official duties. All officials against whom criminal proceedings related to criminal offences will also be removed from office. In this way we want to do in quotes "cleaning" the administration and go towards depoliticalisation and professionalisation of the state administration, as well as achieve one of the country's most important priorities, which is the fight against corruption." That's what you said then and you said that you wanted to be, that someone who was a civil servant not to be in conflict of interest and that... That's what you said. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And now with the Payments Act, what we want to do is to clear the administration of non-performing civil servants, and not insecure, but insecure for the ruling party, because it is obviously not possible to do so by the Civil Service Act, but we can do so with the Law on the Payments of State officials, because if you don't promote someone for years, and if you keep him on a low salary, then he will either go on his own or find some other and better paid job, and apparently this law legalises the will of the superiors, because when you speak about grades, here I have a proposal to assess the work and efficiency of the employees, or the official since 2008, the Croatian Parliament. It's proposed an excellent, determined, good grade. The score's right here. A grade that should decide the fate of someone who works in this House. One, two, three, four, five, six lines, of those six lines, you need to sum up the grade of someone who works in the Assembly and thus pave his way into his official career. And under two, there's another table that's very good-looking to me, says a display of planned and unplanned jobs. And you know what that looks like in construction? When you have a performer, then hit the planned jobs, and then hit the unplanned jobs or extracurricular works, and this is manipulation because you can get someone who likes to make 35, 50, 100 unplanned jobs that will make an excellent atmosphere, or with an excellent grade, and thus promote someone who is more attractive to you. Since there are no criteria in the law then I neither read the law and try to figure out what are the criteria that make someone extraordinary, excellent, which are the criteria that make someone unsatisfactory and satisfying, so it's more like a feature that's been in previous systems, which has followed us all our lives where the government has blackened in that character. You could have been followed as long as you wanted, but that's what's been following you your whole life. Also, if someone doesn't like you, if he doesn't like the hair you wear, if he doesn't like the clothes you wear, you can be declared unsatisfactory at work, so here's someone who understands me, because if you're not satisfied with the grade you're wearing, it says that the grade is insufficiently given because he doesn't welcome a superior when he walks past him. You can claim that you welcome the superiors, he can claim not to greet you or not to greet you in a way that we should welcome. Therefore, the criteria for assessing whether someone is doing good or bad are criteria that should have been better developed. There's a respected colleague Hebrang, we in medicine have developed criteria. Work on radiology is the number of patients examined. The operating criteria in surgery are the number of operations, and here are the criteria on two pages, some of which are planned, some unplanned. On this one brief example, it is evident that there are no criteria and that they are left to volunteer and evaluate how anyone wants to evaluate someone who works with him. If he likes the female, he'll prefer the women and the women will evaluate. If he likes the male race, then he'll prefer the male race and get better grades. Here you do not have the opportunity to find out which way and which criteria are, and what I think this proposal, as I said, is simply to clean up the staff from the administration, as Mr Palarić said, but not in the direction of depoliticalisation and deprofessionalisation, but vice versa, for the purpose of politicising and creating a state administration according to HDZ.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-18-0.u27822	Thank you. Mr. Representative Daniel Srb. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-18-0.u27823	... Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. [[Specially enabled.]] I personally believe in the need to reward employees in the state administration according to work, their work results, but I do not believe in the success of implementing this law. Why? First of all, there is no tradition of applying the award system to success. A deep-rooted contaminant, especially among civil servants, is one thing. And on the other hand, the question is whether there is an atmosphere in which such a law can be implemented. I seriously doubt that. Therefore, the proposer of this law must be aware that from the moment of its application he will face major problems, major resistances and great dissatisfaction. On the other hand, we must be aware of that, there is no perfect law, but on the other hand, there is a deeply rooted belief that everyone is underpaid for their work, regardless of the duty and the kind of work they conduct. Therefore, I would like to succeed this law, but I fear that those who propose it after its application will soon be the ones who will withdraw it. I wish you a lot of success and happiness in its application. However, let us also recall the reasons why we are encouraged to pass a law in which civil servants are stimulated by certain successes. What are we not satisfied with when it comes to public administration or civil servants? We're not satisfied with their efficiency. Many citizens have no objections to the work of civil servants because they believe the state administration is too slow and ineffective. Entrepreneurs on the other hand have not had an example of many foreign investors when they talk in Croatia, even at seminars, they often say, we must also calculate with you a certain slowness of state administration and the expected support in our project, as it develops much slower in you than in other European countries. And that's a certain cost we have to count on. And it's an obstacle and a certain development of our country. Therefore, I absolutely encourage the state administration to be faster, more determined, more efficient and I am ready to support all the measures that lead in this direction, but let us also be aware of the problems that we face, and these are the consequences in the absence of a number of cases of the fact that they cannot be resented by civil servants themselves, because they are too often and subject to the conflicts of different political groups and groups. And they built a certain protection mechanism in such a way that they resist change, resist what is new, and as a result, the slowness of the implementation of new projects that are of paramount importance for both the country's development and for increasing employment and for all other positive effects that follow. So I want a lot of success in applying this law. do something else to introduce an additional system of control of the application of employee incentive measures that must be made possible at the end and that the system is operational. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-18-0.u27824	Thank you. Mr. Representative Zoran Vinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-18-0.u27825	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I must note that this law was still there in 2007 just before the elections for the Croatian Parliament, and it is no wonder that it has been standing in the drawer for almost two years now before this local election is being taken out of the drawer again and in the original proposal by emergency procedure. This is not about any European law, since most of the European countries that are members of the European Union do not have this kind of evaluation of civil servants and tenants and one who can read, and I believe that most of them here in the Croatian Parliament will see that this law is also connected with local officials and tenants. And that not everything might have been better at this point, given that this law only applies in 2010 and perhaps in 2011, in 2012, it may have been today to talk about the standard of living of Croatian citizens, high interest rates, job losses, real recession, whether we are really in bananas or even eating that banana, but rather about a law that will only come in a year or two days. But I'm saying, it only works in a law that's for the sake of choice. However, I would also like to propose something about this first reading in any case, and I would even agree there to a large extent with the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system where you are Vice President and where you yourself have signed this conclusion that the addiction of civil servants' salaries can lead exclusively to subjective assessment of the quality of work, and on the other hand to the dependence of civil servants on a senior official who assesses the quality of work. The proposal for this law proposes the removal of the working-time criteria for determining the salaries of civil servants, and as the only criterion for the level of pay and the possibility of progress, an assessment by a senior official who has been criticised here has been established. In this context, it is pointed out that it should consider the possibility that the criteria of the internship, so these 0.5 per year, should be combined with the quality of work assessment criterion. Because in the field of state administration, experience has a big role to play. It is also stressed on this Constitution, therefore all the political parties in this House agreed that the measure of effectiveness without the real criteria of the evaluation regulation is very difficult to measure. And it was found that the bill proposed insufficient criteria for the extraordinary award of civil servants. I know Mr. Palaric got it from this board, so he could read it. And what I particularly like is that this bill should determine the relationship between law and collective agreement which is not an implementing act, and set out in detail the way and time limits for the adoption of implementing rules. But to get back into practice, I am personally and interested in where these 0.1% of the funds will be provided on the total gross amount of salaries of civil servants and deputies, which are banks, are they business banks again, because we have witnessed that the finance minister has to visit all the business banks every month without going to Croatian banks on loan, for a new loan to pay off these salaries. There are certainly these new 50,000 jobs, and I will personally advocate that the first award for efficiency is received by the State Secretary Mr. Palarić, who was 24.11. on a memo sent on 23.11. at 14.00 and 30 minutes spottly answered at 9 am and 45 minutes. Such speedcracies have not been recorded in the world so far, so here I am, given that the second letter which was also sent by the city council when this Pasalic power was ensnared, because there is a Croatian bloc, not HDZ, and it is not without the will of the citizens to the second letter when the replacement dictionary from the non-existent party comes to the council and has not yet responded as state secretary to the legality of the work of the City Council of Djakov. As a result, this change in the will of the citizens of the elected mayor and city council has led to the fact that here, probably in accordance with these unwritten criteria, the head of the Department of Communal Activity, which has been doing this job since 1997, has been under the decision that he is not fit for medical care even though he is now working as a consultant and is not still on sick leave. Directors of companies have also been removed. One of them is also a HDZ member, the founder of HDZ. But I personally didn't want to change it because a man knows the job. But this new one's been replaced, probably by unwritten criteria. There's certainly employment without competition. An intern from 42 or 43 who has nothing to do with the Department of Social Activities except that the vice president of HDZ and members or president of Katarina Zrinska is so busy in the city. The second one is re-employed with the city's headship because it is the president of the branch of HDZ youth in Piscorevci, etc. etc. That's what they do in the state administration. I believe for all these consequences that Mr. Palaric's haste brought to Djakova, not to mention that two, three years ago, I could have read in the paper to establish a new municipality. He called her Budrovac even though it was the Budrovs. Fortunately, it didn't happen, they stayed in the city of Djakova. But such a decision from the Office of State Administration went towards the Government of the Republic of Croatia and that I do not list everyone else solely for this haste, I propose to the Prime Minister, since he is probably the only expert who can assess Mr Palaric's work to give him an adequate reward. And I thank you here for signing and for realizing that this law and through this Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system, in any case, as such a law, the prescribed law, the ill-written law cannot pass on that thanks you. And this law is not only for second reading, but it is probably necessary to put it in a drawer and not pull it out until the evaluation criteria are really made, while all civil service employees do not have to fear whether they will be members of individual political options, but that they are free to come to work and be adequately rewarded for their work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-18-0.u27826	Thank you. Two corrections. Mr. Representative Tomislav Ivić.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-18-0.u27827	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. So I would from a whole series of incorrect allegations correct my colleague Vinkovic when he claimed that in Djakov there was no "Pasalic's Authority" in power, there was no "Pasalic's Authority", in Djakov there was a coalition of parties headed by the Croatian Democratic Union, and in that coalition and the parties that were with you while you were in power, but dissatisfied with your work they left the coalition because they could not welcome this law so that they could evaluate you, but they were dissatisfied with your work changing sides.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-18-0.u27828	There's no breach of the Rules of Procedure. No injuries. No injured colleague has any article [[/Employment: Article 209 has been injured.]] Okay. [[Employer: A colleague Ivić could at least lift this replica board, Pasalić entered your HDZ, he will soon master you.]] I'm afraid I can't get involved in the debate, although I'd love to, but I can't. ... [[And as for these partners, here they are to you, free with them. I wouldn't plant pumpkins with them anymore.]] Now you might say I'm sorry to be relieved of my time from the Governing Council of Horse Ergels. ... [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]] And good. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Five-minute debate, SDP representative club, Mr. Representative Nenad Stazic. [[Intruder: If the ergel had been under the city, you would have remained 100% free of charge.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-18-0.u27829	Your Honor, Vice President. The SDP Club remains with all its observations made on this legislative proposal. It is said that this law should introduce a reward according to the quality of work. If we had a reward for the quality of work, then Prime Minister Sanader and all ministers should have lost their wages long ago. The fate of this law is clear. He will follow the fate of the Road Safety Act. And there was first 0.5, so it was abolished, it was introduced 0.0, and then it was returned 0.5. I assure you that you will also return 0.5% a year of internships for all state officials and tenants, if not sooner, and then before the elections. Something about this bill of motion. I'm a member of the SDP club. I spoke and speak for my party and for the 800,000 citizens who voted for the party. My colleague Kunst called me to escape the debate. I assure you, Mr. Vice President, and your colleague Kunst that neither I nor any SDP will ever escape from HDZ, especially in front of Kunsto. In addition, I invite you not to enter into the controversy with any SDP through the correction of the incorrect quote and the replica of your member of the club. You can always replicate directly to me or any SDP. You have a business opportunity for that, use it. I know you're afraid of a reply to a replica, but don't doubt yourself. Well, isn't it enough for others to doubt you? Don't be on their side.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-18-0.u27830	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect allegation.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-18-0.u27831	Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, just one inaccuracy in Stazic's closing statement, which is to speak in front of his party. That's incorrect. You speak in front of your own party.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-18-0.u27832	It's not a neck. It's a neck. And you don't need to take it. ... What Djakovsky Dinamo? [[You can't hear the intruder.]] And Djakovacka Croatia? State Secretary, here's your final review.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-18-0.u27833	Dear Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. Afterwards, here's the whole afternoon debate on this law actually repeats the story of a two-year debate with the unions about the law. Yes, the law was more or less in this form and the content was finished in '97. It was not a pre-election law because if it were a pre-election law they would then have referred it to the procedure and brought and tried with well-being for civil servants to score in elections, but behold, it shouldn't have. Or he's tied to the election now. The law is therefore sent at 12 months, it is already as a European law, a law that contains European standards no doubt because, we heard all of Hannes Freedom that and that is one of the expected effects in reform, so... rewards according to work, results of work and efficiency. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It's Europe. The resistances of Europe were at the level of any union or any union, and now they're because everyone's 0.5 worked, not working... The system, it's not modernization, it doesn't stimulate good officers, but it does all the same and it brings everything back because the one who works less will make less mistakes and then he won't mind anyone. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We heard contradictory thesis. On the one hand, all of the members of the state's administration were accepted by political criteria, and then on the other hand they said, and then these poor officials were scolded. Well, it can't be. If they're from one party, then it turns out that the party is scrambling its members. On the other hand, this thesis that a state administration is making is wrong, that is, the safest, most comfortable employment in Croatia is working in the state service, there are official rights respected, there can go on sick leave, on maternity leave, on collective contract rights, on social partnership, and in difficult times we have respected social partnership provisions on the height of the foundation, collective agreement in full and social gaps. But even after this debate, we remained in different positions again on the possibility of promoting and rewarding whether to automatism or based on the results of the work. One-off growth of the number of civil servants has been mentioned, however, data are actually quite different in terms of civil servants. The number of civil servants has dropped, there are variations, we've given answers to parliamentary questions. He's shrunk. It is true that the established agencies are independent, regulatory, apolitical, part of public affairs is transferred by decentralisation to local and regional self-government. So there were 500-600 officers who went out to issue construction permits. And the number of civil servants does not grow but the number of people who receive salaries from the state budget grows. So a number of universities were established, the school system increased the number of people from teaching staff to other staff, the health system increased the number of people, social care that. And speaking of examples of the Pension Insurance Office. That is, the state but these are not civil servants or the number of civil servants has been increased, but in fact the most significant reduction thanks to the Ministry of Defence which has significantly reduced the number of people throughout this period and some ministries have had to grow because adapting to European standards also means strengthening the administrative capacity of individual institutions and bodies that we have not had. We had to establish a large number of agencies and commissions, we had to establish and finally in my office and the Centre for the Education of Officials and the Department of European Resources, and the Department of National Minorities, and the Department of Ethics. You can't do that back there. There have also been good suggestions and suggestions that we will discuss but those who have criticised progress towards work grades have actually gone beyond the scope of the the thesis that managers who manage a particular resolution are some criminals who are pushing their people. No, no, no, no, no, no. People who run any level in the organization scheme, so in that pyramid, because the state administration is set up every single person in the whole world on the principle of single-age, and you know who's the most responsible. Whoever is responsible has the right to ask people to work but is obliged to adopt a regulation on internal order with the precise obligations and work plan on an annual basis as long as an individual official is required to do the work. For example, a parent who betrays beliefs or nieces or something knows exactly how many jobs he needs for a certain enrolment, and his work can be valued. And of course this in Zagreb, Split, in a big city can be asked to issue 50-60 beliefs that it would be average, if it betrays 70, then it is above average or excellent and if it betrays 20 it is bad. However, to those criteria in Vis, he must betray everything, everything that appears to him, he must betray. He can't have 20 housekeepers, but we have to have a man on Vis. And then if he betrayed everything he was asked to, if a man wanted to get married on board he went on a date, if he wanted to get married on the property because now our system allows the parents to go out where the party wants he will be rated with an excellent grade and thus advanced. Gentlemen, we need no one, no union, no representative, and no one can protect my officers from me or any of those of my superiors. It must also be extremely careful in assessing and rewarding the principles of justice because it will cause dissatisfaction and the body of the state government will not work. The work has a lot, the Croatian state administration is solid, it has had a number of big jobs, hundreds of thousands of objects that other countries have not had since the creation of resources for defence, reconstruction, the care of exiles, denationalisation and not to mention. These are all items of hundreds of thousands of individual objects that have been solved. And be assured that neither enrolment nor marriage, nor death certificates, nor building permits, nor crafts are issued according to political criteria, but are issued according to the law and the facts established in the procedure. It's hard to carry out the reform. It is difficult to end this great process needed to introduce Croatia into a European legal space, but we will do it precisely because it is difficult. We are determined to implement the reform for ourselves and for the sake of Croatian civil servants, Croatian citizens taking care of efficiency but also taking care of the kindness and relationship towards the parties. And I ask that it be kept in mind that retaining a clean cut is not a reform, is not a measuring system and would not thus meet European standards in the salaries of civil servants. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-18-0.u27834	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect quote Mr. Representative Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-18-0.u27835	It is not true that anyone claimed that all state officials and deputies were members of the HDZ. This would first be impossible because it is not only accepted in public service by party criteria but also by family and family. Secondly, we've been saying that lately.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-18-0.u27836	Is that a correction to Mr. Palaric?
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-18-0.u27837	For five years, HDZ's rule of law has been increased by these criteria. And secondly, it's not true that there's no one in the state administration. This does not claim Nenad Stazic, it is the attorney general who claims you and brings evidence about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-18-0.u27838	In this second part of the correction you are right, and in the second part, Secretary Palaric argued that all officials and deputies are members of HDZ. He said one party but you always think that one party is HDZ. There's nothing left to do but conclude the debate and interrupt the session. Continuing at 9.30 p.m. with a debate on the Report on the operation of the pension fund for 2006 and 2007 with the Final Proposal for the Law amending the Law on Administrative Taxes in the field of intellectual property rights. and I would especially ask the Committee on European Integration to do its part of the work tomorrow and to discuss this set of laws in the field of intellectual industrial property so that we could do so in the morning, so that we can do so after the meeting of the Committee on the Constitution and on the Law establishing the paying agency in agriculture and on the Agricultural Chamber, so that tomorrow afternoon, let's say, we can finish the debate on the good part of the law, and then just go to the vote on Friday and thus finish this session. ... Please. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] It's not a joke.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-02-18-0.u27839	15. Proposal for a law on civil servants' salaries, first reading, P.Z.E. No. 244 The debate is closed. I am voting on the following conclusion: "1. Proposal for a law on civil servants’ salaries is hereby adopted; 2. Any comments, proposals and opinions raised in the debate will be addressed to the applicant in order to prepare a final draft law.". Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? The bill was passed by a majority vote with 76 votes in favour, 7 abstentions and 32 against. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen, we continue to work and move forward: - Report on the operation of the Pension Fund for 2006 and 2007 Carrier: Central State Office for Development Strategy and Coordination of EU Funds The Central State Office for the Development Strategy and Coordination of the European Union Funds submitted this report on the basis of Article 35 of the Pension Fund Act. You received the proposal by mail, the government delivered an opinion. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Labour and Social Partnership, you received reports at the session. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Mr Hrvoje Dolenec, State Secretary of the Central State Office for Development Strategy and Coordination of European Union Funds. Here you go.
