ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-05-0.u33258	Thank you, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. In front of you is the report on the implementation of the National Road Safety Programme, based on the Council's conclusion last year that the MUP also submits a report on the implementation of the National Road Safety Programme as well as on road safety. The national road safety programme has been implemented since 1994 by the Government of the Republic of Croatia in 2006. The programme is owned by the Ministry of the Interior and is carried out by a working group composed of experts from various ministries and professional organisations. We are all collectively aware that road safety is not only a concern for road safety, it is not only an obligation, the task of the Ministry of the Interior, because the good state of road safety can only be achieved through a multidisciplinary approach where many ministries and competent institutions will take their part in the activities. So, representatives except the Ministry of the Interior and the Ministry of the Sea, Transport, Infrastructure, then the Ministry of Science, Ministry of Health and Social Care, Ministry of Justice, Croatian Autoclub, Croatian Roads, Croatian Insurance Office and the Centre for Vehicles of Croatia participated in the task force. So, this composition of the working group is already talking about the fact that this road safety problem is really being paid a great deal of attention because in the Republic of Croatia it has been suffering for years, and above all, too many people are dying. The national programme drew up strategic and additional activities which are the basis for all entities whose work is part-round for road safety. Strategic activities are the reduction, speed of the vehicle and respect for the highest permitted speeds, then the protection of young children and the most vulnerable participants in transport, the suppression of driving under the influence of alcohol and intoxicating drugs and the resolution of dangerous places. During 2008, the implementation of strategic activities covered a series of preventive promotional and repressive campaigns. Road safety has undoubtedly become part of the global policy of countries in particular Western Europe, as well as the Republic of Croatia. The Republic of Croatia as a transition country, as well as a country that for centuries after its historical, political, economic and cultural orientation belonged to the Western geo-transport area, has already learned the importance of road safety and has begun to implement measures aimed at reducing number and the consequences of traffic accidents. Following a series of individual activities of road safety operators and some short-term results achieved, it was concluded that without systematic and continuous implementation of the measures, there was no achievement of long-term objectives. However, for the sake of information and for the sake of you, as well as the Croatian public, I will only provide a few information on how traffic safety of participants in the territory of the Republic of Croatia has moved. I have here a table with data on the number of traffic accidents and the number of dead Croatian citizens from 1958 to 2007. And from that, it's very interesting to follow certain trends and trends. In 2005 the Republic of Croatia had for the first time 40 years less than 600 people killed in transport. The last time before 2005 was less than 600 people killed in transport in 1965 when 543 Croatian citizens, i.e. traffic participants, died. After that, after 1965, there was an accelerated, I would say almost enormous increase in the number of people killed in transport, so we had a particularly large increase and an extremely large number of fatal traffic users from 1970 to 1991. In these 20 years, more than 1,000 road users died each year in the Republic of Croatia. In 1970, 1079 people were killed in traffic, followed by a series of black years where these figures grew to culminated in 1979 when 1605 people were killed in traffic in the Republic of Croatia and then there was a slight decline in the number of fatalities but still that figure was more than 1,000 and there were an average of about 1300 people killed in the Republic of Croatia. After 1991, it was the first year in the Republic of Croatia in which more than 1,000 people were killed in death. We had one increase compared to the second year, in 2003 when again after a few years there was a quite large increase when 701 people died in transport, then again we have the number of fatalities as I said in 2005 597, unfortunately after that in 2006, '07. And '08. There was an increase in the number of fatalities but there was no big jump as it happened in 2003 or from the '70s to the '90s. The death toll is just one of the indicators of traffic safety. Of course it's not the only one, but the most tragic because every lost life is invaluable from a human aspect, but also every lost life brings great material harm to society, not to mention the damages of the family of the mortal. And because of this, the vast majority of transport activities are aimed at reducing, above all, the number of serious physical injuries and especially the fatalities in transport. Of course, achieving that goal is a complex problem. In fact, the European Union has about 7 to 8 fatalities per 100,000 inhabitants, while in the Republic of Croatia, according to this latest data, that number is about 14, and our ultimate goal is to make it by 2011 or '12. We come to the death toll below 10 per 100,000 inhabitants. To achieve these objectives, a working group has been formed and the National Road Safety Programme has been adopted. As I said, there are several strategic activities carried out by the working group, so I will briefly try to just say what has been done under these strategic activities under the National Programme, but also from activities undertaken by the working group over the past years. As part of the strategic activities of reducing vehicle speed and respecting the highest permitted speeds, nearly 500 targeted repressive prevention activities have been carried out from the level of police administrations and over a thousand from the level of police stations. This activity was followed by a radio and television video, as well as the division of promotional material instead of punishing drivers who did not harshly violate the speed limit. So we wanted to affirm responsible traffic behaviour and in some ways encourage drivers who respect the speed limit to continue to behave so responsibly in traffic. Based on activities aimed at protecting children, young people and most vulnerable road users, police officers have traditionally visited all classes of all primary schools in Croatia and children at the beginning of the school year and have lectured on the dangers they can face in traffic, the way they are avoided and the desirable behaviour of children in transport. That's how nearly 50,000 children were educated. As part of the above, educational and promotional materials have been distributed to children, and activities related to the proper transport of children in vehicles have been carried. Everything's been followed by television radio broadcasts. In addition to the above, the current project "Transport School" is still under way as part of the "Student School" project, making traffic regulations and traffic problems available to all primary schools in the Republic of Croatia interactively. I must say with pleasure that yesterday we gathered the principals of schools from which the largest number of children were involved in this project "Transport Teachers". In the Republic of Croatia, 275 primary schools were involved in the project, which is about 30% of the total number of primary schools in the Republic of Croatia, and 4980 children participated in the project. I must say that these children have indeed shown enviable knowledge and a very great interest in educating and training as future actors in transport, through this interactive approach. And on this occasion, he would really commend all the principals of primary schools who included and who motivated and encouraged children to join this program "Traffic Teachers" because we think it's the only right way. So not only repression, not only repression, but working with young people of the earliest adult categories, so that children from childhood can start learning responsible behavior and eventually create later responsible road users who will behave responsibly and safely. The implementation of driving control activities under the influence of alcohol and intoxicating drugs has organized over a thousand vehicle drivers' control actions. The actions were carried out in places and during the expected maximum presence of alcoholic drivers. Actions of very wide proportions and the engagement of the largest number of police officers were carried out during Martin, during Christmas and New Year's holidays. It should be noted that the police in the Republic of Croatia have 25 devices for preliminary testing of intoxicating drugs used by police administrations, thus establishing the presence of drugs in 230 drivers. One of the more important activities is the safe and resolution of dangerous sites and this activity was carried out through competitions for the construction of project documentation for the recovery of 17 dangerous places on county and local roads from the territory of the Republic of Croatia. In fact, through police work, but especially with cooperation with the Ministry of Transport, we have detected those places on the county roads where there have been the most traffic accidents, where there have been the most casualties and through the rehabilitation of such places in recent years, it has been shown that this particular activity of solving dangerous places is one of the certainly better activities that delivers good results. In addition to the strategic activities carried out, there has been an additional increase in the technical regularity of the vehicle, improvement of traffic statistics and analysis, use of safety belts and daylights on vehicles and respect for traffic light. In conclusion, it should be said that through the implementation of the National Road Safety Programme, we have tried to put an emphasis on those activities that should produce long-term positive results, not only on repression but also on preventive promotional activities, and therefore we have harmonised the financial plan and the procurement plan. In fact, in previous years, the relationship between the supply of equipment and the promotional prevention activities was in favour of the purchase of equipment. Last year, it was the first time that it was about half or half the cost of promotional activities and the purchase of equipment. For 2008 there were 55 million kunas available for the implementation of all activities under the National Programme. Of these funds is part spent on the purchase of equipment, primarily equipment needed for the operation of Transport Police, but also for the implementation of other preventive and promotional activities. Then, for promotional and information services through TV and radio videos, which is also the information you received from this National Programme Implementation Report. And this year we also continued with this trend of distribution of funds from the financial plan in favour of promotional preventive activities, not in favour of the purchase of equipment. And what's important to me to say is that after we had an increase in the death toll last year, this year with the day before yesterday as far as the death toll is concerned is one of the best years. In fact, there was a significant reduction in the number of fatalities for this observed period. We have 65 fatalities less for the first five months of this year compared to last year. We also have a reduction in the number of car accidents with severely injured, with material damage, so that's for sure I would say encouraging data, especially this information that we have 65 less people killed in this year compared to last year. Of course, that can't satisfy us because it's still dead in the first 5 months of 185 people in traffic, and it would certainly be bizarre to say that we are satisfied with these results because we will never be able to express our satisfaction as long as people are suffering in traffic. We can only strive to be within the limits of acceptable figures, as they are in Europe, 7 to 8 of the deadly victims of 100,000 inhabitants, we are aware that this goal is very difficult to achieve, that it requires persistent involvement of not only the police, but also of all other competent institutions, and we will certainly continue in this direction, such as this pedagogical and promotional activity of a traffic teacher, that through working with young people, we begin to prepare them to act responsibly and safely for themselves, but also for other traffic participants. It is certainly the only right and right way to achieve acceptable road safety in the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-05-0.u33259	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? Yeah. On behalf of the Committee on Maritime Affairs, Transport and Communications, Mr. Slavko Linić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-05-0.u33260	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, State Secretary with an associate, colleagues and colleagues. The Committee on Maritime Affairs, Transport and Liaison of the Croatian Parliament at the 27th session discussed the report on the implementation of the National Road Traffic Safety Programme of the Republic of Croatia for the past year, which was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia to the President of the Parliament. The Committee discussed this report on the implementation of the National Road Safety Programme as a home working body and in accordance with the provisions of Article 89. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The opening presentation was given by a proposing representative who said that the implementation of the national programme in 2008 was carried out through strategic activities, reducing the speed of the vehicle, respecting the highest permitted speeds, protecting children, young people and the most vulnerable road users, curbing alcohol and intoxicating drugs and tackling dangerous traffic places. In addition to strategic activities, additional activities have been carried out such as increasing the technical correctness of the vehicle, the use of safety belts and other activities. The applicant's representative pointed to a paradoxical situation in 2008 that identified a reduction in the number of accidents, a reduction in the number of injuries, but unfortunately, an increase in the number of deaths in transport. He pointed out that the number of vehicles and new drivers increased, i.e. the total traffic in the Republic of Croatia. He also stressed that according to the 2009 data so far, the number of deaths has decreased significantly by almost 26% compared to the previous year and hopes that this positive trend will continue for the first 5 months by the end of this year. After the debate was held, the Committee on Maritime Affairs, Transport and Communications unanimously decided to propose a conclusion to the Croatian Parliament: a report on the implementation of the National Programme for Transport Security of the Republic of Croatia for 2008. As a result of the extensive debate, the Committee also unanimously concluded that, in addition to a series of measures taken in 2008, committees cannot express satisfaction with the road safety situation. It assessed that certain competent ministries in preventive actions and measures have not made their full contribution in the fight to improve traffic safety because certain implementing rules have not yet been adopted under the Road Safety Act and no assessment has been given, resulting in an increase in the number of deaths in traffic accidents, and given the number of reduction of traffic accidents. Also, the National Road Traffic Safety Programme of the Republic of Croatia for the period 2006 to 2010 which outlined the objectives to be achieved by 2010 and in that most important segment, the death toll of less than 10 per 100 thousand inhabitants, which the Committee estimated would be very difficult to achieve in view of the data presented in previous years. And that is why the Committee felt that it was necessary and to hear the Government's assessment of the increased number of deaths and to see the Government's proposal for measures to do what to bring us closer to the national programme's target. It is estimated that it would be necessary to prepare new legislative proposals that would separately regulate certain areas which are now defined by a single Law on Road Safety, based on which individual ministries would be direct legislators, Ministry of the Interior, Ministry of the Sea, Transport and Infrastructure, Ministry of Economy, Ministry of Science and Education, and in that section concerning education and, of course, the Ministry of Health and Social Care related to emergency assistance on roads. In the preventive process especially in the part of education, technical controls should also play a significant role in Croatian Autoclub, Vehicle Centre, Safety Driving Centre and Civil Associations. In the context of the implementation of the National Road Traffic Safety Programme of the Republic of Croatia for the period 2006 to 2010, a traffic safety study should also be carried out and we recommend to the Government that it benefit from the potential of the Croatian Autoclub. It also assessed the need to organise a meeting with representatives of the insurance company with a view to providing funding for the implementation of the National Transport Safety Programme in this and next year. These are about the findings of the board and related to those materials. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-05-0.u33261	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the SDP club, Mr. Representative Boris Sprem. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-05-0.u33262	Your Honor, Mr. President. Comrades and colleagues, Secretary of State, sir. Here I am also personally pleased to say, on behalf of the SDP Club, that during the discussion of the Road Safety Act and its adoption, the Croatian Parliament has reached a constructive conclusion, which is being made at this session today through a debate on the implementation of the National Road Safety Programme. I welcome this because I believe that this debate will also contribute one step in advance to improving road safety. Especially if the Government is serious, and I believe that it wants to consider the conclusions that it has made and brought a unanimous Committee on Maritime, Transport and Communications and what will result from this debate at the plenary session itself. I would remind, however, of the fact that we had a very big problem with the adoption of the Road Safety Act, that we had failed to reach a consensus even though we were looking for it and at least the law by, it was interesting to go into two readings but in the accelerated process in two readings, nothing changed after the debate and warnings that came from these assembly benches. I argue that the SDP club will continue to be a problem and that this concept, which has been translated into the Road Safety Act, which is mostly repressive, will become increasingly expressive. I'm not fooling myself with these numbers that are encouraging and I'm glad that so, the current state of road safety is through an indicator, which is the basic indicator of the number of deaths, that 26% is less these few months than in a few months last year. I don't fool myself with that, because we have to face that basic fact again, which is that, and it's only the implementation of this programme, so the government programme that was adopted in February 2006. So then there was a condition that there were 13.8 deaths per 100,000 inhabitants. We're in a situation today that's for 2008. 15 people killed per 100,000 people. And that's what's worrying. Why is it worrying? Because in the countries of the European Union that we are seeking in the community, the situation is very different. So for a whole series of years despite the increase in traffic, because we keep saying that traffic is increasing, so we have more roads, so that's all there is to them. Despite strengthening standards and road infrastructures and vehicles, and other elements that might seem to affect uncertainty. Here are the last ten years of this trend constantly falling, and for the last year, so it has been measured in 2008, except for only two countries that are Romania and Latvia, I think Cyprus three, all members of the European Union have a reduction in the number of road deaths. Even Slovenia, which has 27% fewer deaths, and we had 7.3% higher. And France has her in 6 years 47% less dead, watch out. That's the information I have for these other countries, because I just don't have it, so I can't talk. So we just have to change that trend. Now if we look at how the National Road Traffic Safety Programme is structured, then we'll see that the four key points of that programme are both visions and elements that give opportunity through organised, I'd say the power of society, that things change for the better. So the first point is to make sure that as little alcohol as possible affects traffic safety. We know that despite this, I had been in this House five years ago and I would have voted for that provision to introduce the 00 promiscuous. ... Yeah, yeah, I know something about that. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] I speak as an individual now. ... So please be nice, so wait, I didn't finish the sentence. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] What are you excited about? But it didn't show any results. That showed the result is equal to 0 again. Because 25% of the deaths of these 664 on our roads last year died of alcohol influence. Second. Speed is the most common cause of traffic accidents and the most common cause of death. About 50% last year. Of the 664 people, 332 were killed because of an unadjusted and too fast. What's very important is to look at the structure of the dead again. Motorcyclists almost 20%, 127. The national programme envisions that by 2010, 98% of motorcyclists will be riding on roads with a safety helmet. We only have one relevant piece of information, and that's over the number of people killed by 127, 37% just wore a helmet. So every third. So we're not even able to get in this repressive part of control to have motorcycles wearing helmets. And now I'm not talking about it, because there's no time for that, what's the quality of the helmet. Since that's not even settled normably, it is, but it's not until the end. And about the control that I'm not talking. Because even as the Home Office's good representative said the other day at a meeting of the Committee on Transport, some protective helmets are presented in shops as souvenirs. And then that's what people buy and as souvenir wears. And then, of course, when he gets hurt, the consequences are terrible. What's even more interesting about motorcyclists, and these are now the preventive activities. We are at a professional gathering where I belong to conclude that in the preventive part it is very good that motorcyclists, mopedists, through the alliances of their associations, organize visits to traumatic hospitals and talk to living patients who are fortunately left alive and who have suffered very or less, to see how it is on site, what happens to people who do not have protective equipment, who do not have a protective helmet and who drive too fast. That's what the M.P. accepted as a method, and that's good. It is also foreseen in the national programme that 90% of drivers will be bound by a safety belt these next few years. Over the death toll again because we don't have any other data and we should have 32% of last year's protection belt. It's also very bad information. That's what it says about us not being able to improve the situation here either. Rehabilitation of dangerous sites is the third important stop point for the implementation of the National Road Safety Programme. There are some results achieved but much more can be achieved. The results were achieved five, six years ago more than today. The funds for the recovery of dangerous places are immeasurably smaller than the effects achieved when the dangerous places are recovered, those black spots on our roads because they have shown and proved that by resuscitating these dangerous places with relatively small means or by significantly reducing the number of people who have been injured and killed or who are no longer present at all. But speaking of funds Mr. Secretary of State said that through this task force that manages the resources of a national programme that is somewhere around 50 million, 55 million he only said the equipment part, part of this, part of the promotion, etc. I'd like to know exactly what the $55 million funds are used to tax it. I hope you don't waste your funds on purpose. Because the Home Office's representative said that, and it also says in the report that they have only 25% of the devices to measure the presence of drugs in the organism. That's very small. Let's buy more of these devices because they're drugged on our roads, and I'm surprised too. And the fourth point of the national programme is children and child care. We also broke spears in the adoption of the Road Safety Act and that provision that traffic education should be introduced is in the law but nothing is happening, and it is in the National Road Traffic Safety Programme. For three years, the Minister of Science, Education and Sports has felt that this should not be introduced into the basic education programme or if he thinks he should but is too crowded and can't do so. We should do this because it would ensure the safety of road traffic in the long term. Unfortunately, even in this current context of this traffic situation that we have in Croatia, the traffic policy that we do not have but a campaign. I also welcome that, before the school year for the first grade primary schools, the first grade tours. But who's doing it? That's what the Home Office does because there's no one else. The Ministry of Home Affairs deals with us, so first of all, the Ministry of Education should be involved in cooperation with the Ministry of the Interior. What I'm going to say is, in one state, I've forgotten in which in America, I'd have to look at the papers, it's been done eight years ago about how parents affect their children in traffic, so it's been researched how motor vehicle drivers primarily affect children. And everywhere there, it was over 90% where the driver passed the red one, so his dad, then he went over the red one. That kind of research exists. If he violated another traffic code and his child violated it, especially if it was small and it was watched because it did not comment but saw it. So the influence of parents on the behavior of children in traffic is very high. I've got some research that I'm going to hand over to the Home Office, which is six years old, but they're terribly current and methods and suggestions on how to work together with parents to improve the safety of children in transport. Therefore, as far as concerns concern not only the Government and its bodies and bodies and the whole community are concerned, so as to reduce the impact of alcohol on transport, to reduce speed in order to avoid certain tragic situations in transport, the resolution of dangerous places, as well as the care of children on traffic safety, we can say that the results are weak or thin. This is what is a devastating fact and that is what we need to change, and in order to change it I suggest that it immediately and now in the whole process I would say to prepare a new national road safety programme that needs to be prepared now because next year its importance includes the profession and science and professional and civil society. They can certainly help you achieve that goal. I won't be able to make it now, unfortunately, to see that it's a red light, but I'll try at least one thing. Helicopter assistance, I expect Mr. Hebrang to talk about it, but this country has been constantly arguing for years that it will organise helicopter assistance to provide health services to significantly reduce the number of people killed on our roads and does nothing, because it does nothing effective. Let's change it, let's at least make a move here.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-05-0.u33263	Mr. Representative, time's up for debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-05-0.u33264	I'm glad you're warning me to stick to your rules of procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-05-0.u33265	Thank you. Thank you very much. The next registered discussion club is the HDZ club. And in the name of the club will speak the esteemed representative Zivko Nenadić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-05-0.u33266	Dear Vice President, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. The Government of the Republic of Croatia adopted 2006. National road safety programme of the Republic of Croatia for the period 2006 to 2010 This report that we are discussing today concerns the implementation of the 2008 national programme. The programme's holder is the Ministry of the Interior. However, since road safety is only partially included in the Ministry of the Sea, Transport and Infrastructure, Department of Science, Education and Sports, Ministry of Health and Social Care, Ministry of Justice, Croatian Autoclub, Croatian Roads, Croatian Insurance Office and Centre for Vehicles of Croatia. So many and so many participants show the problem of road safety, both in our country and in the world. It's primarily because it's about human lives, but it's also about great material damage. The objective of this programme is that a small number of traffic accidents and their consequences are not without systematic and continuous implementation of the measures that lead to this objective in the long term. What were the measures? I'll make them one more time. The first reduction in vehicle speed and respect for the most permitted speeds, then the protection of children, young and most vulnerable road users, the suppression of driving under the influence of alcohol and intoxicating drugs in traffic and the resolution of dangerous places. Of course, in addition to these strategic measures, there are also a number of other measures stemming from the Road Safety Act that traffic participants are obliged to adhere to and to which they are obliged to be coerced by a repressive apparatus. The report shows this during 2008, which was taken in addition to the repressive measures, during the year in question, of course the number of traffic accidents and their consequences would be lower. So we see in the report that there's a television video called alcohol, drugs, speed and safety belt in traffic. So alcohol, drugs, speed, these are the main causes of major accidents with major consequences. As the secretary of state said, police officers gave all their first class a 20-minute lecture on dangers and desirable behavior in traffic. The broadcast TV and radio videos of children in traffic and child protection in the vehicle are also presented. Also TV and radio spots motorcyclists in Croatia and pedestrians cyclists and disabled in traffic. And I repeat a series of other activities beyond repressive activity. And when it comes to the repressive activities of traffic police officers in the daily business of the type of overspeed, alcohol abuse and the like, it is interesting to note from this 2008 report the result of testing drivers on intoxicating drugs. As counterpart Šprem said, the MUP owns 25 devices for preliminary testing of the driver on intoxicating drugs, so practically one device per police administration. However, an interesting result of the 658 intoxicating drugs tested in 230 drivers was found to be in the presence of drugs. The presence of drugs has been established in 35% of those tested. And it is said that 191 therefore, 30% refused drug testing, and to assume that most of them were under the influence of intoxicating drugs. And this results in worrying that more than 50% of those tested were under the influence of intoxicating drugs. Although I suppose the testing was conducted in target groups, young people, in the target time, nights and target places, especially gathering sites are more than worrying that over 50% of them are under the influence of intoxicating drugs, therefore, every other young driver from that risk group. As is the case here, prevention is very important, and in addition to the above, the condition of roads, traffic lights and traffic signs is important. On many so-called so-called ... Turns in cities can only be made to red, in moments of stopping one to yellow, or before the other to yellow. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In addition, it is interesting that in 2008 this report compared to 2007, the number of traffic accidents was reduced by 12.3%, the number of fatalities decreased by 10.3% and the number of fatalities increased by 7.3%. So 45% died more, 619 in 2007 and 664 in 2008. So, in 2008, at... 15 people have died and we have said that in this period our goal is below 10 deaths, and in the long term below 7 as well as in the European Union. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Unfortunately, we're still a long way from the finish line. No one in traffic is spared, all drivers and passengers and pedestrians and those who violate traffic regulations and those who respect traffic regulations are killed, clearly because we are all participants in traffic. Unfortunately, it is easy to conclude that we cannot be satisfied with the state of road safety. It is also clear to us that only the MUP cannot successfully wrestling with it. The MAP should be left with repression and cooperation in prevention and other entities should participate more than ever. How to make traffic accidents as few as possible and in making the consequences especially fatal as possible. What kind of subjects are they? Mostly all those who form a working group from ministries and professional organisations whose work is part-round for road safety but also the media and parents and teachers and all of us have heard from the predecessors today. I've been watching and thinking a little bit and trust me on the parking ride is just a reflection of the general culture, nowhere easier and faster you won't read the person. Just because we're not satisfied with the state of traffic security and we can never be satisfied with it doesn't mean we're not satisfied with the report. The report is correct, there is no proposal for measures because it was not a task but merely a description of the situation. The proposal for new measures and the basis of this report is for a new national programme. And the HDZ club therefore supports this report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-05-0.u33267	Thank you very much, Mr. Representative. I have an announcement. The chairman of the Committee on Economy, Dr Dragan Kovacevic, called for the 24th session of the Committee on Economy today at 11:30 in the Chamber of Ivan Kukuljevic. We're continuing to discuss clubs. The third registered club is the HNS club. Dear Representative Zlatko Koračević.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-05-0.u33268	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Secretary of State with an associate. My colleagues and colleagues. The level of road safety is an indicator of transport culture, but also a reflection of the complexity of relations throughout society. Although there are many participants in the transport security system, preventive and repressive measures are mainly directed at drivers. The evidence is also a very restrictive road safety law adopted by this High House by the majority a year ago. And then we warned that the repression could not have a decisive impact on the safety of transport, but rather the safety of the measures related to driver education, raising the general level of traffic awareness and culture, raising technical conditions in transport, and the systematicity and rationality in the construction of the transport system at all. The Government of the Republic of Croatia adopted the National Road Transport Safety Programme for 2006-2010 three-and-a-half years ago, and the Ministry of the Interior appointed the programme holder. What is particularly important is that this National Road Traffic Safety Programme, compared to the previous one, sets out, in addition to the implementation of a series of activities that should have a positive impact on the achievement of the objectives outlined, among other things, more clearly sets out the role and task of the working group as expert teams. Whoever makes the task force has already been told, there is no need to repeat it, but there are five ministries anyway. In addition to Croatian Autoclub, Croatian Roads, Croatian Insurance Office and Centre for Vehicles of Croatia. The road safety law also assumes the obligation of individual ministries to regulate and take responsibility for increasing road safety through specific legal proposals and decisions. And now I'm asking the key question, did the ministries do it? According to this report, they're not. But I'll talk about it eventually. I will take, for example, the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports, which does not fulfil its obligation but in my second term, which is training for safe participation in transport and promoting raising the level of traffic culture of primary schools students. According to the Road Safety Act, Article 215 states: “The bicycle on the road must be managed by a person who turned 14 years old. Children who are 9 years old who are trained in bicycle management in schools and are given a certificate, are allowed to drive a bicycle on the road on their own, and other children who are 9 years old are accompanied only by a person who turned 16." And now important, the training programme for bicycles, cycling exams and certification form referred to in paragraph 2 of this Article shall be prescribed by the minister responsible for education activities. In the transitional and final provisions of the Ministers and Directors of State Administrative Organizations authorised by this Act, implementing regulations are also required to be adopted within 6 months of the date of entry into force of this Act. And here's the problem. Minister Primorac did not adopt that rule in the last term, even though the then Road Traffic Safety Act bound him. Within 16 months, it was in the 12th month of 2008 and it has been 6 months since the adoption of the Security Act. Since 6 months have passed, however, the Ministry of Education, Science and Sports has not adopted the said rule. And we at the Croatian People's Party club ask Minister Primorac if he will also request in his ministry the resignations of his associates when he already does not understand the damage to the entire education system that the ministry is doing by not fulfilling its obligation. And the importance of the adoption of this programme is the official data of the Ministry of the Interior, which is that from 2005 to 2008, children of preschool and school age were killed up to 13 years, the total number of deaths of 86, severe physical injuries 1084, minor physical injuries 5792. Can the parent of a child who is injured ask the minister why failure to comply with a legal obligation makes it impossible for his child to acquire the necessary knowledge and skills for safe participation in traffic? For the last four years, we've had 86 dead children. It's about one grade unit a year. 1084 people with disabilities since childhood and 5792 with minor bodily injuries, but with trauma for life. The student training programme for self-participation of bicycles in transport should be implemented by teachers of technical culture thus ensuring the preventive education of all pupils, prior to five grades of primary school. The introduction of this programme, which already exists in all European Union members, would enable students to acquire the necessary knowledge and skills for the safe participation of bicycles in transport, but also by reducing the number of children killed in transport. In any case, it is to praise the MUP's action, not the Ministry of Education, Education and Sports, but the MUP, Transport Teacher. 4980 children from 275 schools, but it's only 18 children per school. What about the others? In the 5th grade of primary school of 35 hours a year, only two hours are scheduled for transport. Is that enough? In any case, according to this report, good marketing is needed, likable silicone pendants, posters, educational flyers and all other activities in this, this numbered report. It is a good thing that dangerous traffic spots have been detected and rehabilitated, but there is a question of what is going on with the systematic measures, in this particular case I was talking about, which is children and young people. How responsible are they involved in education from kindergarten and beyond? How many systematic transport cultures have we installed for young people in the way we behave? These are all open issues, questions to which we are looking for an answer, and the strategy itself has seen, indicated and defined the need of individual ministries to engage systematically, and the strategy would benefit and that the strategy would achieve its goal. In this report, in conclusion, this report writes and is visible and only the report says that there is no system and that other ministries or responsible in the ministries have not been involved, have not been involved in the realization of the necessary measures for the successful implementation of this strategy, which is with road safety we cannot be satisfied, objectively in today's situation, the biggest... raising road safety to a higher level concentrated by the Ministry of Interior's human and technical potential. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] That's right. But it is also true that the long-term, strict implementation of all activities of the national programme through a significantly greater engagement of all entities whose work is part-round for road safety, we can expect to improve the state of security and achieve the declared objective of 10 people killed to 100,000 people, and then continue to pursue a positive trend in meeting the target of the European Union of 7 people killed to 100,000. And finally, we at the Croatian People's Party club support a unanimous decision, and this is important to mention, a unanimous decision on the parent board, the Transport Committee and the links they have supported and the ruling and opposition, the opposition members of the committee, which is the decision which considers the Government's overall assessment, the information with the proposal for measures to implement the national programme to deliver to the Croatian Parliament for discussion and I hope that the Government will respect the unanimous decision of the parent board of this Parliament, and that we can then discuss in the Assembly the effectiveness of the system, a system that can enable the effective implementation of the National Road Safety Programme of the Republic of Croatia in time ahead. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-05-0.u33269	Thank you, Mr. Representative. And the last reported club for discussion is the IDS club, the esteemed representative of Mr. Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-05-0.u33270	Honorable Vice President, esteemed Secretary of State, esteemed Mr. Representatives. Exactly what we got in this report, the number of deaths in 1994, was 804, in 2008. 664. That's the data on page 2, 11. So on page 11, so that's minus about 150, it's about the following, that in 2007, we had about 18 thousand people who were killed, 2008. 16 thousand people killed in 2007 were 548, 2008. 585, injured in transport accidents in 2007, were 17 400 and 2008 15 600, however, of the deceased, or killed. There's this data that I've provided before, 619 2007, 2008. 664, injured 25 grand in 2007, in 2008. 22 thousand, etc., etc. So, there is still something about this issue in the meantime when it comes to road safety. The truth is that in the meantime, the number of drivers has increased, on our roads from year to year, but what is also most important, a large number of new kilometers of highways have been built, i.e. a large kilometer of state roads. Gentlemen, let me just say one piece of information that so far some 55 billion kuna has been invested in highway construction in this country. That's cca 50% of the Republic of Croatia's 2009 budget. In the next 8 years, another 34 billion kuna should be invested in highways. In other roads, so not on highways, over the next 8 years, another 15 billion kuna needs to be invested, and here I find the key to a reduced number of deaths, not in this time-absorbed norm, let's say 0.0 promiscation. Otherwise, I should say that all roads other than the Zagreb-Macelj highways and the Istrian ispsion that are being financed by concessions are also financed from Croatian highways, i.e. Croatian roads, which leads to one side of Croatia's one-stop shop, so the question is how long will it last, so let's say the HAK has so far been in charge of 17 billion kuna and Croatian roads with 3.3 billion kuna. Why am I saying that? Among other things, I think we should question the price level of Učka tunnel, 28 kuna, or passage through Mirna 14 kuna. Otherwise, let's say one such passage in Croatia anyone but Istrian doesn't pay. Otherwise, by 2012, it means during the next 3 years to meet its dynamics, Croatia's highways need 24 billion kunas. Clearly, they can't get to that money. In the meantime, it may affect the price of a kilometer of highways that today, for example. reaching for the Jakuševac-Velika Gorica stock on the Zagreb-Sisak highway as much as 197 million kunas equal to one kilometer of highway on that stock, the Zagreb-Split road 55.7 million kuna per km cost, Ipsilon per km costs 40.5 million kuna, Beli Manastir-Osjek 66.6 million kuna, Bregana Lipovac 29.9 million kuna, etc. I think it also hides huge reserves, but there is no doubt on the other hand that new highways are the first reason for reducing the number of deaths on Croatian roads. So, once again, 1 kilometer of construction of new highways in Croatia costs from 29.9 million to even 197 million kuna. On page 3 of this report, it is literally said that the strategic activities outlined, etc., are to reduce vehicle speed, respect for the highest permitted speeds, protection of children, young people, control of driving under the influence of alcohol, drugs, resolution of dangerous places. In addition to strategic activities, further activities are carried out, and talk about increasing the technical regularity of the vehicle, improving transport statistics, analysis, use of the safety belt, respect for traffic lights etc., etc. All this is nice, but watch the average salary in Croatia is currently 5 thousand 700 kuna net. However, it is more common in this country 3 thousand 500 or 4 thousand kuna than 5 thousand 500 or 6 thousand kuna. Well, then, the question arises. First, how old are the carts in Croatia? The older they are, the less security they are. Is that pay even how you can maintain vehicles? And when you have one tire, four tires are what one month's pay is. And how many vehicles in Croatia are transporting to our transporters without being secured at all? Without that information, I think this report is incomplete and, in some ways, that report should be completed. Our vehicles are usually extremely old. Maybe 10 or more years on average. We see on the other hand what happens in that auto industry that's almost a coat, so to speak. Prices of new vehicles are dropping. Selling a car is getting harder. If she can sell herself at all. The drop in sales is up to 50%, which is best known by Minister Shuker, following the execution of the state budget. On this basis, sometimes imports of vehicles were incomed or it was traffic of around 2 billion euros per year. In 2009, we'll have about a billion euros in imports of vehicles. So we stay on the other side without customs, no excise duty, no VAT, car dealers firing workers, no contributions. The crisis is and our fleet is getting older and older, which will say that the risks on our roads will grow from year to year. How will the other side of the country handle that? I'm afraid of a new harass on the roads. In populated places, for example due to overspeed, here is one data in the report given, 168 thousand 816 offenders were recorded. And I'm guessing they all paid between 300 and 500 kuna, some probably more. So 5% of the age-old citizens paid a felony sentence for speeding into a populated place. Outside the inhabited area, and I guess God doesn't know how many of these people in Croatia paid the fine. Secondly, a question that also arises. What's the number of unsecured cars on our roads? According to these reports, insurance companies are somewhere around 150 or over 150 grand. Those vehicles need to be off the road as soon as possible. What if there's an accident and you don't have a "Casco"? So then you have to do what? You must make damages. From who? From the one who doesn't really have anything. And "Casco" is on the other side on average 4, 5, 6, 7 thousand kuna for humble cars. De facto one average net salary should only provide you at an annual level with a "Casca" one car. If you drive 20 grand a year, you spend one tire, plus insurance, plus gas, some small change. So you need a de facto close to 30 thousand kuna for 20 thousand miles a year. And now he still had the measure that if someone were to lose their jobs, then he should change his residence, etc. But let's let it go now. So, as new roads have reduced accidents, as new cars have reduced the number of accidents, crises, recessions, unemployment will certainly contribute to increasing the number of accidents on our roads. And now the question is, what do you do? The recession itself, clearly there can't be any solution. Even though I agree, the police better stop me, warn me not to punish me clearly, but to let something happen to me afterwards. Therefore, this report for me is not entirely, completely, without providing us with information as per the number of new kilometers per year, meaning highways, state roads, how many unsecured cars are on our roads in traffic and how many cars are usually old. If those three data were received, then the data in this report would be much closer to us. I think that's what I'm talking about today and it's crucial. And that's the key to testifying to exactly that information. In 2007, we had 619 deaths in Croatia, and in 2008, we have 664. And I guess nothing better, though, will be in 2009. On page 13, let's say we're given this chart and we see how these trends with dead people are increasing, and that's certainly not optimistic. Although I agree, today there are more drivers 'cause year after year we have more and more drivers, more and more cars on our roads, and more tourists. God forbid there'll be more in 2009. There'll probably be fewer. We have on the other side and more highways. But if one tenth of the money were to be invested instead of on the highways, I'm not saying we don't need it, it's going to be on state roads, I guess the opportunities on our roads would be far better, and that far less injured and fatal cases would be recorded in these reports. So, an accent from the highway on the state county road. Okay, the county's broke. They're a people would say, the tenth pig, when it comes to local self-government. Countys don't have any square meters of agricultural, construction, tourist land, I don't know forest land. In second place it's speed, it's absolutely correct. That's where the key to the problem lies. The motorists, Mr. Sprem spoke of, they're the most vulnerable. I suppose it's good to assume that the offenders, instead of maybe being fined, are driving to hospitals so that they and everyone else can see what the consequences of the accident are. On the other hand, it's my personal opinion of these jumbo crying in the season where I see all those bloody scenes. I think they're questionable messages. It's the same as in Istria when our season starts, and then as part of some mine action, we have those jumbo posters "Watch out, mines". So then the tourists come and ask, wait for where it was at war in Istria, where there are mines, etc. I agree, it's a dangerous place to take care of. It costs, but in my court, it would be better to build two, three kilometers of highways in a year less and, say, in that year with the price that those two, three kilometers of highways are rescheduled by 30, 40 or 50 critical places. That would be far more directed in my court and there are normal kids, and we're the most sensitive of what we're going to do, but what to do. There's nothing left but education, education, education. At speed, and that should be determined precisely, not to be stopped on the highway from Zagreb to Rijeka and said you were driving 130 and the limit is 110 kilometers per hour. I don't think that makes any sense. In the case of alcohol and drugs, it should be clearly controlled, but in order for someone not to think about it again, the idea of 0.0 proms and for drugs should be tested clearly for children in high school, in colleges, etc. The cyclists, there is nothing we can do, but there should be some paths, because in some way they become one vulnerable group on the roads, especially in the season when you run into them twenty, thirty, etc., ramps on the tracks or unprotected crossings are early safety cancer, but in my opinion again, it is the quality of the car, the speed of clear and the road, and it is not possible that always and only blames our drivers and never maintaining those roads, that always bear the consequences of only and only drivers and never those who should maintain those roads. All in all, it's useful to speak in these reports. The IDS will support that, but she and these three, four questions would be useful to get an answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-05-0.u33271	Thank you, Mr. Representative. Now we'll move on to an individual debate. The first out of eleven reported is a respected representative of Dragutin Lesar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-05-0.u33272	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. I will begin my debate with one of the data found in this report, which says that Croatian police, traffic police have 25 pieces of preliminary drug testing devices. I'm guessing it's about those snot-tested devices, by the way. The price of such a device is likely to be lower at this time than the cost of an insight after a serious car accident. I just can't believe there's no more money to keep the number 25 per year the number of these devices from going up to, say, 250. Why? Last year, 658 drivers were tested on the presence of drugs and 230 found to be under the influence of drugs, or 35% were tested under the influence of drugs. I don't know how much that percentage is in alcohol testing, but I'm guessing less than 35%. This information that as many as 35% of the drivers tested were under the influence of drugs imposes an obligation on the police or the ministry to help the police and make the number of these devices really higher, i.e. every patrol that has an alcoholic has this device. And I don't see the difference or the reason why it wouldn't be. Another piece of information that I have always and every time you come to the House with a report incomplete and it consists of the next one. In 2008, there were 53,000 496 traffic accidents on Croatian roads. I always ask from that number how many were on the highways, how many on the state roads, how many on the county roads and how many on the local roads. When I asked a representative of the ministry last year who was yelling at me from that bench, let me look for it on the Internet. So if the representatives of the Government of Parliament's representatives in the report refer to the Internet, then they should not even report to the Parliament, but we will read their reports via the Internet and probably send comments to them. So I would like to ask that the future number of accidents except for the way, the causes, the consequences, and what you're giving are also shown by the category of roads that are happening. Why does it matter? Because this information can reveal the causes of the accident because, according to the access of both Croatian legislation and police, 99.9% of accidents are responsible for drivers or road users. And experts claim that the traffic situation by the number of reasons for the accident is actually elsewhere. You are indirectly acknowledging that for the first time you have observed the need to resuscitate so-called. the black points of the dangerous places on the roads and attached 17 points where the state resources came to prepare project documentation for their recovery. But, Mr. Secretary of State, you didn't give us any information on how many black spots were prepared at the State Road Restitution. These are county and local 17. How many black dots are prepared to resuscitate on state roads because I simply don't believe that there are no critical points on the state roads. So, as in state. And now closely following these 17 locations of local black dots to call them so I came to the 30 page of your report where one of these black dots is marked County Road 2033 with a intersection of local road 20 039 on the territory of Međimurje County. When I identified that point and looking at the number of traffic accidents, consulting with other representatives from Međimurje none of us could remember that it would be a dangerous black spot. Even according to these numbers you've given traffic accidents, the accident only with damage or minor injuries is consistent with the other black spots in Međimurje that haven't entered the subject. I don't blame you, you probably didn't invent that black spot here in Zagreb, this black spot is probably the consequences of local, maybe even pre-election shops. However, there is another problem that the location of the crossroads and the godless needs of rehabilitation is not located in the area of Međimurje County, it is not the Međimurje County, it is the Varazdin County. It is a road connecting the two counties, but the black point of intersection, crossing the Drava River and the drain canal, it is not in the Međimurje area. So those who have worked on it either knowingly lured you or neither do they know where and under whose authority this road is. Since it's important money and it's good that it's going, so it's good that the state is helping to tackle critical points, but obviously something is wrong with selecting locations, identifying those black dots. So I would point you to, say, ask the Međimurska Police Administration for data for last year or this year which are black spots where there were dead, badly injured, injured, large material damage, and you will see that these directions do not lead in this direction where the state's money and the preparation of the rescue is set aside rather than on the opposite side entirely. I want to believe that you will already give information today about the number of road accidents by type of roads, highways, state, county and local and particularly interest me as much as and where the black spots that will be settled on state roads according to this programme and project. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-05-0.u33273	Thank you very much, Mr. Representative. The time has just expired for the application of an individual debate for 10 minutes. And we're continuing this debate. The following has been reported a respected representative, Ingrid Anticevic-Marinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-05-0.u33274	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Unfortunately, our roads are constantly swallowing people's lives. Our roads have become sites, and despite the highways, the number of deaths has not been reduced. Croatian citizens suffer more on highways which is devastating than was suffered in the war, and this must be an alarm for everyone in the country, for all factors and for the government in general, and especially for some resort ministries. The road safety assessment criterion, as has already been pointed out here many times, is given over the number of deaths per 100,000 inhabitants, and somewhere another criterion is as auxiliary to a million vehicles. In Croatia, the percentage rises every year. Unfortunately, 15% of the population has already been killed. Since the adoption of the National Programme, which expires next year, we have been aiming to see this percentage fall to 8 deaths by the entry into the European Union, to 8% of the dead. But we're moving away. And it's an alarming condition. On the other hand, 143 were killed on a million vehicles. However, we are far, far beyond that. And now, in this analysis, these are expert analyses that show that the human factor is crucial in causing a car accident. So, according to European criteria in technical terms, our highways have no objection whatsoever. The lack of driving culture is devastating. This is especially pointed out by those scientists who deal especially with this aspect of human behavior. This includes psychological aspects and through the problem of alcoholism, drugs, youth behavior especially of new drivers. Technical also correctness and weariness of the vehicle. The calmness of the driver is particularly important and especially in the case of young drivers. When the driver’s nervousness is present, experts say, then there are numerous dangers. Therefore parental education, but also education in schools and societies as a whole and youth education here is crucial. It is the source, therefore, there is obvious that we need the coordination and responsibility of all entities to prevent traffic accidents. Unfortunately, that's obvious, we miss it. And in short, the biggest killer on our highways is the lack of a driving culture. A lot of people can buy BMWs, Ferraris, but there's no way they can buy any kind of traffic culture. It's a civilization achievement, it's a kind of social phenomenon, but it's also something that happens in a parenting home, and by the age of six, it's often too late. So this is one moment when we really have to face this devastating data, turn the page and start already today with intense implanting of some new habits and new civilizational habits. In fact, there is no social condemnation in causing a car accident. It took a long time for the Croatian society to grow up a social condemnation of unacceptable behavior, for example here yesterday we discussed domestic violence, sometimes it was thought to be a private matter. It took a long time to challenge ourselves besides the fact that we've also caused a normative reaction in this sense but also what's most important is social condemnation lagging behind in this kind of delicacy, traffic delicacies. Here's an example, a bright example, in all laws specifically speaking in the state service excludes you, the law excludes anyone who has done any work other than traffic delicacies, and even then with a heavy and very difficult one, i.e. The fatal consequence. What kind of message is that from the government? The government's message is that a car accident and all that, the consequences that happen here, is the people's suffering, the loss of human lives, is something that can happen to anyone, it's a devastating consequence. That's how many government officials think, don't hesitate to talk about it in the media about how much they drive in spite of the bans, and that's devastating. And we can't make that one step, not even when we're talking about this problem, let alone when we're having some discussions about some other problems. When that changes, i.e. In law, it is necessary to change all these provisions and traffic risks to be treated as acts of exceptional social danger, as they suffer innocent lives. We have proposed as a club of SDP and amendments to the Penal Code to increase the fines precisely for those delinquents. Our Penal Code has recently changed five, six times. The government, or government, has always rejected such proposals, deeming them appropriate and causing a very negative public reaction. The association was founded, and I am stressing this occasion, the Association of the Family of People Victims in Transport who are constantly looking for this trail as the SDP Club asked for amendments to the Penal Code. It has already begun in the world to treat such a criminal act equally with premeditated behavior. If someone drives drunk, if they run in a turn, what kind of imagination he can have rather than kill another person. However, this continues to be treated as an almost exaggerating crime, a year of two prisons, and such acts should literally be equated to murder if they are committed in such a state. So, in a state of drunkenness, in a drunken state and in a flagrant violation of traffic, traffic regulations. This is not happening today because it is also such a legislative regulation, and the consequences are like this. It is also noted that the Transport Safety Association has recently been established. She has already held two round tables on the safety of motorcyclists because 20 percent of all died are motorcycles. But I don't know why the ministry keeps setting up, or highways, or whoever's in charge of it, they also set up high fences on which they suffer often, which are no dam for motorcyclists or provide safety to motorcyclists because they simply pass under those fences. Low fences are being placed everywhere in Europe. And what does that do when we have to change them tomorrow? Also, the second theme of the round table of the association was concern for the unhappy. All relevant ministries have been invited and it is commendable that the Ministry of the Interior always responds, but that is not enough. The Ministry of Health also responded here and there. But the Ministry of Education didn't respond because Minister Primorac has other things to do, to host some Li who is more famous here than in the country where he comes from and where he promotes one another. The two of them we saw recently on "Open," and he's not dealing with these key problems. At least while the minister is doing this job. It would be good if, as part of this act, we had also received a proposal, regardless of what the national programme is, but let's see how things aren't going well, which would be a good thing to do yet, that as much as the purpose of the national programme is achieved. But, unfortunately, it's gone. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-05-0.u33275	Thank you very much. Two are correcting an incorrect quote. The first is the distinguished representative Bozica Šolić.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-05-0.u33276	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Here I would correct my colleague Anticevic when she said in her debate that 100 thousand people were killed on the roads more than 10%. You know how much that is? That's 10 grand, so out of 100 grand, 10% is 10 grand, and the fact is that 14 people get killed by 100,000 people. My colleague, I know you've got a speech for five, but you have to go to math school. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-05-0.u33277	Thank you very much. The second correction has been reported...... All right, all right. ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] (Laughter) [[You can't hear the intruder.]] We're not going from the bench, we're not. ... Sign up for second item of the agenda [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Please. [[Agreement: Te will give Milanović.]] A second correction to an incorrect quote. Dear Representative Franjo Lucic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-05-0.u33278	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Your Honor, Secretary of State. So here I would correct the incorrect quote of colleague Anticevic, she does not listen, but well, probably listens to another, where you said "Croatian highways" build large fences which is not true because "Croatian highways" build fences on highways according to European standards. And what you've seen is that it's high, it's sound walls, Mrs. Anticevic, so don't abuse the assembly here for something you didn't say well, and if you don't know then ask, because Croatian highways are built by European standards. So don't spread the misinformation.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-05-0.u33279	Thank you very much. Infringement of the Rules of Procedure, respected representative Anticevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-05-0.u33280	You're correcting something I didn't say, or what I saw or didn't see, then you're a very psychic man. However, it is not enough to correct an incorrect allegation. I haven't talked about those things he has along the highway, and they're not controversial, nor about those barrels that aren't disputed. I was talking about these fences, in some places they're low and I'm telling you the information that the Croatian Motorcyclists' Association tells you. And 20 percent of the motorcyclists killed on the number of total deaths are also testifying to this cause that killed motorcyclists and on highways.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-05-0.u33281	Thank you. I have two remarks. I don't think there's been an invitation from the MP to the article, and I think it's... I'm saying, it's also supposed to be an article, but we all know what article it's about. And I think that this was still a correction to the incorrect assumption, because it also states the Motorcyclists' Association can be corrected. We also have a replica, one replica. Dear Representative Arsen Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-05-0.u33282	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. This topic has been getting pretty serious, and we've been a little relaxed for the last five minutes. I'm talking about the number of deaths in the last year, so I don't think this atmosphere is appropriate, but it doesn't have that much to do now. Mrs. Šolić, I recommend that someone put you here closer to us, so you won't have to yell because Bandic won again. All right. Mrs. Ingrid, you were talking about transport culture, actually about insufficient transport culture as one of the causes of a large number of accidents. I'd like to draw attention to a case you reminded me of about transport culture. So, a businessman, and today our fellow politician, Mayor of Split, Željko Kerum was caught on the highway where he drives 190 an hour with his vehicle, and the limit is 130 per hour. In an explanation to journalists why he was driving so fast, he not only didn't admit the mistake, so he admitted to driving 190 an hour and said that the car he was driving was simply insecure if he drove less, so much about traffic culture. What is the greatest paradox is that the gentleman will decide on traffic regulations, signs, etc. in the town of Split, and then all citizens caught at an excessive speed of 50 or 60 km/h will be able to call on this "Kerum's Lesson" and say if he can, so can I. So much for the transport culture of elected political officials since yesterday. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-05-0.u33283	Thank you very much. We have a reply to the replica, the respected representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-05-0.u33284	I wouldn't talk about Kerum, but the fact is not only recently, but rather for a long time that state officials at the highest level, regardless of even political parties are praised at speed and how they drive above the permitted speed. This is what they want to show, but in this they see nothing controversial or observable, it is this lack of social, or their perceptions that no reaction is expected, a social condemnation because the one who reads it sees great driving skills. Namely, one who behaves under traffic regulations is considered to be a bad driver because traffic regulations like everyone knows how to drive so much if there is a limit of 60, but you drive twice as much and don’t let anything happen to you, or if anything happens, there is always someone else or third or road or slope, and never him. That's the thing. People do not realize that traffic regulations and signs are put in place for his own safety, not for someone to train strictness. But why do people act like that? I repeat, because there is no social conviction, there is no legal condemnation adequate for it. It's still thought to be something, that a car accident is something that can happen to anyone. So we see that the analyses show that they happen because people don't respect the rules, and the government is giving a message that it's not something fatal because it takes all those in service, except, or excludes those who have committed any crime, but not traffic. It's something that's being tolerated, and we have to change that. You will see, very soon, the results may not be obtained immediately, but very soon they will change that too. And I'm pulling a parallel with it like it used to be yesterday with domestic violence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-05-0.u33285	Thank you very much. The next person reported for the hearing is a respected representative of Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-05-0.u33286	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and fellow MPs. At the beginning of my presentation, I would say, which is visible from the exposure that I would not now enter into whether we would accept it because it is normal that it should be accepted because it is only what happened and in some way verifies the things that happened in the past year, but I must say that the overall report and the results of that report say that the National Road Traffic Safety Programme has suffered a severe defeat, I would even say fiasco. The fact is that we are driving backwards because all the countries of the European Union that we are tracking and which publish such data are available to all of us in the last few years are reducing the number of deaths compared to hundreds of thousands of people, which is some relevant indicator, and Croatia is going in the wrong direction and Croatia is constantly increasing this number of deaths. Here, in recent years, according to the five-year report, the number of deaths is constantly increasing. In the last year, about 10% more people per 100,000 inhabitants. So, we are driving back and Croatia is not working enough on this issue, and how important the question is also the fact that all members of the United Nations are invited together this year to organise into one action called the Decade of Road Safety Action. Which is why the world recognized the danger that is happening here and the fact that among the injured children, yesterday we talked about the child's attorney and we had this report on the agenda. So today in the world for children between 5 and 14 years of age, that's another consequence, so another cause of mortality. It is expected, given that medicine will make further progress that this will be the main cause of child mortality between 5 and 14 years of age by 2015. So, a very dangerous and serious problem in which, unfortunately, in Croatia is not given much importance or is given importance, but concrete actions fail to do absolutely anything. Not to mention now that in the last 5, 6, 7 years we have improved our road traffic and that Croatian citizens have bought and restored the rolling stock, but someone will argue that there are many more cars and that there are objective reasons why more accidents, or more deaths. I wouldn't agree with that because all the countries that you'd like to compare notes with exactly the opposite. One Germany that has 30 times as many cars has only 7 times as many victims. One Sweden that has three times as many cars has fewer victims than Croatia, the mortals, that's what I'm saying. And if you call, maybe someone will say that in the last 5.6 years tourism has contributed to more cars in Croatia and therefore more accidents, I have to mention that Austria, which has much more tourist traffic than Croatia and car traffic, foreigners, is a transit country much more than Croatia, has been around one-third less accidents since 2000, or those killed in 100,000 people than it is now. And what's the conclusion? The conclusion is that unfortunately we do not achieve results in an area that is extremely important. Is there a standard in Croatia that is the European Union 8 killed on 100,000 people or 15, which is in Croatia today, is that a big difference? It's absolutely fine. We are talking about the fact that 300 of our fellow citizens and fellow citizens would save their lives if we had a more developed consciousness, that we had a better organization in the field of road safety. What do we have to do? I couldn't agree more with my colleague Ingrid, the punishments for those who behave irresponsiblely must be even more severe. We changed that last year and changed something in the law, to punish irresponsible drivers. But for those repeaters or for those who cause the accident, when they sat in an unregistered car, when they sat under the influence of alcohol and killed a man, we must be more rigorous and we must show that this society must not be tolerated in Croatia. On the other hand, education obviously needs to start at the earliest age, and I absolutely support every initiative like my colleague Ingrid said, and the associations that are being founded in that part. Transport security is a step forward and needs young people, it should explain to all Croatian citizens how important it is and that this is essentially a common problem, regardless of which area of Croatia they are located and whatever they are sometimes and which commitment is political, etc. And in the end, I'd like to say that as far as prevention is concerned. I'm not sure, but maybe it wouldn't be a bad idea to delegate to the Department of Transport for road safety. Perhaps that would be the solution, given that the police are, of course, a repressive apparatus and they control security, but if they had one step away from that side, that is, if the Ministry of Traffic from a professional point of view controlled that story and trained more, maybe that would be one solution. Since, in my opinion, this educational character may be even more important than the repression itself. And I absolutely support that, in terms of education, certain people who do public work should not publicly come forward in a way to promote that and even sometimes in a sympathetic context that part of socially unacceptable behavior. Is it a fast ride, is it a helmet-free ride? There's absolutely no way out there to say even in movies, playing movies, there's a person showing up who's driving a motorcycle without a helmet, and we're trying to present it as something cute, like a joke, and nobody would even see me with it if I was riding a motorcycle without a helmet. I think that such behaviour is absolutely unacceptable for any conviction from anyone who is involved in public affairs and who should promote that security. Especially when we talk about motorcycles being the most endangered and participating in the last year, even with 130 people killed in that whole story. When you look at the ratio of accidents and the number of people killed on motorcycles, it's much more than when it comes to cars. And the most common cause of fatal injuries was that they were not properly protected, or had no helmet when driving. There can be I'm sure the biggest step forward. And what you'd like to say is, all of us together who are in the interest of this problem being contained as much as possible, we have to work in the interest of making it as few weekends as it was, or days as it was 9. 5th of this year, so only a month ago, when four people and even 6 motorcycles lost their lives during one day. So 10 people lost their lives in one day alone. If we look at everything together, we absolutely need to work to make sure there are as few of these tragic days and weekends that happen in Croatia these years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-05-0.u33287	Thank you very much. A respected representative of Dragutin Bodakoš reported on the replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-05-0.u33288	Dear Vice President, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. So I think Mr Maras speaking of the reduction of the dead in European countries, I think that at that moment we should work much more on this part of reducing the possibility of causing an accident. I'd just look back on this segment to suppress driving under the influence of alcohol and intoxicating drugs. It should also be taken into account what happens to drivers who use medicines, which reduce the psychomotor ability of the driver. In European countries, certain research has been done, and I have had opportunities to see it. And it's only in our presence that in particular many drivers are being treated for these diseases that are related to their psyche, psychiatric illness, or others, and they are using medicines that reduce or disable motor vehicle management. That's specifically indicated by the doctors of family medicine 'cause that's what their patients are. Often they write drugs to them, etc. and even an initiative has been launched to temporarily deposit a driver's license with such patients. And if the commission found that they were cured, I think it would be possible for them to get that motor vehicle management license back. We've got a dispensation institute today, but only when there's an accident, I don't know if anyone's drunk, etc. Do it. But it's too late. What should be done in this segment is precisely this prevention and would certainly then decrease the number of accidents and reduce the number of deaths. And I think that in that part, we could reduce this data badly and get closer to European countries. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-05-0.u33289	Thank you very much. In response to the replica, we'll hear a representative of Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-05-0.u33290	Thank you very much. You've noticed well, there we must go with a legal, perhaps a proposal, because the fact is that in the use of many medicines, man is not able to drive and participate in traffic, and we are so regulatory. But as far as prevention is concerned, I'm more concerned about the data that I don't know if anyone mentioned, but the fact that we have 250 thousand unregistered cars on the road in Croatia. Now, this someone would say maybe they're not driving, maybe they're standing, etc. I think the police would have to work harder on that, because the fact is that about 500 accidents those cars were involved in about 500 accidents and many of them had fatalities. We need to work more on prevention. And it's unacceptable for unregistered cars to appear in traffic. Most of the time, it's about cars that can't pass registration and threaten the safety of the traffic of all of us. So prevention must be a fundamental task for the police and it must do everything possible to make Croatian citizens feel safer on the roads in this sense.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-05-0.u33291	Thank you very much. It is up to the individual debate, the respected representative Krešimir Ćosic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-05-0.u33292	Dear Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen. It is not excessive to stress that this is a very serious topic and certainly a serious topic requires serious, responsible and system approach. To what extent this was present, I do not want to comment, but it is clear, however, that this is a subject of broader first-rate social importance for a number of reasons because it is more than 600 deaths on average and more each year, tens of thousands of victims. Those are the numbers that warn you. It's a simple finding, the fact that from now on, from this moment on in the next year, six hundred deaths, who is among these people, why, why. All this really requires maximum social effort, as said in the opening presentation multidisciplinaryally almost all ministries without exception, I would say almost all the institutions of this state. Every life saved in the Republic of Croatia today at a time of peace is very important. A great obligation and responsibility is especially for a country that had nearly twenty thousand deaths in the early 1990s, fifty thousand wounded. Therefore, the issue, its widespread social significance, warns. The national road safety programme of the Republic of Croatia for the period 2006-2010 brings to an end the programme, before us a new cycle for the period 2010-2015 or 2014. We need a new quality even more efficient, even more comprehensive than you said a more multidisciplinary approach that needs to be given better and better quality results, which means more living, more efficiency, less victims, less enormous material and immaterial damages. It is a challenge for all those who can contribute to this programme. New ideas on how to strengthen the efficiency of this program. It's not just rhetoric, it can't be just a wish, it has to be an expression of systematic understanding, and it's deep, so I'm going to say without an exaggeration of scientific understanding of this issue because the victims are looking for it, warning it, and we have to do everything we can. The national programme, I would say, has significant financial resources and it is certain that these significant financial resources can be used more efficiently and better. I'll illustrate it later on with only one example. All that we heard in the framework of the 2008 Strategic Activity Plan is probably and for the next period I would say is nothing special new, warns that on all these issues we can and must do more. Speed reduction. Yes, it is much more important to define what is essential. Adjustment of speed, protection of children, control of alcohol driving, resolution of dangerous places, increase of vehicle technical correctness, improvement of traffic statistics, etc. If that's all you'd say then we need to do more that in the new national programme we have really new ideas in one clearer form that must be part of a public social campaign. What could be one of those important ideas? It is a culture of safe driving, the development of a culture of safe driving is not trivial or simple tasks and I want to say more about it because it deserves proper attention, appropriate efforts and appropriate investments. How to improve the driver's cognitive capabilities, how to improve the quality of decision-making of new drivers, how to ensure that drivers can better identify risk scenes, how they can quality predict possible risk situations, calculate risks etc., is part of the thinking that is not taught in auto-schools in the existing driver training system. This requires a multidisciplinary and systematic approach and I want a few more words about it. Five years ago, I co-ordinated a personal study that titled the development of a culture of safe driving, a study done by people who understood this problem, which in some other areas proved that thinking, skills, decision-making, etc. could be increased. The study was done at the Faculty of Electrical Engineering and Computing. The study certainly deserves far more attention than it did at that time when it was made and dedicated to the Ministry of the Interior I would say long before, somewhere in the beginning of 2000. What's this about? What's a safe ride? I'll read only parts of this study. Safe driving is a complex task that requires appropriate coordination and synchronisation of various visual, cognitive, perceptional, psycho-physical, manipulative abilities and skills. It is a little more quality and comprehensive definition that requires a different training and education program in auto-schools. Safe driving requires continuous safety considerations, intelligent interpretation of the traffic situation, early forecasting and identification of a dangerous situation, anti-cipping threats, timely avoidance of risky and dangerous situations. We haven't heard anything about it today, but it doesn't really surprise me. The development of a culture of safe driving in all developed countries is not only a campaign but is institutional, organisational and financial structure. Security driving centres deserve far more effort and attention in the Republic of Croatia than in today's situation. Safety driving centres can make a major contribution to training new drivers, under-experienced drivers, but also to the centres of safe driving using appropriate technologies, especially high technologies related to driving simulators, technologies that have been downloaded in both road and air traffic, for various reasons. There's no professional pilot who doesn't have to go on a simulator to extend his certificate and pass a whole series of demanding tests. Experienced drivers, professional drivers certified them. These are the measures and efforts that deserve, I would say our joint effort, building a security culture in new drivers, improving the physical and mental properties of drivers etc.. All this allows me to say a far better, safer and more efficient ride on average. Driving Simulators ensure simulations of different driving conditions for those who did not actually have a chance to experience these conditions in real driving. Road condition, vehicle condition, night, alcohol, drinking, fatigue, etc. These are technologies and methodologies that can have a great effect in the new national programme, and that is why I really think that part deserves attention. Only a few statistics clearly indicate the effects of such methodologies and such improvements in driver quality. A few statistics. The San Diego police cut the number of accidents by 75%, a public carrier in New York City, a 35% reduction in accidents, North American... A 22% reduction in accidents, the German army reduced the number of accidents by 20%, simulator users, auto-schools, only in France over 300 simulators. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The United States of America 6 thousand, the military and police of the United States, France, Germany, etc., warns all that we can and must do much more under the new national programme and I am sure, I believe and I hope that this aspect of development, culture, secure armies will be institutionalally financial and organisational in the future in every way supported. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-05-0.u33293	Thank you, Mr. Representative. Now it is up to the distinguished representative of Shima Lucin as 6 out of 11 registered for individual debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-05-0.u33294	Thank you very much, Mr. President. So maybe at the very beginning to say why I won't vote for this report, it'll seem strange to someone that you won't raise your hand to a report where certain facts are listed that are who they are. So if I raise my hand for this report, I'll accept the fact that the state of transport security is what we have and that nothing can change. And I can't raise my hand for that. I can't raise my hand for the fact that from year to year we have an ever worse situation when it comes to road safety. Comparing data in Croatia with those in the world or better to say in Europe a few years ago, so it is obvious that there is room to fix the situation. If someone didn't get me wrong, I don't think the Ministry of the Interior is responsible for this state, though, I think it's the only segment of this country that's doing its job to some extent, maybe I'd give some criticism and objections to the relationship between repression and prevention and prevention, but I won't. I think the situation in this area is alarming, we discuss this year after year, each MP takes one segment, so someone talks about the simulators, someone about the state of America, someone about the bikers, someone about the kids, someone about the cyclists. I don't think we actually see the woods from the trees. And the woods look next. That the number of people killed in traffic, therefore, on Croatian roads is one of the biggest problems in this country. So more people die in traffic than overdose, than drug abuse, one of various serious diseases, and I won't talk about material damage, they're enormous, the Croatian government doesn't give an answer. I, too, hold responsible Croatian government data for this situation, that the government has met its objectives set out in the national programme, we would have 200 less dead in transport this year. Let me remind you, the government has drawn 10 to 100 grand, we have more than 14, so we don't have a trend of fall, we have a trend of rise. Now I'm wondering, why this debate of ours? We discuss it here, the public discusses it, nothing is done. Is there anything you can do? Of course you can. I've spoken of it several times in this House. Some European countries like France, like Sweden, when they graded, watch out for 1 or 2 dead in Sweden at 100,000. When it is estimated that the situation is alarming then from state institutions, the government is all engaged in the issue and the problem. In Croatia, this report will pass, next year we will have 5 more or 5 less dead, the damage will be even bigger and finished. I don't know how long we'll settle for the data we get from year to year. Otherwise, in this House, it is a practice not to discuss at all the contents of the report in what it says but simply to raise a hand for reports that cannot be different from what they are. In this case, when it comes to the dead, when it comes to the dead, the disabled, the enormous material damage, I don't think we should close our eyes in this House. I would like to and I think that would be a success, if we from this place, first and foremost to the Government and then to the Croatian public, were to send a message that the situation is alarming, that all, and especially the Croatian Government, in terms of coordination and organisation, must engage in solving this problem. Because if I say we don't, and if it doesn't get to the ones that it needs to get to, then the situation will be catastrophic. You see, the government will consider a national programme at the end of this year and will realise that the objectives are not met. Now I'm interested in whether an expert analysis will be made which will show why. Is it because a little money is invested in it? Is that why someone was probably talking about education here? Is it because we still don't have one whole child education system at school? So how long are we going to deal with these questions conveniently? That means we're going to do a little prevention when school starts, let's discuss it a little more seriously when the topic comes to the Parliament or eventually when a serious car accident occurs. So I said, and I have no intention of talking about the details, it's time to sit down and sit down those who know something about this. And that the whole concept and concept from legislative to enforcement, so if you want promiscuity, be differently placed on your feet. Look, we can have a national program I don't know what, but if he doesn't give the results something needs to be changed. So the concept must change entirely. It is unacceptable for only one ministry to sit here, that it is only one ministry, and that which is primarily responsible for the repressive side of the story, to explain, defend and report on this problem. It's interesting to say for 600 and I don't know how many dead with a tendency, the trend is worrying and more than it's just... So the trend is increasing. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Let's say the Deputy Prime Minister doesn't sit there, if he doesn't already have the president and he tells us in five sentences what the government will do to revise its objectives, or to fulfill them. No, unfortunately, we don't hear anything about it. We'll talk again about how motorcycles don't wear helmets, how they drive drunk, how they don't have enough culture in traffic. However, what we will do, i.e. first of all, is that the Croatian government and the institutions of this state, that this story should be reduced to some reasonable frameworks. To be honest, I'd be happy if we didn't have 50 or 100 less dead in traffic next year, normally I'd be happier than if we had a downward trend, so we have one number smaller. Because that would mean something, if we were going to get better. So, I'm finishing up, I think it's important that from here, today, we send a message to the public of traffic is alarming. There's a better chance of you getting yourself killed or being disabled in traffic than having any other serious accident happen to you. I'm afraid the government may not be reaching out to another way to solve the problem. We are known that when the government has no answer to certain questions, it moves towards bans. Fortunately, this is not about smoking and smoking diseases, it's about traffic, so the government can't stop driving cars and taking part in traffic. But I don't know, there's no answer. Are we definitely going to get a response after five years of what's going on with the national program, why isn't it giving results, and as long as every year, we're going to get black statistics from month to month? So, road safety is mostly measured by the number of deaths, and we're here year by year getting worse. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-05-0.u33295	Thank you very much. An MP, Niko Rebic, came forward to correct the incorrect allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-05-0.u33296	Thank you. Comrade Lucin, you said that the government in its national programme stated that not until 2010, you said that this year the number of people killed would be below 10%. That's incorrect. So, in the 2006-2010 National Programme, there should be under 10 deaths per 100,000 people in 2010, and according to indicators in this year, so the number of deaths per 100,000 in the first few months gives real chances that this could happen in 2010 and, of course, if all others, and not just the MUP, are involved from school education, other ministries. There are a number of things that should be done, which are foreseen by this programme and I think it's realistic that it might, which I'm not saying will happen, but therefore it's incorrect that it should be in this year but only in 2010. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-05-0.u33297	Thank you very much. For his word, he appeared on behalf of the motionary State Secretary, Mr Ivica Buconjic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-05-0.u33298	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. I would just like to clarify a little bit and answer Mr. Lucin's question since the debate was now going on, I would say, most of the MPs agreed that this is an extremely complex issue, that there are no ways we can fix ourselves with one-off and simple state methods. However, it absolutely does not stand for what Mr. Lucin said that the government is doing nothing. I will only mention that the government or the competent ministries are taking a number of activities and measures to improve the situation in road safety because there is no room for satisfaction. While people die, while accidents happen, there's no room for pleasure. However, the fact is that 65 people died less in the first five months of this year than in the same period last year. That's a fact. These 197 people who have still died, of course, are a catastrophic figure, and there is no room for satisfaction because of this figure. Also, you say that year after year, the state is getting worse and it's alarming. I'll tell you that in 2003, for the first time in six years, the death toll was over 700. In 2003, for the first time in five years. After that, after the law was passed and a series of other measures were taken, we arrived in 2005 for the first time in 40 years after '65. to less than 600 fatalities. Unfortunately, again after that, we had bad trends, and again in 2006, 2007 and 2008 we had an increase in the number of fatalities. Obviously, there are oscillations. Obviously, this all indicates that these oscillations indicate that the system is not yet complex, that the system is not yet good enough to ensure long-term positive trends. However, the fact is that this year for the first five months we have one significant 27% reduction in the number of fatalities compared to the same period last year. Of course, this came not only from itself, but also from the measures and activities taken by the ministries. So I'm going to say that surely the Ministry of the Interior, after detecting which are the most vulnerable and critical groups, are, above all, children, young drivers, motorcyclists, have taken on a number of targeted activities according to those groups of traffic participants who are the most vulnerable and who suffer the most. In the end, the interior ministry has proposed a change of law. And that change of law certainly led to these results that were encouraging for the first four months, the first five months. However, we must not be satisfied, we must not be swept away and we must continue to take a series of activities designed by other measures to preserve these trends, or how to preserve this trend of reducing the number of fatalities. The interior ministry signed an agreement with the Croatian highways on the procurement of two helicopters. These two helicopters will certainly, or use them, produce certain results in monitoring and affecting road safety. We still have a number of other activities. One of the activities is that together with the Centre for Vehicles of Croatia, we have established a monitoring system, i.e. recording, identification of unregistered vehicles. Every year we have an increasing number of vehicles that are excluded from traffic when they are not registered because it is clear that unregistered vehicles in one significant number participate as participants in traffic accidents and accidents. I said the same thing that I said at the beginning, and I repeat what I did at the beginning, we included schools in educational programs and actions yesterday, but unfortunately, such promotional activities go unnoticed, and I think it's very important that we included children at the earliest age in this system to train them, train them, educate them, that when adults are both active and secure in transport. So, the Ministry of Interior and other ministries and governments are taking a series of measures that all together need to contribute to making the road safety situation better and we will surely have to revise these targets you said for 2010. It may be unreal to expect that 7 to 8 people will be killed, or less than 10 people killed per 100,000. However, these very trends that we are following will lead to revision, we will propose those measures and we will implement them in practice that must lead to a reduction in the number of fatalities because each victim is invaluable and as long as there are so many victims, there is no room for satisfaction.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-05-0.u33299	Thank you very much. The correction of the incorrect allegations is represented by Sima Lucin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-05-0.u33300	Thank you very much. Well, I mean, it's an incorrect piece of information about the trends you're talking about. Well, you've been in the Ministry for a long time, and, you know, now it's warmed up, the motorists are out. Trend went down. Now the foreign guests will come. The number of cars on Croatian roads will double. With the logic of things, there'll be more accidents. So let's wait until the end of the year. Oh, Mr. Buconjic, I didn't ask you to answer me, but when you went to answer me, okay, the government's doing something. Well, it doesn't work enough because the goal you've set by the end of this year isn't fulfilled and it's not close. It's not enough that only the Home Office is working on this issue. You answer me what's up with school kids' education? What's with all the sublegal acts that the other ministries didn't pass so the laws could be implemented. I'm only taking this narrow part of the state right now, and I'm not going to talk about a wider social context where everyone and the non-governmental institutions are expected or I don't know, the local self-government unit to get involved in this story. Therefore, we have no reason in any version, at least if I'm asked to show satisfaction.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-05-0.u33301	Thank you very much. The next person reported for the debate is the respected representative Slavko Linic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-05-0.u33302	Mr. Vice President, representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues. The completion of the government's report is something that we should be motivated by representatives to conclude and try to find answers, and what should we do to direct us to greater activity? The conclusions of this report indicate that we are not satisfied with the state of security. Why? Because, most importantly, the death toll has not approached the targets of the national programme. And behind that is a sentence that is very important to us MPs. The improvement in that part is also possible if there is greater activity for all participants responsible for traffic security problems. So it takes more activity. I'd say the government said slightly that yet one of the authorities didn't do his job very well. And more or less, we all find, those who are holders of the Transport Safety Act, do their job, work, have a series of measures, but unfortunately they're too lonely on it. We haven't been able to motivate the same activity we have in the Home Office to be seen in other ministries. Now we Parliamentarians have to ask ourselves what we need to do to make this motivation different? And then we return to the legislative domain, to the legislative domain. Are we the ones who should regulate traffic safety laws differently? Therefore, to transfer part of the responsibility for the security of transport legislation to the Ministry of Transport which should be responsible for the quality of the roads, for investing in roads, for maintaining and carrying in that part the burden of legislative regulation. The Ministry of Economy also for the safety of transport shall in particular regulate the technical regularity of the vehicle, all those involved in the type-approval and in technical quality. So that we return to the Ministry of Education, which legislation must also bear part of the responsibility for transport security in the part of education and probably divided by the Ministry of Interior in the strongest relation and quality of relations with the civil sector that civil sectors have a number of associations, but unfortunately not sufficiently connected with other ministries except the Ministry of the Interior. Not connected enough. And that's when we get to the most important segment. It's a worrying death toll after 24 hours of accident. So those who die after 24, which means that it's questionable whether we intervened quickly, whether the intervention was as fast as necessary because of the severity of the accident. High speeds, seeing as they're the cause, I'd say highways and others. Therefore, it is up to all of us in the Parliament to try now to take great responsibility in the legislation on traffic safety and to transfer it to the Ministry of Health. So, if we Assembly representatives were to legislatively divide the regulation, I would say I would give the possibility that all other ministries would regulate security legally, what can we expect then? Then we can be sure, not only do we expect all the other ministries to be as high-quality or at least roughly as the Ministry of Interior as the holder of the current common law. And at that moment, we raise responsibility, raise the activity and quality of the work of the competent ministries. And then we can really be sure that all the factors that pass the laws and bear the burden of the law, I apologize, do not bring, but bear the burden of implementing the law that they will be far more active in the care of traffic safety. It's the job of our parliamentary representatives. We have already discussed this several times what to do in the adoption of the Transport Safety Act. And if we do parliamentary agents, I think we'll do a lot to raise greater responsibility, greater activity for all those responsible for traffic safety. That they are not empty words speak in the experiences of European countries, which have achieved the goal of nationality, which is the number of deaths less than 10 per 100 thousand inhabitants. Which also resorted I would say to these solutions. So they split one law into a number of other laws, shared jurisdiction and included several ministries, not one ministry. And if from this analysis, and I hope next year, when we fully analyze the implementation of national programmes, we just draw conclusions. It will be important to conclude that we need to legislatively divide this regulation and give jurisdiction to implement these laws to a greater number of ministries, that we will achieve better results, or targets that we set, which is lower mortality on our roads. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-05-0.u33303	Thank you very much. It's an honorary representative of Andri Hebrang's. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-05-0.u33304	Thank you very much. Your Honor, Mr. Vice President. I would add another aspect of the problem to these exhausting debates, which is saving people's lives after an accident occurred. So, we've heard the ministry has really invested with all its co-workers a great deal of effort. And this report shows a significant step and needs to be supported. I'd only add one aspect. What about when there was a car accident? Here we talked about how to prevent them, reduce the number of accidents and consequences. Unfortunately, when there's a car accident, and the number of deaths is getting bigger over 660 a year, then we wonder how the Sanitary Transport is organised. Sanitary transport was organised by land route and it could work until the construction of a large number of modern highway roads. Sanitation vehicle is not a choice for the transport of wounded after a traffic accident in the condition of the highway. Because large columns are created in a very short time, which can't be reached on that service lane. The service tape is not on viaducts of some, it is not in tunnels, it is not on bridges and today it is one of the rules of the European Union, each country must have an organised so-called. multi-purpose helicopter transport. What's that? These are helicopters trained for rapid interventions in the event of a car accident. Of course, they're not the transport helicopters we use today. MI8 military helicopters. These are small helicopters, carrying up to 1,000 pounds, up to 200 kilometers an hour, specially equipped for emergency medical aid. Croatia is also interested in the service because of its islands, because of its mountains, because of its mountain rescue service that gives superhuman efforts to save lives. What does that mean for our highway? That means we could save 100 lives a year. So one third of all died in transport. From that third half, it can save a quick intervention, which is a helicopter life. So about 100 lives a year would save a multi-purpose helicopter service. Unfortunately, at the end of 2004, we had a complete program. He failed because it was said that we would get helicopters from Russia by charging the clinical debt. And we got them. But these are transporting military helicopters that absolutely cannot serve for this purpose. What do you need to do? We need to put together an inter-resor group that will include our pilots that we have enough, which will include our emergency medical assistance where we have enough well-educated experts, which will include those who designed the finances of this system, and the financial system means buying at least 6 helicopters for the surface of Croatia. That means within a 100 - mile [100 km] radius of at least one helicopter service station. Of course, Croatia has no money to buy these helicopters, nor can it be bought on the market, because it has been waiting for them for over 2 years, but there are those companies that give such helicopters to licking, including the service. So we can get to the helicopter, we've got pilots, we've got emergency medical attention. We need to design an organization and funding of the system. The financing of the system does not have to be from the budget, the financing of the system must be multiple, also multiple. This means HZZO will finance the rescue of its insurance companies, the HAC which has done much already in this sense will ensure the rescue and transport of drivers, insurance of tourists, insurance of skiers, hikers etc. Thus, the service needs to be financed from several directions. It costs about 20m euros a year, with all the costs. I ask a question, is that a lot? That's not much, because for 20 million euros, we can't save 100 lives in health care, and in car accidents we can. So my lockup is to accept this report, it's quality shows great effort, but right away as soon as possible to include the organization of a multi-purpose helicopter service, because we have opportunities, we have money, we have personnel, and we're losing 100 lives a year. What is 100 lives a year in our health care? It's a big fight with a lot of money, with a big organization, and here we can do it very easily. That's my contribution to this debate, so I'm asking the Resort Ministry to consider it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-05-0.u33305	Thank you very much. Next reported for the hearing is Honorable Representative Arsen Bauk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-05-0.u33306	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I'd like to make a brief contribution to the debate on this report. What I see as one of the problems is actually and it can be seen in some way from the presence of the government's representatives at this session, is that it seems to me that the Ministry of the Interior is in many ways lonely in the implementation of this programme. Many remarks that might go into the implementation and implementation of this programme in any case would be more focus on other parts of the Croatian government, not the Ministry of the Interior. The first page of this report mentions the working group and now lists who is actually in the task force, so the representative of the Ministry of the Interior, the representative of the Ministry of the Sea, Transport and Infrastructure, the representative of the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports, the representative of the Ministry of Health and Social Care, the Ministry of Justice, the Croatian Autoclub, the Croatian Roads, the Office for the Security of the Centre for Vehicles. The very composition of this task force shows how complex this problem is and how much the country's institutions should be included in order to eventually bring all of this down to just one single number that is actually important in order to know whether or not we succeeded, and that is whether the number of people killed on the roads or the number of people with permanent injuries on the roads is smaller or larger than it was a year earlier, and which are the reasons for it and what should be done to make it less. There are many reasons to see if the number of people killed on the roads in one year is greater or smaller. It is no doubt a traffic culture of drivers or how many drivers and pedestrians but in any case more drivers respect traffic regulations and how much punishment it is, in fact, how much a violation of traffic regulations is socially acceptable or unacceptable. Today, I mentioned the case of a person who drove 60 miles [60 km] more than allowed and who still boasted and announced that she would do it again, and she did not encounter an excessively large condemnation of the public. Another thing that is important is the state of our roads, highways, state, county, unclassified roads, signalling state and, of course, the removal of black points on which the largest number of fatal accidents occur or injuries occur. Then it is a matter of education on traffic regulations, about the need to comply with traffic regulations, about how children are raised from the earliest age to respect traffic regulations, about knowing when to cross the street, about how to do this on a walking road crossing, not to run the road without looking left, right, and all that is going. Then it is a question of how long it is necessary to provide help, adequate medical assistance to get to the hospital, after learning about the car crash and possible consequences. Of course, a golden watch is also mentioned very often, so the time at which the most human lives can be saved after a car accident. Then it is important to deal with those who have violated traffic regulations, who frequently violate traffic regulations, whether they are brought to court with mild or excessive penalties to call them so, or to come to an absurdity that a person who has committed a criminal offence actually happens to be in handcuffs brought to court, so that the public is very often going from extreme to extremes from condemnation of such conduct until then the fact that under the pressure of the public the person who committed it has undoubtedly committed a criminal offence in traffic to be brought to court in cuffs. And we have a case that for much more serious crimes, murder doesn't come to court in handcuffs. Also, all of this together shows the complexity of this matter and shows how much it takes for us, so people who publicly perform their example and by pointing to bad examples and by creating those good examples in public a picture that it is necessary to respect the rules, that it is necessary to drive carefully and that, of course, any irresponsibleness is, even if it was instantaneous and in seconds, enough to change the lives of people who experience a car accident, their families and their friends. I still remember today a few car accidents that happened in my place and, of course, families that today, therefore, the consequences of this feeling. I would therefore like to express my hope that all of them, all the measures that the Ministry of the Interior and other ministries are taking to reduce the number of traffic accidents, will reduce the number of deaths that will result. To all of us, who participate in political life and in some way in a political game, the same goal is to make that number as small as possible, to keep the safety on our roads as high as possible. But of course, we don't have to agree on whether the right people are in the right places to do it and whether all the measures have been taken. In this regard, with the support of therefore efforts to minimise the bad consequences of bad drivers, we will always, of course, follow as a positioning party whether people who work on it do whatever they need to do. In this regard, I will vote in favour of accepting this report and closely monitor how the rules that are now in force and how many ministries are taking what is in their jurisdiction continue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-05-0.u33307	Thank you. We have one replica. Mr. Goran Heffer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-05-0.u33308	Thank you very much. Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. counterpart Bauk stressed the role of others in improving road safety. Of course, when we adults talk about safety, mostly children are primarily children, and our colleague Bauk was talking about education, he mentioned education. As an informer, he is certainly familiar with the project of a traffic teacher because it is an area for children very interesting, they spend much in front of computers not only in games but also in interactive knowledge acquisition. This project is I am pleased that the education of children was actually put as a strategic activity, in this report is also mentioned. But I am pleased to say that in Slavonia this project is very recognized, so if you see the last competition then you will see that the Brod-Posavina County had as much as 20 of the 34 schools that participated and that from Vukovar-Srijem County over 800 children participated. I agree with my colleague Lucino that further developing this project which is extremely interesting and I would say that it provides much more opportunities to gain knowledge of transport safety than any other form of school children should also be given a greater role to the Ministry of Education and Science and Sports, a greater role should be given to local self-government. With these schools and everyone else who participates in the creation of opinions, in creating all those attitudes related to traffic. And I ask you to make an additional effort in this section to direct all these segments to make even more interesting projects like a traffic classroom even stronger into function. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-05-0.u33309	Thank you. Answer Mr. Arsen Bauk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-05-0.u33310	Thank you, Mr. President. We have been talking all day about traffic and compliance with traffic regulations, so I hope that this jam will stop being discussed normally and that colleagues will respect the rules of the Rules of Procedure not to disturb other speakers because there was enough time for us to apologize to each other even before we arrived in the hall. I agree, yesterday we debated among other things and a report by the Ombudsman for children where she mentioned one part of the transport culture, i.e. traffic education. It seems to me that in law, that this is Article 3(2). The road safety law also stands for obligations, unless I quote correctly, I apologize for the introduction of traffic education into schools. And it is doubtless, therefore, that this one segment needs further, so additional children should be educated and pointed to importance. But I don't think it's as much a problem in children as in adults, so let this debate be another appeal to everyone who drives to do it in a prescribed way because, of course, just a second or less of attention enough to change your life and the lives of many people you don't know who you meet on the road. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-05-0.u33311	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm asking that the clubs be organised, we'll start the vote as soon as we finish discussing this item on the agenda. We still have Mr. Representative Boro Grubisic and five minutes, Mr. Boris Šprem. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-05-0.u33312	Thank you very much, Mr. President. A lot has been said today in this debate, but here I think there are still elements that I am interested in and Mr. Secretary of State and the staff of the ministry can answer me even though here I see a time of preparation for the vote. In fact, Mr. Hebrang has already spoken, given that we are both from the medical profession about the possibilities and needs of the part that happens after the car accidents, which is the transport of the injured from the scene of the accident to the hospital. Of course, today is a modern way and therefore, modern mode of transport by helicopters, but we still have to look back at the health ministry because we know that hospitals and even larger hospitals, county hospitals don't have heliodromes, so then that transport is going back to the car from the landing site or some kind of airport to say towards the hospital. That golden hour when I can prevent and prevent the severe consequences of the injured's health, I'd ask you for peace, so, before you could be called the dead line, so, one hour from the injury to the arrival in the operating room. I was in the debate when it came to the new law, about the changes to the new Transport Safety Act I mentioned back then that we had a problem with cyclists. [[Intruder: My colleagues, please, keep quiet so we can hear a colleague, we don't have much yet, let's be patient.]] Now, you see, according to this report, according to this report that you gave us today, we have a statistical report, unfortunately we have an increase in the number of deadly cyclists, 68%. That's what I warned the secretary of state that in that former or past statistic, it was a little bit less negatory, but a little bit, I don't say misrepresented, pedestrians, cyclists, etc. We also have an increase in the number of dead pedestrians. When we talk about education of children in schools, then we should certainly welcome the special or mainly results in Brod-Posavina County where 20 schools are as said by fellow Heffer, 20 schools won to say first places in the knowledge of the traffic and traffic regulations of our children in the Republic of Croatia. But here in these 17, therefore, black dots, on the county roads in the Republic of Croatia, the first place is the black spot in the place or village of Trnjani, which in the last three years has 17 traffic accidents, so 17 injured persons in 2004, '05. And '06. A year. So, it's under regular number one, and I'm really not glad that there's such a point in our county, then there's still a point, and I'm not sure that the solutions that would have been put in place to resuscitate that black spot and somehow ensure greater traffic safety. What we were talking about today is that it has to be more involved in this problem and the Ministry of Justice, and I would agree with colleagues who have talked about it or talked about it, especially since there are in our case to say the case-law of some nebulosis, as I would call it, although it is not mine to judge the judgments in which it was stated in the arguments that because someone comes from a good family to reduce his sentence even though it caused the death of two young people, for example. in Makarska or death or severe injury in Varazdin. So, if that's the case, then let the Justice Department write a law that will introduce these institutions of encouragement from the "good family" and know immediately that they can do so because their punishment will be less. Or they'll be in some more open-minded kind of law so that they'll be less sanctioned than those who don't come out of the so-called "good families." Here we talked about about about about 650 people being tested for drugs and that there was evidence of the presence of intoxicating drugs in 230 people. It's a scary piece of information to me. So, 35% of the people the police tested on the driver's drugs are under the influence of intoxicating drugs. And I wonder how much of our population is still benefiting from all sorts of things. I hear them, Mr. President! [[I'm sorry, guys, I hate to use the bell, but I think we're exaggerating, we can't listen to a colleague.]] How much, therefore, given the war, or the war consequences.../The speaker turned off and subsequently turned on./... So I wonder here and Mr. Secretary of State, is there any statistics on how many drivers use psychopharmacs from those who use them because of the consequences of the war, to those who are psychiatric patients or use them like this freely to say use for a variety of reasons. All of this therefore has an impact on traffic safety. And another question in view of this report, given the limitations of the young drivers we've had our doubts about, where there's even a constitutional one, it seems to me to be a claim in connection with the rights, so the unequal rights of citizens. You see, I got a question from, let me say, from young people that he can't drive a car, he's 22 years old, and he works at a company that, therefore, runs a bus there at 22 years old or drives a truck to Germany, Turkey, Bulgaria, etc. A personal car he, according to those legal provisions that are positive legal provisions, must not drive or have to drive under the supervision of another person. And the truck drives a tour to Austria, Germany without any problems. When it comes to traffic behavior, when it comes to traffic culture, it's not just a matter of traffic culture, it's also a matter of culture or of home-branding, from school. So those statements that I've heard here from the right now, but on the left, about Mr. Kerume's statement of speed of 190 km/h that this is as little as his car can pull. It's something that actually speaks about this behavior and this education and the understanding of actually traffic and the importance of respecting traffic signs and the meanings of these 664 dead for the past year, 2008 and the average of 15 dead to 100,000 inhabitants, and compared to Europe that has half the percentage of dead to 100,000 inhabitants. This is what is sad and therefore until Croatia has all the possible measures that we have talked about here, including the Ministry of Justice, which Mrs. Anticevic and Mr. Lucin and the others have spoken about, in that sense, changes in this sense that a serious traffic violation with a fatal consequence or a severe wounding of a person is not fully understood in our judicial system. Until then, I fear that this figure, according to the ministry alone, of about 650 dead on average in the last 10 years, will continue to list some 650 dead. In addition, statistics for 2009. In the first half, or the first five months of this year, as far as I know, I've heard that information somewhere, whether on the radio, television or in the newspaper, that we already have over 300 dead in car accidents. So, this report clearly is to be accepted, but it is necessary to continue to work in all these segments from the establishment of a driving safety centre to the inclusion of the Ministry of Justice and all other factors in this road safety programme. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-05-0.u33313	Thank you. We have one replica, Mr. Arsen Bauk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-05-0.u33314	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Grubisic, I'm not sure if I heard you well because of the marbles, but I think I did, but you mentioned the death of two girls in Makarska and you commented on the actual reasoning of the verdict that came for the case. So, the very fact that the judge sought and sought and asked for reasons to ease the penalties of someone in this case, and this is not a criticism of a good family but a judge, actually shows that there is still a lot of room in the institutions of the judiciary and other institutions that are not solid with the efforts of the Ministry of the Interior to bring this story into some frameworks that would at least be at the level of the European Union countries. And as far as these good families are concerned, it's not the only case. Because the story of good genes has been used outside of justice to explain some other decisions, but now that it's not a topic, we're not going to talk about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-05-0.u33315	Thank you. Answer, Mr. Representative Boro Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-05-0.u33316	Mr. Colon, you didn't hear me till the end, maybe even because of the marble. I also suggested that it be then as it is already and based... /The speaker turned off./... they shut me down all the time, but in vain. So, based on such judgments, it is built into the judicial system, that we have such an institution, not just a nonsense in the judiciary, but that it is a regular practice. A good family and a lesser punishment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-05-0.u33317	Thank you. And in conclusion, on behalf of the SDP club, Mr. Representative Boris Sprem for five minutes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-05-0.u33318	Thank you very much, Mr. President. It won't be five minutes. First of all, I would say that the SDP club, to be quite clear, supports the report and because of what Mr Linic has also underlined, ends after giving certain facts and problems with the finding that the state of the government is not satisfied. And secondly, let me put it this way, with the resolution of our road traffic situation, we need to include a much wider circle of subjects and count which entities they are. That's the first one. Second. What I have seen in this debate and what is positive, which is one shift in the last year, is that we are getting closer and closer to the consensus on the state of traffic security and how to solve it as a problem so that we can really get close to the standards of the European Union. I can see that from Mr. Hebrang's acceptance of the proposal we made to provide helicopter assistance to health care. Perhaps just to point out that this helicopter aid is not important, he said, but not quite clearly, not only for trafficked people, but also for those who suffer from cardiovascular diseases, which is the key cause of mortality in us. So we shouldn't discuss it too much to really do. As for the results of the debate. I think it is very important for the government to understand the proposal that is being put through the debate, which is that for the future National Road Safety Programme, which is to be adopted by the Government next year to accept that, as a result of the existing situation and problems, include the profession and science, while considering how to solve the problem. And third, last. It was said in some ways, much more about the Road Safety Act and transport culture. Just one questionnaire for all of us. Let's think about it in the meantime, let the public think. In the United States of America in most countries I was driving less than a year ago than... to Washington and vice versa. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So we've been driving calculated in miles, it's about 60, 70 miles, all the time, and I see everyone else driving like that all the time and it's the same in Sweden. So, he's driving 70 miles an hour on the highway, on the highway. And I ask people there why it's done, it fits because speed is the key cause of road injuries and as in America says this time money, we realize that then the even greater meaning of that time is money just because we're gonna get there later, but we'll get there in time. Let's imagine how we would echo the idea of imposing a limit on our highways this beautifully designed, decorated, best guess roads, highways in Europe to 110. Now let's think about it. And that's what I'm suggesting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-05-0.u33319	Thank you. In conclusion, on behalf of the Government, State Secretary Mr. Ivica Buconjic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-05-0.u33320	Here, thank you very much. Very, very short since I see you waiting for the vote. I listened carefully, and I am glad that someone else said that a practical consensus has been reached here between the vast majority of MPs who have reported that a much wider social action has to be taken to improve the situation in road safety and to make the death toll much smaller. I'm going to say that maybe, here's one small action that started this year under the program, that maybe it's a good indicator how much can probably be done in the long run and how we're going to achieve the most. Here I would like to commend the special elementary school Vladimir Nazor from Topusko, Mirko Peresh from Kapela, Tucepi from Tucep, Ljudevit Gaja from Lužan and Brače Radic from Martinska Vesa. These five schools have included nearly 5,000 students in this interactive toy traffic teacher. They have achieved excellent results and it may be one of the best ways to prepare young people from the earliest preschool age and school age for responsible traffic behavior. There were a lot of other suggestions. We will also be sure to think about them when the National Road Traffic Safety Programme and the 2010-2014 strategy are under way, we will certainly install a lot of your proposals presented in this programme because they are visible and clear that they have no party colour, but that they are all focused together on making the road safety situation better. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-05-0.u33321	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. We are moving to the 2008 National Road Transport Safety Programme of the Republic of Croatia, the applicant is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal of the Assembly Working Body, I am voting on the following conclusion: "A report on the implementation of the National Road Traffic Safety Programme of the Republic of Croatia for 2008 is accepted." Please, let's get involved and vote. Score. A report with 98 votes was accepted for, nothing abstentions and two against. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, that's what we're gonna end up with this week. The next session is 17.6. and begins with the agenda point Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Labour Protection Act, P.Z.E. No. 340, emergency procedure. We wish you a pleasant holiday and a good-bye.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-05-0.u33324	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. At the 32nd session held on 5 June 2009, the selection, appointment and administrative work committee of the Croatian Parliament unanimously established a proposal for a decision on the resolution of members and the selection of members of the Committee on Spatial Planning and Construction of the Croatian Assembly. First, the duties of member of the Committee on Spatial Planning and Construction of the Croatian Parliament, Željko Vincelj, are hereby resolved. And secondly, Danica Hursa is elected as a member of the Committee on Spatial Planning and Construction of the Croatian Assembly.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-05-0.u33325	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. Please vote by raising the hands of this agenda item. Who is in favour of the Committee's proposal for selection and appointment? Thank you. Does anyone mind? Restraint? There isn't. Unanimity, 98 MPs and MPs. Let's move on.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-05-0.u33326	At the 32nd session held on 5 June 2009, the Committee for Election, Appointing and Administrative Affairs of the Croatian Parliament unanimously set out a proposal for a decision on the resolution of members and the selection of a member of the Committee on Environmental Protection of the Croatian Parliament. First, the duties of members of the Environment Protection Committee of the Croatian Parliament, Željko Vincelj, are hereby resolved. And secondly, Danica Hursa is elected as a member of the Committee for Environmental Protection of the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-05-0.u33327	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I propose a committee vote. Who wants to raise a hand? Thank you. Against? Restraint? The committee's proposal was adopted unanimously with 100 votes. We're moving on to third.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-05-0.u33328	The selection, appointment and administrative work committee of the Croatian Parliament at the 32nd session held on 5 June 2009 unanimously established a proposal for a decision on the resolution of members and the selection of a member of the Committee on Local and Regional Self-Government of the Croatian Parliament. First, members of the Committee for Local and Regional Self-Government of the Croatian Parliament, Željko Vincelj, are relieved. And secondly, Danica Hursa is elected as a member of the Committee on Local and Regional Regional Self-Government of the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-05-0.u33329	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I'm putting this proposal to a vote. Who's in? Thank you. Against? Restraint? Thank you. The committee's proposal was accepted unanimously by 102 votes. Let's move on.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-05-0.u33330	The selection, appointment and administrative work committee of the Croatian Parliament at the 32nd session held on 5 June 2009 unanimously set out a proposal for a decision on the discharge of members of the Committee on Justice of the Croatian Parliament. A member of the Committee for the Justice of the Croatian Parliament from the order of public, scientific and professional staff, Miroslav Šeparović, is hereby dismissed on 13 April 2009.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-05-0.u33331	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I'm making a proposal to the board. Who's in? The vote. Who's in? Thank you. Against? Restraint? Thank you. The committee's proposal was accepted unanimously by 102 votes. Let's move on.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-05-0.u33332	The selection, appointment and administrative work committee of the Croatian Parliament held at the 32nd session held on 5 June 2009 most of the votes set out a proposal for a decision to appoint two members of the Croatian Parliament's delegation to the NATO Parliamentary Assembly. For members of the Croatian Parliament's delegation to the NATO Parliamentary Assembly, Zeljka Antunovic and Vedran Rožic are named.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-05-0.u33333	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. Who's in favour of this committee proposal? Thank you. Against? Restraint? There isn't. Thank you. The proposal was accepted unanimously by 103 votes. Please move on.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-05-0.u33334	The Committee for the Selection and Designation of Administrative Affairs of the Croatian Parliament at the 32nd session held on 5 June 2009 unanimously established a proposal for a decision on the resolution and appointment of a member of the Management Board of the National Foundation for Science, Higher Education and Technological Development of the Republic of Croatia. First, a member of the Management Board of the National Foundation for Science, Higher Education and Technological Development of the Republic of Croatia, a professor of science, Željko Dujic, is dismissed for the term of office. And secondly, for members of the National Foundation for Science, Higher Education and Technology Development Board of the Republic of Croatia, on the proposal of a rectorial assembly of the higher universities of the Republic of Croatia, the academician Daniel Rukavina was appointed on 25 May 2009.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-05-0.u33335	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. Here you go, Mr. Flego.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-05-0.u33336	Two remarks, Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. On the one hand, it is a committee that decides on things that have not been consulted and has not asked the parent committee about the area, which is the Committee on Education, Science and Culture, which is about the committee that takes care of the National Foundation for Science, takes care of the reports and takes care of the staff. Second. By proposing this decision, you did not take into account the discussions so far on both the Parliament and the parent committee, that it is necessary to change the structure of the board members because it is illegal in them, the counterweight of people in one area, which is a biomedical area. You are now proposing a resolution of a member in the biomedical field, proposing the appointment of a member in the biomedical field and maintaining an existing imbalance that we have already expressed our opinion on in several. Therefore, I ask that this item be removed from the agenda and directed to the home office.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-05-0.u33337	Here is the Committee for Selection and Designation worked in accordance with the Law on the National Foundation for Science, Higher Education and Technology Development of the Republic of Croatia. Article 5(2) and (3) of the Law stipulates that the Foundation is managed by the Management Board of the Foundation which has 7 members who appoints the Croatian Assembly by one member of the Management Board of Foundations appointed by the Croatian Assembly on a proposal, not by the Board, but by the proposal of the Chamber of Rectors of the University of the Republic of Croatia. And based on that proposal, this committee has acted. ... Then the law needs to be changed, and this is in accordance with this law. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-05-0.u33338	I agree that the board should discuss this, but it is enough for our decision and this to be proposed by the committee of directors, and the Committee for Elections voted on it and proposed to the Parliament. I don't know about formal legal looking at that thing right now, we've had enough of what we've got. It's another thing. Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-05-0.u33339	Mr. President. The whole objection is that the motion for a rectorial assembly, a proposal that is illegal, since the law obliges science in Croatia to manage proportionately scientific areas and other proportionate regional representations. This proposal is contrary to both one and the other what it's about... our committee, the parent committee for these areas, rather than the appointment committee. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And therefore my proposal remains in force, to refer this to the Committee on Education, Science and Culture before the final decision is made. I ask Mr. President of the Committee to make a statement about this proposal.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-05-0.u33340	Thank you. The chairman of the Committee on Education, Science and Culture, Mr. Peter Selem. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-05-0.u33341	... But the fact is that the law is as it is.../ [[The speaker is not enabled.]] The speaker disfellowshipped....the choir gives the right to propose that one member. So it's the ingenuity of the rector's choir. Is that good or isn't it? I personally don't think it's good. But I'm saying the fact is what it is. It would be good to work on changing the rules so that absolutely such topics come to the Committee on Education, Science and Culture, which is still the only competent to be declared.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-05-0.u33342	Thank you. We can find a reason for each proposed one that is not in line with some proportions, relationships, etc. I don't think we should be making any special cases out of this case right now. I propose that the Parliament declare itself on the proposal of the Committee on Education, Science and Culture. And I'm putting it to the vote. I'm closing the debate. Oh, come on.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-05-0.u33343	President, here, I'll help with this thing. The same thing was in the appointment because the Croatian Parliament appoints judges, jurors of the High Court of Commerce. And the same thing is that the presidents of the courts, and it is the same law that binds them both in regional representation and in certain areas. He wasn't in accordance with the law. Twice, the Croatian Parliament returned to the Proposer to make their proposal, they are authorised proposings, but their proposal must be based on the law. We had the same situation.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-05-0.u33344	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. I am making a proposal for a vote proposed by the Appointing Committee. Who's up for this proposal? Please count. Keep your hands where I can see them. There's more votes to vote. Thank you. Against? Thank you. Restraint? Thank you. The result? The proposal was accepted by most votes, 72 votes in favour, 13 against and 20 abstentions. Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, we move on to the Committee's proposals for selection, appointment and administrative work. I ask Mrs. Nevenka Majdenic, president of the Committee, to take the floor and propose these decisions.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-05-0.u33346	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. My colleagues and colleagues. At the 33rd session held on 19 June 2009, the Board of Elections, Appointing and Administrative Affairs of the Croatian Parliament unanimously set out a proposal for a Decision on the discharge and selection of members of the Committee on Selection, Appointing and Administrative Affairs of the Croatian Parliament. First, a member of the Committee on Selection, Designation and Administrative Affairs, Ivan Vukic, and secondly, is hereby authorised as a member of the Committee on Selection, Designation and Administrative Affairs, is elected Ivan Bogovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-05-0.u33347	I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I am making a motion to vote. Please raise your hands. Who's in favour of this decision? Thank you. Do you mind? Restraint? There isn't. Unanimously, with 103 votes. Next, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-05-0.u33348	At the 33rd session held on 19 June 2009, the Committee for Selection, Appointing and Administrative Affairs of the Croatian Parliament unanimously set out a proposal for a Decision on the resolution and selection of members of the Committee on Environmental Protection of the Croatian Parliament. First, a member of the Committee on Environmental Protection Ivan Vučić and secondly, is hereby elected as a member of the Committee on Environmental Protection.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-05-0.u33349	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I'm making this proposal to the board for a vote, by raising my hands. Who's for please? Thank you. Against? Restraint? Unanimity with 102 votes. Next, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-05-0.u33350	At the 33rd session held on 19 June 2009, the Board of Elections, Appoints and Administrative Affairs of the Croatian Parliament unanimously set out a proposal for a Decision on the resolution and selection of members of the Committee on Maritime Affairs, Transport and Liaison of the Croatian Parliament. First, a member of the Maritime Committee Ivan Vučić and second, a member of the Committee on Maritime Affairs, Transport and Relations is elected Ivan Bogovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-05-0.u33351	I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I present this proposal to the committee for a vote. Please, who's gonna raise your hand for this proposal? Thank you. Against? Thank you. Restraint? unanimously, this proposal was accepted by 102 votes. Please move on.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-05-0.u33352	The selection, appointment and administrative work committee of the Croatian Parliament at the 33rd session held on 19 June 2009 identified the proposal for a decision on the resolution and appointment of a member of the Supervisory Board of the Trusted Assets Fund. First. A member of the Supervisory Board of the Fund for Compensation of property seized from the ranks of prominent legal experts Miroslav Šeparović is hereby authorised. And two. As a member of the Supervisory Board of the Compensation Fund, it shall be appointed from the order of prominent legal experts Tomislav Kos.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-05-0.u33353	I'm closing the debate. I'm putting this proposal to a vote. Who's in? Thank you. Against? Restraint? Thank you. The result unanimity 102 votes in favour. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, on Tuesday 23rd this month we will continue with the work of the Parliament with the agenda Annual report on the work of the Croatian Post and Electronic Communications Agency for 2008, and then we will move on. We'll see. This is the first point. I stress that we will vote on Tuesday to supplement the agenda and on Wednesday, when we have finished the debate, we will vote on the points of the agenda. So please wake up and respond to these sessions on Tuesday and Wednesday, so I hope you don't need that Friday. But there remains an open question and I wish you a pleasant weekend and I'll see you Tuesday. And holidays to have a good time in the mood. The President of the Croatian Parliament was also sent a proposal for a decision on the appointment of an article of the Committee on Justice of the Croatian Parliament. Will the lady explain it? There's no need. The Committee for the Justice of the Croatian Parliament proposes to be appointed as an article in the order of public, scientific and professional employees Krešimir Villajtović. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. Let's please get involved and vote on this proposal. The result? This proposal was accepted by most votes, 95 votes for, 4 abstentions, nothing against.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-05-0.u33356	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, please enter the assembly. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, we will proceed with the session. I would like the chairman of the Committee on Elections, Appointments and Administrative Affairs of Ms. Nevenko Majdenic to explain the committee's proposals. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-05-0.u33357	I would like to thank Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, my fellow Members and colleagues. At the 35th session held on 10 April 2009, the Election, Appointing and Administrative Affairs Committee of the Croatian Parliament set out a proposal for a decision to resolve the election of the Defence Committee. First, the duties of Vice-President of the Defence Committee Tomislav Ivic are resolved. And secondly, Berislav Roncevic is elected vice president of the Croatian Parliament's Defence Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-05-0.u33358	I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on the motion for a decision. Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. The result? With 65 votes for, 3 abstentions, 12 against the proposed decision. Here you go, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-05-0.u33359	Thank you. The selection, appointment and administrative work committee of the Croatian Parliament held at the 35th session held on 10 July 2009 unanimously established a proposal for a decision on the resolution and selection of members of the Mandate-Immunity Commission of the Croatian Parliament. First, members of the Mandate-Immunity Commission Vladimir Šišljagic are relieved. And secondly, Ivan Drmic is elected member of the Mandate-Immunity Commission.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-05-0.u33360	I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on the motion for a decision. Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. The result? With 80 votes in favour and 1 abstention of the proposed decision. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-05-0.u33361	The Committee for Selection, Designation and Administrative Affairs at the same session unanimously established a proposal for a decision on the resolution and selection of members of the Committee on War Veterans of the Croatian Parliament. First, the duties of member of the Committee on War Veterans Tomislav Ivic are resolved. Second, a member of the Croatian Parliament's War Veterans Committee is elected Josip Salapic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-05-0.u33362	I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. Mr. Gabric, what did you bring that bag? What's in there? Mandarin. It took a little bit more. The council requires a larger amount. I am voting on the motion for a decision. Please, let's get on with it. Please vote. The result? With 78 votes in favour, four abstentions and one against the proposed decision. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-05-0.u33363	At the 35th session, the Committee on Selection, Designation and Administrative Affairs unanimously set out a proposal for a decision on the resolution and selection of members of the Committee on European Integration of the Croatian Parliament. First, Tomislav Ivic is relieved of his duties as a member of the European Integration Committee. And secondly, a member of the Committee on European Integration of the Croatian Parliament is elected Josip Salapic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-05-0.u33364	I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on the motion for a decision. Please, let's get on with it. You can vote. The result? With 87 for and 2 abstentions, the proposed decision has been made. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-05-0.u33365	The selection, appointment and administrative work committee of the Croatian Parliament for the 35th session held on 10 July unanimously set out the proposal for a decision on the resolution and selection of members of the Committee on Information, Information and Media. First, a member of the Committee on Information, Information and Media of the Croatian Parliament, Tomislav Ivić, is dismissed. And secondly, for a member of the Committee on Information, Information and Media, Josip Salapic is elected.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-05-0.u33366	I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on the motion for a decision. Let's get on with it. We can vote. The result? With 88 for one abstention, the proposed decision has been made. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-05-0.u33367	The selection, appointment and administrative procedures of the Croatian Parliament at the 35th session held on 10 July were unanimously set out by the Proposal for a decision on the resolution and selection of members of the Committee on Stocks. First of all, members of the Committee for Stocks from the Order of Representatives of the Croatian Parliament Tomislav Ivić and Željko Vincelj are dismissed. And secondly, for members of the Stock Delivery Council, they are selected from the ranks of representatives of the Croatian Parliament Josip Salapić and Zlatko Koračević.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-05-0.u33368	I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on the motion for a decision. Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. The result? Consistent with 90 votes for the adopted draft decision. The president's gone? Thank you.
