ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-29-0.u25296	President-in-Office of the Parliament, honourable MPs and MPs. Good morning. You have a mid-term report for the year 2008 of the Croatian National Bank and I will normally make a brief introduction to the debate. The first half of 2008 marked a drop in economic activity with the same growth in inflation and consumer prices conditioned by increased foreign and domestic inflation pressures. Annual growth in gross domestic product was 3.8% in the first half of the year, which is significantly lower than the growth recorded throughout the previous year than 5.6%. The slowdown of economic activity is primarily due to the weakening of household consumption under the influence of slower growth of their available income and the weakening of the consumer mechanism. In addition, unfavourable trade movements have further deteriorated external imbalances, which has had a negative impact on real GDP growth. The moderate growth of state spending in the first half of the year was partly conditioned by its slow dynamics in the first quarter when temporary funding that legally limits state spending was in place. In the opposite direction, stronger investment activity was driven primarily by private investment in residential construction facilities, so gross fixed capital investments during the first half of 2008 were the main driver of economic growth. The first half of 2008 also marked positive developments in the labour market, primarily the continuation of the trend in reducing unemployment and increasing employment, although by mid-year the slowdown of their dynamics is noticeable, which can primarily be linked to the lack of activity in the real sector of the economy. Strengthening foreign and domestic inflation pressures over the first six months has led to an increase in inflation measured by the trend of the consumer price index. The annual inflation rate in June 2008 was 7.6% and 1.8 percentage points higher than the inflation recorded in December 2007 at that time, which was 5.8%. This is largely due to the direct and indirect effects of the collection of crude oil and food raw materials and metals on the world market. In addition to imported inflationary pressures, domestic inflation pressures on the cost side have also strengthened, suggesting that the annual growth rate and unit cost of working in the overall economy should be accelerated. In addition, tax inflation was influenced by a significant increase in domestic demand achieved in 2007 whose delayed effects on price developments were felt during the first half of 2008. In view of the components of the total consumer price index, inflation growth during the first half of 2008 was largely due to an increase in energy prices, mainly oil derivatives and food products whose strong growth has lasted since the second half of 2007. In contrast, the annual rate of change in the price of non-energy industrial non-food products has slowed slightly to the conclusion that there was no overrunning of energy costs in the observed period at prices of non-energy industrial products. The basic inflation remained lower than the total inflation of consumer prices but its annual rate of change increased from 5% in December to 6.5% in June 2008 mostly under the influence of food prices, primarily meat, bread and cereal products. The mitigation of inflationary pressures in the domestic economy was influenced by moderate appreciation of the exchange rate according to the euro. During the first six months of this year, the exchange rate according to the euro was estimated by 1.1%, easing the growth of import prices denominated in euro. In such macroeconomic conditions in the first half of 2008 the Croatian National Bank implemented a more restrictive monetary policy. This was primarily mirrored in the smaller creation of liquidity, the increase in bank refinancing prices with the Croatian National Bank, and the continued application of measures to limit bank placement growth. The main instrument for the creation of kuna liquidity during the observed period was regular reverse repo operations where, due to the increased inflationary pressures, the central bank has limitedly created Kunian liquidity. With lower turnover on repo auctions during the first six months, the average was almost three times lower compared to the same period in 2007, the CNB also placed the funds at higher interest rates. More restrictive liquidity creation by the central bank has ultimately affected the slowdown of almost all monetary aggregates. The credit activity of business banks in the first half of 2008 and was further regulated by the decision to register mandatory cash registers. In this way, the central bank sought to prevent the growth of any inflationary pressures from demand from the parties while at the same time easing negative developments in economic relations with abroad. It should also be noted that the allowed growth of the leases for commercial banks remained partially unused during the first six months, which points to changes on the side of the credit demand. In particular, the slowdown in the economic activity of active interest rates growth and the change in expectations of interest and inflation have a negative impact on the overall demand for loans. With the implementation of the monetary measures described, the Central Bank has changed some important decisions in the area of supervision of banks. By amending the decision on the adequateness of capital from the beginning of 2008, the CNB has set additional capital requirements for fast-growing banks. Considering that rapid plasma growth carries risks of deterioration in bank activity. Thus, banks whose growth in plasma exceeds the permitted level are obliged to maintain a higher capital adequate rate than prescribed at which the rate is further dependent on the structure of the source of the funds from which the banks place their balances. In addition, additional weights have been increased to calculate the risk-weighted assets that are used to be placed under the currency clause or placed in foreign currency granted to debtors with a non-coordinated foreign exchange position. With these measures, the Central Bank sought to encourage business banks to additional capitalisation, which contained a capital ratio of the banking system well above the prescribed level of 10% and was at the end of June at 15.2%. The first half of 2008 marked favourable developments in the structure of the liabilities of business banks, thus continuing to reduce their foreign debt, which was also affected by the strong growth of savings and hand-to-hand deposits of the population. And it can be directly linked to unfavourable movements in the capital market that are making this sector more and more determined to be safer in business banks. In other words, in 2008, there was a huge migrating of money from the capital market into banks' deposits and therefore we measured the very rapid growth of deposits in banks. On the contrary, the domestic capital market in the first half of 2008 was strongly influenced by negative movements on global financial markets, as well as on markets closer, means in the region. In the observed period, smaller half-year share traffic was reported than in the second half of 2007 followed by a strong decline in the prices of most of the shares included in the Zagreb Stock Exchange, which is a very rapid reduction in... In addition to the equity market, the downward movements marked the first 6 months of 2008 on the Croatian debt market. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] During the first half of 2008, the trend of active interest rates on long-term loans continued, which was primarily driven by the acceleration of growth... which records the highest value in the last 7 years as well as the tightening of monetary policy. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thus, the movement was most pronounced in the interest rates on long-term loans to the population. In contrast, mildly reduced interest rates on individual short-term loans with their usual high fluctuation. Passive interest rates on the hand-to-hand deposits of the population grew slightly, while on the hand-to-hand deposits of companies there was a slight decrease from their high levels achieved at the end of 2007. The first half of 2008 continued to deepen imbalances in economic relations with abroad, the current balance of payments deficit increased by a quarter compared to the same period a year ago, mainly due to unfavourable developments in external trade. The increase in the supply deficit can mostly be attributed to the deterioration of balances in the exchange of oil and oil derivatives caused by the marked purchase of oil during the first half of 2008. In addition to the trade in goods, the balance on the account of invoiced income and current transfers was worsened, while an improvement was recorded in the international exchange of services thanks to the growth of tourism revenues. The annual growth in total trade exports in the first half of 2008 was 8%, slightly lower than the growth in the same period last year was 9.3%, while compared to exports, annual growth in total imports was accelerated from 10.5% in the middle of 2007 to 14.7% in the first half of 2008. The capital and financial account in the first half of 2008 resulted in a higher net inflow of assets than in the first half of 2007. The increased net inflow is mainly the result of withdrawal of cash and deposits, domestic banks from abroad. On the other hand, the amount of foreign direct investment in Croatia was lower than in the first half of 2007, mainly due to lower capitalisation of foreign-owned domestic banks than it was during the same period of the previous year. The increased uncertainty in foreign financial markets resulted in the withdrawal of funds from investment funds invested in securities abroad, as well as in the account of portfolio investments recorded net inflows of funds. At last, international reserves continued to grow in the first half of 2008, mostly thanks to increased bank allocations. Through a foreign reserve, including a border reserve. These amounted to 9.9 billion at the end of June, so almost 10 billion euros. Finally, during the period covered by this report, by encouraging business banks to reduce foreign debt and increase their own capital, prescribing high foreign exchange reserves and maintaining high levels of minimum reserves at the Croatian National Bank increased the resilience of the banking system to negative shocks, and provided room for the stability of the system and in the conditions and risks of the global financial crisis which, as we know, erupted especially after September 2008. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-29-0.u25297	Thank you very much. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the HDZ Club, Mr. Representative Goran Maric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-29-0.u25298	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Mr. Honorable Vice Governor, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. We can discuss or discuss a half-yearly report by the Croatian National Bank for the first half of 2007 from both the aspect of the form and the aspect of the content, but we must also discuss it in the context of a major and strong global and economic and financial crisis. Due to the dynamics of changes in the economic environment and the direct impact on the structures and trends of macroeconomic indicators, the debate on this half-yearly report is more comprehensive and more relevant, taking into account also the emerging situation in the world economy in the second half of 2008 and which was passed on in 2009. Many countries in the world have experienced an economic shock, many countries in the world that have boasted their economies, their fiscal and monetary policies, which have boasted with their new wave of educated, professionally advanced and highly skilled and paid managers have remained caught up in the real state of their financial sector, but also in the delusions of the average skills of financial experts. Today, almost the whole world suffers in a direct or indirect manner, as five Nobeln economists concluded, due to several gaps in the financial sector, mainly due to the lack of the necessary level of responsibility, due to lack of the level of experience needed, due to lack of and ethical access, and the most management and greed that has been increasingly expressed in the financial sector, particularly in the management of investment banks and funds. While many countries in the world experienced a strong financial breakdown or bankruptcy at first large investment banks, the financial sector in the Republic of Croatia successfully suffered the blow and with minimal consequences maintained the stability of the banking and financial system. As a result, certain macroeconomic indicators that this half-yearly report points to have experienced some changes, some with a negative and some with a positive sign, just a few months later. This report shows that macroeconomic indicators from the first half of 2008 have been shyly referring to the upcoming changes, and there has already been a drop in economic activity in the same period as inflation growth, consumer prices conditioned by increased foreign but also by foreign infrared pressures. The annual growth of gross domestic product in the first half of 2008 was 3.8%, significantly lower than in 2007 when the growth of gross domestic product was 5.6%. At the same time, the annual inflation rate in June 2008 was 7.8 and 2% more than in 2007. The report also mentions what measures the CNB has taken to ensure the stability of the financial system, the maintenance of liquidity and price levels, and they suggest that the CNB has implemented, according to the vice governor, something more restrictive and conservative monetary policy. This was first mirrored in the smaller creation of liquidity, price increases, bank refinancing with the Croatian National Bank and the continued application of measures to limit the growth of the banks. The credit activity of banks has continued to be regulated by the decision to register mandatory cash registers, and the Croatian National Bank has changed some important decisions in the area of bank supervision, which has been most affected by the decision on capital adequateness. The measures that have contributed to maintaining the stability of the financial system in Croatia are also the measures the CNB adopted in the second half of last year. Namely, the Croatian National Bank lifted the border reserve rate, and soon thereafter reduced and made a decision to reduce the reserve from 17% to 14%, making the Croatian system more liquid for cca 17 billion kuna. It is clear that these regulatory measures by the Croatian National Bank directly and in due time have contributed to the stability of the banking system in the Republic of Croatia, which are precisely the measures to which the HDZ Club has also addressed in earlier discussions. In this difficult time, the time of the global economic crisis, a time in which there is a lack of enthusiasm in the area of entrepreneurship, of extreme importance for economic activity, is the stability of the banking and financial system, but also the coherence of fiscal and monetary policy. Indeed, simultaneous and timely and mutually harmonised fiscal and monetary regulatory measures have preserved for the national economy an extremely important financial sector. It is invaluable to the usefulness and purpose that the Law amending and supplementing the Deposit Insurance Act has been adopted on a proposal from the Government of the Republic of Croatia, which provides the citizens with 400 thousand kuna from the previous 100 thousand kuna. This proposal was the most direct factor in returning citizens to the banking system. Of course, it should not be forgotten that today's stability of the financial sector in general has contributed to the fact that the balances of business banks in Croatia, i.e. their assets, have already been cleared from the so-called so-called contaminated placements through bank recovery procedures ten years ago, costing the Republic of Croatia about $13 billion. It encourages the fact that fiscal and monetary policies continue to act co-ordinatedly, guaranteeing that the banking crisis will not happen in the future. However, it must not be ignored that the entire economy of the world, the entire global financial sector, and thus Croatian, is in rather challenging and demanding times, and therefore is forecasted to increase global economic growth by only 0.5% in 2009. Under such difficult management conditions, all economic operators should take part in the fruits of their work, as well as part of today's burden, but also tomorrow's. Under the low level of self-financing of companies and citizens and in conditions of non-classical demand for loans, as in Croatia, the level of capital prices or the reduction of capital and interest rates is a prerequisite for avoiding a more progressive financial and economic crisis. It is not surprising, therefore, that the interest rates in the decline in most countries of the world have been affected more intensively and directly by the financial crisis. For example, in the UK, interest rate levels are the lowest in the last 60 years. A half-year report by the Croatian National Bank shows that borrowing abroad from business banks from Croatia suggests that, with domestic savings currently at cca 174, 175 billion kuna, they have sufficient credit potential. Several facts and data from the banking sector also suggest that business banks in Croatia are doing very well and that there is a place to lower interest rates. For example, in 2007, when the rise in credit ratings was limited to 2% per month, business banks in Croatia earned a profit of 3.7 billion kuna. And in 2008 when the limit was reduced to 1% per month, business banks made as much as 5 billion kunas of profits. Therefore, it is no wonder that the ROA indicator, one of the most important indicators of business, is the return on activity, the business banks in Croatia are the highest of all transition countries. Given the report and the fact that for the first six months of 2008, the lack of income compared to expenditure, 382 million 287 thousand kuna, compared to the previous period of 2007 when income was achieved, the surplus income compared to expenditures of 456 million kuna 406 thousand. He is not so concerned with knowing that the interim reports for 2008 are already giving more favourable results and extra income over expenditure. Due to all of this, the HDZ Club supports the Croatian National Bank's report, i.e. a mid-term report for the first half of 2008. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-29-0.u25299	Thank you. On behalf of the HNS club, distinguished representative Zlatko Koračević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-29-0.u25300	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. This half-year report by the Croatian National Bank for the first half of 2008 which we are discussing today is one in a series of very correct reports, which is not surprising since we are discussing the Croatian National Bank Report. We at the Croatian People's Party club will support this report, but at the same time we use the opportunity to send a congratulations to the governor of the Croatian National Bank for a very pleasant recognition and declaration to the best European governor and best central banker in the world in 2008. It is certain that, in addition to the recognition received by all of us, we should be satisfied that our financial system has not suffered damages to the extent that the financial markets of many countries have suffered. However, it should be pointed out in particular that the real and financial sectors are both the face of both the economy and economic activities and the key role of the Croatian National Bank and the Government of the Republic of Croatia for their successful development. And we at the Croatian People's Party Club want to take advantage of this debate and we want to focus more on the economic situation in our country. Because the overall economic situation is also directly related to the work of the Croatian National Bank. Today, at a time of economic crisis and recession, the Croatian National Bank has performed its role very correctly for the citizens of this country as well. However, what the Government of the Republic of Croatia has done in the last five years since it has run this country. The fact that Croatia is sinking today according to the state of 1999. That was the year of the worst crisis since the war with economic growth of -0.9%. At that time, the government stopped paying its commitments, created complete indifference, destroyed development and created conditions for general corruption. At the time, 165,000 employees worked without receiving salaries, as their companies were in a blockade. Currently, Croatia enters the same system and today 60,000 employees do not work, they do not receive salaries because their companies are in a blockade. Economic and fiscal policy is being run unconnected, extremely poor, and the budget itself has been adopted without any criteria of over- and real goal, as we have warned when discussing the budget. In view of the current circumstances, very optimistic economic growth and strong budget filling were foreseen, and the error of the assessment also proves that at the moment only in the VAT item the budget is charged with only 16.3% compared to last year, that total taxes are at the level of 1/3 of the same period last year. We also have statements of a key man for our economy as Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Economy, Mr Polancec, during the 11th month, means immediately before the budget is agreed. I quote: “At the beginning of the 11th month, Governor Rohatinski forecasts a 2% growth according to conservative methods. And I, as a man who is deep in numbers, think that it is possible to grow from 3.8 to 4 and a half percent." In just 17 days later, 28.11. quote Deputy Prime Minister, Mr Polancec: “The growth of gross social product will be between 2 and 2 1/2 percent and that is a pretty optimistic forecast.” Due to the fact that the state's liquidity and liabilities are being resolved on the domestic banking market and pension funds. As a result, less money is available for the economy and development, and pension funds that are the future of all citizens of this country are at risk. The fact that pension funds are now at a loss of 13%, because they were literally forced to buy bonds from a country whose credibility is falling. The government is now trying to offer a solution in the form of issuing 500m euros of bonds on the domestic market, I repeat, trying to make sure that the state continues to intend to do so in the domestic banks, not only to destroy the country by incompetent politics, but also to take money from a economy that destroys our development. The Croatian Association of Employers, trade unions, political parties, and in particular the Economic Council must stop this madness. The state must no longer be in debt on the domestic market, but must free the place of the economy. The state has to look for its space of duty outside, because it has stronger guarantee potential than the economy and thus has to free up space for the economy and this is the task of the responsible state. Lack of funds to pay off the loan to the economy means raising the price of the euro, and raising the price of the euro means leading to more expensive credit payments for both companies and citizens. The lack of liquidity in the money market raises interest rates, and together, it all makes up one closed circle of accident. I would like to remind you that loans in Swiss francs have increased by 38% over the last two years and my question is how painlessly our citizens can handle such a collection of monthly repayment wars. At the same time, the Croatian National Bank and Governor Rohatinski announced fully the real situation and the potential and possibilities of our government, that they are ready to finance interventions of this wasteful, irresponsible government up to a billion euros. But already today, we've only just begun, I think twenty, means twenty days after the first. Twenty days this year have already had to intervene with 1/3 of the total amount of intervention planned for this year. Furthermore, because of the recent gas crisis, the assessment of the damage to the economy amounts to about 2 billion kuna. At the same time, the prime minister states: “Croatia responded very well to the crisis caused by the conflict between Ukraine and Russia over gas. You saw that there was no problem." If he thinks there was no problem with gas and heating in the Ban Courts, then he's absolutely right. However, the gas crisis has hit the whole country and in the whole country, the government has quite panicically introduced a reduction in the fifth and sixth levels, reductions that have caused damage to the economy for the two billion circus. And why is that? For what? Were we prepared with our own circus 70 percent gas production and a half-empty underground gas storage facility. Why was the underground gas warehouse half empty? At the same time, for example, neighbouring Slovenia that neither produces gas nor has a warehouse had gas reductions. But at the same time, this same Slovenia in our underground warehouse had a stored circus of 40 million cubic metres of gas. This government hasn't been in power for two months. She's been running this country for six years. So if we had filled the warehouse we had at our disposal, we wouldn't have had a reduction in the amount we had, and certainly no damage to the economy we had. We in the Croatian People's Party are constantly offering and proposing measures to combat the current crisis and recession. We believe that the first and basic thing is that growth in wages and consumption is only possible, exclusively within economic growth and productivity growth. The second is to stop all unreasonable costs such as the Peljega Bridge, there should be a mass unnecessary employment of both relatives and friends in public institutions and companies because, for example, there are 70% more employees in HAC per km of highway at this time than the European average. The State must immediately stop the dividend payment and encourage the reinvestment of dividends in production, and it must also condition its own partners, regardless of whether it is HT, Pliva or someone else. Banks that have been paying billions through dividends for many years and still want the support of this country, and this country has made a very wise and smart decision, which is a guarantee of savings roles with which we guarantee over 100 billion savings roles, and to our citizens, and we give security to foreign-owned banks, then they must also take responsibility for this moment of crisis, normally combined with the state, and not continue to insist on extra profits, normally on the backs of citizens of this country. The Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development must be a key mechanism to support exports with an emphasis on tourism. The same mechanism must also be designed for the incentive housing programme, and the furniture of the domestic wood industry must be included in the promotional housing. The activation of supply supplies, especially during the tourist season, should be reacted in the form of trade credits for tourism. We give money to the tourist economy, which is good and what is needed, but the fact that these funds, due to the lack of our own production, are going to buy Mandarin from Spain, speak as an example, not a Mandarin from Neretva. And with stock supplies, normally if that goods even exist in stock, which is also questionable, we have discussed recently, with goods supplies intervened in tourism. Part of the burden, the whole burden should be transferred to the rich in Croatia by the urgent adoption of the Property Tax Act. If these measures do not bring an immediate package of social measures, in a few months tens of thousands of people in Croatia will be on the road or will not receive wages for their work. The government should be urgently taken over, respected, which is particularly important, the obligation to pay debts within up to 90 days. We believe that the law should define the right to charge companies and suppliers in relation to the state and public enterprises. A state that does not respect its own laws is not a state. I believe that at this point in time for the economy of the Republic of Croatia, something that the Government not only can, but must implement right away, I mean making commitments to its suppliers. In addition to the legal obligation, the Government of the Republic of Croatia and all public undertakings controlled by the Government of the Republic of Croatia also has a degree of competence for all who, by their work and their responsibility and at their risk, create a new value. Croatia urgently needs budget rebalancing, a system of support with short and medium-term effects, a halting consumption because our consumption due to imports does not encourage domestic industry. Croatia should urgently stop economic policy by the system of bread and games currently being run from day to day increasingly intensely due to the upcoming local elections. And finally, we want to at the Croatian People's Party club to send special orders to everyone. This time today, today's moment of crisis and recession is not a time to prove who's smarter, but a time to show if we're all so smart together to get out of this crisis and recession. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-29-0.u25301	Thank you. We have two corrections to incorrect allegations. First is the esteemed representative Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-29-0.u25302	Mr. Koračević says that Croatian highways have 70% more workers than the European average, and on Tuesday I went from Buzet to Zagreb, not a single race in the time between 16 and 18 hours. 20 centimetres of snow, no one anywhere, and 70 percent...
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-29-0.u25303	What's the correction?
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-29-0.u25304	...the workers are more employed there, probably to vote for HDZ, not clear roads.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-29-0.u25305	Your Honour, please. Don't use it, you will now, please without throwing it out of the bench, you will now have the right to debate on behalf of the club and you have no right to use the institute to correct the incorrect quote. You voted for this Rules of Procedure. Dear Representative Krunoslav Markovnović. Here you go, correcting an incorrect quote.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-29-0.u25306	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, here's a colleague of a lot of inaccuracies in his presentation he gave, except for instructions as well as other. He says we've met the gas season with an empty warehouse. Unfortunately, I'm saying this is a debate about banks, but we're going back to the last topic. Thus, the warehouse was not empty at all at the beginning of the season. It was half empty now after this one. He then says that the government reacted panicously, unearthed, not true. I can tell you, there's about 1,000 companies per chance on St. Sunday, there was no panic at all. During the week, it was seen who needed it most, and it remained longer. Most of them changed the flames and everything worked. I don't see anything at all. I think you've got quite a panic, so you'll pass it on to others. But it's pre-election time, so we can figure it out.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-29-0.u25307	Thank you. Dear Representative Zlatko Koračević, a violation of the Rules of Procedure, about what?
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-29-0.u25308	Well, about correcting my colleague Markovanovic's incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-29-0.u25309	What article?
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-29-0.u25310	From 30 to further.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-29-0.u25311	Sorry, sorry, it's not, the Rules of Procedure are not to be mocked, the Rules of Procedure are a serious regulation that speaks of how parliamentary deputies must behave. Please, what article?
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-29-0.u25312	This Regulation shall enter Rules of Procedure. A colleague Markovanovic said that I, in fact, heard from a colleague Markovanovic in my statement that I said an empty warehouse. I said half-empty warehouse. That's a huge difference, fellow Markovanovic. I understand your commitment, your task, why you must sit in these benches. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-29-0.u25313	Thank you. It's not a breach of the Rules of Procedure, and please don't use the Rules of Procedure wrongly. Well, we brought it ourselves, so let's go and hold on to it. Thank you very much. Let's move on with the debate. Dear Representative Damir Cain on behalf of the IDS Club
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-29-0.u25314	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Vice-Prime Minister, the Honorable Mr. Representatives. This Croatian National Bank report was delivered only in November 2008. So she's kind of late, but I also dare say that this debate is late. Today 29.1. Almost we can say that in this country everything goes to hell with the government and without the government, with the Croatian National Bank and without the Croatian National Bank, and that we should be honest and admit that there were no governors and this is recognised by the country and the world, and I think that the end would be far faster and faster. Here, yesterday on the interbank interest market on short-term i.e. Those overnight loans reached 28% year-on-year. At the moment these required amounts were almost 30% while ZIBOR was moving around 25% and this will automatically lead to interest moving between 12, 13 and 14%. For opportunities in the country, on the side of the war clearly, we can never rule that out are not just the European Union or America's faults. No one is naive here to know that the global crisis is clearly affecting Croatia, and thus Istria, which exports most to the population, which has not received anything from the state, which has companies that first helped Victor Lenco, I mean "Olinik" now, through "Olinik" navigation, also save "3 May". But I repeat, the crisis in Croatia needs first of all to be thanked, so I will not say politics but myself. Our politics will be easy, we must be against everything. We won't do anything. We can only live on imports and mixing, unfortunately that comes to an end and that's actually the point. We have driven between 4 billion euros and 5 billion euros of investment based on which 50 thousand jobs could be opened in this country, about as many as we will lose this year. Who's to blame? Of course, governments are guilty, but not only are the governments to blame, it is also the Croatian National Bank that did not encourage exports, the opposition is guilty, the media are guilty, NGOs are guilty, etc. In this country, no one could close the deal, run an investment. We were against everything, and hotels, and "Kashtjuna", and LNG terminals, and "Adrie companies" and I don't know golf and today we might be in favour but there's no one else interested in investing in Croatia anymore. And there's nothing more we can do, we lost the train, we didn't jump into that last car, and now we have to wait for a new car, and it won't stop on the Croatian platform until 2011, 2012, it won't. In 2009, in 2010 we have a total economic, social, monetary, financial breakdown and from the democracy of the street, we will only be saved from the continued holding of elections in the following year. Croatia is that we all know in recession, the growth of gross products will not be 2, they will say maybe 0.1%, 0. God forbid there should be any, but there will be 0.1% when, for example, in the woodworking industry only last month, the country has lost four thousand employees. Today I read how some companies in Istria, I don't read but talk to people, fire workers who work for Siemens, etc. Thank God you've been able to help them at the last hour of "May 3," helped by Istriani and Zadrani ordering four ships, but I'll say it as clearly. Enough sucking money into systems that each year or for which it takes 4 to 5 billion kunas a year for managers to get rich there. Today, the economy requires a billion, two billion kunas for one naked survival. Shipbuilding, that doesn't apply to "Olinik", "Olinik" on that basis won't get a single kuna only higher than last year, and more than 4.5 billion kuna is written off in this year, another 4 billion kuna. So who can clearly simply endure it? We on the other hand for these five halls, so clearly that I want Croatia to be the champion of the world, we gave 3 billion kuna, which at this point I dare say crime to the economic opportunities we are in. VAT revenues drop, purchasing power falls, imports fall, exports fall, loans drop, unfortunately no interest. That little money will be collected by the state in front of the economy, indifference is growing, the external debt of the Republic of Croatia on 31.12.2008 was not 37.7 billion euros, as is always said but 39 billion euros, 50 billion dollars. In 2009, it is due to return 11.2 billion euros. That Croatia can't, our survival depends on whether or not we will return 11.2 billion euros, because we can't do it, but whether or not we will make it through these commitments. Of the 11.2 billion euros for the payment of the capital, state, banks, companies waste 7.8 billion euros plus 1.4 billion euros for interest, plus 2 billion euros for short-term debtors. By summer, we will be able to hold out with loans of 1 billion euros from the banking consortium but after that will not be able to intervene either the Croatian National Bank or the business bank and the Croatian National Bank must say we will not be able to cover the state's foreign reserves of appetite for consumption. Croatia is afraid of financial breakdown, there will be no stone left on the stone and in 2009 we will end up so that all of us in this public administration will then give up maybe one salary and the pensioners may be one pension. I wouldn't want that to happen. In the first quarter of 2009, 2 billion 520m euros should be paid back. State 571, bank 366, companies a billion 240. In the second quarter of 2009, 2 billion 758, the country 365m euros, Bank 915, businesses a billion 179m euros, etc. Kuna's getting a little weak. In 2008 from August to January let's see what it was like out there. The pound has weakened 13%, the Swedish crown 14%, so there are no Swedish tourists, the Norwegian crown 17% because of oil, Hungarian forints 17.5%, Czech crown 13%, kuna 4% is already panic. The Croatian National Bank spends foreign reserves to stop the decline of the kuna. All credits are tied to the foreign exchange clause. Our imports are $28, 29 billion. I'm afraid we're going to be looking for the euro in the '80s from those resellers and the state if they want to get the credit clear to the loan, too, without the foreign exchange clause. 23.1. The CNB sells 328.3m euros to banks with historical dimensions. By October 2008 The CNB bought euro, now has to sell in three months as much as 598.3m euros. In the season, we're all waiting like the cold sun to just sort of get to the devisor. No sign, no investment, no sale of property, and no mother of our banks, increasingly difficult and harder to decide on the lending of Croatian banks. What's the scariest thing I just don't want to believe can happen to the IMF has announced the withdrawal of foreign banks from our region. I don't want to believe that this can apply to Croatia, I don't want to believe it. They're literally afraid to weaken the currency, and then the Austrian banks from the eastern countries, I won't believe it can happen to Croatia, withdraw money. Either way, the IMF will return to Croatia, not because they would like to, because they have no job elsewhere, but because we are going to invite them, which means shock to save the export economy, there will also be a fall in the kuna and the fall of standards and the rise of energy and the fall of wages and consumption, etc. Who's gonna be responsible for that? Of course, the government itself will not be held accountable, but most clearly the government. The CNB will also be responsible, local and local self-government. We operate on the principle that we will not do anything, we are just making noise, come on, come on, we need to change this way of behavior, instead of giving you to start talking, you can't just live from redistribution, you can't only get one branch to tattoo, all the other employees, from the auto industry, to the wood industry, from textiles to tourism, from electronics and so on. And in order for someone not to misread me, no one is against shipbuilding, at least IDS, if someone has done something for that branch, then IDS, the oil company is the only parent company. In 98, we wrote off over 80% of the claims that the city of Pula had against them, and instead of someone telling us thanks, we finally got criminal charges, but after that, more states in that shipyard didn't give a single kuna. Neither can government be a mother to some and other stepmothers. What's only today, this government can launch a bureaucratic apparatus that is the brakes of any development. You can't wait six months for a building permit. You can't wait six months for the administration's answer, in this not doing the same thing, billions and billions of kunas. If he gets a permit to build, he'll start doing some house, building, I don't know, buying material, paying the workers, paying the VAT to the state, making contributions, and the one who sells it, I don't know, setting up his interest, buying I don't know any other goods, loans, machines, etc., etc. I'm also trying to explain to the Istrians, don't stop every investment, let's ask ourselves how many new hotels were built from 90 to 2008 on the Adriatic coast of 1000 km plus 1000 islands. In Istria, I know exactly, only four hotels, on the rest of the Adriatic coast, maybe four more hotels. But we're against everything, at the red top... invests 200m euros, out of which only through the VAT state receives 45m euros. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] What's 45 million euros? Well, that's 300 million kuna, that's pensions for 45 thousand Istrians over 3 months and no one on that investment problem, that's how they don't want to see or look. I repeat, at this point, we need every investment in both industry, both in energy and in tourism and in agriculture and in housing, the times ahead and everything needs to be used. Today I read the decline in the value of real estate or sales, real estate 50% in the city of Zagreb, in the first 11 months of 2008, loans recorded a growth rate of only 9.3%, the smallest growth in the last 10 years. In 2007, loans grew to citizens twice as fast. At a rate of 17.1% and 98% at 15%, at the end of 2002 as much as 43%, housing credit growth fell from 20.6% to 10.4%, etc. Everything's falling apart, including the store. The question arises whether a consummation will survive, his breakdown would be more difficult than shipbuilding. And then the government is out of its mind still defending work on Sundays. Once again, let's say, in the season, in those three months, so we have 12, 13 weeks, we have 4, 5 holidays, it's about 20 days, how to let tourists spend. Please note, on the other hand, that tourism is more accomplished by one Prague, or Budapest than by the entire Croatian Adriatic. The retail sales dropped 11% in October 2008. Or, for example, textiles fell by 17.8% at the annual level. It is fortunate that in this country we did not get an organisation of the European football championship and the most effective measure for the Croatian economy would be to return VAT, pay VAT from those 30 days to 45, at least 45 give God 60 days, i.e. to return VAT on imports from 8 days to those not 30 but 45 or 60 days immediately and in this way, so it should come out of the economy of course to meet. It's gonna be a tough year. I don't know if we're gonna move, but we know it's not gonna be good. In 2009, it looks like we're all going to start saving, but after local elections, both states and citizens of citizens and also banks on profits. But what am I saying? The role of the CNB was never more significant than it will be in 2009, 2010. In 2008, we all say, when it comes to the banking sector, relatively uncircumcised, however, the banks gained a profit of nearly 6 billion kuna, in 2008, they recorded record profitability, so the average capital contribution was 12.1%, but 2009. The CNB should preserve the real economy, the economy, it should be dealt with by banks, and those without the help of the CNB will clearly not be able to do so. So it's really going to be 2009 or not. For the end of all the praises for 2008 The CNB, but in the end, heroes know each other. I'm afraid we'll be on the shield this time, not with the shield. Congratulations again to the governor and the CNB for 2008.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-29-0.u25315	Thank you. We have several corrections of incorrect allegations. The first is the honourable representative Ivan Bagarić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-29-0.u25316	I thank Mr. Vice President, this is a serious exposure of dear colleague Caine to some part of the apocalyptic, I think it is necessary to correct, especially in the part where he started when he said he was going to hell in this country. It doesn't go to the devil, thank God it doesn't go, on a symbolic or on a real level, it just needs to work and believe. So, just like you and your colleague Cain did when we played those two games with the Slovenians, so you sweated, so we beat them again. Also, when you speak and when you give recognition to the Croatian National Bank, I also join, but you did not mention the award received by Minister Shuker, also because of the stabilisation of the financial sector, which is a kind of recognition to the Government of the Republic of Croatia that does everything to respond to this difficult situation together with the Croatian National Bank. So, believe her, work her, and she'll be fine. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-29-0.u25317	Thank you. A second correction to an incorrect quote. Honorable representative of Andrija Hebrang. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-29-0.u25318	Thank you very much. In this destructive display of fellow Cain, there was a series of inaccuracies. First of all, it's not true how he says we lost our last investment train. According to the National Bank report in the first three quarters in Croatia, $2 billion went to $2 billion, a colleague of Cain. By the end of the year 3 billion 800 million dollars, and since 1992, according to the CNB report 19.8 billion dollars, and we've had six years of war in the meantime which you probably haven't noticed. Also, it is incorrect that the IMF will return to Croatia. With your destructive speech, you're dimming investors, you have to be responsible when you speak. The IMF will not return to Croatia because the Croatian government has a crisis programme. Finally, along with the CNB which has made major steps and is responsible for monetary policy, the government is fiscally responsible because with 6.4% of the budget deficit it came practically to zero. And it is also incorrect that there will be no stone left on the stone in Croatia because you do not have to be afraid because Croatia is harder than stone.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-29-0.u25319	Thank you. Let's move on with the corrections. Dear representative Nevenka Majdenić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-29-0.u25320	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President. Here, MP Mr. Cain said we drove the investment out from 2000 to 2009. It is incorrectly certain in that part of the 2004 period to this day because our government has contributed to significant foreign investment in Croatia as seen and what is to be read in the World Bank analysis that we parliamentary representatives have received. And I'm just saying that Mr. Cain's debate or speech is just encouraging foreign investors not to invest in Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-29-0.u25321	Thank you. And the last correction. Dear Representative Krunoslav Markovnović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-29-0.u25322	Well, here's a colleague of Cain's, as usual, the worse the team, the better, he brought out a whole series of data, but also a whole series of inaccuracies. Here is one example, says Croatia has completely left the wood industry which is not true. If you follow a little, the Croatian industry now produces very high quality products of good design, but also because of the small market, it has turned towards exports. We know that the difficulty is because their orders have been cancelled, so the problem is precisely in good production, but Europe is closing at this point for safety. Second, regularly in his presentations, colleague Cain says the government is one mother, another stepmother. Absolutely incorrect again. Or let him say who the mother is, who the stepmother is. If the mother's okay with the shipyard, it doesn't matter to the others. But for once, that's what I'd like. So absolutely incorrect. That's where we make really awkward things. Next, he's talking about inaction with building permits. I know from practice, because I've talked to countless investors and the problems arise when the investor hasn't taken care of the land he's building on...
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-29-0.u25323	Time!
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-29-0.u25324	Because of property-legal relations. And a whole series of things yet.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-29-0.u25325	Thank you very much. Thank you. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, the esteemed representative of Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-29-0.u25326	This Regulation shall enter The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. If it's all my fault in this country, it'll be really easy. We don't have to worry about anything.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-29-0.u25327	What's the breach of the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-29-0.u25328	So I answer to these disqualifications that just...
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-29-0.u25329	Thank you very much. It's not a breach of the Rules of Procedure, and you can't talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure like that. Thank you very much. Thank you. Thank you, Your Honor. Let's move on with the debate. Dear Representative Davor Bernardić, on behalf of... No benching. On behalf of the SDP club, distinguished representative Davor Bernardić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-29-0.u25330	Hello, Mr. Vice President. Your Honor, Deputy Governor. Dear colleagues and colleagues. The CNB report, as well as last year, is written correctly in light of the possible trends and developments for the first half of 2008, but we cannot look at it so closely, so we must look at it through the text of the world trends and the context of the fiscal policy that was led in that period. What was the fiscal policy like? Well, I could say it was pre-election, I could say it was populist and I could say it was wasteful. What everyone knows very well is that, in the long run, expansion fiscal policy damages, especially small countries in the external and trade balance. That's how ours reached -10% of GDP. Export coverage i.e. Export imports were never lower and were at a level of 45 %. Also, what was happening on the capital market does not give rise to confidence. The state of me, in a way, by selling the HT package, and by liberating part of the money from citizens who took the shares on credit, freed the i.e. Blowed up a speculative balloon and the financial market collapsed. It would likely collapse after a while, but the country was very comfortable with it. But it's not exactly the state's fault. Inflation was partly imported, but those investments coming from the state were not such as to generate economic growth in the long term, meaning within a long time. One such example is the lack of investment in the energy sector, e.g. If we had invested in the energy sector, our companies would have partly worked in the energy sector itself, jobs would have been opened and energy independence would have been ensured that we were definitely missing. In the atmosphere of all these things, the Croatian National Bank worked as hard as it could, and when the state runs an expansion fiscal policy it must lead a restrictive monetary policy in view of the seriousness of the situation and since it has responsibility not only for the banking sector, but the governor also has responsibility for the state. What we also need from the 2008 midterm reports is trends. Slowing the growth of nominal wages, the fall of real wages. If you remember that last year we announced that it would happen. The higher income generated higher consumption and higher external trade balance. However, it should be noted that we spend 14 billion euros, and in income we earn 10 billion euros per year, 4 billion euros are spent on debt, ironing Diners American, ironing cards, and in the long run such a trend cannot continue and that is something that will have to be broken whether in this year or next year. In any case, he'll have to renormise himself. We need to find a way to manage that debt. This is the task of the state, it is not the task of monetary policy, but monetary policy has so far acted responsibly, I hope it will continue in the next period. The main generator of economic growth last year in the first half was definitely an acceleration in the construction sector, as a result of construction permits issued last year, but by changing the law itself and according to statistical indicators, we expect a slowdown in the sector, which was 3.6 percentage points at the level of the GDP increase as consumption that contributed to two percentage points. Unfortunately, Croatian companies have never had a greater demand for foreign capital, meaning foreign capital, and this is something where the problem is and where the state must give capital to domestic development companies and find alternative funding methods, not that the state sucks up the total cash mass and this is seen as a debt increase. The share of foreign debt in Croatia's total debt has been slightly reduced, however, the share of internal debt has been increased and the state has thus sucked out monetary mass for entrepreneurship. Also, I would disagree with the findings of the HDZ section that claim that nothing happened because of the gas crisis as well as the prime minister himself. Namely, the state lost, i.e. The economy has lost two billion kunas. These are data from the Croatian Employers' Association and this is something that will definitely reflect on economic growth and whoever is saying that everything is great and whoever denies it obviously does not take the problem seriously. The European Commission, the European Union has therefore offered... program with two key components – short-term and long-term which is within the short-term wear... [[The speaker speaks English, of course.]] or the promotion of consumption and the long-term increase in investment. [[The speaker speaks English, of course.]] Our budget for this year does not show that we will increase investment, as investments by the Ministry of Economy are increasing that item is projected by only 2%. De facto we're doing nothing and I have a feeling, I wouldn't believe that this year is going to be much harder than it's supposed to be. What can be seen, and you have these days too, have received reviews from the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development on their estimates of economic growth of 0% in Croatia, but not only that, but also about recommendations that the Croatian state did not make or which should be made. Reforming the health and pension system is something that is a permanent problem. Fiscal consolidation is a major problem and the inclusion of extra- budget operations in the accounts of the general government in order to increase transparency. That way, by not including myself outside of the budget operations, I'll be covering up some items. In five years delaying the problem of solving in the Croatian Railways, the shipbuilding for which this year is projected a lower budget by 30%, post office, energy, regional development, pension policy, health reform, the reorganisation of a massive state administration, the delay of these problems in five years must definitely be charged. When we were supposed to save on the wave of economic growth, we didn't save. Now that structural reforms are to be implemented, there is no money to implement structural reforms. We have a bunch of strategies, a little less action plans. We don't need novelists in this country, we need operatives. What the SDP referred to in the parliamentary procedure and I regret that it did not come before reading last year's budget on the agenda is a set of laws that have to stimulate the level of investment in the coming year such as discount on investments, tax exemptions for reinvested profits. And what we're going to do is send a message to the state to release the money for the investment of entrepreneurs this year. Because if we don't, if entrepreneurs can't service their debts, we've put 200 to 25,000 jobs at risk just this year. Course and interest rates. During this year, it is extremely important to defend a stable exchange rate of kuna, as credit wars should not grow for citizens. The entrepreneurs of the credit war can't grow. Thailand, which is an exporter for the sake of which I could say colonization has depreciated its currency and failed because they were taking more expensive loans to launch domestic production. So they had to pay off bigger debts. Croatia definitely cannot afford this when it is so imported not only on imports but also on net foreign capital claims. Credit wars for entrepreneurs must not grow and it is therefore very important to defend the exchange rate of kuna by all means. One U.S. is due to the big country's eutharian economy and because it does not depend so much on imports and exports can allow a mild depreciation of dollars, but Croatia cannot afford it. And it is therefore extremely important to lead and continue to conduct such a policy and also to trace interest rates, because ultimately a more expansion of monetary policy could endanger monetary mass on the market. But you definitely can't run a major interest policy. And what I must say in the end, that the SDP will ask the Croatian People's Bank in view of the crisis situation, means that it is not only the result of the global crisis but also the fiscal policy that has been led for the last three, four years, which has been expansion and wasteful, to prepare the report, a full report for 2008 in the shortest time, or in the first quarter. I know that some data is not available, but let's do projections so that we can discuss this report in a good way here in this House. The second conclusion is that by the end of the second month, the monetary policy for 2009 is the responsibility of the Croatian National Bank, the central bank and monetary policy in terms of fiscal policy, i.e. Economic policy has no solution that is even more important and will have an even greater impact on opportunities in Croatia and therefore we are looking for that conclusion. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-29-0.u25331	Thank you. A few corrections. Mr. Representative Frano Matušić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-29-0.u25332	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. A colleague incorrectly said that last year and in recent years, as he said it was a nice fiscal policy conducted by the government was wasteful and pre-election. In fact, in 2008, it wasn't an election year. That was in 2007. The second thing, that policy was developmental, and it was not wasteful at all. If you consider the waste of building highways, building schools, building sewers and water systems, then you really need to think carefully about what you're talking about. So she was neither pre-election nor wasteful. I think the government ran a real and developmental fiscal policy. Developmental because it enabled the development of all parts of Croatia in one real way, unlike the period in which you led the Government from 2000 to 2003, where you didn't really care what the needs of the people were and what the needs of those dealing with the economy were.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-29-0.u25333	Second correction, Mr. Representative Mario Zubovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-29-0.u25334	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I would refer to what Mr. Frano Matusic said and remind Mr. Bernardic that, he mentioned fiscal policy and characterised it as populist, wasteful, pre-election. And I am correcting that this is not true and I just remind you that as far as I know, you are a city councilman in the city of Zagreb and that you have not realized that this is not the city Assembly because you are influenced by the wasteful, populist and pre-election, fiscal policies of your member who runs the city of Zagreb.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-29-0.u25335	Next correction, Mr. Representative Krunoslav Markovnović.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-29-0.u25336	Well, Mr. Vice President, here's the whole co-worker's presentation. It's down to one incorrect sentence. Croatia does not need great novelists, but needs operatives. Croatia has operatives, it has the entire government I think that reacts well and works well. But I appreciate the s.P.D.'s tendency to dramatics and tragedies.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-29-0.u25337	And Mr. Agent Roncevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-29-0.u25338	I'm correcting the incorrect allegations of an esteemed parliamentary representative. Fiscal policy was populist, wasteful and pre-election. False, because if that were the case then a respected fellow budget deficit of 6.3% left by the government with 31.12.2003 would have grown progressively. On the contrary, the budget deficit fell continuously during the government's 2004-2007 term and continued in 2008 and ended below 1% last year. If pre-fiscal policy had not been developmental and had not offered solutions in that sense, as you said, then the state budget that started with 100 billion kunas at the beginning of the government of Dr. Sanader would not have grown to over 130 billion. The 30 billion-dollar shift has created a new entrepreneurship, they have created new jobs, therefore your allegations are not correct.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-29-0.u25339	Club of representatives of HSS, Vice-President of the House Mr. Representative Josip Friscic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-29-0.u25340	Mr. Vice President, Vice Governor, colleagues and fellow MPs. First of all, let me say hello. We have a half-yearly report ahead of us. We very often when we discuss individual reports, when they are annual, when they come in a few months we say that what the findings in these reports are that simple life has brought certain different solutions and shows some other trends. This is a half-yearly report, but it is certain that last year's second half is precisely in this area, in an area which includes a report on activities, actions and moves drawn by the Croatian National Bank. But it also contains in itself what was happening in our economy as we were citizens, but also in what environment we were operating in. And it is certain that the global financial crisis that was particularly accumulated in the second half of 2008 could neither go through nor we can feel, nor act as if we were a lonely island or a ship, that everyone else has problems, and we don't. And just as it happened elsewhere, it is objective and realistic to observe the consequences of all these changes and all these difficulties on us. And when we talk about economic activities, then this report underlines that there has been a slow growth in economic activity. But it also provides a finding of why. Vele, the main generator of economic growth so far due to reduced inclusion in the world market for exports was domestic consumption. It has been reduced and, as a result, or as a consequence, we also have a decline in certain goods production, i.e. the need for certain economic activities. It is important that certain sectors grow. That especially the construction sector has a strong trend of growth, because it generates many other branches within itself and when discussions are conducted whether to end certain investments, whether to give them up, whether to postpone them for some other time then our message should be that everything is possible, as real as it has justification, the prospect of a faster return should be stimulated because it drags a number of branches and ultimately creates jobs or saves jobs. Because this report says what happened on the labour market. It's good, it's safe that in the second half something will be different because of certain seasonal jobs. But it's a good thing that employment is preserved even though it's not good, and we'll all agree that the salaries didn't grow. If they're not wages, then surely our standard was lower. What has been followed especially through our debate, through politicians' appearances, government activities, and the general public, is the role of the Croatian National Bank through the implementation of the course policy. And I am pleased in the discussions in certain activities, directions, activities and findings, and we do not have to agree. But I can see that when it comes to the role of the CNB in protecting a stable course, we almost all agree. Because we understand what would have happened if the brakes had been fired here. It's not just a matter of economy, it's not just a financial sector. We would be threatened primarily by our citizens because we know with what clauses and what credits were offered to citizens on the financial market that they consumed and what would result from their existence or the functioning of the family and the calming of needs. Interest rates and impact on them. Surely, what is the instrument in the hands of the CNB as a regulator first if we want to reduce demand then we need to increase the cost and in this direction is a certain regulation. And that regulation has also given certain positive effects. The reduction which is due to the offer, but also because of the price, the demand for credit funds has been reduced primarily when it comes to calling it that about this civil sector. But at the same time, it means that we have determined that it may not be necessary to change cars, but it can serve for another year or two. So we have a settled housing issue and the desire to be a slightly larger apartment with more communication to leave it for another time, but all this together gives us some effects. However, what is happening in this sector and after the period for which the report is to be discussed and the report in that second half, but what is now interest practice has increased. But what I'm worried about is making different offers to get to credit with the same interest rate, but then installing other types of giving or expenses. I think that the Croatian National Bank must also make sure that we are informed of this, because that is what tells us how much the total burden is, and that is what everyone who is in debt has to pay or has to pay back. The messages we should certainly send and send would be bad if in Croatia it were as some have tried and today we bring it out here that I do not know will not remain stone on stone, because if such messages were then what happens in some closed communities in the world where people have decided to liquidate. Because tomorrow is the end of the world. It is not the end of the world and it is not the end of the world for sure for Croatia. Because what hit a lot through the theory that we've been listening to and the messages we've been receiving, much more orderly financial systems that have fallen apart in our midst, it hasn't happened, and that means we need to believe in our profession, as well as in the moves that it proposes and accepts. It is our role, this is the Croatian Parliament to send real messages, but messages to optimism. It is certain that there is no way out of the economic crisis by shutting down activity but by creating conditions for new development, for new investments. We only need to think carefully, and the CNB controls which credit funds in which sectors and how to create conditions for this. No dilemma, it's a twist. It's a small and medium-sized enterprise and there are certain activities. Because many today have been saying what they read in the newspaper. But who read the newspaper eight days ago then saw that the prime minister in Varazdin had opened new vindi facilities that invested more than 160 million kunas. I'm sure no one invested 160 million without being questioned and that there's no need for those goods they're going to manufacture there. It says here that no one knows what it produces or that the report for some segments in the second term will be catastrophic. I have different data and indicators, because if anyone speaks to the data of their main economic operator in their area, then let me be allowed to talk to my Podravkas. In December, they sold 20% more volumes of goods than in December 2007. It is certain that it will have its effects both through work and through the results of that work. And also that message that we sent positive from here to this assembly can already be watched today as it has had its effects. Because if it hadn't been for that message, if it hadn't been for our commitment to protect the savings of citizens, if our citizens had gone to the banks and raised 130 billion of their savings, then we could have talked about your financial sector's collapse. But that didn't happen. On the contrary, consumption has been reduced, but savings have been increased. It's just saying that we've taken seriously the time we're in front of us and the way we behave, but I think messages should be sent. It is also certain that for certain sectors I expect, the Government prepares it, I believe that we will quickly have this material to discuss that for certain sectors we need to think of how to speed up, or facilitate their situation, especially those where there is a small turnover of capital. Like, say, the area of agriculture where credit and credit can't be on a month or two because they're cycles of a year. Many will say, speaking again about the need to capture or find some money. There is money in the system because we take only the part of the funds that is in the citizens' accounts, and only one bank has over a million and 50,000 current accounts and these assets, which are actually not a special source or are not in the focus of observation to obtain additional income, it is certain that when they are observed from the total volume level through the Croatian National Bank, they give a certain potential for new targeted investment in these sectors. Therefore, I expect that already in the next report, but with this report and certain measures we can understand the messages biting, or its consequences solving, and it is certain that the way out of each crisis is more discipline, more work, more responsibility, but without investment and work there is no way out of the crisis and therefore, when it comes to the club and representatives of the HSS, they will support this report, and when it comes to the work of the Croatian National Bank, we assess it very positive. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-29-0.u25341	Thank you. One correction to an incorrect quote, Mr. Representative Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-29-0.u25342	Thank you very much. I would correct Mr Fristic's incorrect allegations that he found reasons for slowing Croatia's economic growth and entering the crisis in the international area, i.e. the global crisis. I believe that we have entered the crisis partly because for 5 years, the Croatian Government has done nothing to prepare us for this crisis, to reduce state spending, to reduce public spending. On the other hand, to help the economy. On the other hand, the incorrect quote is Mr Fristic, who says he has data saying that the second part of the year will be better than it was in the first part of the year. I think it's absolutely incorrect and you could see it from the data that the budget in the 1st month fills much weaker than it was expected. On the other hand, that all economic indicators are being talked about further slowing economic growth. So, this part of your data is absolutely incorrect, Mr. Frisce. ... Yes, you did. ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-29-0.u25343	Thank you very much. We'll take a five-minute break for a technical matter. Some mixer's too hot, so we need to replace it so the phonograms can be recorded. There's a transmission, but until this tape is put on, mixer. Five minutes off.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-29-0.u25344	... The result of the crisis or crisis is the result of a failed and wasteful fiscal policy, not only in 2007 as my colleague Bernardic said but in all these five years since this government was in power. [[Home is not saved.]] Croatia has entered the recession, and everyone in Croatia sees it except for Prime Minister Sanader and the Croatian government. What worries is it seems that Prime Minister Sanader is not even aware of the scale of the crisis. I would not now speak as Mr. Vujcic mentioned slowing economic growth. In the first half of the year compared to 2007, economic growth is compared to 5.6% to 3.8% but in this regard we continue to move on. Economic growth is getting weaker and weaker. And when we look at the latest data for the first eleven months of 2008, industrial production is only at 1.9%. The budget is weakly charged and according to the data we received in the past days in January of this year, especially in terms of charge from VAT is not nearly as close as it was in 2008. And now the question is whether this Croatian government even knows what we are in, whether there are solutions to how and what to offer, how to get us out of this situation. My conclusion is there isn't, and I'll tell you what I mean. I mean, because just a month ago, we were planning a budget for 2009. Planning on the basis of economic growth of 2%, so only 30 days ago and yesterday in the current hour, Minister of Economy, Mr Polancec, announced that it would be good if we made any growth if we did not enter the recession. So is it possible for someone in just a month based on the data they received in that month to change such planning? Does this say that the government knows the situation Croatia is in in general. For me, this issue is self-involved, and unfortunately there is the biggest problem today in Croatia. There is no Croatian government or sense of the crisis in which Croatia is located or any measures it would offer to get Croatia out of it. What the Croatian government is doing was shown by Prime Minister Schuker in January of this year. There is no money, the budget is under-charged and in order to pay off its commitments he owes 2.1 billion kuna not outside but on the Croatian capital market, whose money Mr. Shucker and the Croatian Government spend. It spends money that was urgently needed by the economy in order to maintain at least this level of economic growth. So, not that the state is helping the economy but on the other hand it still takes the money and makes it impossible for the Croatian economy to have the activities it has had in the past year. Double damage, a wasteful state that does not subsidise the economy and on the other hand still takes away the money it needs to carry out economic activity. The state also announced in May a new debt of 500m euros on the international market, as I believe it is, someone mentioned in the debate, will be very difficult to achieve. They do not fight on the international capital market for the bonds of the Republic of Croatia. Believe me, this responsibility will be very difficult to achieve, and given that, once again, Minister Shucker and the government will turn to the domestic market and probably look for money on the domestic capital market that will be needed by the economy. The dangers that we face this year are, above all, the dangers of losing swear as already seen in these weeks, and I believe that the efforts of the CNB must be there to maintain a stable exchange rate. First of all, I think about a lot of our citizens who took loans with a foreign exchange clause and already in Swiss currency, the Swiss franc shows the difference in loans that was paid a year ago. Another thing is the growth of interest which I also believe is that regardless of the situation and the need of the state for money, but there is a need to limit the growth of interest both for the population and for the economy. On the other hand, we need to adopt a series of measures that would encourage production and exports, of course if we don't have the money because the state took care of itself and on the other hand because it's so expensive that there are no additional funds to help manufacturers is the question of how we're going to achieve it. What we do not see is any solution of the HDZ and the Government of the Republic of Croatia and no response to the crisis in which Croatia is located we listen to these 400 thousand kunas raising the guarantee for Croatian citizens as one of the strongest solutions and what the Government has done for three, four months as if it were a rescue for the Croatian economy and it will help us to get out of the crisis. And since HDZ and the government have not prepared any measures to help the Croatian economy and Croatian citizens deal with this crisis, the SDP has today sent a package of anti-recession measures involving seven laws and two decisions in the field of protection of the population of seven laws and one reform and in the area of restrictions related to the public sector one law, one reform, one decision, government duty and responsibilities to the CNB. So many measures are considered necessary because we simply can no longer wait for the Croatian government to regain consciousness and the Croatian government to do something to start Croatia from the crisis. We can't have gentlemen running politics from today to tomorrow, as this has proved to be an example of the budget. Today we have 2% growth, tomorrow our recession is below 0. Whether it shows any vision of this government leading us. And one more thing I'm going to say is, it's not possible to run a policy in a way that we form various councils, that the governor be our only way to save next year and that when that doesn't happen, they're to blame. Well, it's not a responsibility to the governor, to the economic council and all kinds of advice. The responsibility lies with the Croatian government and the prime minister of the Republic of Croatia. And finally, the government needs to offer some solutions and not take it out now that our governor has won the award for the best governor in Eastern Europe and that will save Croatia from the problem he is in. Gentlemen, that's not how politics is run. And in the end, that kind of policy only reminds me of one thing. I'll meet you in trouble and I won't be guilty. I'm specifically referring to Prime Minister Sanader and the government. No, Prime Minister Sanader and the government are the most responsible for this moment in which Croatia is located and they must show whether they have the strength and responsibility to offer something. As I said no visions, no idea at all how Croatia should deal with this crisis has anything to do with the domestic capital market, the taking of money to Croatian entrepreneurs, and then hopefully the tourist season will save us this year, that it will be something bigger than last year. No way, who in this year's crisis is going to travel at all, I believe the tourist season is going to be even smaller. And what's the crisis and how much is it going to be talking about that here in 11 months of the last year, the balance of payments deficit is twice as much as ever, 2.5 billion euros, and the most financed by the debt, that is, these funds that the state didn't have. And that's why I said, given that HDZ has no ideas, the SDP has today offered its solutions and I expect you, as well as all the clubs of representatives in the Croatian Parliament, to support those solutions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-29-0.u25345	Thank you. Five corrections, three replicas. First Mr. Representative Frano Matušić. Correction of an incorrect allegation.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-29-0.u25346	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Indeed, such a fatalistic, untrue and incorrect data can only come from SDP lines. First, a wasteful policy for all five years. It was not a wasteful policy because such a policy reduced the state deficit, from your 6.3% of the state deficit that led the country into a debt disaster, we came to European standards, we wanted to go to zero this year, so, without any deficit, but because of the obligation to a collective contract, we couldn't realize it. So below three percent of the deficit. Furthermore, we created preconditions for the development of the economy, the opening of new entrepreneurial zones, the opening of new jobs. The lowest number of unemployed were just last year, the smallest number of unemployment since unemployment was measured in Croatia. So this is the result of this policy that was not wasteful but developmental. You're still saying the government has no anti-recession measures. Yes, they have taken measures to encourage the economy, to subsidise the economy, and to help the economy in this situation. You're saying it's possible to change certain plans that we had a few months ago and why the government is doing it. So 19 European countries considered more developed than Croatia have changed their policies because today they are very much in recession, 19 European countries. And this is not caused by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, it is known where the financial crisis from the United States, etc., we are dealing with, we are dealing with this problem well and the Government of the Republic of Croatia has indeed responded in its own way and with what it wants to do to help the economy.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-29-0.u25347	Thank you very much. Second correction, Ms. Nevenka Majdenic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-29-0.u25348	I thank Mr. Vice President, here's Mr. Maras said that the fiscal policy of this government has been missed and wasted. That is not true at all, I could talk about how the government, our government is leading fiscal policy in this direction that expenditures are less than income, so a surplus has been achieved and that there are no commitments from previous years, we simply wouldn't be in the deficit. But she could answer that, in fact, we've arranged the Treasury, so they're spending their resources effectively, so that means that money's in one account. I could tell you what this ministry has proposed and it was eventually adopted that we have internal control in all ministries, that the funds of the state budget are being spent rationally again. But since we all trust the Croatian People's Bank, then I will say what are the characteristics of fiscal policy in the first half of 2008 because I believe that in your debate with the Rules of Procedure you spoke about the period, i.e. the first half of 2008. And a sentence, for the sake of the public, I quote: "During the first half of 2008 The fiscal policy was marked by a strong expenditure on the general government's income. [[Agreement: Thank you colleagues, colleagues!]] This is due to the noticeable rise in prices of goods and services, positive developments in the labour market results. [[Thank you very much! Thank you very much, please!]]
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-29-0.u25349	Let's stick to time! Third Amendment Mr. Representative Krunoslav Markovnović.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-29-0.u25350	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, here's what it looks like today, the catastrophics have choir singing, and I think that choir would sound very nice to unite in particular. Namely, here's a colleague talking about not having things, and under the rest he touches HDZ again, says HDZ has no ideas. So I don't know why HDZ wouldn't have an idea and SDP had an idea? We can see what the ideas are. There won't be black days for tourism, black days for economy, no money, nothing like that. Speak still, again incorrectly, in a luxuriant state. What makes this country so luxuriant? And where does he spend his money, he asks his colleague. Well, he spends money, I think the SDP would be too happy if he didn't have money to pay in the military, the military, the police, education, health care, then you'd come on your own. Unfortunately, it won't work that way.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-29-0.u25351	You put your friend Maras first, you picked up a plate yellow for the replica, then the replica has no right. Now you've picked up a plate for a breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-29-0.u25352	May I?
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-29-0.u25353	Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-29-0.u25354	Thank you very much. An article in 209 was injured, and I picked up the replica board by mistake because I thought the lady had given the replica because she was answering everything other than what I was saying. So she gave me a replica, not a correction of an incorrect quote, and that led to my confusion, and I think the lady hurt Article 209, Majdenic, since she did not correct the incorrect quote.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-29-0.u25355	What do you mean, it's not? You were saying what politics was like and your colleague slowed down your claims. And respected representative Kreso Filipovic. Correction of an incorrect allegation.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-29-0.u25356	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Here, Mr. Maras, in his debate, mentioned the crisis once 30 times. Since my colleague is as economist as I am, I think it is unserious at this point to claim that the Republic of Croatia and the economy of the Republic of Croatia are in crisis because neither by definition of the crisis nor by definition did they get the conditions for you to make such a claim to the Croatian public. And also witnesses that today we are discussing whether Croatia is affected by recession, which I believe it is, but the crisis in no way can we still talk about. There's no definition of crisis. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-29-0.u25357	Mr. Representative Ivan Bagarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-29-0.u25358	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues have already corrected my colleague Maras, whom I understand, he is in opposition to this opportunity to actually draw attention to the responsibility of the government, so I am correcting his claim that the government, only the Government, is responsible and most responsible and only responsible, etc. So all of this we've heard goes in favor of this claim that it's not true. Here is the presentation of Mr. Vice-President of the Parliament, Mr. Fristic's very best confirmed, it is incomprehensible that fellow Maras that 0.08 percent of Croatians in the whole world who live in relation to the world population can be, resist... Resilient, immune, to the complete event that has now hit the whole world. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So it's really incorrect and trendy to say that everything that's going on is the government's responsibility. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-29-0.u25359	Three replicas. Mr. Representative Marin Jurjevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-29-0.u25360	I think the government must have the courage to answer the question that I see among HDZ representatives there is no unity. They say we're in recession, we're not in crisis. We're not in a crisis, it's great, right here. In fact, at least let the government say, I think the government has to say, make it clear whether we're in crisis or not, whether we're in recession or not. It's a normal thing for the government to be the most responsible. Well, it's not the fire company at the bottom of the floor that's most responsible. The government is responsible, the most responsible, and it needs to carry a consensus on what happens right and wrong. Recession and crisis are not any psychological categories but objective categories, objective facts and should then be spoken in language in fact. So even when it was sinking Titanic, maybe some of them felt great. It was their psychological, personal condition, their privilege to be somewhere else in it, but it didn't diminish the fact that there was a tragedy right now. So the fact that someone feels great while the ship sinks is just a matter more medically than politically. But we here need to speak in the language of politics, facsimiles or try to get to the causes that cause such a situation, which more or less all objective observers, analysts call recession and try to eliminate the causes that cause, and the biggest cause is the Croatian government.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-29-0.u25361	Replication response. Mr. Attorney Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-29-0.u25362	Thank you very much. Mr. Jurjevic, I wouldn't go into this medical topic, but whether we're in crisis or not, we don't need to talk feeling because a thing of emotion can vary from individual to individual. But the data that says that in the 11th month of last year, the latest data, the number of unemployed, increased by 5200 people, that the retail trade had dropped by 11.4%, that industrial production was never less in that quarter than it was until then, that the external trade deficit was 13.9% higher, that the balance of payments deficit was twice as high as it had ever been. So what data do you need Mr. Jurević to determine that Croatia is in crisis? Well, it's a complete misunderstanding of the situation in which we are and you gentlemen have to stop pushing your head into the sand and admit, Croatia has entered the recession, it needs to offer a vision of how to get out of it. Unfortunately, those visions are gone.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-29-0.u25363	Second replica. Mr. Representative Davor Bernardic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-29-0.u25364	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Maras, I will agree with you that Croatia is at the door of the crisis. But I don't know why HDZ insists on denying the crisis is gone. We could hear a lot of things, and we could hear that there was no crisis, even if there was some kind of improvement. Does that mean those 11,000 people who were fired in October, November and December and who might be watching and following this House? 'Let's not say that Croatia is not in crisis and that there has been no cancellation or that it has not been reduced economic growth. You also noticed that the government is wasteful. There were some arguments that the government was not wasteful because it reduced the deficit. Well, the deficit is also a statistical category. In 2003, the deficit was at 3 billion, now 5 billion. Is he down? Yeah, in the yes share, but it's absolutely increased. There is also an increase in out-of-bududge duties. You also talked about the government not being responsible. Well, the government is the most responsible. Otherwise all we need is the tax administration, the head of the tax administration to collect income, and if someone is going to co-ordinate an academic community like now responsible economic advice, then we need a rector, not a prime minister. We need a rector, not a prime minister. And that's why the government is responsible. And you were talking about the government taking the economy's money mass and that's what we're warning you about. But not only the economy, I will remind you that the city of Zagreb, and that was also the case, was taken 2 billion kunas. The city of Zagreb gives great incentives to the development of small and medium-sized entrepreneurship in the Republic of Croatia and carries 60% of the Croatian economy. At a time when the city of Zagreb is three times less in charge than the state is in bankruptcy, believe me, the Croatian state has already collapsed. When you kill the biggest cow, you don't have any milk.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-29-0.u25365	Replication response. Mr. Attorney Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-29-0.u25366	Thank you very much. You mentioned the deficit issue. The question of deficits isn't just and numbered how much deficit it was. You mentioned that the percentage that was in 2003 was much less than the deficit during the HDZ government. And on the other hand, the question is, where does this deficit go? The deficit used in 2000 to settle the debts of the HDZ government from the 1990s and the deficit used during the government in 2000 to 2003 to build a highway that was built within a record time period, gentlemen are seen where it went. Unfortunately, your deficit where it goes and your duties are not visible. They're going into current consumption, they're going to a country too big, an unstructured state, without reforms that can't prepare us today to deal with this crisis. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-29-0.u25367	And Madam Representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-29-0.u25368	My colleague Maras, every country, and so did ours in her recent history, had governments that were more capable, less capable. That's how the future's gonna be, and that's not even the biggest problem. The biggest problem is when you have a lying government, but in order for our government to get angry that we tell her I'm not going to tell it, but we have a government, because I'm exposing myself to being punished here and I don't want our government to be deep, deep and far away from the truth. She doesn't admit the facts. Well, this question really is whether or not the crisis came, so it really reminds me of those early days of the start of the war in Zagreb when the bombs started to drop. The people at the shelter wanted to hear it on the radio where it fell and how, you could hear it, they were weakly prepared and in such a way that they would get news until one man came and said so what do you ask where it fell, don't you see, falls on us. So, these discussions today, whether there's a crisis or not, so citizens know better than all of us here, and that's why the fact that in 10 months, in a single average family on loan, a young family whose whole family helped to raise a loan, in 10 months, then to an average small two-bedroom apartment, has grown a loan war of 800 kuna. He tells me yesterday, Minister Shuker, that it's not true, that there's panic here. The question arises and some politicians may not have been raised to credit, but then we are not in the zone of whether or not it is a recession, whether or not we are already on the side, or on the other side of the law, because it is considered in the world everywhere, the polite Europe issue of corruption a couple of excellence.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-29-0.u25369	Replication response, Mr. Representative Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-29-0.u25370	Thank you very much. counterpart Antičević-Marinović, is not at all questionable Croatia is in crisis, Croatia has entered the recession. And so as not to tell colleagues from HDZ and the government that we are SDP, that we are only criticising, that we are not offering any solutions. I said today, there are 14 laws, several decisions and several reforms in the parliamentary procedure. First of all, we believe that it is necessary to go to the Proposal for a Law on Amendments to the Law on the Implementation of the State Budget, that the recapitalisation of the HBOR should be carried out in order to assist the economy with additional loans, the draft laws to amend and supplement the Law on Profit Tax and a few more laws. So we want to help the Croatian government, which is now without a solution in order to get Croatia out of the crisis with our solutions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-29-0.u25371	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, there is a sharp political match here between the position and the opposition, between the government and the opposition, which is quite appropriate for both the Croatian Parliament and each parliament. And such a political game should be fought. But the debate about whether it's a crisis, it's not a crisis, it's a recession, it's not a recession I think it's in, under one point, under another topic. Here is the debate on a half-yearly report by the Croatian National Bank for the first half of 2008. We are therefore discussing the report of the Croatian National Bank for the first half of last year, so let's try to keep it more carefully, not to extend it to all aspects of economic policy and economic policy criticism. Mrs. Representative Nadica Jelash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-29-0.u25372	Dear Vice President, Deputy Governor, colleagues and colleagues. The Croatian National Bank has confirmed with its central monetary measures as the strongest financial security factor of this country in these times of crisis, and it also recognises Europe and the world. And financial security is a presumption of any other security, and in my opinion this report of the Croatian National Bank is also more important than the National Security Council Report, which the president of the state and the president of the Croatian Government took note of the other day. But I will limit myself in my debate as suggested by the Vice-President of the Parliament to only one segment of this Croatian National Bank report, which is the business of the banking sector. In this period, we read from the 2008 report that the business banks achieved 3.3 billion kuna profits before tax. Compared to the same period in 2007 it is an increase of as much as 34% and with this growth, the banking industry is the most profitable activity in Croatia. And as the bankers themselves say, this high growth gets most of it is the result of the growth of interest incomes. However, the increase in interest income is conditional on the growth of interest rates and, above all, interest rates on loans with a currency clause. While interest rates on loans grew, interest rates on deposits were simultaneously held at the same level as they were in 2007 or even dropped. Why do I point that out? Because the credit activity of business banks is primarily focused on the population. So loans to the population in the first half of 2008 increased by 7 billion kuna with an increase of over 6%, reaching a total of more than 116 billion kuna. Therefore, loans to the population are the main source of interest income as primary bank income. At the same time, the population is also the largest source of bank financing by increasing the importance of this source from year to year and is a very clear indicator of the decomposition of Croatian citizens. A large part of them have become less and more in debt, and the smaller part has more and more and it is able to save, and this is seen by the growth of savings that has reached at these times more than 170 billion kunas. Simplifiedly, most of the bank's money is collected from the citizens and is being paid interest, unfortunately, which is getting lower. On the other hand, the same money is best placed on the citizens, but at a far higher price, which, unlike interest on savings from day to day, increases. We all understand why banks prefer to lend to citizens. Because their return is also the safest, and in addition to that, credits are purchased by citizens by consumers by consumer goods produced in countries where the banks are mothers and so our citizens actually raise the standard of citizens of other countries with their own money. In the last year, interest rates have increased by about 1 percentage point. According to the blackest scenario, we could jump by a few more percentage points, and that would put a huge number of Croatian citizens in a position that they can't repay loans especially those who have stayed or will soon be out of a job and without permanent income. What if that happens? Banks will increase the risk of repaying loans, i.e. they will increase their share of the so-called Bad credits in plasmas. The bank's problem is very simple in a way that the risk of non-returning credits can be incorporated into interest rates and re-transmit it to citizens. Banks just can't lose. And I can't lose either because they've secured the repayment of the loan and most often by multiple assets of the debtors, although the question is, in any event, to keep the banks in charge of the large houses and other properties that would be taken over from the bankrupt citizens into their portfolios. Who would even sell them to? But the more important question is what will happen to Croatian citizens. Croatian citizens are afraid of such a black script. With fear of losing a job, fear of street robbers, fear of inaccessibility of health care, fear of coldness in these winter, cold days, fear of daily gatherings now there is also fear of collecting credit. Croatian citizens are the same as the state in which they are afraid to collect credit because they are over-indebted. Each on average owes the banks 27000 kuna or 3750 euros. 2000 euros. The debt, the one I'm talking about, doubled compared to 2004 when every citizen was burdened with slightly less than 2,000 euros. Minus on current accounts and payments to wars, Croatian citizens, there are the greatest allies, but at the same time the greatest enemies. That is why in these difficult times and banks should show even more sensitivity, and social responsibilities and not increase the price of loans. Because there are real reserves for it. The first reserve is the international reserves of the Croatian National Bank, which reached 10 billion euros in mid-2008. And the second argument for not increasing interest is precisely the big profit that I started this debate with, which is the result of large interest margins that are 3 to 4 times the margin of mothers' banks in their domicill countries. And most importantly, the biggest part of it is achieved with money precisely from Croatian citizens and it is not a nice feeling to see a huge profit from banks and listen to about the payments of huge bonuses and dividends, while at the same time the majority of Croatian citizens and Croatian economies can't make ends meet. So it's obvious there's room for interest on loans not to increase. Moreover, there is also room for prolonging payments and for a number of other moves that would allow citizens not to experience personal bankruptcy. Because if there is hearing to service the megalomanal needs of the state, then there is, there must be hearing and to service the needs of citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-29-0.u25373	Thank you. One correction, Mr. Representative Krunoslav Markovnović.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-29-0.u25374	Well, here we go again as usual, those disasterers of all parties unite, I mean the opposition. Here's the thing. A colleague says Croatian citizens are afraid of the cold. So I don't know why they're afraid of the cold, even in these gas problems, it's been said, the citizens will be protected maximum, and as far as we know, the whole of Croatia isn't gasified, so many are heating up on wood and everything else, so unfortunately there is no cold, except around the heart of the SDPs. Keep going. Well, they barely make ends meet. It's interesting how they connect the skis with the skis, so 300 grand goes skiing, 100 grand new cars still. The strangest of our citizens are real.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-29-0.u25375	Replica, Mr. Agent Ivan Hanzek.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-29-0.u25376	I'd just like to join my colleague. Namely, my information, may a National Bank colleague correct me, in some of the countries of the European government and competent institutions, determine the maximum interest rates above which interest is calculated in interest. I think there is room in Croatia to discuss that regulation is needed because, as far as interest itself is concerned, it is not the interest problem itself. The problem is that unfortunately our banks are working on that they don't pay VAT, every procedure they don't pay VAT neatly, if you're a user of electronic banking, look at the items. The cost of conducting certain transactions from one kuna to two kunas has increased. In the past six to eight months, I apologize, again I'm entering that period that's not the subject of this report. But here I would really like to make a contribution to the consideration and thinking of our ministry and our National Bank to consider such a solution that, in times of crisis, can be extremely important for people not to be cold around the heart, as my colleague Markovanovic would say. However, it should be said that our people are not only cold around the heart because of gas or because of SDP, but also because the economy has run out of gas, and when the economy runs out of gas, they are left without pay. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-29-0.u25377	Ms. Representative Nevenka Majdenic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-29-0.u25378	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Vice Governor, colleagues and colleagues. The mid-term report of the Croatian National Bank for the first year of 2008 is indeed comprehensive and talks about the conditions in which economic activity took place in the environment of the European international macroeconomic reality, the financial situation, the degree of stability and implementation of monetary policy and I think it is important, given that these conditions have been passed on to the future time, or present. Therefore, it is good to analyse this report. The first half of 2008 marked a slowdown in economic activity in the United States, followed by other developed economies. The break of the US stock market and major turbulence in the world's financial markets, which has inevitably been reflected in real movements in the world economy. At the same time, the rise in oil and other energy prices and the rise in prices of raw materials and food products on the world market has fuelled global inflation and pressures in many countries. This has particularly affected countries most closely linked to the US economy and their financial system, such as Ireland, the UK, but also had a strong impact on economic activity in the eurozone. The effects of the global financial crisis are particularly visible in the Baltic countries, where the annual price growth rate in June was 11.5% in Estonia, Lithuania 12.5%, and in Latvia as much as 17.5%, mainly because they depended on foreign financing. There has been economic activity in this environment and in our country, and it is inevitable that the effects of the global crisis have also been reflected in the growth of inflation and the slowdown of our economic activity, but not to such an extent and such intensity that this would have profound effects, and especially not the character of the crisis. Thus, the annual growth rate of the gross domestic product in the first half of the year was 3.8%, slightly lower than in the entire 2007 level when it was 5.6%. In the first half of 2008, it marked a very strong investment activity through private investment in non-permanent construction facilities and on fixed capital investment, which were the main driver of economic growth. Positive labour market developments have also been reported in this period. First of all, in the direction of increasing the number of employees and continuing the trend of reducing the unemployment rate. Similarly, the nominal growth of gross wages was also moving, and changes to the Income Tax Act were adopted in June, which increased the personal deduction from 1600 to 1800 kuna, which will affect the increase in net wage of employees. It is normal to have strong foreign inflation pressures, especially the price of oil. Is there a reflection on the trend of domestic inflation, which was 1.8% higher in June than in December 2007. On the contrary, prices of industrial non-food products have slowed slightly, which means that there has been no spillover of energy costs to industrial product prices. The mitigation of inflation pressures in the domestic economy has been positively affected by the moderate appreciation of the exchange rate according to the euro, i.e. the strengthening of its course. In such conditions, the strengthening of the exchange rate and to increase the liquidity of the financial system, the Croatian National Bank intervened by buying domestic foreign exchange markets from business banks. The main instruments for the creation of kuna liquidity were during that period, were regular reverse repo operations. The Croatian National Bank also made several important decisions in addition to the monetary measures taken in early 2008 to strengthen supervision of banks, protect the quality of the bank's assets and raise the capital adequacy rate. On the other hand, a reduction in the foreign debt of business banks and the application of mandatory border reserves has also been continued, which has proved extremely important in preserving the stability of the Croatian banking system and reducing the impact of the global financial crisis. During that period, there was also a strong growth in savings and hand-to-hand deposits of the population for a simple reason because citizens realized that it was safer to save in business banks at these times less than to invest in shares that they sometimes know to be risky. International reserves in the first half of 2008 continued to grow, and thanks mainly to the measures of the Croatian National Bank, amounted to 9.9 billion euros, which is 6.8% or 633m euros more than at the end of 2007. These funds were used by the Croatian National Bank during the year to intervene in the market by buying and selling foreign exchanges to banks in order to preserve their liquidity. Certainly, we could list many more indicators that speak about the state of the country and the economy but the fact remains that thanks to the measures and moves of the Croatian National Bank, the Croatian Government, the restoring ministries, as well as other economic factors that have contributed to maintaining the stability of the conditions of business and the mitigation of the impact of the global crisis. This report should also be served and the fact is that good communication between the Croatian National Bank and the Government of the Republic of Croatia has already been used to take further measures and activities, to eliminate the negative consequences of the global crisis in order to maintain even slower economic growth and the security of monetary credit policy. In the end, here I suggest that this report be accepted as such but I would also pray since in these discussions, the flat-rate ratings have been heard that some loans have increased even by 800 kuna. I'm personally interested and I think it should be the vice governors who raised so much interest in the bank that the war grew by 800 kuna. What is the amount of the loan? Is that a little apartment like you said the whole family was together? 800 kuna an increase in the war was indeed I would have been, it's a lie and I think if you weren't afraid of the public, it would really be necessary to say what amount of credit, to which war and for which size of apartment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-29-0.u25379	Thank you. One correction, Commissioner Ingrid Anticevic-Marinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-29-0.u25380	It is incorrect that a colleague said that the result of the crisis in Croatia is the only cause of the financial crisis in America. That's just not true. Namely, all indicators back in 2007 such as the decline in industrial production that then dragged everything and above all the decline in gross social product seem to suggest that if anything authentic is the product of this Croatian government as a Croatian authentic product, it is the cause of the crisis when it has not occurred in far away America.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-29-0.u25381	A few replicas. Mr. Representative Frano Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-29-0.u25382	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, exactly, my colleague claimed that the main generator of the crisis was actually a financial crisis that came from the United States. In fact, when we talk today about a recession in 19 European countries, it is then necessary to consider before that which countries have intervened financially in their banking sector. Has the Croatian state reacted in its financial sector? It's not. This was the cornerstone of the financial crisis today's global response in the financial sector. Even one Switzerland that is let's say the strongest global, the largest state based on its banking economy had to intervene in the banking sector. Its main banks, Credit Swiss and other major banks requested intervention from the state budget, asked 10 billion euros to save the banks' business. In Croatia, such a reaction did not occur. So you're absolutely right that the main generator of the crisis is actually coming from that financial sector. And they are absolutely right, as President Mesic said a few days ago, that Croatia had not affected the crisis in the way the world has affected because it is right. The United States has given 700 billion dollars out of its budget to save financial institutions in the United States. Germany has given a few hundred billion euros from the budget, so the state budget has given hundreds of billions of euros to save the financial sector. We haven't even given the kuna, and we know how we adopted the budget. We haven't even given the kuna to the financial sector. And that is why we can rightly say that the financial crisis has not caught us in the way that the United States or all European countries have caught it. We didn't intervene from the state budget to the financial sector, you're absolutely right. The policy led by this government and we rightly commend the governor who has received his confession. But a similar confession was received by Minister Shuker. I'm really wondering why this SDP cheerleading position towards the crisis. Why do you want the crisis to start, why are you rooting for the crisis? It's really not clear what your motives are to root for the crisis the way you do it.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-29-0.u25383	Thanks a lot, buddy. I beg you ladies and gentlemen, let's stay on the subject. Let's not expand the subject to. ... I have paid good attention to sticking to the topic which is in line with the Rules of Procedure that the half-yearly report of the Croatian National Bank is for the first half of 2008 and please stick to this topic. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Reply to the replica of Ms. Nevenka Majdenic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-29-0.u25384	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, I must agree with Agent Matusic that the impact of the crisis is certain. If that were the main reason I would say maybe slower growth, economic growth, the impact of the global crisis. In fact, if we look at everything our government has done since 2004, then we should have only gotten better results, not slow economic growth, but even greater economic growth than it was. The fact is, we ran a truly responsible fiscal policy. We made sure that the expenditure on the budget so that spending on the budget would be less than income, so that we could realize, that we had no deficit, that the deficit would be as small as possible and that it would only be for those credit payments that we had since 2000. So if it hadn't been for the world's crisis, we'd really have another situation here today. That's what we need to talk about. We simply don't get this government out in such a way that the main cause, as you might say, is not getting away with it. She's doing her job and she's running this responsible policy, she's keeping an eye on spending, she's reducing that deficit that's extremely important, because if we've increased the deficit that I know when Mr. Linic kept saying that the deficit needs to be increased, that he's going to contribute to economic growth, we'd be, I don't know what a super crisis it is. Why? Because we should pay off those debts. We were reducing the deficit but we were all available assets we were giving in entrepreneurship. We were developing an economy. And I'm really telling you that if we ran any other policy than this, we would have had a crisis. This is the impact of only the world's global crisis. Therefore, the government is really leading one responsible policy and will continue.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-29-0.u25385	The second replica, Madam Representative, Dragica Zgrebec, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-29-0.u25386	I will start from not being exposed to criticism that I am not talking about, I am unreplicating in the section relating to this report, however, this report is also talking about economic activities, therefore, it is a complete one of the information and it is possible to actually discuss everything. I disagree and it is incorrect that the crisis or what is happening to us in Croatia today is due to external influences, is in one small part. However, in most of the negatives that are being exhibited today in Croatia are the crises of our system, we are not changing the system quickly enough, we do not have enough rapid implementation of reforms and therefore we have the situation we have. In 2008 in five months we have a decline in industrial production, if it's not recession, then I don't know what it is. Because the economy says when you have a decline in industrial production a few months in a row, it's a recession. The result of this is the decline of the social gross product and we won't be here, now we'll all be happy if we don't have a gross product drop regardless of what we're going to add to the grey economy now. We also have a decline in gross profits, I 9 months our entrepreneurs have a decline in gross profits by 9%. We have a decline in investment of the highest-quality investment, and that's a long-term asset of 6%. In the first nine months of last year. We have a 30 percent increase in blocked entities and 60 percent. Unmistakable liabilities have reached 14.4 billion kuna. We have a shortfall in the trade rate of over 10 billion euros, which is worrying because it will spill over this year into an increase in external debt. We have the lowest coverage of exports by 45% in the history of monitoring export coverage in Croatia. I'm not happy about it, I'm worried about it. And these are, these are the consequences and we have no measures to address the causes of reducing these consequences and that they occasionally disappear. This is actually a problem, and this should be discussed in Parliament and in the Government.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-29-0.u25387	Replica reply, Ms. Nevenka Majdenic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-29-0.u25388	I can't agree that our government has no measure. If any government has measures to address crises and challenges, I'm not going to say crisis, I'm really going to say challenges, because this is our government's challenge, so it's the government of Dr. Eve Sanader. Why? Because there are people who can handle it, because it has a reputation in the world, you know the reputation in the European Union, anywhere, our finance minister has received the award for reforms in Croatia, so we cannot agree that our government is doing something that is not in the interest of citizens. Which you don't recognize, not that you don't recognize, but that you don't want to recognize it. I can only say that I sincerely envy you a little, not a little, but a lot.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-29-0.u25389	Mr. Representative Krunoslav Markovinović, next replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-29-0.u25390	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, you mentioned good cooperation between the Croatian government and the Croatian National Bank. I also don't understand why the SDP is so horrified that the Croatian National Bank is working well with the Croatian government for the benefit of the Croatian state. I mean, what's so controversial about that? I think every bank needs to work with the government because it's the best way to solve any problems. Furthermore, there was a surprise as to why the bank sold the euro. And what, infinitely, should buy the euro, to the last kuna, I suppose? Well, I guess the bank buys and sells euro. So finally, the Croatian National Bank, it is also her job, to really follow, to react to the financial market and it works great. Keep going. There was also criticism, here's colleague Anticevic, saying we're not talking about reality. So he says, for example, whether "the Croatian government did not report where the bombs were falling during the war," thank God it wasn't, and there were those who reported it, to move a little niche devices to those who were throwing bombs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-29-0.u25391	Replica reply, Ms. Nevenka Majdenic. Please calm down!
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-29-0.u25392	Here I would just like to say that I still believe that in the time of the challenge that this cooperation between the Croatian National Bank and our Government is really important. It's for every praise, of course it bothers some, it bothers the opposition party. But the fact is, no matter what economic growth, and the fact is that all those rights, I'm saying it for the public, I'm talking about the pensioners, I'm talking about birth, I'm talking about children, I'm talking about youth, I'm saying that all those rights they had will be guaranteed. It's not like in your time of 2000 to cut birth benefits, cancel a three-year leave, not pay off cops to high school teachers, so there won't be any vacations. So, the message to the public that this government is running a responsible policy regardless of any economic growth, all those rights will be guaranteed.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-29-0.u25393	Next replica, Mr. Representative Boris Kunst. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-29-0.u25394	Thank you very much. There is no room for these black SDP forecasts regarding the economic and social situation in the Republic of Croatia. ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-29-0.u25395	Comrade Stazic, be kind, so be kind and allow this debate to take place and do not throw away. You can't do this to me. You won't pollute me by throwing it away.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-29-0.u25396	That there is no place for these blackest forecasts that the SDP has been trying to place in public these last days, which is basically part of their populist SDP policy where it wants to show the crisis of the system, cataclysm in the field of employment, the economy. But I think it would be good if we told the same truth that's been made public these days. And it has been publicly announced that the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development has published information that Croatia will not be affected by a catastrophic recession and says, Croatia in transition is the most advanced in the region. Behind it are Slovenia and Romania. So, he says, the medium-term forecasts for Croatia are positive, especially when it comes to membership in the European Union. I also think that we should not forget our SDP colleagues and praise the government, together with the Croatian National Bank, for not allowing the banks to raise interest. Also, thanks should be given to the Croatian National Bank for ensuring the stability of the monetary system in Croatia and a stable course. So these are all things to be commended, not criticized. And what you're trying to impose on people for daily political purposes that they're in fear, these are afraid of the weather, these are afraid of winter, these too warm times. I don't think that goes on in elementary school kids anymore, if serious people are looking at you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-29-0.u25397	Thank you very much. Now we've got the plates up for two injuries to the Rules of Procedure. Of course I should give it to those MPs who are looking for a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Representative Gordan Maras. Here you go. Injury of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-29-0.u25398	Thank you very much. Article 209 has been injured, and you, Mr. Vice President, have injured Article 214. Rules of Procedure. Mr. Kunst reported for, not only Mr. Kunst, but also before Mr. Markovanovic, for the replica and immediately in the first sentence instead of the replica to his colleague Majdenic began to tell the SDP which had nothing to do with it. Nor is she a colleague of Majdenić... No, it doesn't matter. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] It's not a replica to my colleague Majdenic. ... And you're... [[Everyone speaks out loud, they don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-29-0.u25399	Okay. Okay. Please!
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-29-0.u25400	I'm sorry. Can I finish? Can I finish? According to Article 214 of Mr Kunst, he appeared to correct the incorrect allegations, and he began to talk about a subject that he had not been told about in such a way that you should have given him a reminder of such behavior. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-29-0.u25401	And Madam Representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-29-0.u25402	You see, Your Honor, Mr. President, the provision of Article 209 that injured colleague Kunst, which is the 209th paragraph, which speaks precisely because we seem to have forgotten what a replica is. Replication is the answer to exposure. That's what he says... the answer to the exposure, of course to the one being replicated. It was so decided by amending the Rules of Procedure, and with us more, Mr. President, if you still remember, the replica was allowed until 2000. By 2001, not really, I said, well, until 2000. And now it's allowed to apply something that doesn't exist anymore, and I know it well, president, that, and you know it, I think that this replica of a replica and insisting so your colleagues are trying there, and so are our colleagues, but yours double to prove something that is clear to everyone in Croatia. I think these things are really unbearable. Instead of looking for solutions, they argue here whether the crisis has entered or not. Tell us what border crossing she entered and at what time, because you denied at all that there was no crisis at all, then suddenly she entered.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-29-0.u25403	Today we have a classic school example of oblivion, very short forget and forgetfulness, and especially a school example of double standards. Once the MPs replicate and do not directly address the replicant, the representative who spoke directly before and held the presentation in the topic, when the other representative who replicates the alleged replication is actually speaking and criticising the representatives of the other party or government, then it is taken normally, and that this is totally fine, that this is a replica and that the reply to the replica is also completely fine. If, however, the members of the other party are now in a replica or a response to a replica of different thinking, but the same to those only a different opposition, the same to those who were representatives of the other party, then it is a violation of the Rules of Procedure. We can't, ladies and gentlemen, stick to double criteria, double arches, and once we declare that the breach of the Rules of Procedure is because in a replica or a reply to a replica someone doesn't like something, and when someone likes it, it's the violation of the Rules of Procedure by the chairman. That way, you can't do double standards and you can't do short memories. Mr. Stazic, Injury of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-29-0.u25404	Article 213 of the Rules of Procedure, which states that the sitting order is provided by the Chair. The order of the session means holding our Rules of Procedure. You have now violated this article 213 because you transfer your responsibility to the MPs. A representative doesn't have to stick to the Rules of Procedure, he can make a mistake. It is your job to prevent him from doing so and to stop him because you are in charge as chairman of the session's order. Such ex post explanations after you give in to representatives from your club and encourage them to break the Rules of Procedure, they serve nothing. They're completely useless. Stop them, stop this side if you don't think someone's sticking to the Rules of Procedure, but please, have one criterion and do the job you're paid for.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-29-0.u25405	I have one criterion. For example, I should have already interrupted you in the first second of the first minute and warned you because you hurt the Rules of Procedure. I repeat how you, and personally, hold double standards. Once the Chairman gives an explanation of his right and duty to the Rules of Procedure, then you warn him that he has violated the Rules of Procedure. And when the President warns you that you have broken the Rules of Procedure, then you disagree and warn the President. So, always double standards. Once it responds to our interest, then it's all in line with the Rules of Procedure, then it's okay, the second time politically it doesn't like a person's actions or a chairman or a representative, then it's a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Otherwise, everything is fine when it's in line with your point of view and your values. You'll have your chance now. Here you go. Mr. Representative Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-29-0.u25406	Dear Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. So we have a report from the Croatian National Bank. We are representatives of citizens, elected by citizens and the first logical question to be asked here, what do the citizens of this country have from the Croatian National Bank? What does this work report mean to them? So I think citizens can first be happy to have a Croatian National Bank and such a governor at the head of the bank. For the first time, he was brought to the post, not this assembly of parliaments, not the Parliament's past assembly, but the one between 2000 and 2003. This assembly of Parliament has recognised Mr Rohatinski as the best person for the responsible and difficult duties of governors. It is a wonder that it has not been confused with the change of power as a whole of other quality personnel who had to move away to create a place less capable or almost completely incompetent HDZ personnel. We don't give recognition to Governor Rohatinski only here in the Parliament, he gets awards from the world, two prestigious world prizes. What is the Croatian National Bank and what is it responsible for? She's in charge of monetary policy. But as part of macroeconomic policy, there is another lever. It's a fiscal policy. She's not in the hands of the governor, she's in the hands of the government. During the election campaign, of course, each party represents itself in the best light, the best it can do, seeks to convince citizens that it is she who is able to lead the country, and so HDZ came out with the "HDZ knows" password at the time of the campaign. This, however, proved incorrect. He knows the governor. When it came to inflation and deficits, it was about a year ago, it broke out to say so between the government and the governor. The government, prime minister, the finance minister attacked the governor to say stupid things, to scare the citizens, to make incorrect predictions because he predicted 6 months earlier in the decimal, in a decimal, what inflation would be and what would be the deficit. The government claimed there would be no deficit, the governor told them in a decimal six months in advance. So HDZ doesn't know, the governor knows.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-29-0.u25407	Why don't you interrupt me now and warn me why I'm not interrupting you from the subject? You've rested a little while ago that I should warn the representatives of your party who aren't sticking to the subject, and I didn't, and I'm rightfully speaking to you, and I'm a part of it, and I'm now feeling a little short and sad about why I didn't warn you and interrupt you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-29-0.u25408	I will grant you this wish immediately with a request to extend my time for this intervention.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-29-0.u25409	I can't go any further.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-29-0.u25410	I refer to Article 213 where the chair may give the representative a strict measure, a reminder, a reminder by taking away the word and away from the session. Nowhere in our Rules of Procedure does it say that the President can interrupt a representative in his speech, interfere with his insolent and unnecessary incursions and take away his time...
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-29-0.u25411	It says, and it says it needs to be interrupted immediately when it's moving away from the subject. It says that right now.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-29-0.u25412	...for a personal discussion. So wait until I finish the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-29-0.u25413	It says right away when it's moving away from the subject I'm obliged to interrupt you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-29-0.u25414	Tell me... /The speaker is off, so turn it back on./... do not interfere with my personal presentation because the Rules of Procedure does not give you the right to do so.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-29-0.u25415	I won't disturb you, but I'm obliged to interrupt you when you're moving away from the subject. You were moving away from the subject, you started criticizing something HDZ for an earlier reason.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-29-0.u25416	And therefore, count me the time you've taken from me. I can't think of any further discussion with you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-29-0.u25417	We're not at the market... You won't argue with me. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] That's what you know about this way of discussing.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-29-0.u25418	So, I'm talking about Governor Rohatinski... Croatian National Banks. [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-29-0.u25419	Now I warn you to step away from the darkness. Look, I warned you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-29-0.u25420	.../The speaker has been turned off, so it is back on./... and when I talk about the Croatian National Bank report, then it is perfectly normal to talk about Governor Rohatinski. The fact that you don't understand the relationship between the Governor of Rohatinski and the Croatian National Bank, so you claim that I am out of the question, that's your problem. I think it's part of the subject. So it turns out the governor knows the government doesn't know. Here's an example. The government claimed that economic growth would be 4.5%, according to the finance minister. Ten days later, the prime minister says we'll be lucky if it's 2%. Only the governor said it was going to be 0. The finance minister has no idea how to calculate economic growth for the second year, neither does the prime minister. They disagree with the estimates by 2.5% within 10 days. The governor told them exactly. We have a government, so it's what we have. It's obvious he doesn't know, these examples show. So that's how the budget is made for the projection of the economic growth of 2% that will not be. There won't be one. It's going to be 0 or maybe it's going to be a fall. So now the prime minister admits it the other day and announces the rebalancing. The excuse that the world crisis is at fault in Croatia, i.e. the recession does not stand. Everything that is happening right now in Croatia is not yet a reflection of the world recession. We'll wait for that. What is happening in Croatia now is the result of the government's actions over the last 5 years. The decline in citizens' standards, therefore, has been a consequence of government action in five years. How are the citizens going? They've been promised prosperity, growth of standards. The citizens believed it. I speak here on behalf of these citizens. Here we are representatives of the citizens first of all. They believed it, I can't blame them. Citizens should trust in politics, I advocate strengthening the institutions of the system. They are part of the system and political parties. They believed, and what did they welcome? They welcomed an inflation that was growing, welcomed a rise in interest on long-term loans, a skating rate and a rise in the war on their loans. They were promised one thing, the other they experienced. We're here to discuss a report for the first half of last year. So what does that report say? It states that the period marked a decline in economic activity with the same growth in inflation, that the annual growth of gross domestic product in the first half of that year was 3.8 which was significantly lower than recorded at year level before the adverse developments in the trade in goods further deteriorated, that this had a negative impact on GDP growth, that nominal wages in the second quarter slowed down their annual growth, leading to a decline in real net wages, etc. There has been no global recession on the movement during this period during which the report refers. There's been a crisis of the banking system in America and the rise in oil prices, that's all. That's when the oil prices really went up. But it was not really too much of a concern for the citizens, or as far as they were concerned when the oil was growing, then the gas in Croatia was also gathering. When oil fell, however, gas remained almost as expensive. He's a little cheap, not that much. And now he's been collecting again lately. What citizens can expect is what we are most interested in, the continuity of HDZ policy, nothing else. And that means, embellishing the catastrophic data, the promise to live better and not because since this government came five years ago, they've been living worse and worse, there's been no world recession. I can expect an increase in the burden, participation in health care, compulsory health contribution for pensioners, expensive supplementary insurance policies, increasing prices of goods of broad consumption and inflation, growth in credit war. That's what the citizens are waiting for, that's what they're told, that's what can be read from this report for the first semester of last year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-29-0.u25421	Thank you. Injury of the Rules of Procedure Mr. Representative Arsen Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-29-0.u25422	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I think you've hurt Article 210(2) twice. The Rules of Procedure both in interpretation and in application, so I'll try to explain both injuries. So, as far as interpretation is concerned, I don't think you're right when you claim that MPs don't stick to the subject if they talk about these things that Mr. Stazic and the other MPs on any side of the assembly because the Law on the Croatian National Bank defines what the powers of the Croatian National Bank are, defines how the report is submitted and defines what they are doing. Therefore, a much wider discussion of the Croatian National Bank's powers is possible than to stop the world from starting in 1.1.2008 and ending in 30.6. and to comment on the font and beauty of the letter on the report. And the second time you made a mistake in applying Article 210 because you engaged in a debate with MP Stazic, although you should have warned him on the rules of procedure once that he did not stick to the agenda, and the second time you warned, and only after that, if he did not act on your orders to follow the rules of procedure and not to lower the level of debate by polarising with him from the post and thus in some way diminishing the dignity of this home's work in such a way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-29-0.u25423	Dear dear fellow, I was not too hard on Agent Stazic. You're pleading that I should have warned him, so I should have warned him once more not to stick to the subject. I didn't want it because I wasn't in a position. When I was trying to do that, Mr. Stazic and I were talking at the same time. He made it possible for me to warn him twice, not to warn him because he was constantly discussing it with me, so that in that situation, I could not have been so strict and so restrictively interpreting the Rules of Procedure. And secondly, I would not agree with you if I had injured the Rules of Procedure because that is a broad topic about the Croatian National Bank Report for the first half of last year because the debate on the subject also covers the debate on the position, the role of the Croatian National Bank. This theme on the 2007 Croatian National Bank Report for 2008 does not include a debate on the position of the Croatian National Bank in general on the legal powers of the Croatian National Bank. So I ask you to accept my explanation that I feel that I did not harm the Rules of Procedure in this section where you indicated. You colleagues agree with that feeling of mine, don't you? ... And it's not a matter of feeling? [[You can't hear the intruder.]] I thought I'd come across an understanding with you that it was about feelings. I'm surprised.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-29-0.u25424	Here, I can do one sentence. Mr. Vice President, I'm quite certain that you were sure that you were right to change the rules of procedure from letter to letter and how you knew that you didn't then apply it so slightly more easily. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-29-0.u25425	I have a special affinity towards my fellow Stazic, and I wouldn't allow myself to say anything that would be harmful to him in some of the longest interpretations. A few corrections of incorrect allegations. Mr. Representative Niko Rebic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-29-0.u25426	Thank you. And the fellow Stazic is usually false and insulting. Therefore, justifying the work and recognition received by Governor Rohatinski incorrectly claims that HDZ and the Government do not know anything because they are clearly forgetting that the government has received, or the Minister of Finance, the same recognition, but according to them, according to the SDP, it seems that the small Croatia is the cause of all these global crises financially and will never admit that this government has actually caused the crisis but that it is successfully together with the Croatian National Bank that the less the crisis is felt in the Croatian state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-29-0.u25427	Correction, Mr. Representative Frano Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-29-0.u25428	I thank Mr. Vice President, the wrong colleague said that what is happening in Croatia now has nothing to do with the global crisis, it is completely incorrect. Ask, say, exporters in the wood industry if and how the crisis in Europe has affected their business. Furthermore, you incorrectly said that the price of oil was going up, terrible that it was true. But you incorrectly said she wasn't going down after that. Namely, the price of oil has been going down quite well, the price has been around 10 kunas and euro diesels and eurosuppers today at 6.5 kuna level, 6.6 kuna. Therefore, it has fallen significantly and this is, of course, the result of the world market price. And incorrectly that HDZ showed he didn't know, you said HDZ was talking in the election, HDZ knows, and it proved incorrect. No, it proved correct and you could see it through the election results in late 2007, unfortunately for you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-29-0.u25429	Third Amendment, Mr. Representative Boris Kunst.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-29-0.u25430	Your Honorary Vice President, given all my sympathy for fellow Stazic, who today is sullen, I believe he knows, but today he pretends not to know, and that's why he's just told a whole series of lies. I think he should be reminded that the government has raised the salary of 6% to civil servants, that the minimum wage is growing this year, that unemployment is moving somewhere on the average that's been moving these months since I've been looking for the latest HZZO data. And I think my colleague Stazic knows this very well, since the children know this, we have just had a meeting with a high school, that Croatia shares the fate of its environment, means its regions etc.. And I don't think that I should ignore what I already mentioned from the European, from the Bank for Reconstruction and Development which said that Croatia, that Croatia is the best of transition countries in its region. I believe you don't think like your colleague said, that the trade deficit because it makes it a catastrophic situation in Croatia, is that trade deficit. He's been present for decades, and neither of your government has ever been able to cut him down, so it doesn't matter, it's stories without cover.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-29-0.u25431	Fourth Amendment, Mr. Representative Andrija Hebrang.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-29-0.u25432	Thank you very much. This is a series of inaccuracies, says counterpart Stazic that the finance minister has no idea how to calculate economic growth. In advance, the European Commission's report, which corrected the forecasts of individual countries' ministers, is the smallest correction in Croatia. The biggest corrections were made by ministers in Norway, Sweden, Great Britain, Ireland, Germany, where the European Commission adjusted according to their forecasts by three to three and a half percent, with us adjusted by less than 2%. Which is proof that our minister knows how to do his job, except that fellow Stazic doesn't know what it means to be a finance minister and he doesn't need to! The second thing is true, he says, it's not true that HDZ knows, it's not true what he said the HDZ doesn't know and the governor knows. I don't know why you want to dissipate that fine style between the governor and the government. It is probably not in your favor that HDZ is working with the governor for Croatia's well-being. So I would correct you, we chose this governor and, of course, in our term, because we think he's quality, we agree with him, we support him, and it's not true that the governor knows and HDZ doesn't know, it's true that he knows and the governor, he knows and the HDZ, he just doesn't know Stazic, and he doesn't need to be surprised.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-29-0.u25433	And Mr. Representative Zeljko Turk.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-29-0.u25434	Thank you, Mr. President. Respecting the seriousness of a respected parliamentary representative, I am really surprised that he does not know that 7 is less than 10. No wonder, though, that his intention was not to present accuracy but inaccuracy, which is not the only one in his quote, so I'm just using the opportunity that the price of gasoline as a colleague said was close to 10 kuna, that now it's 7 kuna or slightly smaller, which means that he really has a problem with math, he'll learn.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-29-0.u25435	Several replicas, Mr. Representative Marin Jurjevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-29-0.u25436	My replica refers exactly to that part of economic growth. Our biggest problem or one of the biggest problems or one of the biggest problems is what here begins the first session of this year. And do you know what is being discussed in both the political world and the public, and where will you go? Whether we're going to change the budget now or in a month or in a month and a half. Because this budget was adopted on the basis of false assumptions about economic growth. And you don't need Mr. Secretary of Finance to correct Europe or not correct it, give it that or minus three or four. Reality corrected it and gave it zero. Or a unit. So, because it looks like we politicians like to live in a virtual world, so here we are talking about a world that doesn't exist, there's a reality that keeps warning you about what you gentlemen are talking about. There are according to data that are official 200 thousand hungry in Croatia. And you're talking here if we're going to talk about the crisis when we talk about the Croatian National Bank report. So we have to be punished if we're not talking about the crisis problem here, and where are we going to talk? Again in that voluntary fire company in Mrodi Donjoy or in... ? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So where are we going, I don't insult anyone but someone here offends logic, intelligence and common sense of citizens. [[/Intruder: What are you insulting?]] And it seems here that the goal of some to satisfy themselves is to have a people's expression, not to answer the questions that this reality is asking, and they're very difficult and deep. And that's why I think everyone in the House who doesn't speak well of crisis problems should be punished and those who claim to be gone.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-29-0.u25437	A little while ago, there's not even 10 minutes I've been warning myself that I'm breaking the Rules of Procedure because the replica doesn't respond to the opening statement of the one who's talking, and now It's just like a tear to the eye, yeah, and now we just have a school example again. ... [[Intruder: Like a tear to the eye fell.]] Well, you can't say that again. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Answer to the replica Mr. Representative Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-29-0.u25438	Don't be so surprised that he is here trying to stop, prevent, and even from the President's desk, by the Vice-President of the Parliament and by the other MPs, every display of the painful truth that citizens feel every day in their lives and in their wallets. Well, of course the rulers don't fit when that truth is made public, because such truth, it testifies to their incompetence. And incompetence is very hard to admit. Inability is very difficult to admit, so it is quite understandable that we have this much correction, it is quite understandable that they try to show the data better than they are and it is quite understandable that they try to convince citizens that they live better every day. It's as if the citizens don't know how they live, as if they need a HDZ agent here to explain to them how they were better off yesterday than they are today, that they're better off today than they're going to be doing tomorrow, and that's how it's going to be as long as this government is in office.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-29-0.u25439	I must again regrettably conclude that I am not insulting the Rules of Procedure or disabling, as my colleague Stazic tells me, that it is impossible to discuss and implement the Rules of Procedure, correcting incorrect allegations and replicas. I'm saying again that again, this is an example. Once one party likes something, and when it declares it true, then challenging that truth from another party, here from HDZ, then it is declared to be asphyxiation of the right to criticism. And the answer to the question that there are guardians of truth, of uncircumcised truth whenever he dares to challenge the so-called. the uncut truth then it's a ban on telling the truth, then it's a violation of the Rules of Procedure. So, classically... What is therefore true for the keepers of the truth is the uncut truth, the disputing of it means the violation of the Rules of Procedure. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] And now we have that example again, now we're going to have it, I hope in the next case, that there will be another challenge to the role of the presidency to channel and to say this is not a replica. If he says it's a replica, and someone doesn't like it, then he'll tell him if you're insulting the Rules of Procedure, and otherwise he'll say the same thing why you didn't interrupt the one and warn the one who insults the Rules of Procedure. Once that double truth begins to draw closer. Mr. Attorney Gordan Maras, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-29-0.u25440	Mr. Stazic, in your replica, I will agree with your opening presentation completely, and especially with the part where you have determined that HDZ does not know or that the Government does not know. And I'm not going to say it now because I'm going to make this debate more intense or make it divorceous, but I'm going to say it because I think it's an example that shows itself. Is it possible that, with all these indicators in the CNB report, along with the indicators given by the State Statistics Institute, the Chamber of Commerce, the Economic Institute, is it possible that no proposal from the Government has come to this House specifically as to how this crisis is handled? Not according to the economy, not to the citizens. Neither through the budget nor through any other measure. Well, it's a fact that HDZ and the HDZ government have proposed nothing. And so I ask you, as responsible people, to consider our proposals that we have sent to Parliament today and not to be like last time, a month ago, to postpone for another session in a month, two, three days because Croatia has no time. Take suggestions that you think are quality, that they can be implemented. And we believe that these are the suggestions that we put in the process today. The fact is that HDZ and the government have not sent anything to this House as if nothing was happening in Croatia, as if there were no problems in Croatia and as if we had not gone into crisis. You pushed your head into the sand and I believe you must not treat Croatian citizens so irresponsiblely.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-29-0.u25441	Replication response. Mr. Representative Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-29-0.u25442	You are wondering, colleague Maras, is it possible that, with this kind of report from the Croatian National Bank, government measures have not come that would try to stop this crisis and reverse flows? You're wondering if that's possible. Yes, colleague Maras, it's possible. What did you expect from this government to come with these measures in time to stop these negative movements? Maybe they'd do it. So I don't believe that they're evil in their intentions and that they wouldn't try to change this negative course. But they don't know that. If they knew, they would certainly do something about it. I'm deeply convinced of that. But unfortunately they don't know, five years show they don't know, five years destroying this country, five years every day in this country, an ordinary man lives harder and harder. That's what he has to deal with. That's what the government's chosen.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-29-0.u25443	And now Mrs. counterpart Ingrid Anticevic-Marinovic will demonstrate the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-29-0.u25444	Comrade Stazić, in your basic presentation, you have brought out a whole colossal of the benefits of this government to the everyday lives of citizens, and thus you have determined among other things that interest or war on loans is growing drastically. And that's the irrefutable truth, unfortunately, but apparently the government doesn't want to hear it. The relevant GfK data, according to the purchasing power of Croatian citizens, establish that from 41 of the observed countries in Europe, we have sunk, burned in 31st place. Even Serbia has, the citizens of Serbia have more purchasing power, and so much we want... After researching GfK, therefore drastically, and for 7 places we sank compared to last year. [[Everyone speaks out loud, they don't understand.]] But it's nothing to the government, so she doesn't see the problem at all. But the biggest problem is that... It doesn't help anymore, therefore, because the facts are so. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It is no longer about the facts whether Carla Del Ponte asked us for a document or not, which is possible and can be hidden from Croatian citizens, but it is not possible that the Croatian people already came up with a saying "Coughing and poverty are not allowed to hide". Everyone's talking in a voice, you can't hear it.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-29-0.u25445	This addition to my voice colleague, Ingrid, was too high. Replicate response, Mr. Representative Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-29-0.u25446	You see, colleagues of Anticevic-Marinović, you say these are data that this government does not want to hear. I don't care if they want anything or don't want to hear it. I don't really care if the vice president of the Parliament is going to abuse his position, interrupt me when I speak, take my time. I don't care about that. Not even this information of the GFK, will they interpret them one way or another. Is Dr. Hebrang going to find something positive in that? Citizens know that last month they paid their housing loan more than a month ago. They know that. Well, they don't need to be interpreted. Nor do they benefit from being lied to and being paid no more when they know they are. Where did the citizens screw up? Where did they go wrong? So they were wrong to believe that they would be able to repay loans, that they had borrowed credit in good faith by believing the government that they would really do anything, that their standard of living would be such that they could repay those loans. They're being threatened today. They're gonna run out of flats, homeless people. They'll have to go to the street. If this government continues to work at such a pace as it has done so far. It took them five years to destroy the standard of citizens of this country. If they continue to destroy it at that same pace at the end of the term, people will be on the street. And what it means to them now is this or that interpretation of the GFK data or whether Vice President Shakespeare wants to do it or let him say it in this assembly or not, and then interrupts the MPs. It's like it's gonna save the citizens, like it's gonna cut their credit rates. Nonsense.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-29-0.u25447	I don't know because you're listening to your fellow intern. Who's interrupting you? Who's warning you? I am so kind to you that I do not use those strict rules of the Rules of Procedure when I should warn you, I only gently warn you, rebuke, gentle, pedagogical, that you do not violate the Rules of Procedure, that you do not go into replicas that are not replicas to someone who is not here in the Chamber. And now I'm sorry that you criticize me for such great generosity. And Mr. Representative Kreso Filipovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-29-0.u25448	Dear Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Vujičić, representative of the Croatian National Bank, colleagues and colleagues. Here's something I have to say from my heart before this presentation and debate on this topic of the agenda that I really personally regret here in the Parliament how and how sometimes we conduct discussions without arguments with a lot of insults, insult of individuals, insult of institutions. I think it's below every level. It should be no wonder why the perception of the Croatian public towards us Croatian politicians, according to us especially parliamentary representatives, is such, and precisely for the sake of this kind of debate, precisely because we often talk without arguments, precisely because we often insult those institutions that should not generally be offended. Of course, you should warn of some shortcomings, you should warn of some bad trends. But I think it is below every level to insult either institutions or individuals, because for these very reasons, the Croatian public has such an opinion on us. Here is the Report of the Croatian National Bank for the first half of 2008 which, in my personal opinion, shows the macroeconomic environment in a realistic and objective way, and the monetary and fiscal situation in the Republic of Croatia for the first six months. Before I say anything about opportunities in the Republic of Croatia, my wish with a few sentences is to look back at a macroeconomic environment that mostly affected our country's economic movements during 2008. Unfortunately, similar expectations are expected during the current year, which, of course, is what I said earlier when I was correcting Mr. Maras's incorrect allegations can also lead to the fact that the Republic of Croatia also entering a crisis by definition of the crisis. However, I am convinced that the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Croatian National Bank, as well as in the past, will find effective measures of fiscal, economic and monetary policy to contribute to the negative effects of the global financial and economic crisis as little as possible in the territory of the Republic of Croatia. In this way, assumptions will be made to continue the positive macroeconomic and economic trends of the previous period, certainly after changing the present negative circumstances in our environment. In fact, the global economic movement in the first half of 2008 marked the slowdown of economic activity primarily in the United States, but also in other developed countries, under the influence of expanding the negative effects of the US market crisis on other financial markets. As said in the first 6 months of 2008, stronger inflation pressures have been created to boost the extremely strong rise in energy prices especially of crude oil, as well as the rising prices of other raw materials and food products on the world market. Turbulence on the financial market of the United States has adversely affected the growth of the world's largest economy, resulting in a decline in the annual economic growth rate to only 0.9% in the first quarter of 2008. Unfavourable movements on the global financial market and strong global price pressures have also had a negative impact on economic activity in the euro zone. The result of such circumstances has slowed the annual growth of the euro area gross domestic product, which was only 1.8% for the first half of 2008. The contraction, i.e. the decline in economic activity, has been recorded in almost all Member States of the European Union. In the same period, under the impact of global energy and food prices, inflation increased rapidly, which reached 4% in June 2008, significantly above the target level of the European Central Bank of 2%. Therefore, the European Central Bank, too, in its projections, can be wrong. Growth of gross domestic product, possibly by the ministers of other countries affected or affected by this crisis if they do not implement measures of economic and fiscal policy that will affect the crisis as little as possible. Therefore, in such conditions, i.e. in the above-mentioned negative international environment, similar trends were expected in the Republic of Croatia for reasons that the Republic of Croatia is not an isolated destination, but the Republic of Croatia is part of the European but also of the global financial and economic system. Thus, in the first six months of the past year, there has been a decline in economic activity with the same increase in inflation as measured by the consumer price growth index, which has been conditioned primarily by increased foreign and domestic inflation pressures. It should be pointed out that in the opposite direction, a strong investment activity which was primarily driven by private investment in non-permanent construction facilities and in the observed period resulted in a high annual increase in fixed capital investments. So during the first half of 2008, investments were the main driver of economic growth. Positive trends in the labour market, which were reported by statistics at the beginning of the year, continued in the second quarter of 2008. According to administrative sources of competent state institutions, the trend of reducing unemployment and increasing employment continued during the second quarter. At the end of June 2008, there were 11% or 27 300 fewer unemployed persons in the Republic of Croatia compared to the same period of the previous year. Unfortunately, nominal wages slowed their annual growth in the second quarter after the acceleration of the first quarter, leading to their real decline in the second half of the first quarter with inflation growth. For this reason, in June of last year, the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Tax on Income Act was adopted which increased the amount of basic personal deduction from 1600 to 1800 kuna, i.e. for pensioners from 3000 to 3200 kuna, and the Minimum Salary Act, which increased the minimum wage from 2441 kuna to 2747 kuna. Of course, in addition to these legal solutions, the Government of the Republic of Croatia has taken a number of other measures that have gone in the direction of easing negative and unfavourable movements to the standard of living of Croatian citizens, which has been discussed in this House. As has already been said, by strengthening, above all, foreign and domestic inflation pressures during the first 6 months of 2008, inflation has resulted in an increase in inflation and by measuring the trend of the consumer price index of 7.6%, largely due to the direct and indirect effects of the purchase of crude oil and some other products not to count. It should be stressed that the rate was significantly below the inflation of a large number of countries in our environment, i.e. new members of the European Union. Finally, I would like to emphasise that the first half of 2008 marked and favourable movements in the structure of the liabilities of the banks. By continuing to reduce their foreign debt, which was affected by the continued application of the border reserve. Also, by encouraging business banks to reduce foreign debt while increasing their capitalisation and regulation and high levels of foreign reserves, the Croatian National Bank has increased the security and stability of the Croatian banking system, which has proved extremely important in the context of exposure to risks associated with the global financial crisis. Of course, in the context of strengthening the stability and security of the financial sector in the Republic of Croatia, quality monetary policy measures of the Croatian National Bank should be added in any case to the quality fiscal policy of the Government of the Republic of Croatia in recent years. So, a series of recent years since 2004 and here, and the Law on Credit Institutions and the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Deposit Insurance Act adopted during 2008. I will use this opportunity to address this crisis that threatens us, I will call on our banks, our banking sector, to include also with the Government and the Croatian National Bank, so that the consequences of the possible crisis, i.e. the recession of our environment in the Republic of Croatia, will be less and less for the reasons that I have said in the introduction, since this report really shows the situation in our environment, but also monetary and fiscal policy in the Republic of Croatia. Personally, I will fully support this report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-29-0.u25449	Thank you. Two replicas. First, Vice-President Ingrid Anticevic-Marinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-29-0.u25450	Here, my colleague, you're saying that you're convinced that this government is going to find measures of fiscal and monetary policy, so that everything there is serious fear for doesn't happen. However, the fact is, here I am going to repeat to the average family, so the young family that bought the two-bedroom apartment, they grew back 10 months, that war grew by 800 kuna. Some who took the apartment a little larger, also young people, were, and they had solid incomes, of course now in fear of these incomes, 5900, in 10 months it grew by 1600 kuna. And these are serious problems. Why did people take out loans? Because it was a promise to a better life, to a higher standard. And now they're in a situation like this. How and what do you do? I think you are primarily invited, or the government is invited to find the answers. But it's not that it's just the power now, except we on this side and we keep saying that the government doesn't find solutions, there's no answer to the crisis situation. But it hasn't been since yesterday. Please, you, knowingly in 2005, have introduced an immoral institute into the executive law, a fiduciary system used by banks to harm citizens. The media has reported that mass auctions are already taking place in Slavonia, Slavonian countries. It's precisely the inability of people to pay off loans for many years. So, especially lately. That's what our media reported. And in 2005, we lifted the fiduciary. In Roman law, it was said to be an immoral institution, that the bank immediately became the owner of the property that you pay and the moment you can no longer pay off the last war, it became the owner of that property, regardless of paid. It's something that needs to be changed urgently. But the government obviously won't. But I guess he knows why he won't. Then who's going to meet? Does the financial sector or ordinary citizens?
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-29-0.u25451	Replicate response, Mr. Representative Kreso Filipovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-29-0.u25452	Here, I would ask Mrs. Marinović because she has already asked her colleague Majdenić for this growth data, so drastically growing interest to give us, to see if it's really a fact, whether so much interest has grown. So for 5,000 kuna, they've grown by 1600 kuna. I think that seems kind of amazing to me. But I'm going to look back, although I don't want to talk about the previous period, I really need to look at it because it's often said here by SDP MPs that the government really doesn't have any economic, economic policy, or fiscal policy, and so on, and so on. I'll just remind you of those indicators, I've often said it in this Croatian Assembly, so let's compose in 2003 and compose the end of 2008. All macroeconomic indicators, GDP growth, employment growth, unemployment and so on, and so on, the level of inflation that was in that period. I think that the data will make it clear what economic and fiscal policy has been led by the government during the previous period. But I am indeed what you initially and replicated, I am truly convinced that the Government of the Republic of Croatia will soon propose measures to mitigate these consequences, namely anti-recession measures, and I will also remind you, in my presentation, that the government has already adopted a series of measures in the direction of the global financial and economic crisis. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-29-0.u25453	And another replica, Mr. Representative Gordan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-29-0.u25454	Thank you very much. My colleague Filipovic, here after your debate, I must point out that no matter what the debate on the CNB report is about six months last year, it is totally inappropriate to discuss the current economic situation in Croatia based on data that were seven, eight months ago. You can't say employment growth, economic growth is so much and you know it's not like that anymore, that the situation is much worse than seven, eight months ago. We can't stick our head in the sand and say that the situation is good in Croatia because it isn't. From the mass of data that are clearer and more recent than these reports six months ago. When the CNB report comes in for a whole year in a month, two days, I hope we get it before the Parliament, that you see that your data will be catastrophic, that your debate doesn't match the truth, doesn't match the facts. As for interest rates, interest rates have grown slightly but the biggest impact on prices and wars that people have paid in their loans has an impact on the course. The Swiss franc has grown terribly, I know a few of my friends who are at 700, 800 kunas bigger than they were half a year ago. It's an unquestionable fact and we have to take it as something that's true. And on the other hand, you say the government will soon. Well, we don't have time to wait. The government will be there in a week, a month, two days. Governments have taken some action in Europe. The Croatian government is still the only one I think has offered almost nothing in Europe except what we mention quite often and that is to protect savings deposits for 400 thousand kuna. It is not enough or it is nothing for what we are and what situation we are in. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-29-0.u25455	Reply to the replica Mr. Representative Krešo Filipović.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-29-0.u25456	Thank you very much. Here, Mr. Maras would not correct the incorrect allegations, but here I always write to myself what I'm saying in the debate, so you can check that I wasn't talking anywhere about any indicators or data right now. We are currently discussing the Croatian National Bank Report for the first six months of 2008 and this information that I mentioned in my debate is the data of the Croatian National Bank in their report. So, I wasn't talking about any other data. Also, when we talk about the crisis, I said that Croatia can go into crisis if we do not have quality anti-recession measures because we are probably in the recession phase now, but we are not in the crisis, because what I said by definition of the crisis is still not relevant information that we could claim is a fact, and which does not mean that I cannot claim that Croatia will not go into crisis as most developed countries have entered but I am confident that once co-ordinated action by the Croatian National Bank, the Government of the Republic of Croatia will also show strength, knowledge and power to deal with major problems, and I believe that it will be able to cope with these problems of the global financial and economic crisis. And this data I mentioned clearly means the 2003 comparative, so in 2008 it was purely for the reason that Mrs. Marinović thus replicated about my discussion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-29-0.u25457	Is the vice governor or the deputy governor? He doesn't want to. Then we'll conclude the debate. Continue at the session at 3:30 p.m. with a credible interpretation. ... This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Law on election of MPs in the Croatian Parliament. [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-29-0.u25458	A half-yearly report by the Croatian National Bank for the first half of 2008, is submitted by the Croatian National Bank. The debate is closed. I am voting in conclusion in line with the proposal of the parliamentary working bodies, which reads: "A half-yearly report by the Croatian National Bank for the first half of 2008. A year.". Who's in? Thank you. Against? Thank you. Restraint? Thank you. It's unanimous with 118 votes. The SDP representative club proposed two conclusions to the Croatian Assembly. The Croatian National Bank was manifested on this proposal by a letter delivered to you on the benches. I am voting on the first conclusion of the Club of Representatives of the SDP which the CNB accepts and which reads: "The Croatian National Bank is tasked with delivering a report to the Croatian Parliament within 60 days for the whole of 2008. A year.". Please, who's in favour of this proposal that the motionor accepts? Thank you. Against? Thank you. Restraint? Thank you. This conclusion was adopted unanimously with 118 votes. I'm giving the vote a second conclusion. ... Okay. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] The promoter has given up on the second conclusion. Thank you. Let's move on. We move on to: - Proposal for a Decision on a proposal for a credible interpretation of Article 13(1). Law on election of legislators in the Croatian Parliament Proposer: The Committee on Legislatives of the Croatian Parliament tabled a proposal for this decision on the basis of Article 173. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. Does the board president want to further explain? Yeah. Mr Emil Tomljanović, chairman of the board. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-29-0.u25460	Thank you very much, Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. At the 36th session held on 24 November 2008, the Croatian Parliament Legislative Committee discussed the proposal for a credible interpretation, Article 13(1). Law on election of MPs in the Croatian Parliament. And this proposal was submitted by Milorad Pupovac, a representative at the Croatian Parliament and by the act of 22 October 2008. The Committee on Legislatives adopted and considered, and in accordance with Article 172. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament of the Government of the Republic of Croatia and of the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the Political System, which are proposed to give a credible interpretation, Article 13(1). Law on election of MPs in the Croatian Parliament. After the debate was held, most of the 8 present members of this committee with 7 votes in favour and 1 abstention, it was found that it was a time limit established by law, which is objective and non-consumable, and which is transitional. And it has been assessed and in order to remove possible doubts that the proposal for a credible interpretation is Article 13(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. Law on election of representatives in the Croatian Parliament established and proposed to the Croatian Parliament to give a credible interpretation of that provision. And a third. Proposal for a Decision proposing that the Croatian Parliament give a credible interpretation of Article 13(1). The law on election of representatives in the Croatian Parliament, therefore, is a proposal for a decision to contribute to this report and the text of the decision itself reads: In doubt, is the deadline set out in Article 13(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union? The Law on the Elections of Representatives in the Croatian Parliament shall be established either by means of a cross-border or instructive procedure and by the failure to submit a written request for the continuation and conduct of a representative's duties within that time limit shall mean the loss of the right to submit that request. Explanation. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Law on Elections in the Croatian Parliament is a legal, objective, non-consumable and pre-inclusive time limit, which means that the term of office of attorney ceases to apply and act on the basis of the term of office of the person, therefore, of the representative, who, because of the conduct of an incompatible duty, has ceased to act on the basis of his or her term of office. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-29-0.u25461	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the HDZ Club, Madam Representative Ana Lovrin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-29-0.u25462	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. The Club of Representatives of the Croatian Demographic Community will support the proposal for a credible interpretation of Article 13(1). Law on election of representatives in the Croatian Parliament in relation to doubt whether a period of 8 days from the day of termination of the incompatible duty to submit a written request to the President of the Parliament, for continuing the conduct of the representative's duties is crossed or instructed. The Croatian Democratic Community Club supports the proposal of the Legislative Committee which gives an interpretation that this deadline is crossed, which means that missing the deadline for the law to pass the right to miss that deadline means losing the right to apply for the right, and that means disabling, further disabling the exercise of that right. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Law on the Election of Representatives in the Croatian Parliament has been streamlined in a way that clearly indicates that it is a pre-inclusive period, precisely because of the legal provision that the representative, after the termination of the incompatible duty, continues to act on the basis of the suspension of the stay, if he submits a written request to the President of the Croatian Parliament within 8 days. Therefore, they are necessary for the exercise of this right, three conditions are necessary, meeting three conditions, cumulatively, which means submitting a written request, submitting that request to the President of the Croatian Parliament and submitting that request within 8 days of the day of termination of the incompatible duty. Of course, when this provision of this article, this paragraph can be clearly hip, the question can be asked why the Legislative Committee has proposed a credible interpretation, why the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system also found that it is as a parent body, that a proposal for a credible interpretation has been established, and in the end why the Croatian Government has also given such an opinion. And I have to say that at this plenary session, there was an open question about whether the deadline was prose or instructive, so one of the representatives in the Croatian Parliament asked for such interpretation. And precisely because there would be no doubt in the future about the nature of that deadline, it has been estimated to give a credible interpretation, to make the decision at the plenary session, to resolve any future doubts in the application of this article. Therefore, the Croatian Democratic Community Club will support this proposal for a credible interpretation under which the eight-day period referred to in Article 13(1) is set out in Article 13(1). The Law on Elections in the Croatian Parliament sees it as a legal pre-exclusive deadline. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-29-0.u25463	Thank you. On behalf of the IDS Club, Mr. Representative Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-29-0.u25464	Your Honor, Mr. President, gentlemen of the Parliament. I feel guilty about having to speak right now without hearing other clubs. To be honest, I don't even see a big problem here. It would be enough, in my court, for a representative of the CNS to resign and for Mr. Cacic to enter the Assembly elegantly. So it's not even a question of what this body should be about, it's a question of HNS. The second thing I'm saying is, I would personally like Mr. Chacic to be a representative. Why? Because it was, he became it. As he became, in the most difficult way possible, in the way he wore the HNS lists. Few people in this home carried the lists of their parties, perhaps 6, 7 and so much I really think Mr. Cacic's place is here. Secondly, Mr. Cacic was too late to make demands, and that's also true. And what my predecessor said, and it's true, that this deadline is too much. True, that deadline was too much for Mr. Bagaric. It is also true that Mr. Bagaric, former HDZ mayor and MP, etc., means the truth is that no one respected him. The truth is that Mr. Bagarić became a representative of the Parliament and now the question is whether Mr. Cacic, based on this precedent, belongs to a place in this house. I am personally, to be completely open, and even if the Law on Elections of Representatives should change if it is necessary for Mr Cacic to become a representative and for one such proposal or for one such amendment of the law, the IDS would also vote. But what bothers us? We are troubled by a small non-discipline that happened in the course of the vote whether Mr Luciano Sušanj has the right to repeat or resume his mandate, and when the representatives of Cacic's party disputed him in some way. The IDS was also in the case of Mr. Sushanj to exercise the right to that representation status, so in that position we will remain today, although the Committee for Legislatives is bringing a logical court, but I said, we think Mr. Cacic belongs to this place. It's about like that, you know, 50 times since Zagreb I've been driving towards Rijeka or Buzet, and 50 times on the highway I've crossed that 80-mile-an-hour limit, no one's stopped me, 51th time they stopped me and 51st time I paid my fine. It's kind of like this. The problem is, among other things, why, several years ago or ten years ago, was in those positions when the entry of Mr Sušnja into parliament was prevented. I personally don't think, I won't say for IDS, but I personally don't think that the board has overstepped or abused powers, but we have opinions, although it may be a tense opinion, if something was allowed in its own time to Mr. Bagaric, then it should be allowed to the others afterwards. I said one more time, it's pretty tense, it's the same thing, I repeat, as if someone caught me after 50 times that I overstepped the speed and then paid, and then what I'm going to do is I just have to, but for IDS it would be opportunized and so we'll definitely vote for Mr. Cacic to get him into Parliament even though I'm going to repeat once again that the board certainly didn't overstep in this case, as I would say, my powers. But what should I do? It is clear that one clear interpretation should be given and another, to vote that the case of Bagaric has to be applied to Mr Cacic's case. But also, if someone who is instead of Mr. Cacic in Parliament and we throw someone out of Parliament, what does he have at his disposition? He has a constitutional suit in place and, according to former Constitutional Court President Mr. Klaric, such a dispute will surely be won. And then this will specifically mean that the state will surely be obliged to compensate him for the damage suffered by this Parliament may be caused by a tense interpretation of Article 13 of this law. However, either way, IDS will be in the position we were in and during the vote on Lucian Sušnja, that is, we will be for Mr. Cacic, but I don't think this dilemma should have been solved here in front of the Croatian audience, in front of the Croatian public, in the assembly, but this dilemma should have been solved by the HNS within its club or within its ranks.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-29-0.u25465	We have one correction to an incorrect quote. Mr. Representative Boris Sprem. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-29-0.u25466	This, Mr. Caine, I'm not going to say because I think I have something against the IDS' right to vote, as you said, for Mr. Chacic. But I don't think it's a good idea to start the debate whether we're for Mr. Cacic or we're against Mr. Cacic, even if that's the depth of the problem, but we can only talk about whether we're for law enforcement in one way or another. Are we in favor of being like this... interpretation, as suggested by the Legislative Committee, accept or not. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So, not whether we're for Mr. Cacic or we're against Mr. Cacic, but whether we're for the application of the constitution, I'd say first of all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-29-0.u25467	This was actually a replica, right? This was a replica. ... Okay. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Then Caine could answer that he's a replica, but he can't answer. Okay. On behalf of the HNS club, Ms. Vesna Pusic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-29-0.u25468	Thank you, Mr. President. My colleagues and colleagues. In a way, as fellow Cain knows sometimes to do, he accidentally actually gave me a creamworth or a good introduction. The HNS Club of course does not approach this topic and has no intention of approaching it and the argument will go in that direction for or against a specific elected representative, because of course Col. Cacic is the elected representative. It's not the decision of this House, it's the decision of the voters. The only question is whether or not he will sit in this House, but whether the elected representative has no doubt, because for him in his constituency, so for the list he was wearing and on whose head 62000 voters voted. Therefore, there is no doubt that he is a representative. However, apparently little of this personal matter was involved, which was spoken of by fellow Cain, although it was neither the question nor the Committee on Law, nor the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system, nor the Croatian Government. None of them decided and was invited and wondered whether they were for or against Cacic, but wondered whether article 13 meant or how to interpret Article 13. The law on selecting representatives in the Croatian Parliament and whether the provisions of Article 13 are instructive or pre-inclusive. That's what I was wondering. The HNS Club stands at the stand and proposes to this Parliament to reject the credible interpretation that has been made here by the chairman of the Legislative Committee and we will interpret our position as follows. First of all, what's this about? So it is a representative who was elected to the Croatian Parliament in elections with 62 and something, 62000 and some votes in his constituency that was incompatible at the time of the election. As a result, he never took an oath in the Croatian Parliament but froze the foundation of his incompatible mandate in the Assembly and did not apply for the activation of the mandate within 8 days as set out in Article 13 of the Law. In the same law, however, it is defined as saying, therefore, taxing is listed in cases where the mandate of the MPs ceases. Therefore, the termination of the term of office of the representative before the end of the time to which he was elected is possible in four cases by law tax. First if he resigns. Others, if by means of a final judgment, have taken away his ability to do business. If by a powerful verdict he is sentenced to unconditional imprisonment for more than six months. And the fourth death. As far as my colleagues are concerned, none of this is in effect. There's no difference, there's nothing else, there's no other circumstances prescribed by this law. Only in these four cases, the tax code referred to in Article 10. Law on election of MPs in the Croatian Parliament. Article 13 of that law states that, according to this law, counterpart Cacic did not stop the term of office before time, the time for which he was elected expires. Article 13 of the same Law refers to a specific category of MPs. So it's about a specific category of MPs, and these are the ones who were on incompatible duty at the time of the election. It is a relatively small number of MPs elected to the Croatian Parliament. Article 13 does not apply to MPs in general, but only to that subcategory or to that cross-section of two sets. One is MPs, and the other are people who are incompatible with the conduct of their duties, and only that category is bound by this procedure, which is the chairman of the Committee on Legislatives and fellow Lovrin, which is the submission of the application within eight days. However, the interpretation of Article 13 should be taken into account in the context of the following article in that law immediately. Therefore, the interpretation of Article 13a in relation to Article 14 of the same legislator, of the same law, which does not refer to a specific category of legislators. Article 14 is replaced by the following: Therefore, it does not say representatives in the Croatian Parliament except those who are on incompatible duty at the time of the election or any other qualification. Article 14 applies simply to all MPs who have been elected to the Croatian Parliament, so of course also to a colleague of Cacic who has been elected to the Croatian Parliament and to any representative who has been elected to the Croatian Parliament without special provisions to separate or exclude those who are on incompatible duties. To rule out those who are on a joint duty, there is no doubt that the law would say so. Therefore, all MPs or any representative other than those who are on incompatible duties, however, do not say so. Article 14 relating to all MPs simply states that each representative elected to the Croatian Parliament has the right once during the term of office by submitting a written request to the President of the Parliament to put his term of office on hold. The stay of the parliamentary mandate will stop on the eighth day since the day when the representative who put his mandate to rest gave President Parliament a written statement on the re-behaving of the parliamentary post. Dot, finished quote. This does not apply, therefore, only to some MPs, but to all MPs. That's, of course, logical. It's logical because the purpose of the law is the purpose of the law to protect the original mandate. The purpose of the law is the whole logic, let's say some telelogical interpretation of the law and understanding of the law is that people originally elected to the Croatian Parliament have the original mandate and that the original mandate is protected and, of course, to the citizens who voted, and then of course to us in the Parliament, and then also to us as legislators in the interest that the people of the country in the Croatian Parliament represent those for whom they really voted. And only in exceptional cases where it cannot be avoided which are specifically defined by the law that they are eventually represented by the deputies of those for whom they voted and which they chose. So, I don't think anyone can question that the whole purpose of the law is to protect the original mandate. If, therefore, we are interpreting Article 13 in conjunction with Article 14 which speaks of all MPs, then of course every representative, no longer because of the incompatible mandate, the compatible mandate, anything else. Each representative has, for any reason, in his term of office, if elected to the Croatian Parliament, the right to put his mandate on hold once in his term of office and to activate him once. Point. What's the reason for that is another question. But it is clear that if you interpret Article 13 in conjunction with Article 14, you will see that absolutely every representative has equal rights, equal status, and only a sub-group of MPs has additional definitions or additional possibilities relating only to that sub-group. Article 14 does not apply to any sub-group, however, because, as I said, if the legislator wanted to exclude any group of MPs from this general category in Article 14, the representative would rule it out. There's no problem writing that in a special sentence, if that's what the legislator wants. Since he did not want to exclude anyone, he did not turn it off in that article. This, of course, is also seen from the decision already taken in another working body of the Croatian Parliament, which is the Mandate-Immunity Commission and which has already been divided into all the representatives of this Assembly where the Mandate-Immunity Commission made a decision in 16.10.2008 not with excessive dilemmas, therefore not fiercely opposed in different positions, but made a decision with 7 votes for and one abstention. Therefore, no one was against at all, has decided that interpreting the law that it is an instructive period as of course what can be concluded if Article 13 is interpreted in conjunction with Article 14. Therefore, it is an instructive, not pre-exclusive deadline, and has proposed to the Parliament that, in this sense, act and enable the elected representative of the Croatian Parliament of Cacic to take his place in the Parliament. Now, we have the Bagaric case. In my opinion, the Bagaric case is not an argument in itself, so if it is said in the Bagaric case that a mistake has been made, then one more mistake should be made, in that sense, Bagaric is not an argument to act in the same way, although, of course, it raises the law, constitutional law and equality before the law. However, the case of Bagaric, who plays the love of the case, came from the party of the parliamentary majority and the fact that the working body of this Assembly has reached a decision, namely the Mandate-Immunity Commission, and has sent to the procedure the administrative opinion of the Committee on Legislatives, speaks of it, of course, or indicates a reasonable doubt that it is not about the interpretation of the law and the legal procedure, but rather about the political decision. If it's a political decision, ladies and gentlemen, say so. Say we don't give no matter the law. The law has Articles 13 and 14, which states that all MPs may, regardless of qualifications, without any provision of a committee to which the majority of parliament has a majority, which is the Mandate-Immunity Commission has already made a decision and has put it in the procedure that it is an instructive, rather than a pre-inclusive period, which is seen in this law if we interpret Article 13 in conjunction with Article 14. But no matter what, our reasons are both political and in the case of HNS and in the case of Cacic, we don't give. If that's the case, you have most of it, we can't do anything about it. We can go to the Constitutional Court and so on, but if we want to by law, if we really want to read what the law says, if we want to understand the law, and that is that the purpose of the law is to protect really the people for whom the citizens really voted, so the original mandate, which is certainly the legislator's intention, then of course Cacic is not only elected to the Parliament, not only is he a representative, but he needs to be confirmed here as a representative. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-29-0.u25469	Thank you. We have one correction, Mrs. Agent Anna Lovrin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-29-0.u25470	... more incorrect allegations but I'd only look at two of them. [[You can't hear the conversation later on.]] First of all, the assumption that something personal was involved here. It's not true, nothing personal has gotten involved. It is about giving an authentic interpretation for which this House is responsible and personally introduced by Ms. Pusic, calling on the name of Representative Cacic and presenting his number of voters, his references, etc., interpretation is made and related to all MPs in this Croatian Parliament and also to the political decision, it is about credible interpretation of what is legal matter and legal procedure in this case. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-29-0.u25471	Thank you. On behalf of the HDSSB Club, Mr. Representative Branimir Glavas. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-29-0.u25472	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Although I am aware that the position of the HDSSB club will not change the position of the ruling majority, I would like to present on behalf of the club a few words and my assessments and an assessment of the situation. Since I believe that we can assess this objectively and realistically, since we are not interested in either side, so we are not putting ourselves in a position or a role for anyone. We are talking about this, so the HDSSB club is about the typical political decision of the ruling majority, that this is not about any authentic interpretation because we know very well why there is an authentic interpretation of a certain thing. The authentic interpretation, unfortunately, is always the result of the majority of the assembly in the home, thus also being repainted to certain parliamentary committees. Therefore, we absolutely do not believe in honesty and good intentions without talking about the expertise of the argument being made in order to bring this authentic interpretation to this house so that a legally elected parliamentary representative in the past parliamentary elections would not even be able to enter the Croatian Parliament. Especially what I have been following, though not too much from this Assembly Hall because of the obligations I have been committed over the past three and a half years, but through the media that these interpretations have been given that it was appropriate for a certain political moment or interpretation, depending on which political map the majority played. So there was an interpretation that Mr. Cacic could not be a parliamentary representative, that he was late with the deadline that shortly after that fifteen, twenty days later the same people who gave an interpretation that he could not change his mind and say he could. So there were months and moments when it was no longer questionable that the legally elected parliamentary representative Mr. Cacic would find his place in the assembly benches in order to change certain political circumstances, certain sympathy for certain political partners, potential partners or competitors and change those views. Therefore, this is not about any credible interpretation but about the political decision of the parliamentary majority. In particular, I believe that I will not mention the name of a legally elected parliamentary representative because there is no matter where in the Croatian Parliament, and that such semi-legislative solutions and badges cannot make it impossible for anyone to consume their mandate as a parliamentary representative who has won and earned in the elections. I think it is better that this committee as well as this home spent time and carried out an analysis of the current and applicable law and corrected the anomalies and shortcomings of this legal solution that have proved objectively in this past period since this law has been in force that they must not and cannot exist. Therefore, the Club of the Croatian Democratic Union of Slavonia and Baranja will advocate and vote against this authentic interpretation of the Legislative Committee and will give its vote in favour of interpretation that the parliamentary representative concerned should find a place in this Assembly Hall, regardless of what we are aware of in advance that our proposal or our commitment will not receive the necessary majority. That's where I'd like to take advantage of, pull the parallel to a lower level, and that's at the local government level as the majority of the Parliament works. We are witnessing frequent changes in the trade of certain number of council members in local self-government units from municipalities across cities to counties in the Republic of Croatia when violently, immorally, buying certain council mandates and council seats changes the will of the electoral authority, destroys local authorities from the level of the municipality, the city and the county, and especially in this last year of office, ahead of the elections, take the lead in units of local self-government. This would be a minor problem because it is also legitimate if it were not done in one illegal way, in one immoral way but with the support of the current authority which provides authentic interpretations in individual and concrete cases. I had the opportunity to feel fortunate or unfortunate experience on my own skin and interpretation of both sides, and this menu from the right and this menu from the left when they represented the ruling majority in certain mandates of local government behaviour. And here from my own experience I can say no matter what I didn't belong to that option that these left-hand me during the conduct of their government gave as much as possible quality, professional, reasoned, authentic interpretations in certain individual situations in local self-government units and in situations where it didn't work out for that political option when it was in power, unlike this right-hand side that was always and then, even today, given the only authentic interpretations that came in favor of the ruling majority today. That's what I'm saying with full responsibility from my own experience. And believe me, what I'm saying is completely true. I'll only pull one parallel. In the latest collapse of the current city government in Osijek-Baranja County, i.e. in Djakov, where the coalition was in power, it seems to me that the SDP and HNS and with the relative majority of SDP where the mayor was Mr Vinkovic. Where Mr. Vinkovic was brought down by one violent, brutal and illegal method from the mayor's post, the city of Djakov, in a way that now, with the blessing of the eternal slogan of the regime, each regime, Mr. Antun Palarić, otherwise the secretary of the Office of the State Administration, along with his subsequent interpretation, with one illegal interpretation, along with an immoral interpretation sent to the city of Djakovo, legalized the coup that was made by the ruling majority in the city of Djakov, and installed at the place of Mayor Antu Rasudic, until yesterday's member of the Croatian bloc. It would not be disputed if Ante Rasdic, as mayor of Djakovic, had been installed and installed today after Palaric, which belonged to a once political party called the Croatian bloc, would not be at all controversial, now as mayor of HDZ. However, it is disputed that perhaps you didn't know that, the Croatian bloc as a political party has been completely erased from the register of political parties, so by crossing Ante Rasdic and by electing Ante Rasdic to lead the city of Djakovic on behalf of HDZ and other coalition partners, as until yesterday's Croatian bloc councillors there is no legal possibility of entering a deputy councilman instead of Ante Rasdic from the Croatian bloc, because the party simply doesn't exist anymore. It is therefore impossible to allow any chemistry of political chemistry experts, Mr. Antun Palaric, to enter a Councilman from the list or from a political party that simply does not exist. So it's just a situation that in the most picturesque way, the freshest situation that presents and shows, proves and confirms how the Croatian Parliament works and on which it is brought as such or as the committee or the majority in that committee says, authentic behavior. It is no authentic interpretation, it is a political interpretation through which political violence is being carried out at this time in the Croatian Parliament and daily, daily in units of local self-government from the lowest levels of municipalities, cities, to the county. I think it is better that we have discussed whether a quality legal solution is to rule out the possibility, or declare incompatibility in the event of the mayor's or the parliamentary representative's behaviour. When the law was written, i.e. practice and experience when a new territorial division was carried out, the new Croatian state in 1993, it was established in a way that 20 counties plus the city of Zagreb, and then in a person of the mayor, i.e. in the county government, the government of both local self-government and state administrations was concentrated. There has been a separation, the mayor is no longer a representative of the government of the government, but of self-local self-government, so it is practically a sign of equality between other local self-government representatives, therefore, the head of municipalities and mayors. And therefore, there is no reason to insist more on the incompatibility of the office of mayor and parliamentary representative. It is better, therefore, that this committee of legislation and the parliamentary committee have conducted an analysis of the current political moment and anomalies, certain legal solutions and this debate that we have possibly discussed such an anomaly. It is because we have a number of hands, therefore, that we exercise a sufficient number of hands to exercise one political violence and a legitimate elected parliamentary representative we simply do not want to see in this assembly bench, i.e. to make it impossible for him to consume the right he gained in the November 2007 elections. So, the HDSSB Club, aware that nothing can change, but it will vote in principle against this, so-called. the authentic interpretation of the Legislative Committee. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-29-0.u25473	Representative for the Proposer Mr Emil Tomljanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-29-0.u25474	Thank you very much, Mr. President, so here I felt the need to really highlight on behalf of the Committee on Legislatives, and the very institution of credible interpretation which is no political decision, political misery, but the correct procedure prescribed by the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament in detail who, in which way, who initiates this procedure, and who and how is initiated this procedure in terms of credible interpretation of the specific provisions of the law, you have all had the opportunity to see in the materials provided to you with this item of the agenda. The Legislative Committee in terms of preparation of this point for the sitting itself and the argumentation was indeed not guided by any specific political arguments, any political argument and in the debate and preparation we even avoided mentioning the specific names, names, representatives and, in the sense of reasons, we were guided by the logic of the law, the legal profession, the institute of credible interpretation, as prescribed by the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament and, of course, by the provisions of the laws governing this institute. The key things that were defined in terms of adopting such a credible interpretation, I'm going to bring them down to four basics. First. So we've established that this deadline is a legal deadline. What does that mean? Of course, it means that the law has been established, not for example. a certain conclusion by the court or by any other jurisdiction of the body which also has its own other consequences, which is that the time limit is unsustainable and otherwise the characteristics of all legal deadlines and no one can extend them or shorten them in any way only by amending the law. A third thing that's also very important. We have determined that the deadline is objective and that means that it is starting to run, that 8-day period starts to run from the day of a certain circumstances or events take place in a particular case, which means from the day the representative stopped acting incompatible. And the fourth or finally be the most important, we have determined that this deadline is exceeded, so that, at the end of that term, there is no loss of mandate, no one by decision can cancel a mandate of this type. Therefore, there is a loss of legal opportunity or subjective right to take a certain procedural action in order to make it clear that it is not possible to enforce the right to enforce it in the meantime, but that subjective right to apply for the subsequent exercise of that right is also lost. Therefore, the prelude is, of course, different from that of an old and court, or another competent authority in other procedures, to be kept under official duty. In a particular situation, this means, in accordance with the Constitution, the right of a democratically elected representative is established that, in the event of an election on one of the incompatible duties, the activity of its own will begins to carry out that duty and to put the conduct of the agent's duties in a standstill. But it is also in accordance with the Constitution and this law that the right of the representative to continue to act as representative, but under three conditions prescribed. The first of them to stop acting incompatible. The second is to express its wish by requesting that it so manifests its will and to submit the request within 8 days of the day of termination of the incompatible duty. Therefore, neither a standstill nor a standstill in the conduct of a representative's duty does occur either in fact or in itself, but it must be written in the written will of the representative. In conclusion, by breaking the deadline, a representative whose behaviour of a member of staff is in a standstill loses his subjective right to apply for the continuation of the conduct of the agent's duties and the right to request that it be exercised in that sense, the possibility of being forced to do so. These were legal arguments, therefore, on the basis of which the Legislative Committee was governed to give credible interpretation, as prescribed in the first order of the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament and as the Committee on Law had read those provisions, the provisions of the law, in that sense only credible interpretation and made up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-29-0.u25475	Thank you. We have a few corrections. The first is Mr. Agent Arsen Bauk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-29-0.u25476	Thank you, Mr. President. I would correct Mr. Tomljanovic's incorrect allegations that he said they were not taking political action but legal arguments. So, as the debate on this case was conducted by legal arguments as the lawyers as Mr. Seks and Mr. Sesvečan spoke on behalf of the Mandate-Immunity Commission, then Mr. Cacic could return to the Parliament. And when politicians, or Mr. Chehok, who is not a lawyer, started speaking, but a doctor of philosophy, and afterwards at this debate that we had Mr. Hebrang, who is a doctor of medicine, then the debate from law went more to the philosophical and medical part, and never stayed in law. Because if it was legal, this would have been over a month and a few days ago. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-29-0.u25477	Thank you. Mr. Boris Sprem, also the correction.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-29-0.u25478	Thank you very much. So, the same quote that Mr. Bauk mentioned contests me, too, that it's true. And that is that the Committee on Legislatives was not guided by political but legal criteria, I would even say that, in part, Mr Tomljanović is right, but in a way that you have done this by expressing the political will at a given time because it can be interpreted this way, and it can be done as well. And the fact is, in the end, you are denied papers and that ruling will, therefore, which was expressed in 16/10 by the MIP's decision and proposal, the Mandate-Immunity Commission, where it was practically, as Dr Pusic said, unanimously suggested to the Parliament that it would be an instructive period and then after that, when it was, and that was crucial, I followed it closely, Mr Chehok who has been coming to meetings lately, but I'm sure he'll come in on Friday to vote on this, and then he showed up and he answered his words and said no, that's out of the question. To save the coalition with HSLS, political will has transformed into this will that is now before us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-29-0.u25479	Thank you. Correction also, Mr. Representative Branimir Glavas. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-29-0.u25480	So I would also do part of what my colleagues were saying, so it's not about any legal interpretation, about the legal principles, it's about the political principle and political interpretation. For nothing else, I personally do not advocate or personally advocate but to apply the constitutional principle of equality towards all. So, if the Parliament had already discussed it once and made a decision when it came to another parliamentary representative who belonged to the then group of parliamentary majority decided in one way, then it is necessary to decide at the same time, respecting this constitutional principle of equality, in an identical way, but immediately in the second step at the same session to make adjustments to legal solutions if certain things were observed and some ambiguities and some illogicalness which are simply not applicable at this political moment that such things would no longer happen. And not to carry out further political violence by counting hands, and not respecting any single argument knowingly breaking not only the law but also the constitution in this section that guarantees the equality of all citizens before the law. So, the Bagaric case must be an indicator of how it must be solved, a guideline on how this case we are dealing with today and what we are discussing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-29-0.u25481	And the correction too, Mrs. Vesna Pusic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-29-0.u25482	Thank you, Mr. President. I am correcting the inaccuracies of my colleague Tomljanovic who said that the Legis Legis Legis Committee established what authentic interpretation of the law in this case and listed the elements that prove that this was done to the legion of artis. The fact that the Legislative Committee did not establish this by using the legitimate artis procedure is demonstrated that it did not interpret Article 13 relating to some legislators in relation to Article 14 relating to all MPs and had an obligation to interpret it in relation to the article relating to all MPs if it really wanted to penetrate the authentic interpretation. If, however, he wanted to find ways to justify a formal political decision, then, of course, he should not have taken into account Article 14, but then it cannot be argued and it is false that the procedure of the lege artis was used. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-29-0.u25483	Thank you. We're moving on with an individual discussion. The first is Mr. Representative Ivo Grbić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-29-0.u25484	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs. At the very beginning, I would point out that I support the proposal for a decision of the Committee on Legislatives on a proposal for a credible interpretation of Article 13(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. Law on election of MPs in the Croatian Parliament. Indeed, Article 13 of the Law is a lex specialis, i.e. that article is prescribed as an exceptional case of suspension of the term of office when the conduct of an incompatible duty ceases. At the written request of the President of the Parliament, and within eight days of the termination of the incompatible duty, which means that the deadline of eight days is a pre-exclusive period, not an instructive period. Because for all other cases, the term of office shall apply to the period of the term of office and to the one time during the term of office of attorney. Of course, the legislator did not wish to specifically single out and regulate the case of continuing the conduct of the parliamentary office after the termination of the non-compatible duties then would not regulate Article 13 at all but would apply Article 14 of the Law. I therefore support the proposal for a decision of the Legislative Committee on a proposal for a credible interpretation of Article 13(1). Law on election of MPs in the Croatian Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-29-0.u25485	Thank you. Mr. Representative Miljenko Doric, please. Well, then, if you'll excuse my representative. Here, you have a correction to the incorrect quote of the lady.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-29-0.u25486	Excuse me, Mr. President. I picked up the plate in time, but you didn't see me. I am correcting the inaccuracies of my colleagues, Grbić, who said that the legislator would not regulate the special status of MPs who are incompatible to Article 13 if he did not want to exclude them from the category of representatives in general. Of course, this is not true because it is necessary to regulate the status of the people elected as MPs and incompatible duties. He absolutely has to regulate himself because otherwise we could do both. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-29-0.u25487	Thank you. He's got a replica of Mr. Arsen Bauk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-29-0.u25488	Thank you, Mr. President. I'm replicating my colleague's coat of arms because I'd like him to explain it to me. If you claim and defend this argument with a credible interpretation that the legislator did not prescribe what was happening within eight days because he was so far-sighted, and then there he did not prescribe it, then tell me why he was not slightly less far-sighted, so in the reasons of the termination of the mandate he did not put an end on the eighth day after he forgot to submit the request for return. So the long -sightedness that he showed clearly in Article 13 did not show it in Article 14 and therefore this credible interpretation is not as credible as you claim. Here, I'm asking you to explain.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-29-0.u25489	Mr. Grbic's answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-29-0.u25490	A colleague in Article 13 is exclusively concerned with the case where the term of office is put in place and the possibility of being suspended within eight days of activation. Article 14 shall be fully regulated. It regulates the possibility that each of us, at any time for any reason, can put a mandate on hold. It can be a disease, don't let God be or any other reason. Therefore, the tax rate in Article 13 is eight days. If that weren't the case then we might be able to say that it's not about the pre-exclusive deadline and it's exclusively about the pre-exclusive deadline, and Mr. President, we're here talking about interpreting Article 13(1) of the Law.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-29-0.u25491	Thank you. Mr. Representative Miljenko Doric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-29-0.u25492	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. I did not think that I was not a lawyer to report on this subject, but I concluded that it would be good to hear about three hours ago, listening to your debate on the previous point when that point was called the Half-year Report of the Croatian National Bank, but in the second part of that report the debate was running more or less in the direction of credible interpretation of the Rules of Procedure. You all noticed that. And I heard an interesting expression at the time, and that's exactly why I'm reporting, and that's an insult to the Rules of Procedure. I don't agree with that, nor do I feel that this debate is now an insult to the law, and I will finally explain it. My colleagues and colleagues, whoever has any cheeks must at this point feel uncomfortable, must be ashamed of the situation we've been in. I'll explain it to Mr. Tomljanović. Let me. You and I have been sitting in this House and in the last term, and that is the problem, that is the problem. Today, citizens ask me, and I believe you in your cities whether Mr. Cacic will return to the Croatian Parliament, as they read the headlines of the newspaper. My answer is I don't know. Then they ask me how is that possible, Mr. Doric? In the last term you raised your hand for the report of the Mandate Commission and Mr. That and that one could return, now the same people have a completely different attitude. My answer is I don't know why it's like that. So they ask me if in one law state it's common behavior. My answer, if the Croatian rule of law is the answer again, I don't know. If Croatia is not a legal state, then I know the answer. In other countries, too, it happens that sometimes the law is not completely clear, so the profession is found and the profession agreed on how to interpret the law, how decisions will be made and, later, for decades, colleagues and colleagues make decisions based on that and such a conclusion, the conclusion of the profession. We see ourselves changing from mandate to mandate the way we interpret a law that has not experienced in that article a single amendment and a supplement. In Croatia, some naively believed that the case was a Bagaric rule, and it proved to be an agreed exception. In Croatia, some naively believed that our approach to the European Union and the approximation of some other political and legal standards. Unfortunately, that's not the case. I am particularly disturbed by the fact that those who have raised in the past term and have advocated the return of Mr Bagaric today without remorse, I underline these three words, claim that Mr Cacic has no possibility of returning as well as Mr Bagaric to these benches. I would understand, colleagues and colleagues, believe me, I would understand that a mistake has been made and that at least one of those who, yesterday, claimed one thing, apologized to another today to say, it was an oversight, we didn't make a good one, we made a mistake. Let's go, why don't we make a mistake? Why don't we have the right to make a mistake? But, colleagues and colleagues, that's when we were right and today we're right. It can't be. So, I will conclude, colleagues and colleagues, the debate under the previous point was not an insult to the Rules of Procedure, not a colleague and a colleague, the debate on this point is an insult to the law. The debate on this point and on the previous point is an insult to those who chose us to represent them in the Croatian Parliament. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-29-0.u25493	I'd like to inform you that at 16.35, it's past 10 minutes' notice. It's Mr. Representative Arsen Bauk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-29-0.u25494	Thank you, Mr. President. So, no doubt this is about political rather than legal credible interpretation. In that sense, for me, this credible interpretation is acceptable only as an interpretation of political will, and not as a credible interpretation of the law, and therefore I will vote against it. I said already, so it's obvious that when this story came from law into the political phase, when philosophy, medicine and other sciences got involved, that it's obvious that Mr. Cacic's return to Parliament will depend on the horoscope that the day has the ruling majority, or if the cell phone is involved as the prime minister calls them, that's what he'll decide. And therefore, we don't have to be surprised. Because, to be honest, Mr. Chacic is on his own because of what's happening to him. No one, it must be clear to us because he has allowed his fate, or fate of his term, to come into the hands of the ruling majority, as if he did not know in what way the ruling majority would decide. So, the law has defined when the mandate ends and it is obvious that there are no conditions for stopping Mr. Cacic's mandate in this case. And on the other hand, it says on the council pages that his mandate is to stand still. So his term of office is still and he hasn't stopped. He can't activate it, and he hasn't stopped it. So now with this credible interpretation, we've introduced a new category. So, a mandate in deep freezing. Here, that is what this present situation can be called and if it is a credible interpretation of the law, so if that is what the legislator wanted to prescribe, every honor to you, your imagination is much greater than I dared imagine. So we have some exceptions. One is Bagaric's lesson, so as Mr. Bagaric returned to Parliament last time. And that, therefore, was so credible, I do not believe that none of the then 66 HDZ MPs would have failed to notice that there was a violation of the law. If it's a credible interpretation, it's so credible. If this interpretation of the law is so credible, it would not happen to the Mandate-Immunity Commission or Mr. Shakespeare to speak differently. It is therefore not, it is a credible interpretation of political will, not a credible interpretation of the law. It was credible for me, and it was allowed that we should disagree, when the Mandate-Immunity Commission whose vice president I was, presented this position here and Mr. Sesvečan read it. We have several here and bypassing this law, i.e. bypassing the provisions of this law. At the beginning, at the constitution of the Parliament, so on 11 January 2008, we put the mandate to rest Mr Branko Bačić, Damir Bajs, Milan Bandic, a total of 24 MPs, so this can be found on the parliament's pages by virtue of Article 3 of the Law. At the same time, we have put the mandate to rest Mrs. Djurdji Adlesic, Lina Cervar, Sunčani Glavak, Gordan Jandrokovic and Darka Milinović. They did not, as officials, put the mandate on hold, but with their own free will, which means that Mr Jandrokovic, if the prime minister decides to replace him, as for some reasons, does not know now what the criteria are, or Mr Milinovic if this reform is not good, they do not have to demand after 8 days to return them to the Assembly. Although de facto are in the same situation as these others. Therefore, it is entirely illogical that an eye-restrictive and rigid provision applies to those chosen by the people to some functions that are incompatible, and this is how the provision is lauded that they can, when they wish, activate the mandate after 6 months, those whom the people did not choose on those functions. There's this group of MPs completely, I won't say discriminated, but it's very illogical and not applied correctly. And for that reason, colleagues and colleagues, I will vote against this kind of credible interpretation because I understand it as a credible interpretation of political will, I don't know if the entire ruling coalition or part of it is, I don't want you to argue about it as golf or agricultural land, but in any case, I accept it as just a political act and I can't vote for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-29-0.u25495	Thank you. We have a correction, Mrs. Anna Lovrin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-29-0.u25496	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I am correcting again the incorrect assumption that it is political interpretation and political evaluation. Let us not all forget that authentic interpretation has been requested by Mr Milorad Pupovac and the Legislative Committee after obtaining the opinion of the Government and the opinion of the parent parliamentary committee is required to take a position and give, evaluate the baseless or give authentic interpretation, so completely in the legal spheres. We can discuss this with each other once again, so that no one else can cross back to the Parliament, let us repeat who prevented Mr. MP from using his right within eight days and filing for further representation.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-29-0.u25497	Thank you. Red is Mr. Representative Vladimir Ivkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-29-0.u25498	Thank you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. I am in favour of this position of the Committee on Legislatives and as a representative who I am for the first time in the House in this term, and I have also participated in both the mandate and the legislation, I would like to point out that by looking legally, nothing has been disputed for me since the beginning. Namely, there are deadlines. The deadlines that are too inclusive lead to the loss of the right to something. This time at the request, and I agree with the part that speaks not to the mandate, but to the submission of the application. And what's the deadline for? The deadline serves to protect someone else. And at first, I represent this thesis that the deputy attorney is not a less valuable representative. The deputy representative is a person who has entered the Assembly by law and who I think has to ask a question. She doesn't have to be asked questions within eight days. However, during the 8-day period, the deputy representative has to be asked. He can express his will in many ways. He can say he prides his resignation, he can say he stays, he can say, at any or... by doing an expression of your will in a situation like this. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Namely, why am I pointing that out? In my view, the basic difference between this case and the Bagaric case is that it is indisputable that in this second part, Bagaric, in this second part of the deputy MP, has voluntarily left office. And there is this consent of the will and the only person who has acquired a right over an eight-day period and the only person who can give up that right. We heard that it was undeniable that it was the only person who could claim damages through court. And if we're looking at that side, then we could say that's the difference. But the pre-inclusive deadlines for me are the same as immunity. Immunity is an institute that was introduced not for the sake of being given as a privilege but for preventing the abuse of someone towards a representative in order to prevent him from making a political decision. And also this deadline is a deadline that prevents the original deputy from assessing each day how he will vote because he will return and therefore the deadline has been introduced. If you are looking at deadlines further, you have the same deadline in the next article, that deadline tells you that if you go to rest on your own request, therefore, not because of incompatible function in that case you have a period of 6 months as a minimum period within which this original representative must suffer the deputy at his post as a representative. And finally, when we're talking about tracking at local levels in different interpretations. I come from Međimurje County and we have had a fresh example, and the fresh example was only a year earlier when the deputy mayor resigned on the basis of the identical provisions in the second law, resigned and since most of the HNS's spell there, therefore, Radiir Cacic's party was incontested, most of them passed that there was no right to return because the deadline was too clear. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-29-0.u25499	Thank you. We have two corrections, one replica. First, Mr. Arsen Bauk's correction. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-29-0.u25500	Mr. President, I'd like to correct the incorrect allegations regarding the deadline for blackmailing the deputy and so on. So, according to the applicable law, when a representative puts his term of office in office after 6 months, he can return whenever he wants to go back to the Parliament. So with the same deadline for 8 days, and it's very illogical that you're saying that now the deputy can be blackmailed in some way. After 6 months, every day, every hour, every second can be returned by law like this. So it's not exactly what you said about this case. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-29-0.u25501	Also Mrs. Vesna Pusic's correction, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-29-0.u25502	Thank you very much, Mr. President, almost not to, but I can't resist. First, the immunity of MPs to correct, forewords, was not introduced so that MPs could make free political decisions but was introduced explicitly because of freedom of speech. It's just for your information. And as for the second incorrect allegation, there is therefore a special law on selecting representatives in the Croatian Parliament, and a special law on choice, etc., for local and regional self-government. But this kind of argument just shows the extent to which the political passions have deteriorated here.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-29-0.u25503	Thank you. And the replica of Mrs Ingrid Anticevic-Marinović, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-29-0.u25504	The debate on this subject speaks of legality, the legality of the HDZ. The laws are for the other ones. Laws are for citizens, laws are for those who are not in power, but laws are not for us. It's an interpretation of the legality of the HDZ. So just about the procedure, if we look at the materials that we've all got for this item on the agenda, they're talking about the procedure itself to get this point on the agenda, it has to be respected on its own about the deadlines when it comes to deadlines. Namely, the provision of Article 172 of our Rules of Procedure, the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, speaks about how deadlines should be respected so that they can be made and such or such a decision, i.e. that we can measurely decide on this matter. But you see, we don't have to go back to the distant past when it wasn't worth it, it wasn't worth it, it wasn't worth what it was, and it happened yesterday. According to this provision, paragraph 3 is obliged to deliver an opinion to the Legislative Committee within 15 days. The Committee on the Constitution was a parent working body. The Rules of Procedure go even further from the law itself, the law says nothing if the deadline that the HDZ is now widely interpreted as a strictly overlying deadline. The Rules of Procedure say what happens when the Government and the home working body do not respond within the time limit. He says they gave a positive opinion. Nevertheless, although the Committee on the Constitution, although it is evident in the materials that belong to this item of the agenda, did not respect this strictly pre-inclusive, if anything is too inclusive, then it is too inclusive because this provision speaks of what happens then, it is a pre-inclusive deadline. He's been violated, so how to judge... those who broke that deadline in the procedure. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Well, that's invisible.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-29-0.u25505	Answer to the replica Mr. Vladimir Ivkovic and please stick to the time.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-29-0.u25506	Yes, in the case of Bagaric there was no credible interpretation, you forget that, and now we give a credible interpretation. Therefore, these are two completely different procedures and in this case, Article 172 provides that, if there is no interpretation, this is the case. It's considered to have been given. And as for the Institute of Immunity and Decisions, not just for the right of speech, the Institute of Immunity has been established.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-29-0.u25507	Thank you very much. It's Mr. Representative Marin Jurjevic's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-29-0.u25508	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. I think that with this discussion we have entered a very sensitive and sophisticated and subtle policy area and that we are in danger of seizing the credibility of the Supreme Legislative Body in Croatia, the Croatian Parliament, the Croatian Parliament. In fact, I think the worst thing that can happen for some nation's political health is that some community of a society can happen exactly when the Supreme Legislative Authority, therefore the body that adopts the laws and which should in a certain way ensure that these laws are implemented in reality, and that this supreme body begins to bring legal uncertainty into society. And I think that's exactly what the Croatian Parliament is doing right now. There's been a lot of arguments about such and such. My colleague Lovrin said when she said on behalf of the HDZ that this was not a personal matter, it was a matter of principle and principle, etc. But how to call the thing when the same law is applied in different ways to two different people. So you have two persons, two names, two fates, two political backgrounds and one law, and then at one point that law experiences bifurcation, divides in two directions, one person goes one way, another person goes another way. So we cannot bypass that dimension here because we are coming to the question of the credibility of this House itself. I'm careful, I'm not a lawyer, but I've been in politics for a long time, and I've listened very carefully to what the most renting legal names among HDZ representatives have spoken on this subject in recent months. The first was that he couldn't possibly come to the Parliament this way, so it was that he could from the same people. So now he can't do it again. If you'll excuse me, even any citizen, it leads to doubt as long as there can be a legibility of the law, as long as there is this gum of the law, as long as it can stretch without snapping and sticking us all in the face. So it seems to me that we're really going in, and maybe we're not even aware of it in a very sensitive area, because it's not easy for me to understand in other ways than mere political will, mere political decision that the same person, the same lawyer, the same party, the same Parliament can speak one thing a month ago, and now say another. My only rational explanation is taking into account everything that's happening on the ground, and this miracle in Đakov that from the non-existent list of non-existent parties you suck up de facto a non-existent councilman or a man who becomes an existing councilman from an existing list. Well, these are abracadabre methods. My people David Copperfield is a bit of a diet towards us, but we bring in, we bring in really one uncertainty among people, among the citizens who will rightly say so wait, so we really live in a society where everything is possible, but not in a good way, but in a bad way. We have listened to various legal devils in our society, so that money is not property and what I know are other wonders, it is more a spiritual thing, but this is now happening here among us in the Croatian Parliament. And I can say that I will never agree that the law or interpretation of the law, the application of the law, depends better on only one thing about who is currently interpreting it because it has the power to have more hands in the legislative body and to whom this law entangles, to whom this law applies. If we fail to achieve the neutrality of this species, we should at least try, that at least it is intensities for us to apply the law to all people equally, but that it is a potential parliamentary representative, or elected representative who cannot exercise his right now in this way, until it is intensified, but it is intensibly necessary to apply the naked political will of what tomorrow may be some other political will. ... All right, all right. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] And that political will in us changes people by my purchases, trades in the most impossible, the worst, the ugliest and the most disgusting ways. That's why politics fell on those branches. That's why people don't respect us, all together. That's why they say all politicians are like that, so I don't say those words here. That is why we are on the hierarchical scale of value among young people in the last place. Thieves are above us, they're real thieves like they're not hiding it. So, dear gentlemen, for this reason, I will vote against this credible interpretation by defending the credibility of this House.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-29-0.u25509	Thank you. We have several replicas and corrections. First replica, Mrs. Anna Lovrin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-29-0.u25510	Thank you very much. Mr. Jurjevic, it is true that I said that it is not personal and it is not personal, because here today we are discussing an authentic or credible interpretation of Article 13(1). Law on election of MPs in the Croatian Parliament, regardless of who was concerned. But she forced herself into the discussion that personal component, so now I'm asking again who's stopping the MP in question or preventing her from activating her mandate within the time limit that the law passed by this House of Commons left him and in which he could activate it. Was he sick? Was it a higher power? Did someone stop him? So no and we know for unknown reasons after that he wants under conditions that are not legal. But when we refer to the Bagaric case in the previous term in the Bagaric case, there was no authentic interpretation, whether the MP resigned I don't know, I wasn't in that term, I don't know, but I know there was no authentic interpretation. So here we now have the case that the mandate-immunity committee has taken the position it has taken and in the previous case, there is a question about the application of this provision by some MPs, the representative of this Croatian Parliament has asked for authentic interpretation and the Legislative Committee is the body of the Croatian Parliament, which is obliged to decide on this by the request of the representatives and the committee has decided and proposed this House of Interpretations. As far as the precedent is concerned, I don't really think, because in Croatia there is still a predetermined right to force, although legal practice, there is also, the position of the Supreme Court, but in the case of a legal void or an unequivocal norm. [[Intruder: Finish.]] Once a bad decision is made, it doesn't have to be a recipe for all future ones.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-29-0.u25511	Thank you. Answer, Mr. Marin Jurjevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-29-0.u25512	My colleagues, you say this isn't about.../The speaker shut down, and then it turned on./... your perception that this is not about personal matter, it's about authentic credible interpretation of the article of the law. And you see my experience that it's a very personal matter. We're very different here, that's two different feelings that would be said. And you can see that this can't be called, let's call it in quotes "syntagma" case Cacic compared to the case of Bagaric because it wasn't wanted in the case of Bagaric authentic interpretation. And my people, it means it's possible to break the law in the event that authentic interpretation is not required. So you can break into the supermarket and there will be no punishment until you're looking for authentic interpretation of the break-in. I'm sorry, this Parliament should not have allowed that if it was illegal without any authentic interpretation of it to happen. And we are the factory of the law, we are the supreme legislative body, so we are, we represent the sovereignty of this people. There's nothing above us, it's another thing that... It shouldn't exist, except it puts us very low in practice, and it's largely thanks to us. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-29-0.u25513	Replica, Mrs Ingrid Anticevic-Marinović, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-29-0.u25514	My colleague, speak and wonder and say that you will never agree to such a logic that one law applies differently, is applied differently to whom it applies. But it's nothing new, so we know it, so the citizens know it, and that's why they're scared, and that's why they need to be encouraged to put an end to it. The laws do not apply to those who are members of HDZ and have their own coupon, the card serves as a coupon and redemption from all the sins that have been committed and which will be done. While, on the other hand, an ordinary citizen or an opposition who dares even at that time when this procedure for credible interpretation has been initiated and says something contrary to the Government has nothing to expect but to be like this, this fate is managed because it takes care of every point, every wheel, every rule, even if it was interpreted differently some time ago. I repeat, this procedure a month and a half ago, two months ago when this procedure was initiated, before the Legislative Committee would receive credible interpretation, the Constitutional Committee failed to comply with the deadlines, the pre-inclusive deadlines, to decide because the provision of Article 172. The Rules of Procedure say that the Committee on the Constitution, as a home working body and the Government, are obliged to deliver an opinion to the Committee on Legislatives within 15 days. Furthermore, if, in this case, I repeat, the Constitutional Committee does not give an opinion on the prescribed deadline, they will be deemed to be in agreement with the proposal for a credible interpretation. Therefore, for the Committee on the Constitution, it is not applicable to the whole collective and for one opposition, this strict pre-exclusive deadline, which is questionable whether or not it is of such a nature, applies. And this provision is too involved in our Rules of Procedure because it speaks of the consequences of what will happen. Well, at least you had to carry out that procedure legally.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-29-0.u25515	Thank you very much. Answer, Mr. Marin Jurjevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-29-0.u25516	I can only repeat that the worst thing that can happen to a society that laws adapt to the current pragmatic needs of someone who has the power to apply them in the way they want to, not as the spirit of the law says. I'm saying it because this Parliament, though in the last session, but the Parliament, we're in continuity a good part of us, made a different decision when it comes to the same problem. And that puts us all in a position to ask ourselves what kind of message we send to the citizens of Croatia, we here in relation to the application of the law, its equality and credibility in politics. It seems to me that unfortunately this is intertwined very, very much, I would say, unfairly, not politically and for some other reason. That's it.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-29-0.u25517	Thank you. And we have another replica, Mr. Arsen Bauk, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-29-0.u25518	Mr. Jurevic, I'm surprised to you when you said you didn't know what the criteria were spoken of one day or the other, so we'll try to remember a little bit what it was about. So, after the end of that seven-day deadline, someone slanted that fact that he had passed that eight-day deadline, sorry, and then, of course, Mr. Vice President Shakespeare quite convincingly interpreted that Mr. Cacic could not return to the Parliament so much that I almost believed it. However, after that, it turned out that the law had not been applied in the case of Mr Bagaric in such a way and to reduce that damage and illogicality, then HDZ changed its opinion and said it could still be returned to the Assembly, because the law still needs to be interpreted so that it is not well defined, so the law can be interpreted as responding to the MP. And these were some examples until the session of the mandate-immunity commission when it was voted, but then coalition partners, or Mr Chehok, said that, however, they should not return. Now we had to find a way to keep it from coming back. Because you'd rather lose power because you're abandoned by a coalition partner because of it, or on the other hand, you fight like this, you fight over Mr. Cacic. Therefore, there are no important laws but that is how the horoscope is favored by the day, perhaps Mr. Chehok will come tomorrow and change his mind, and we will have to discuss it one more time. So this is the politically credible interpretation of this moment, and what will become of legality, and we will see how it suits the ruling majority, so it won't be the first time, we're not surprised. And allow one more sentence. In this term of three months, we had a representative of Mr. Pants who also could not have been legally and it was credible in any other interpretation, so he was, and yet again, one law applies to him and another law applies to the others. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-29-0.u25519	Mr. Jurevic's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-29-0.u25520	Everyone wonders what I'm surprised at. The worst will be when we stop being surprised and become indifferent to what is happening here, and we are on a good path to fall into this and we fall into some kind of apathy, so let the water flow, or let the water rest, let it not run anymore, until it drains that swamp. That's a bad thing. What my colleague Bauk has now listed as different interpretations, as well as Kurosawa would not have gotten along, is what Rashomon filmed. You see, several different interpretations by the ruling party in a few months either around this case. Diametrically opposite. Opposite. It's the worst thing I know, there were at least three interpretations, that each of them could have gone through that you gentlemen of the HDZ wanted. But for these and those reasons, you've changed decisions, class like this, class like this, but that's what has no law has only you most of you or tomorrow some other majority who will behave like that. So that's what kills people in the concept, my people I don't know if you're aware of. So, once you said one thing and that... You'd raise your hands neatly. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] To see that here brave one who wouldn't give up on this side. If it were a different decision, your hands would be up again. So don't convince me of some principle, indifference, etc. Well, come on, hang that cat on the tail.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-29-0.u25521	The principle of principle is to speak in other sectors. Okay. We have a correction to Mr Miljenko Doric's incorrect quote. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-29-0.u25522	My colleague Jurjevic, I raised a tile with the correction of an incorrect quote when you said this debate we went into a subtle area of politics. I saw later that it was a lapus because you corrected it. With your grade like this, you would give us a passing grade, and it could be a potentially high grade. Later you spoke and used other expressions that were correct to me and we entered the legal questionable area of politics, an inadmissible area, a vulgar area, a thieving area. These are expressions that are much more appropriate.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-29-0.u25523	Thank you. Correction is also Mr Furio Radin. Here you go. No, I don't. He's giving up. Thank you. It's Mr. Agent Luke Denon's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-29-0.u25524	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. Of course, at this late afternoon we're here discussing credibility. I'm sure at least personally when I was in the middle of a dilemma whether I was right in my personal life or not, then I went to get my lawyer's opinion, so he told me I was right, so I was always untrustworthy then I went to another guy and he told me I was wrong. And then I went to the third one and he said I was right. And then I paid. Unfortunately, I mistreated the one who told me I was wrong and I was wrong. And in this case, we also got a credible interpretation but a paid credible interpretation because of the political majority that decided once that a fellow elected parliamentary representative might be a parliamentary representative, but that's what my colleague Arsen Bauk said at one point that politically credible opinion changed, and then that credibility is what we have here today and what we are discussing now. The law that requires credible interpretation is not a good law, so it would be fairer and more correct if we had changed such a law here in this House not for the first time in an emergency procedure because I still claim that it is the right of a elected parliamentary representative to sit in these benches. Of course, we can interpret it one way or the other. He'd sit in these benches, but what he missed. Rock. Now, apart from what counterpart Arsen Bauk says in this House, we've started to use a lot of terms, so we've come to the term that someone can be deeply frozen. In addition to a frozen mandate, it can be deeply frozen and in this case it has been found to be a deadline, so we are introducing a new deadline set by a law that is objective and non-consumable, a deadline. So now we have a deadline except for the deep freeze and the expiration date, so we kind of came. ... Yeah, because if a fellow elected parliamentary representative hadn't run out of time, he'd be sitting in benches. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Timeout. Well, you see, as my fellow Parliamentarian, Marin Jurjevic, says, we started to earn ourselves because as we know if you buy butter and he has a deadline on his wrapper. It's an ordinary butter that's objective, non-consumable and legally established, but if you put that butter on a few days behind the end of your life you won't have a stomachache, it's still good butter and you can eat it. But obviously we can't consume the right of a parliamentary representative to and after the deadline if that's the case in the constituency benches. So butter is ahead of the elected parliamentary representative. I think that's all he's saying and that political will can be like this and here's the thing that's clearly shown on this case. I think it's the right of a parliamentary representative, a elected parliamentary representative to sit in these benches. And if that's the case, if it's a bad law, we're changing the law, not a parliamentary representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-29-0.u25525	Thank you. We have two replicas. First Mrs. Vesna Pusic, second Mrs. Anna Lovrin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-29-0.u25526	Thank you. Mr. President. My colleague Denon, you said you thought it was your opinion that the deadline was not too pervasive but that it was instructive. In this you may differ or not differ but let me from one higher place and higher authority than each of us individually warn you of one position. And I now quote: "In the debate that followed, the majority opinion of the members of the Committee (mandated-immunity) that the prescribed period of eight days is not too cross-over but instructive, given that the law has not prescribed the consequences for the non-activatement of the mandate within a certain deadline. In addition, Article 10 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the The Law on election of MPs in the Croatian Parliament has been prescribed four cases in which the representative terminates the term of office before the time of his election is up, so there is no mention of missing an eight-day period as a reason for the termination of the term of office before the time for which the representative has been elected. This attitude, I'm skipping one piece, quoting again. Following that commission, it was established that this and that representative had the right to activate the parliamentary mandate on the basis of a written request from that and that date, and the suspension of the parliamentary term of office ceased on the eighth day of the submission of the written request to the President of the Croatian Parliament within the meaning of the provision of Article 13(1). Law on election of MPs in the Croatian Parliament. Now it may seem to you that this is about MP Bagarić or any other representative. No, this is about Agent Cacic, it's about a decision of the Mandate-Immunity Commission that we all got on the benches and it's about a decision of the Mandate-Immunity Commission that didn't have any votes against. Not one. She had only one abstention, and none against. Therefore, you can see that even bodies that are stronger than each of us as individual representatives have a Decided position without a vote against.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-29-0.u25527	Thank you. Answer, Mr. Luke Denon. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-29-0.u25528	I was talking about the deadlines, my dear colleague. I think that's the point of what we're discussing today. Because look, the law is a strange plant as far as I understand it and legality is something that, I don't know how authentic we are here in the Parliament that we confirm it in this way of thinking and making decisions. Because if you remember in the Budget Law, there's a deadline, a 15. So who's sticking to that deadline? Is it the same illegal thing we do or not? So, the law can be like this and obviously the way it suits the political majority in the Croatian Parliament at a given and certain point.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-29-0.u25529	Thank you. Mrs. Anna Lovrin, also a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-29-0.u25530	Thank you very much, Mr. President. We've heard a lot of things here and here's how we've paid for credible interpretations. So, personally, I'm making it an offensive way of saying it. The Legislative Committee is composed of honourable representatives in the Croatian Parliament and outside members. Their opinion, as we have now heard from one committee's stenogram, can also say that university professors and legal professionals all considered, when making a decision and a proposal for authentic interpretation, that it was a pre-inclusive deadline. But I would like to tell my colleague why such an abomination and revilation over the fact that the law has set some deadline that is being asked here whether it is too inclusive which we claim to be too pervasive. Why such a surprise when I have a law in front of me that has undergone the last amendments in 2003, so for the term of office of the coalition government, so if that part is so for disgusting the deadline that has not been amended by law if it was not considered necessary. And I certainly agree with you that the elected representative is the place and the right to sit in the Croatian Parliament, but always in accordance with the provisions of the Law on the Selection of Representatives in the Croatian Parliament which also adopted this Croatian Assembly.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-29-0.u25531	Thank you. Answer, Mr. Luke Denon. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-29-0.u25532	Let me give you a line on something that my colleague Lovrin just said. She said that, which I don't doubt, of course, the members of the commission who gave this original interpretation are as they gave it, that they are, of course, honorable people. I have no doubt they're honorable men. But then it opens something that I also don't believe is what my colleague was thinking, but are members of the Mandate-Immunity Commission who made a different decision to the wicked people? What are we discussing here today? So it shows how political will is, even the personal political will of one person. If it were any other person, I'm sure we wouldn't be discussing this today.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-29-0.u25533	Thank you very much. We now have final words on behalf of the clubs. Mrs. Vesna Pusic on behalf of the HNS club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-29-0.u25534	Thank you, Mr. President. My colleagues and colleagues. I think it was quite dramatic, clear and naked in this debate that came out that this was a political decision. I prepared myself as if it were an interpretation of the law, and that's how I performed, and I just suggested that there might possibly be some doubt that it was a political decision. After this debate, the matter is completely clear. If it's a political decision, you could spare us this debate and tell the people, we won't give it because it depends on our coalition in power. So whatever it says in the law won't go through. If that's the case, why are we even discussing it? That it is political will is seen from the debate because it was even mentioned by colleague Lovrin, who is in the Committee on Legislatives that why we haven't changed the law. So it's not about the need to change the law, it's about reading and interpreting the law. It is about the fact that the law states unequivocally, clearly and precisely, and if it is to be understood, Article 13 which speaks of a sub-group of MPs must be interpreted in conjunction with Article 14 which speaks of all MPs. And every MP elected to the Croatian Parliament, even one with a few thousand votes, let alone one with 62,000 votes or as many votes as there were, has the right to put his mandate on hold once and activate it no matter what. That's what the law says, and that's why we haven't changed because we didn't think it should be changed because it's very obvious what the law says. But somehow this whole procedure unfortunately turned out to be a travesty. It turned out to be a travesty because it proved that there, speaking of the law and hiding behind the cover of the law, was a political decision. Not a political decision, it's two opposing political decisions. One, which was passed before the meeting of the Mandate-Immunity Commission on 16.10.2008, which was that it was not about the pre-inclusive provision and the other, which was later adopted when clearly the political will changed for reasons of maintaining the coalition where it is claimed to be a pre-inclusive position. Therefore, if this is about political will and revote, we didn't even have to have this debate. What makes this behavior dangerous, which I said and saved my soul, is dangerous because it shows that laws are not equal to everything, that they are not applied equally, and that if you have political power and political majority, then you are excluded from one way of applying the law. And if you're in a political minority, then the laws apply to you completely opposite and different. It's the most dangerous. The laws in the first row exist precisely because the first legislator applies them to himself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-29-0.u25535	Thank you. Mr. Arsen Bauk, also five minutes.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-29-0.u25536	Thank you, Mr. President. The story of the activation of the mandate, of Mr. Cacic's deep freeze, enters his jubilee third, fourth or fifth month. There was time for a change of political opinion, and at that time it was very much used to change political opinion. Unfortunately, this was not done under the pressure of legal arguments, but under the pressure of coalition partners and therefore today we vote on this, and we did not vote in October when the Mandate-Immunity Commission proposed as we believe it should. It is obvious that the cost of supporting your coalition partners from HSLS and HSS is paid in a way that you will succeed in the law to insert something called a mandate in deep freezing. And as already known the laws don't apply equally to everyone. They're worth it today, tomorrow they're worth it. Since we are facing direct elections, the question of how many situations will be interpreted with directly elected commissioners who have to return to the Assembly, etc. Therefore, we will vote against this credible interpretation because we believe it is a credible interpretation of your political will, rather than a credible interpretation of the Law on Elections in the Croatian Parliament. I only hope that such a violation and such a beating of the law will not contribute to further devastation of Parliament's reputation and parliamentary representatives in public, and that your reputation will then be taken care of in the elections. I'll see you in the fifth month. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-29-0.u25537	Thank you. And on behalf of the HDZ Club, Mr. Representative Vladimir Shakespeare for five minutes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-29-0.u25538	I'd like to make a contribution, a contribution to the history of this dispute. There's a saying. On this side will be told by my fellow MPs and MPs what the definition of rights is. Probably others do, but you know it especially. The right to be of any kind, the political will is said to be a class headed for legal entourage. It's right and it's not just a Marxist concept of law. No, no, no. You need to go from Hegel a little bit, etc. and Heraklit, etc. But how did the history of this story begin with this mandate? I'm gonna go back to one buckle the other day that's in a tight relationship with this story. The other day in front of the assembly, I was stopped by a journalist at HTV and said: “Look, one candidate for, who announced his candidacy for the mayor of Zagreb seems to be late with the application of his residence, so what is your opinion if he is late, and the law says that six months before the election is scheduled, he should register his residence. And he says the potential candidate for mayor seems to have missed the deadline this time too." I commented on it with words if he missed the deadline and if the law says so, if he did not report his residence and if he did, if the elections are called if it is over six months, then the Election Commission will not allow him to participate in the elections. You know who it's about. So I've commented on it as my own personal opinion of several condicionals, if, therefore, I also commented on it a few months ago when that same commentator, the journalist, asked me in this particular case, off my feet. They say Mr. Cacic failed to activate the mandate within eight days of his expiry date with the incompatible duty of the mayor when he was resolved. If that's the case, then he can't come back. But I added something else, but I need to consider, see some other circumstances, some other possibilities. The HDZ's position came out on TV because Cacic has no more return to the Parliament. Within a week, that same journalist asks me, and you see we found out, we dug up that former Mayor Bagaric has returned and that it has expired for more than eight days. Then I said it. If so, we need to check this out, then we need to see if there are any other legal bases under which, by interpreting the law and the favor of the MPs, we need to interpret and see if there is a possibility of returning the MPs, or the activation of the mandate, on some other basis. Afterwards, my statement came again with a clear defamation, said the proverb. I consulted with others, not just me, but other constitutional and legal experts who also expressed their doubts and opinions. One voiced the view that even after the deadline, and most of them couldn't if the eight-day term expired activated that it could be on one other basis, but the other basis would assume that it was coming out of the parliament from this list of HNS some here present in this assembly who won't. In this dilemma and the Mandate Commission had one point of view. After all the discussions, the debate took a legal position here I will now do it for five minutes and after that, after that this position was taken to request the interpretation of this legal standard and that interpretation lies before you. So it doesn't take a lot of big words of condemnation and everything together, but it really is about one dilemma that can best be resolved through the application of the Institute of authentic interpretation and voting in this House. Thank you very much. It's a little short, I could take a little longer, but...
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-29-0.u25539	Thank you very much. We have two corrections. The first is Mr. Arsen Bauk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-29-0.u25540	Thank you. I would correct Mr. Vice President's allegations that he was being ambushed by journalists and that's why it was so awkward. Namely, your statement I read on the Internet on the Public portal, it was quite well argued. You've said no repairs yet, there isn't one, so it wasn't quite as innocent as you showed us here that you were only in a few condicionals. And the second statement when you changed your mind was also very well argued, so much so that even the President of the Parliament on Croatian Radio repeated this to yours and that he talked to you about it. So she didn't exactly ambush you. It wasn't exactly how you, Mr. Vice President, showed your respect for your generosity and your pedagogy that you showed today in running the session. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-29-0.u25541	Thank you. We have another correction, Mrs. Vesna Pusic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-29-0.u25542	Thank you, Mr. President. From the final presentation of fellow Shexes, it is obvious that he believes that we resented him and that he must justify his lagging among the perverse attitudes he has done under the influence of a journalist HTV. That's wrong. You find it wrong that we resented you. No, that's not true. We didn't blame you for that lavating, you don't have to justify yourself. I'll give you an absolute.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-29-0.u25543	Thank you very much. Injury of the Rules of Procedure. Here's Vice President Shakespeare, breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-29-0.u25544	... [[The speaker is not enabled.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-29-0.u25545	Thank you, thank you, thank you. And finally on behalf of the promoter, Mr Emil Tomljanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-29-0.u25546	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. So here is the final and very short one on behalf of the Committee on Legislatives, and I would like to highlight really 3 things. First of all, it is not about any political decision, but about the fact that, regardless of your laughter, it is about the special Rules of Procedure which are called and makes it an integral part of our Rules of Procedure a credible interpretation of a certain provision of the article of the law. And for the first time in this situation, such a procedure has been carried out in relation to this specific provision of the legal text and has nothing to do with any of the cases you mentioned here, nor with the Bagaric case. This procedure was carried out in full compliance with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure and there was no failure by either the Legislative Committee or the home working body, i.e. the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system. And third, as far as the profession is concerned, and we mentioned the profession frequently in our discussions today. I must tell you that the profession is highly consulted, not only through regular, what the members of the Committee on Legislatives say or from the ranks of MPs. You know very well that both the Committee on the Constitution and the Committee on Legislative Laws, the university professors who took a swing, even had doubts as to why they even asked for authentic interpretation, which is why we argued when the provision of the law was clear. It is clear in terms of just this kind of credible interpretation that on behalf of the Legislative Committee it is proposed to you. And final. Someone mentioned and used the term "what's the problem?" Well, I'd say the exact same thing, so what's the problem? First the MP missed the deadline, and now we all have to discuss it. And on the other hand, there's still a problem with the political party because, on the other hand, his mandate can be activated, and we all know it very well, and no one will say it out loud and clear. So, it is not a problem, nor an authentic interpretation, it is not a problem, nor a law in this situation, but a problem, or a problem then there is no, that on another legal basis, and you know very well what is the basis and how it can be done, that very elegantly from the list can therefore be activated by one procedure and by the mandate of that representative who would thus become what the representative in this session of the Croatian Parliament says. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-29-0.u25547	Mrs. Vesna Pusic, injury to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-29-0.u25548	Thank you, Mr. President. What fellow Shex, Article 214, would say here was the chair of the Committee on Legislatives whose task was simply to explain the final position of its committee, to teach one political party which, instead of using the law, should work. That really has nothing to do with the subject he was invited to discuss here and I'm asking him not to.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-29-0.u25549	Well, we also heard about Vinkovic who had nothing to do with this subject, so. Okay, I think so. All right. Ladies and gentlemen, we've spent more than two hours on this agenda and let's be. I think you should hear all this, listen, etc. I'll close the discussion. We'll decide when the conditions are met and this agenda point. Thank you all. Proposal for a decision on a proposal for a credible interpretation of Article 13(1) Law on election of legislators in the Croatian Parliament, Proposer: Committee on Legislatives. The debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal of the Legislative Committee, I am voting on the proposal for a decision to give a credible interpretation of Article 13(1). Law on elections in the Croatian Parliament. Of course you have a suggestion. Who is in favour of this proposal for a decision by the Committee on Legislatives? Thank you. Against? Abstained? It was a microphone off, I'm sorry. This conclusion of the board was accepted, therefore, a proposal of 78 votes in favour, 43 votes against. Yes, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-29-0.u25551	I pray at the club about this to be... /The speech room has been turned off and re-enabled./... I ask on behalf of the club to repeat the vote because according to this record, since the vote so far and the vote on this proposal has been followed up with 76 MPs. So please take this.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-29-0.u25552	If you think there's a reason we should do it again, we'll do it again. Here, like this. Thank you. I am voting on the proposal for a decision to give a credible interpretation of Article 13(1). Law on election of MPs in the Croatian Parliament tabled by the Committee on Legislatives. Who is it for the motion for a decision made by the Legislative Committee, please raise your hand. Thank you. Against? Thank you. Restraint? The decision was adopted by a majority of votes, 78 votes in favour and 43 votes in favour and nothing abstentions. We move to - - Final proposal of the Law on Private Detectives, second reading, P.Z.E. No. 148 The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. This law will be discussed in accordance with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to second reading. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on European Integration, the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security, the Committee on Justice, the Committee on Labour and the Social Partnership. You received the reports at the sessions. The amendments were submitted by the Committee on Legislatives, MP Boris Šprem and representative of Shima Lucin. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. State Secretary at the Ministry of the Interior, Mr. Ivica Buconjic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-29-0.u25554	Thank you very much, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Here's a brief explanation of the proposal for a law on private detectives. Since the first reading was in August, there were a lot of proposals, initiatives, even remarks during the first reading in August, but I wanted to explain briefly to you those changes that we came up with after listening to and considering your proposals and remarks in this final version of the law. So, I'm going to say only the most important changes, although we've adopted some other suggestions and comments. The first amendment concerns Article 4(1) of the Law, where we have prescribed the obligation to carry out the training course for a period of 12 months. This was one of the proposals of the MPs, and we believe that the proposal was justified. We have also cited an exception to this obligation for persons who have worked for at least 3 years at the Ministry of the Interior, the Ministry of Defence at the affairs of the State's Attorney's Office, a judicial officer or a member of the security services, believing that, through this deadline, he has acquired sufficient practices for the conduct of this private detective job. We have also set out in Article 4(5), paragraph 4, a procedure to prove whether a person is legally convicted of a criminal offence or against which an unpunished procedure is conducted. Also in that article, instead of the crime referred to in Article 272 on which the offences in the area of traffic have been referred to which criminal offences, or which criminal offences cannot be an obstacle to the conduct of the private detective's affairs. One of the most important newspapers in this final version of the law is the amendment referred to in Article 7(3) where we added that it would lose the authority to do the work of a private detective who publicly publishes or makes available the data he collected in the conduct of the detective's affairs. We wanted to regulate as accurately as possible the circumstances under which private detectives would lose this power to carry out that activity if they violated any law, especially the Law on the Protection of Personal Data or the Law, the Penal Code which violates the privacy of Croatian citizens. We have also amended Article 9(2), subparagraphs 8 and 10, and they are in line with the Labour and International Conventions Act, and this applies to private detectives being able to collect employee data only if employees give written consent to collect data on them and according to the Labour Act and the Labour Act and International Conventions. In Article 10, subparagraphs 2 and 4 have been deleted, allowing a private detective to carry out protection against listening and recording, and to collect evidence of information and information for public authorities, because we believe that all public authorities have their own services which can be carried out without the involvement of private detectives. Article 30 deletes the regulation of administrative oversight for reasons regulated by specific law, the Administrative Procedure Act and the State Administration System Act. Article 32(3) provides for the mandatory submission of an indictment proposal in the event of surveillance of irregularities identified, as well as the possibility of adopting a solution to the measures taken to remedy irregularities. So we wanted to further strengthen the responsibility of private detectives who are illegally carrying out this activity. In Article 35, the level of fines is equal to that of legal persons and craftsmen because it is very easy for individual craftsmen to make the same or even greater traffic than legal persons and there is no reason to make a distinction at the level of fines because there is no reason to pursue equal or greater traffic than legal persons. These were the most important changes, and our urgency was to reduce these changes to the minimum possible extent of breaking the law and, above all, the illegal conduct of private detectives' activities that would violate the right to privacy and protection of personal data. These few amendments are considered to have significantly improved the law because these possibilities of breaking the rules in a way that threatens fundamental rights and freedoms and the right to the privacy of Croatian citizens will be reduced to the minimum possible extent. There were a few other objections we didn't adopt, and we explained why. Because we believe that either this solution that is in law is good or other laws regulate that matter in a proper way. Here is the conclusion, therefore, that this is a bill which we consider to be significantly more quality than the first reading, based on the comments we have considered, based on further consideration of all its articles, we believe that we have proposed a law that will enable and regulate this activity in a good and quality way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-29-0.u25555	Thank you. Legislative committees? European integration? Internal policy and national security? Justice? The Committee on Labour and Social Partnership? The chairman of the board, Mr. Representative Boris Kunst. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-29-0.u25556	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. At the 15th session held on 28 January 2009, the Labour and Social Partnership Committee of the Croatian Parliament discussed the final proposal for a law on private detectives submitted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia to the President of the Croatian Parliament by an act of 5 December 2008. That act was discussed by the Committee in accordance with Article 140. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament as an interested working body. The applicant's representative in the opening statement briefly explained the area regulated by this law, so he pointed out that in a clear way the conditions for performing detective activity and the way detective work are done. In the discussion, the Committee referred to the provision of Article 9 in particular in the part relating to the collection of information and information on candidates for employment and workers. In the debate, it is said that some employers could abuse the political examination of legal opportunities that allow private detectives to collect information and information about candidates for employment and workers. Although it is clear that information can only be collected with written consent from workers and that the employer can only collect information and notifications that are in accordance with the Labour Act or those directly related to the employment relationship. It is further questionable in the opinion of the board members whether these laws allow employers to check on lie detectors, of course, through detective agencies. This doubt is therefore expressed because, in practice, it is already happening today, and that is the whole problem, which is why we have further expressed that suspicion. In the debate, it was stressed that there is an increasing trend in the media popularity of the polygraph study and that in our business practice there is still no talk of equality or equality of the position of workers and employers and for even less among job seekers, candidates for employment. These are all reasons that speak of the doubt of the free will of the worker or his written consent. The Committee therefore suggests that the applicant reconsiders all possibilities in order to prevent these phenomena and explicitly finds that a private detective in the collection of data on candidates for employment and workers must not be used by lie detectors i.e. It's a polygraph trial. After the debate, the committee unanimously decided to propose to the Croatian Parliament to pass the Law on private detectives. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-29-0.u25557	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. SDP representative club Mr. Representative Boris Šprem. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-29-0.u25558	Dear Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, associates, colleagues and colleagues. Here, very briefly and this will take one seven minutes to look back at this bill. So, this is also one of the most important laws, even if somehow it promotes through all of our socio-economic and political opportunities a little bit undetected because it is one law that engulfs human rights and, especially in our terms, is very good and needs to be carefully seen under which conditions one activity such as private detective activity will be carried out. What private detectives do is basically collect information, information and data to determine facts for their client. It's a variety of jobs, from someone following orders and a deal with someone's husband or wife's client to like one case was in America where there are over 50,000 private detective agencies. So a private detective established him by following him, but probably with a certain authority set out in the law, so he found that a juror in a court case had contacted a judge, and that cost that judge and that court case had to be renewed. So, private detectives actually work parallel or they're competing with the police. And that's why it was good that when we warned the legislators of this bill that the relationship between the conditions under which a private detective would act, say, and the jobs the police would do, but they are in a constant way in a competitive relationship. In our case, it's very important that we keep track, it's the same one of the jobs that a private detective can do, he can't, sorry listening can't do anything without the court's approval of course. It is, for example, an institute that is very important and that is properly applied in practice. It's also important who does these jobs. These jobs can be done by moral persons, I hope that this will be done by moral persons against whom, first of all, as prescribed well in this final proposal, the law does not lead a criminal procedure, which has certain professional references and who know Croatian even if it is about foreigners. It's prescribed here, I can see that it's not by mistake item 7 or 8 that so but it's prescribed that it can. that a citizen, let's say, of the United Kingdom, who would be here doing a private detective's activity must know the Croatian language. You said you didn't accept it, but that's not how you wrote it in the final bill. Well, if it's not a mistake, I'm satisfied. If it's a mistake, then of course I'm not happy. And in the end, two more views. One of the facts that I must point out here is that the legislator has made a lot of efforts in the summer when he proposed this first reading to respect in the second reading not only the individual committees, but also the individuals we have presented, and that this can be seen very clearly in the second reading, even I think that 70% of the remarks and the proposals have been adopted. And as for quality, I think it's even 90%. So here's one I'd like to say thank you and thank the promoter for making an effort to really respect reasoned proposals, not any of them. It is also interesting that the same proposer is therefore the MUP, de facto MUP, because the promoter is the Government and it is known who is resolutely preparing certain regulations, that since this law has been passed in two questions and we asked from the SDP to be in two readings has produced fruit and, of course, the law is now much better in the second reading. From the same portfolio came the same to our request it was the same passed road safety law in two readings but nothing changed. I congratulate the MUP once again on the fact that, in the new circumstances with the new minister, he also sought to take care of the fact that the Institute of Second Reading and the fact that in that second reading he accepted many remarks and suggestions relating to the reasonable formulation of better institutes in the second reading. And so of course this is the first one, so the Security Act... He ended up in the Constitutional Court, and this one won't end up in the Constitutional Court. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And finally, I have submitted five amendments to this final bill. With all the praises I've given, I've still found a chance to fix the final bill because if he's a private detective, here's the first thing, authorized in law or power or contract to do jobs, so be it. On the basis of the power of attorney, it's a contract, so it's the content of my amendment, and I don't think there's any reason why you shouldn't accept that there's any confusion in the implementation. The second amendment relating to the fact that a work order to which a private detective is assigned by a legal person who works with her must show that work order, he says, to a legal person where he collects data and notices, but not to a natural person if he asks the same thing of a natural person. Well, I suggest in the amendment, that's what you've got, to be a natural person, that she embraces that obligation to have a private detective present her work order. Article 25 He says that the legal person who performs this activity must enter into the contract database, the work order register, but does not write the proxies register, so I suggest that the register is the power of attorney. Article 34 is replaced by the It's an even bigger remark that I gave you in my first reading, you didn't respect it, I don't know why, because Article 1 of the Law says that it is now proposed, that this law prescribes the terms and conditions of private detective activity. And then we would go into transitional provisions that, among other things, the minister would solve it with the same rule. The minister can't handle it with a rulebook when it's legal. And at the very end, which says one colleague who runs one famous show and then another 10 minutes talks, but I won't. Indeed at the very end, a request about it. When a request is made for that private detective activity, the proposal here states that this request will be settled under the rules laid down in this law. And I think it's due to the legal certainty of earlier. Here, here, I'm done. So that's those five amendments I'm asking you to pay attention to because I don't know why... We've accepted. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] At the very end, therefore, the SDP Club is looking to accept the final proposal of this law, but we ask you to consider these amendments with respect and accept. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-29-0.u25559	Thank you. Here's your colleague, with an overrun of 1 minute and 21 seconds, you kept your promise to speak for 7 minutes. One rectification of an incorrect allegation. Mr. Representative Berislav Roncevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-29-0.u25560	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. It's just for the sake of correctness. The incorrect allegation by the distinguished representative Šprem said that the Government of the Republic of Croatia was different in terms of amendments whether or not proposals coming from opposition lines are compared with the Law on Road Safety and this Law on Private Detectives. Perhaps his colleagues, Sprem, did not think that this time his remarks might be something smarter and they were accepted. Then they just weren't in place so they couldn't be accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-29-0.u25561	Club of HDZ Representatives, Mr. Representative Mato Bilnjic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-29-0.u25562	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Secretary of State, representatives of the ministry, colleagues and colleagues. We have before us the final proposal of the Law on Private Detectives. This law prescribes the conditions and methods of carrying out private investigative activities, detective activities, legal and obligations and supervision of work by law. Article 3 refers to the conditions for performing detective tasks or the way in which work authorisation can be obtained, and also to the conditions of withdrawal of authorisation for the work of detective activity. Article 4 shall refer to the manner and place of application for detective activity, i.e. the conditions, conditions, members of the MUP, the MORH, or members of the Military Police, the State Attorney's Office, the Judicial Police, the Security Services, which shall mean three years of working experience. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. So these are users or former users of intoxicating drugs, members of groups or individuals who are found to have committed crimes. Article 8 to Article 17 lists methods of carrying out detective activity, and it is said that it is the collection of information and information, that a private detective should not interfere with the authorities in his work, that private detectives are obliged to report to the state authority when carrying out their activities, provided that they disclose information on the preparatory, factual or criminal offences that are being prosecuted under official duty. Private detectives must not collect data unless they have received from persons, have not agreed with a person or are not willing to give them consent to do the same. Private detectives are not allowed to work, so they are not allowed to visit, not to make forced payment, not to own or buy the subject of a criminal offence. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. All informed conversations and information are business secrets and must be kept and elaborated as referred to in Articles 18 to 27. Article 28 and Article 29 refers to an official correction, i.e. a detective is said to be obliged to carry the identity card at the time of the detective's work and at the request of the police or inspector to show the same. It refers to the place and manner of issuing, or confiscation of the same, if it is left unauthorized, without any difference under which condition it is not authorised to operate a detective activity. Keep going. Articles 30, 31 and 32 refer to supervision, inspection by the MUP or the police administration as the place where it is located. Both Articles 35 and 36 refer to criminal provisions to all those who attempt to engage in activities without authorisation or to any detectives who work with the approval but who do not work in accordance with the law. This law has 41 articles which clearly define the general conditions for carrying out detective activities, the way in which the activities are carried out, the storage, the availability of data, the detective's card, the supervision, the records, the powers to adopt regulations, the criminal provisions and the transitional and final provisions. The law is in line with the legislation of the European Union, with the acquis of the European Union, with the legal acts of the Council of Europe. In the first reading there were 37 comments and proposals, meaning the amendment of which the legislator has classified means adopted 25 and improved certainly this final proposal. As far as the above-mentioned HDZ club is concerned, it will support this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-29-0.u25563	Thank you. House of Representatives Club of HSS, Mr. Representative Stanko Grcic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-29-0.u25564	Dear Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and fellow MPs. At the very beginning of our debate, we would like to say immediately that the Croatian Peasant Party supports the text of the draft law in question, because it also improves qualitatively in addition to the harmonisation of Croatian legislation with the legal gains of the European Union and the existing solutions, and whose shortcomings have been observed during the implementation of the previous legislation as well as after the first reading in the Croatian Parliament. In addition, the text of this law supports, in addition to the objectives of foreign policy, the objectives at national level on the subject and manner of carrying out detective activity, documenting, recording, data storage and availability, records, surveillance and other issues. After the first reading and discussion in the Croatian Parliament, the conditions for carrying out detective activities and jobs, competences for granting approval, permitting, and ways to carry out detective work are more precisely regulated, and compliance with other regulations. We hope that between the first reading and this debate there was enough time for a qualitative debate with experts at lower levels within the Ministry of Interior and outside the ministry, which is necessary in view of the importance of the problem. It is to be assumed that the need to amend or supplement this law will soon come not only for the reason of Croatia's expected accession to the European Union but also because the potential for the development of the job is high, especially because of the increasing inflow of permanent private capital. As a result, it will certainly need to be more precisely arranged for certain parts of the law. Regardless of what we said in our first reading, and perhaps some of the outstanding issues, we hope that, at present, these additions and closures have been made and that the competent institutions in particular the Ministry of the Interior will take all the necessary activities and measures to minimise the problems in the implementation of this law. In addition, we believe that there is room for individual specific issues of the law to be qualityd under simpler sublegal regulations, which are within the responsibility of the ministry, or the Minister of the Interior. Despite the high number of objections and proposals made by the promoters, which has led to our improvement in the proposed law, we point to constant concern about the human freedoms situation. We indicate that in no case should our regulations violate certain guaranteed rights and freedoms of our citizens. We thank you for the proposals accepted on behalf of the Croatian Peasant Party Club. I believe that the law will fulfil the tasks set and allow for the successful performance of the affairs of detective activity. The HSS Club supports the Final Proposal for a Law on Private Detectives. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-29-0.u25565	Thank you. HNS club, Mr. Representative Miljenko Doric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-29-0.u25566	Dear Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, Mr. Lesar, colleagues and colleagues. I will continue where my colleague Šprem ended up and these are commendations, commendations in a really correct way during the period between first and second reading of the law. More than twenty amendments and additions to the first proposal were made in these benches. You have respected 2/3 of these proposals, and what you have failed to respect correctly has been explained, and we certainly want to welcome it here. This is an example of how you can and should work. I don't know whose credit it is, nor does it matter. It's important that this job was properly done. What I would therefore like to commend is this transparency in your work in preparing this final proposal for text that is significantly better than the previous one. The fact that you have been consulted by the Private Detectives' Association. So, waist. The ones that are directly involved. Those who know the problems and that's very, very good. There will remain certain clearly dissonant tones between us. I can and will not react to a colleague from HDZ. But let's just say, here's where I may be a little different from my colleague Šprema, it's about language whether or not they have to know Croatian language and whether the expression that they are competition to the police is the best expression. Because competition is usually some kind of negative term. I don't think that's the case. I think this is one small law but an extremely significant law on the rule of law that we all stand for so much. Look, this is one control mechanism, because the police will have to work differently better. If not, private investigators will discover that there have been certain gaps in certain places which, as well as what. Therefore, I will also tell you two examples that I have recently met in the Council of Europe, because I have given to the Member States of the European Union and a lot of complaints about the extradition of those suspected of war crimes, which are even on the emissaries that your ministry has raised with red warrants. And they explained to them what I was reluctant to hear and that part of the job we can do in four eyes, but related to police detectives. They said that they also raised red warrants related to some Croatian citizens who committed serious crimes in these countries and these people are free to walk in Croatia today, prominent businessmen under quotes, businessmen are not arrested, they are not tried, they are not extradited. Private detectives clearly searched for them, tracked them down, knew where they were, what they were dealing with, what Croatian cities they were in. So we will probably hear very soon and why and who does not respond to these people to be brought to justice. Therefore, I view this as an extremely significant law, a law that will lead to a lot of order, which will actually help to introduce order. And whether a German private detective will know Croatian or not is less important. He will very quickly know how to connect with Croatian private detectives, an association that will clearly do his job in this area, as he will also do in Ukraine tomorrow, in Spain or anywhere else. So here may be a small difference between us, but we all agree, I at least hope it's a very significant law although at first glance some at first were laughing and laughing. I don't think so, and I want to congratulate you on it.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-29-0.u25567	Thank you. An individual debate. Ms. Representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-29-0.u25568	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Here, let me not repeat everything my colleagues have said. I think and I will agree with my colleague Boris Spremo, who spoke on behalf of the club that there have been significant improvements, significant improvements compared to the first reading. However, here is something that left me in my debate that is not acceptable to me at all. Namely, the provision of an article that speaks of who can't be and who can't ever get this license, a conviction for criminal acts, and a number of crimes, except, we see this in Article 4, so these are excluded as welcome to this service. Except for the crime of causing a car accident from an accident that has resulted in physical injury or material damage. So we and our government are still overcome by the realization that causing a car accident is not something that happened to a higher power, not guilt. Stop blaming her, so she can have the consequences, and here you are, pointing to a body injury. It also means severe bodily injury. I don't think that's acceptable. And on the other hand, when there's a conviction both for minors and for those who drive at an unadjusted rate with severe consequences, then a man imagines himself. If the government itself has this kind of thinking about these deadly crimes that are constantly on the rise, then it is absolutely unacceptable to tolerate it. Perhaps some other crimes should be better evaluated in this regard than this crime. A team more and a team before the work of a detective is necessarily related to mobility. Right? Therefore, a person who is convicted of traffic misdemeanor, which apparently is no big deal for the government because, well, my God, that's what you normally think. It can happen to anyone. That happens to anyone in traffic, unfortunately, but it's the one who didn't take care enough. Stop being a higher force, and out of nowhere it is sometimes more difficult to do than imagine. And that's a fact. Someone out of nowhere can cause a car accident with severe consequences. You're limited to bodily injury here. You don't even speak for an easy physical injury so that at least that would be maximum, that milestone, there. So even with a serious physical injury, that man can be maimed for life and you give him the green light, let him continue to spar in the streets and hunt and that he is bound by contract to collect evidence. I believe they are, but otherwise I can say that private detectives will help in many things and that unfortunately we need them much more than we thought when we came with a very big skeptic we were and received the first reading. So here's what I was talking about in my first reading. Unfortunately, some remarks from our colleagues are appreciated. I'm surprised that this isn't respected, and we're going to get a very quick bill or a report on the state of transport because it's still dying where we're all going to be worried about it together, so we're going to make some changes to the new ones that we're going to increase the punishment for the citizens, and in this way you're sending a visual message to the citizens that it's not a big deal, because here we are, by us, i.e. It's something that can happen to anyone. As long as that is the way it is thought and then the citizens will not understand for themselves the mortality and responsibility of participation in transport. So, the moment you stop for a vehicle, you manage dangerous things, you need to be focused on it. So there's no trouble. I don't think anything's gonna happen. So here, once again, I appeal to be well thought out and to at least limit it to an easy physical injury here, if that's how you're already looking at these car accidents. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-29-0.u25569	Thank you. Mr. Representative Ivo Josipovic. He's gone. Mr. Representative Boris Kunst. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-29-0.u25570	Honorable Vice President, Secretary of State, fellow MPs. So the proposed Law on Private Detectives is an important provision for Article 9 which provides for all the information and information a private detective can collect. So among the many of these options, it is said that it can collect information and information about workers who are in violation of labour obligations or candidates. Earlier, a private detective would have to ask them for their written consent to, or consent to, collect such information. Normally, the data they can collect are defined by the Labour Act, and so can the employer, or the authorised person who the employer of the powers, and they can only be related to the employment relationship. However, the saying does not specify which methods to collect informed information a private detective may or may not use. In doing so, I am referring specifically to a polygraph examination, which is otherwise restricted by the Police Act in its Articles 46 and 47, and you also said that in article 12, precisely defined by the private detective, although I would disagree that he should not apply a polygraph, or a lie detector, for the reason that this is already being applied in public. Two months ago, I almost, come on, had almost a week's debate with an ex-cop who introduced himself to a polygraph interrogation expert, who boasts that his employers, or private agencies, are sending workers to the lie detector. I'm the one who convicted it. I thought it was really insane, and in my practice as much as I do this union work, I first learned that there are such employers who have such sick ones, I would say masochistic impulses to send workers to polygraph art and that he boasts and attacks me that what I have against it and why I stand up to it at all. On the other hand, if this law does not define that private detective should not use a polygraph to examine workers or lie detectors, it will continue to be used no matter how much you say the Police Act does not allow. So you have an example that your television, and you can watch the program every week performs a polygraph examination on people. It's called "The Moment of Truth," I think it's called that show. And nothing happens to anyone. And nothing happened to these employers or these agencies or this ex-cop who publicly boasts he's already doing it. So there's no guarantee that if it's decidently not going to stand that method, one of the methods that private detectives are going to be serving is not going to be a lie detector and a polygraph. The truth and God the worker will have to give it their consent and it will be the main asset, because it will be said no one forced him, he has agreed to it himself, but we know our practice and is not in the same position as the worker and employer if there is a dispute and I don't think the worker is in a position to reject that request from the employer, or private detective who will question it. That's why I'm appealing, and the board's position is, I'm at the beginning. We didn't go in the form of amendments, but please, no matter how much you convince me that article 12 is defined, or that this article so regulates that no private detective can do it, you can't convince me because right now it's happening in practice and nothing important has happened here. When this correspondence was in the daily paper, I don't think the police did anything to sanction those who did it and to also report that I don't know what law is like that, they've been sanctioned by workers who have led to a lie detector and a polygraph interrogation. So it's not convincing. For this reason, I should really ask that, in this article, a further adoption of this law finally put it that a private detective should not be used in questioning, meaning that polygraph and lie detector, because we will have big problems, later conflicts, and I think that in time you are warned as a legislator of this law and I think that this is to be avoided in another elegant way. I'm saying, I'm being offered this proposal precisely because it's already happening in practice. So I wouldn't have thought of it at all if I hadn't had a chance to even copy with those people who brought these workers to the lie detector and boasted how, what's wrong with the employer sending in. On the other hand, tell me when job candidates will show up, so the employer will say this, here's those who are willing to sign me to agree that their data is accurate that I can check it out and let them sign that they're ready to go for a polygraph exam. Those who won't be able to go, goodbye. Of course, it's illegal. We know all that. No matter who will prove it then because the employer will normally use it, and say this this is the one I signed to me Marko Markovic that he's ready to go to get this information he told me that they're true that I can check it through a detective. So I say once again, I appeal to you, I warn you of what is already happening in practice right now. If I say so, it won't be there. I believe that Article 12 could very elegantly add that in this third paragraph, where, when performing the tasks referred to in paragraph 2 of this Article, a private detective should not use funds or devices for disguised recording or listening, and the polygraph I would now add to the recording, i.e. An examination of workers and candidates for employment on a lie detector, and that would solve the problem, no matter how much you convince me that the law, that only the police can do so under the Police Act. And the other thing, and in the Police Act you have defined under which conditions you can even send certain people to a polygraph. So those who are under stress can't go, and I don't think a private detective will check to see if there's a stress worker or a candidate for employment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-29-0.u25571	Even better if the candidates for the election went to the lie detector to see if they were making false promises. ... After the election. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Mr. Attorney Gordan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-29-0.u25572	Thank you very much. Here's a few brief remarks about the law. First, I would like to commend what the law did in two readings, and these corrections that were introduced must have contributed to the quality of the law. What I would first look at is which persons can carry out detective activity, although I believe that in Article 6 of the security check that these persons are going through and, in particular, paragraph 3 allows a fairly broad interpretation of what is a different fact or circumstance that affects them, it is probably known in the police business. I agree that this is the way to go, because it needs to go with higher standards since that part of the job will be done by persons who have to prove their specific moral integrity and level of work. So no matter what I say, it can be interpreted in several ways. What it means is whether someone has facts and circumstances about their life or personality that could possibly be a limiting factor in working as a detective. As for Article 9, what Mr Kunst was just saying earlier, I am a little concerned because there is a possibility that employers will put as a limiting factor, i.e. a condition, in employment. So if you report to a job competition and someone doesn't sign to check in this way that prescribed his possible personality or some circumstances in his life that he can be automatically disqualified. I don't think that this should be particularly stated in the law, especially what there is always another part of that article that talks about the success of people in doing business. Now especially to point out means checking in on their employment and candidate, means a worker who will apply for a job can lead to a situation where the employer insists that it be a limiting factor. So unless you're gonna sign it, he's just telling you you can't get into a tighter choice. Secondly, I think that when we look at these infringements, I think that punishment and sanctions that are prescribed unless someone respects the law and collects the data in a way that you shouldn't do it with a fine, I am now not going to enter heights 5 to 15 or 10 to 50 is probably based on some examples and a partnership with similar laws included, but I must stand the provision to lose the right to work. I don't know, if it turns out that a certain company or a person who does detective work the way he shouldn't, he's secretly listening. There are now many of these examples that are listed, or do not behave in accordance with the law that you would have to permanently lose the right to work as a detective. I think that is why it is disqualified from that Article 6(s) of the security check, or these are the important circumstances that would say that someone is not necessarily enough to do the job. Because maybe someone conscious when they get permission will say, here's what I'm going to do, which is not in accordance with the law, I'm going to pay 5 thousand fines, next time for a maximum of 15 if it's repeated, you can get a fee that's high enough to go consciously into such a violation, which is why you would be burdened with it. If there is a situation to determine that, although I think it will be very difficult for the police to determine some of these violations because if it collects data in an unauthorized way in agreement with the client who will keep it that the police could especially determine when only the collection of documents is kept as something permanent, but in case it still manages to determine that something like this has happened without being in accordance with the law, I think it should be mandatory to stand in the law to lose the right to the work of a person and also a natural person but also legal if it was familiar with such a way of working. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-29-0.u25573	Thank you. Mr. Representative Sima Luchin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-29-0.u25574	Thank you very much. So here I am going to join those who have expressed their satisfaction with this by saying the remarks or changes that this proposal has experienced in relation to the first reading. I would dare say that this is one way to precedent for a simple reason, because since we bear in mind that it was P.Z. first that he went into two questions and then that the motioner adopted this much of the remarks. So this is an argument perhaps for those proposals that we have made and for this session that a number of laws such as the Labour Act or the Law on riots at sports sites actually line up and pick up on several occasions here in the Assembly and not somewhere outside the Parliament, or to push them to the end of the agenda. But okay, we got what we got. So, and my congratulations to the proposer. I believe that it will also be about the amendments and that de facto we may get with some small shortcomings a very good law. Since I am primarily interested in this law from one aspect, which is the possibility of abuse and violation and violation of one's human rights and civil liberties, because for the first time, for the first time, we are giving a legal group outside the state system police powers, so to persons who, in a certain way, can enter our privacy with a legal amen. And it's very important that we actually prevent any abuse. In that sense, I think it would be good to think about some more changes, and in that sense I have submitted two amendments. So first of all, it's very important that people do this job. So we start from the beginning. I think a large part of the problem and possible abuses or irregularities will be removed if the right people are given licenses, so unless the licenses are given to people who let me put it that way don't deserve to get them. In that sense, I'm not exactly prone to the situation of police administrations giving licenses to do these jobs. I think that at the very least we should be doing the principalship because we who know something about the formation of the MUP and how especially this police section works then I wouldn't mind saying that the permits are given by the police departments of category I, but I'm not really, I wouldn't be inclined to give these kind of permits to police management IV. categories for a simple reason. Because private detectives will work in the entire territory of the Republic of Croatia. It's the first time you've done a job like this. And on the other hand, it seems to me that the Police Department has a stronger and better option, so if you want both competence and expertise to assess whether a person can do this job or not. In that situation, make another note. And I don't believe you'll know thousands of people report for permission to be private detectives. So, even the number of licence applications shouldn't be burdened by this work of the principalship, with me holding the same that maybe in a year, two, three can change that when the system is stalking the police administrations. Then, in that context, I should say that the instance of the appeal of a solution should be a minister. So, then, that a person who is not satisfied with the solution wants a minister. That's where the check-in question opens. So, I am convinced that it will be easier to check even though there is no defined change here which degree or categories will work for those persons that it will be easier to say so than from some kind of province. Furthermore, it also seems to me that one more thing should be pointed out and this is about the adoption of sublegal acts. I think it'll be a very important story, too. What some of my predecessors used to say about Article 9. Yeah, and I have some dilemmas here, but since it's supposed to be a sublegal problem, then maybe that part should make sure that these things are fully defined. And what I think is still very important is the collection, so use the collection. So, I don't know in what way, I'm not sure, but I should limit the possibility of abuse of that collection and the private detectives themselves. It's a good thing that, under the supervision of the Inspectorate or the Inspection of the Ministry of the Interior, it's a good thing that you predicted that the inspections are not only carried out by inspectors from police administrations, but the Ministry itself can have insight into all the equipment and premises where the detectives work and their collections. I'm just afraid that in the case of some kind of trial or I don't know what, or some racketeering, blackmail to say some parts of a collection that some private detective has come to don't appear in the media. Well, here's what my colleague Maras said, I'm thinking that even in a sublegal act in this section that says that a Regulation on the content and how to run the database should be defined to lose, to get the license or to lose the license. Because it seems to me it's very important. So, in addition to these remarks, in the sense that maximum care is being taken of who gets the permits, that strict supervision is being carried out and that the rules define these questions that will always remain in the air somewhere. I think there's actually going to be an assumption that this activity develops and so to speak, under social control. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-29-0.u25575	Thank you. Mr. Representative Dragutin Lesar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-29-0.u25576	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues, secretary of state. I'll look back on just one sentence from the final bill. This is Article 9(2) of the 8th indent, and I would like to ask everyone's attention, and particularly the assistance of the Vice-President, Mr Vice-President of the Parliament. Therefore, private detectives would be empowered by this law, quote: "to collect data on candidates for employment, workers", with a mild fence only with their written consent, which according to the last regulations is authorised to collect an employer. First, who does a worker give written consent to collect data, an employer or a private detective? Secondly, are there a list of data to be collected on a worker or a job candidate in writing? Third, why are we introducing a new institute for possible racketeering of Croatian citizens? What unemployed man who's been looking for a job for months or years won't sign an agreement to pick up his family and his past in hopes of getting a job? What kind of company employee who fired 100 people back six months ago, in the face of fear of being fired, won't sign consent to collect any data without knowing which? It's first and foremost. What do we need to do with the law on private detectives? They've got a lot of work to do about lovers and lovers and whores and everything else and divorces. We now empower them to spy on workers and candidates for work. In the situation of unemployment and this crisis that we are in right now, workers will be brave folk heroes and say no, I don't give you consent, but you have to hire me. No, I don't give you consent, but you can't fire me. Proposal for a labour law that we have on the agenda of this session, Article 34, so a new bill. Mr. Secretary of State, if you give authority to a private detective to collect data on a worker, worker or candidate for employment, how will you ensure that the following labour laws are met? First, I quote: "incorrect personal data must be corrected immediately." Secondly, personal data for which there is no longer legal or actual reasons to be deleted or otherwise removed must be deleted. Third, an employer who employs at least 20 workers is obliged to appoint a person who, in addition to him, is authorised to contact whether or not workers' personal data are collected, processed, used and delivered to third parties in accordance with the law. How will this person at the employer check what the private detective is doing with collected employee data? How is this person going to make sure that the private detective erased the incorrect data? How is this person going to check with a private detective if he's removed data that the employer no longer needs? Not at all. It will apply methods that are inappropriate for every civilization society, as a polygraph has been said. But not just a polygraph. They will collect data that the employer does not need because he will abuse that authorisation to trade or blackmail later on. When we regulated this area for the state service, according to specific regulations and when we authorised the collection of data on candidates who appeared in the competition, we regulated for the state service we were quite precise in what the statement must say and what data is collected. And you know who and how determines this data that will be collected about workers or candidates for employment? I'm an employer, with a working worker able to find out what the data is. But the candidate for employment cannot know what the data in the company or the employer concerned is intended to be collected. And he doesn't have an employer's rule. And you did not predict that in this data collection agreement, the data will be taxed which data will be collected. Name, last name, address, OIB, marital status, nationality, religious, what? Number of kids, number of lovers, lover, property, healthy, sick, junkie, addict? So, what data, for which data he does not give consent. What do you think all the data can come up that way when a neighbor wonders what kind of... and what that data can be done and how they can be abused. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So abused, but a little bit of a joke, what do you think you'd want to spend a candidate for the post of undertaker who would be willing to work and respond on Sundays, for example, to work for free and bury on Sundays, especially if it were high-ranking state officials. ... And I said this in half, but... [[Everyone speaks out loud, they don't understand.]] Yeah, yeah. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] No, no, just make fun of things like that. ... I'm right, I'm not saying anything in my head. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] So, Mr. Secretary of State, there is no norm within European labour legislation that would force Croatia to give the private detectives the powers that are originally on the part of the employer or to empower employers to give powers to private detectives. The abuse, the purchase of data, blackmail, blackmail and racketeering will now take place. We are not yet Sweden, an ideally decorated state where this could be quickly and efficiently discovered. Mr. Kunst set an example for you. If you don't trust me, here's at least him if you believe what they're doing, what they're already doing before the law is passed. So please, and I've submitted the amendment. Just delete that indent from the law. Our employers don't need private detectives. The system of information also via the OIB, and this year is the only year of the transitional period. On the way of the OIB, the employer on the worker will learn all the data and be empowered by the Labour Act to do so. It's authorized to collect them from state institutions. So, for ten months, it's that every employer with a system, an IT system through the OIB will be able to collect 99% of the requested data, but official, checked by state institutions. Everything else is a skating, blackmailing, racketeering of workers and candidates for employment. That's why I call upon you, Secretary of State, to accept that amendment. Leave out that line of law because we'll do more damage, more fear among our people than benefits for any employer in this country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-29-0.u25577	That's what Mr. Lesar said when I applied for the '86 undertaker. The year I got out of prison and couldn't get a job, then I was on the undertaker's committee that questioned me about my work. And then I said I wanted to say it. They said the seas work night and day and holiday and bury all kinds of managers and things like that. I said I'd bury both day and night and holiday the executives and all together, but I wasn't accepted. So that's it, I wasn't admitted. ... Now, that's what Ante Markovic wrote to me to wait for something in the future, he was president of the presidency, because I wasn't a moral-political-grobaric likeness. [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]] And Mr. Agent Ivan Shantek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-29-0.u25578	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. In front of us is the Final Proposal for a Law on Private Detectives, which brought great attention to the representatives and parliamentary committees in the first reading, and we can see in this. What a large number of amendments have been submitted to the bill. According to the proposal for this law, the detective activity shall include the collection of information necessary for the determination of facts, insight into personal and other data, and the use and processing of personal and other data for the purposes of the orderr of detective services, all within the limits of the powers conferred by the contracting authority in accordance with the provisions of this law. If persons who are parties to those proceedings wish to carry out such investigations within a range that is wider than that provided by the State or who wish to conduct an investigation in cases where the State is not obliged under the applicable rules to implement this law, it shall be possible for engaged private detectives whose activity regulates the provisions of this law. Therefore, it is a private investigative activity that comes out of the framework of the investigative activities carried out by the state authorities. The proposal for a law on private detectives with the Final Proposal for the Law prescribes the conditions for carrying out detective activities and jobs, the authority to issue authorisations for the performance of activities and authorisations for the conduct of detective work, and the way in which detective work is carried out. This proposal allows detective activities to be carried out by craftsmen and all forms of companies, whereas according to the applicable provisions of the Law on the Protection of Persons and Property, only craftsmen and companies can carry out such activities, such as personal command and public-trade companies. It is also prescribed to document and record, store and make available data collected by the private detective, and to establish registers that are required to run legal persons or craftsmen performing detective activity and the Ministry of the Interior. In addition, a detective card has been prescribed and a competent authority has been established to carry out the administrative and inspection report. In my first law reading, I welcomed this House's decision that the law goes into a regular procedure to get to the highest quality of the law through more reading. A number of amendments submitted by either the parliamentary committees or the representatives primarily referred to the protection of human rights, in equating legal practice through equalising the level of penalties for offenders, simplifying the administrative procedure through labour-legislative relations to the harmonisation of national legislation with European Union legislation. For all the above, I consider it to be a significant law for this area, and I will support the adoption of this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-29-0.u25579	Thank you. Final review, State Secretary Ivica Buconjic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-29-0.u25580	Thank you very much. Let me just briefly refer to some of the comments that have been made. First of all, I thank you for those comments that we listened carefully to the comments from the previous first reading and that we adopted. We didn't have any misunderstandings when making the first version of the law, because we knew that this law really regulates a sensitive area where there could be serious violations and incursions to human rights and fundamental freedoms of Croatian citizens. That's exactly why we've given this kind of attention to the debate. After the first reading, we held additional consultations with the profession, with the lawyers and together with you, I think we have proposed a much better and better quality law than he was in the first reading. Here are some other remarks that I will try to explain to you that we had dilemmas about them. Ms. Anticevic said that this article 4 provides the possibility of hiring persons who are the perpetrator of serious crime, above all in traffic. This article, i.e. that indent of Article 4, has been significantly processed in relation to the first reading, just trying to define the right to issue a licence only for those candidates who have committed a traffic violation, but where they have occurred, but where the minimum consequences for those infringements that have been committed out of progress have occurred. That's why we went to this formulation of what's in this article of this second version of the law. Maybe it's not clear enough. We will try to further clarify it to be really clear and precise, that for the severe offenders of the law, no license can be issued. This is the same thing that MP Kunst expressed certain concerns about the possibility of a polygraph examination of employees and candidates for work. This possibility has been excluded by the Police Act because a polygraph examination can work. However, we are not opposed to eventually trying to vote through the amendment even better, more specifically and more precisely to settle this issue because we do not want this law to provide any possibility of abuse and harsh violation of human rights and fundamental freedoms. And this is what Mr. Lesar said about collecting data on job candidates and these employees for the needs of the employer. We have also consulted the Ministry of Economy on this solution. We have received the opinion that such a provision is in line with the Labour Act and the International Labour Convention, however, we will check it again. Indeed, our intention and aim ultimately is to propose a version of the law that will enable the abuse of human rights and fundamental freedoms to come to a minimum and that will provide a good, quality legal framework for this activity in the Republic of Croatia to enable private detectives to carry out their work in a quality way, but in no way do they violate the rights and freedoms of citizens by doing their detective work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-29-0.u25581	Thank you. One correction, Commissioner Ingrid Anticevic-Marinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-29-0.u25582	One little correction, I don't want to do this any further, but I still think it's important. Here, Mr. Secretary of State said that it was only done here, that only those who were convicted were allowed access to this service, he didn't even use that term as a violation. It's not about crimes, it's about criminal acts. So, it's still a different severity of social injury, therefore, it still required...
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-29-0.u25583	Lapsus.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-29-0.u25584	Well, it's not a lapus. In fact, it should be, rather than he said well, that it should be, but unfortunately, the law says something else in the bill. It should be tolerated for a crime, but not for a crime.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-29-0.u25585	I'm closing the debate. I'm interrupting the session. Continuing tomorrow at 5:00. ... And at 9.30. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] What's a lapsus mint, with that deal on Chad, and about preventing abuse from working. And the one before the contract of Croatia and Chad.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-29-0.u25586	Fourth, Final Bill on Private Detectives, Second Reading, P.Z.E. No. 148. The debate is closed. After the debate was concluded, the Government submitted amendments in accordance with Article 166. Rules of Procedure. The amendments tabled must be agreed by the majority of the representatives present. Who's in favour of having a debate on the government's amendments? Thank you. Against? Restraint? I find that, unanimously with 118 votes, we have agreed to discuss the amendment to the government. I ask the applicant's representative to further explain the amendment. Please, Mr. Ivica Buconjic, Secretary of State. Amendment 1 to Article 4.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-29-0.u25587	Amendment 1 to Article 4, paragraph 4, "number 7 is replaced by the number 8.". In fact, in the case of amendments and the addition of the law, new points were added so that point 7. became point 8. so this was practically a technical change, a nomotechnical arrangement.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-29-0.u25588	I'm opening a debate. I am finalising the debate on Amendment 1. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Who's to accept this amendment please raise your hand? Thank you. Against? Thank you. Restraint? Thank you. The result? This amendment was adopted unanimously by the government by 118 votes. Amendment 2 to Article 12
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-29-0.u25589	Amendment 2 to Article 12, paragraph 2 reads: "A private detective shall not perform any work, nor shall he apply powers in the jurisdiction of the police, the security services or the judicial authorities other than the observation of the escort and the photo shoot in a public place.". The news here is that we have added that the detective must not apply even the powers of police jurisdiction, means not only to carry out affairs, but also to apply powers, just to prevent private detectives from performing any work or using powers from police jurisdiction and doing abuses.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-29-0.u25590	Thank you. I am opening a debate on this amendment 2. I'm closing the debate. I propose an amendment to the vote. Who's in? Thank you. Against? Thank you. Restraint? Thank you. The result? This amendment was adopted unanimously by 118 votes. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-29-0.u25591	Amendment 3 to Article 31(1) is amended as follows: "Inspective supervision is carried out by private protection officers and detective affairs of the ministry and police administration.". We wanted to explain to the end who was doing the inspection. In fact, there's this particular department in the ministry that monitors private security and detective work.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-29-0.u25592	Thank you. I'm opening a debate on Amendment 3. I'm closing the debate. I'm voting on this amendment 3, who's in favour? Thank you. Against? Restraint? I find that Amendment 3 has been adopted unanimously with 119 votes. Government. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-29-0.u25593	Amendment 4 to Article 34(1) shall be deleted and a new subparagraph shall be added, which shall read as follows: "The way and the collection of data, as well as the content and manner of the data collection.", in Article 34(1), subparagraph 1 is deleted for the reasons that the conditions and the way in which detective operations are carried out are prescribed by this law and that no sublegal act is necessary. It shall be amended in accordance with paragraph 4 for the reasons why a sublegal act needs to specify a more detailed way of collecting data.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-29-0.u25594	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I propose Amendment 4 to the vote, who's in favour? Thank you. Against? Restraint? This amendment was adopted unanimously with 119 votes. We move on to Amendment 5 to Article 41.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-29-0.u25595	This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. This is proposed for the purposes of nomotechnical harmonisation with the proposed amendment 1. Governments of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-29-0.u25596	Thank you. I'm opening a debate on Amendment 5. Thank you for closing the debate. I propose Amendment 5 to the vote, who's in favour? Thank you. Against? Restraint? Thank you. This amendment was adopted unanimously with 120 votes. On the bench, you have been sent a review of the other amendments, and I would ask the representative to make a statement about them and to begin with the representative, Amendment 1 to the First Representative of Gordan Maras, in Article 3.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-29-0.u25597	Amendment 1 is not accepted. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. And Article 35 refers to criminal provisions. So he doesn't regulate the same matter.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-29-0.u25598	Mr. Gordan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-29-0.u25599	Thank you very much. The intensity of this amendment is that if someone repeats the offence, which is defined as meaning by criminal provisions and sanctioned in cash, multiple times, since it is the offences that define the work of detective activity that should be taken into account that such companies should not repeat such errors frequently. I think they should be automatically deprived of the right to have that activity, so that's the intensity of the amendment. It may not apply to a criminal provision, but it does refer to the fact that it is then automatically granted the right to carry out its activities. I think that would be okay and I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-29-0.u25600	Thank you. Who is to propose this amendment to Mr. Gordan Maras, whom the Government does not accept? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. Second amendment of Mr Sima Lučin's representative to Article 4.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-29-0.u25601	Article 4 of the amendment is not accepted because the amendment requires it to work... Directorship. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In accordance with the interior structure of the ministry, these tasks are within the jurisdiction of the Administration of Administrative Inspection Affairs, which we have further explained to this amendment by the Government which accepts it.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-29-0.u25602	Thank you. Mr. Shime Luchin, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-29-0.u25603	Thank you very much. I know exactly what the department's structure is. However, this is about issuing licences and, because of the uniform, giving permits throughout the territory of the Republic of Croatia by my judgment, it would be important for the directorship to do so because all police administrations are not equally qualified. And that was intensity. Because once you give permission, it'll be a lot harder for you to take away from him if you've made some kind of mistake. And the collection of all the data needed will be easier from one place, so from the central point of view than from individual police administrations. I'd like a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-29-0.u25604	Thank you. Who is for this amendment that the Government does not accept? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 3rd Amendment of Mr Gordan Maras to Article 4.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-29-0.u25605	Amendment 3 is not accepted. In particular, Article 7 provides for cases where the competent police authority will withdraw permission to carry out private detective's duties. They are precisely tax-listed, and Article 36 refers to criminal provisions. So, a practical explanation as well as for the previous amendment of the MPs.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-29-0.u25606	Thank you. Mr. Gordan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-29-0.u25607	Thank you very much. If the problem was that I stated that this should be written in Article 4, not in Article 7, then I suggest that you move this to Article 7, if that is acceptable to you, then let it remain in Article 7. Because it's not what article it's about, it's what it's about. I think my intensity is correct. If it is just a matter of nomotechnics and you do not feel comfortable in writing in Article 4, transfer it to Article 7.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-29-0.u25608	We have further changed since the first reading of this article, and I am just thinking that we have fully strengthened the responsibility of the detective for the legality of doing business. There are practically a lot of reasons to take away power and license.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-29-0.u25609	Okay. I'm asking for a vote. I think this is another additional reason that should be added to the law.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-29-0.u25610	... not accepted. [[Specially enabled.]] We vote on the amendment we got. Who is to accept the amendments to article 4 of Mr. Representative Gordan Maras? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 4th Amendment of Mr. Representative Sima Lučina. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-29-0.u25611	The 4th amendment to Article 5 is not accepted with the same explanation, since the Police Act provides for an internal structure and the Administration is not responsible for carrying out inspection controls.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-29-0.u25612	Thank you. Mr. Shime Luchin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-29-0.u25613	With the same argument as the second amendment, it is therefore that responsibility in the ministry cannot be transferred locally, so to speak. I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-29-0.u25614	Who is for this amendment that the Government does not accept? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 5. Amendment of Mr. MPs also Sime Lučina to Article 7.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-29-0.u25615	The amendment to Article 7 shall be rejected by the same reasoning as the previous two, as it relates to the same matter.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-29-0.u25616	Shime Luchin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-29-0.u25617	Since the previous two amendments didn't pass then this one doesn't make sense. We're pulling back.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-29-0.u25618	Thank you. This amendment has been withdrawn. 6th Amendment of Mr Boris Šprem to Article 8.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-29-0.u25619	Article 8 of the amendment shall be adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-29-0.u25620	This amendment has been accepted. 7th Amendment of the Committee on Legislatives to Article 8.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-29-0.u25621	The amendment is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-29-0.u25622	Sustained?
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-29-0.u25623	He accepts.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-29-0.u25624	This amendment has been accepted. It becomes an integral part of the proposal, just like this one. 8th Amendment of Representative Dragutin Lesar to Article 9.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-29-0.u25625	This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The labour law stipulates that the personal data of the worker may be collected, processed, used, delivered to third parties only by the employer or person who is specifically empowered by the employer. Following the cited provision of that law, the employer may authorise any person to collect data, including a private detective. I especially note that the new Law on Labour, which is in the parliamentary procedure, also provides for such a possibility, and in addition, in the Law on Private Detectives, we have also stated that a private detective can collect data only if a worker or candidate for employment gives him consent to do so.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-29-0.u25626	Thank you. Mr. Dragutin Lesar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-29-0.u25627	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary of State, I know the legislation of the Labour Act as prescribed, but in the debate, I objected with saying that private detectives have the power to collect personal data on workers, and here you are referring to the Labour Act, but in this law you have extended that right to candidates for employment who are not mentioned in the Labour Act. Secondly, given that the consent of a candidate or worker to give to a private detective is not given to data that would be collected because I simply do not know what kind of personal data a private worker detective has to collect. You also mentioned some convention on work that also allows it, noting that such a convention does not exist, simply does not exist. I believe that this power in the Law on Private Detectives is being harshly violated by the rights of workers and candidates for employment, that a new form of racketeering will be by private detectives to those who have been forced to give such consent and I believe that by accepting this amendment, they would retain at least the minimum level of dignity and workers and this candidate for employment. I demand a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-29-0.u25628	Thank you. Who is for this amendment that the Government does not accept? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 9th Amendment of Mr Boris Šprem to Article 15
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-29-0.u25629	The amendment is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-29-0.u25630	Amendment accepted. It becomes an integral part of the proposal. 10th Amendment of Mr Boris Šprem to Article 25
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-29-0.u25631	The amendment is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-29-0.u25632	And this amendment becomes an integral part of the bill. 11th Amendment of Mr. Representative Boris Shprem.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-29-0.u25633	The amendment is not accepted because the government has settled the issue with its amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-29-0.u25634	Thank you. Mr. Boris Sprem.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-29-0.u25635	In other words, the amendment was accepted with only one small addition. Thank you. I accept the motionary's explanation.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-29-0.u25636	Thank you very much. This amendment has been withdrawn because it has already been accepted. 12th Amendment of the Committee on Legislatives to Article 35
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-29-0.u25637	The amendment is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-29-0.u25638	It becomes an integral part of the bill. And 13, Mr. Boris Sprem's representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-29-0.u25639	The amendment is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-01-29-0.u25640	It becomes an integral part of the bill. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you to the Secretary of State. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I am voting on the final proposal of the Law on Private Detectives. Who is for this bill please raise your hand. Thank you. Against? Thank you. Restraint? What's the score? The final proposal for a law on private detectives was adopted by the majority of votes, 119 votes in favour and 1 against, together with the amendments adopted. Good morning, everyone. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, we will proceed with the session's work. We move to the agenda point - Final draft law confirming the Agreement between the Republic of Croatia and the European Union on the participation of the Republic of Croatia in the European Union military operation in the Republic of Chad and the Central African Republic (Operation EUFOR TCHAD/RCA), emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 217 The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. When setting up the agenda, we accepted the proposal from the Proposer to discuss this legislative proposal in an urgent procedure. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the The Registrar's emergency procedure combines the first and second readings. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Defence Committee. You received the reports at the session. Does the proposaler's representative want to further explain? Yeah. Secretary of State at the Department of Defense Mr. Mate Raboteg. Here you go.
