ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-02-0.u41756	Ladies and gentlemen, I'm opening a session. On the agenda - a proposal for a decision to give consent to the Government of the Republic of Croatia for the signing of an arbitration agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and a declaration of non-judication. The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The President of the Parliament is now in agreement with the President of the Icelandic Parliament and will join us. The Government has proposed this act in accordance with Article 129(2). Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Foreign Policy, the report will soon be shared with representatives on the benches. I ask the Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia, Mrs. Jadranka Kosor, to further explain the proposal. Here you go, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-02-0.u41757	Thank you very much. Good afternoon, Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I warmly welcome you. Here, as you can see on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Croatia coalition partners who have all accepted this proposal before you, with a proposal to sign an arbitration agreement with the Republic of Slovenia on a further course based on our agreement, Prime Minister Pahor and myself. I think I can say that at the end of one extremely difficult road and talks and negotiations and at the end of a difficult and extremely demanding job. So I'm in front of you today with my government colleagues, and you have this text proposal, and now it's all in your hands. If you decide that Croatia can sign this agreement I will do so with Prime Minister Pahor, and if you decide something different, of course it will be because the procedure in Croatia is such that after the negotiations, and now this is exactly what it was about, the possible signing of such a contract, the Prime Minister, or the Government, is going to be in front of MPs and asking Parliament for confirmation. The procedure in Slovenia is something different, in fact it could be said significantly different, but I am in front of the Croatian Parliament now, so I will, of course, talk about our procedure. As I said, after the negotiations were concluded, and Prime Minister Pahor and I were actually agreeing to the possible provisions of this agreement by the last day, we presented this agreement to the members of the ruling coalition, but as you know to the representatives, or to the presidents of the opposition parties, so that Parliament is fully aware of the provisions of this Agreement. I'll say it right at the beginning, it's incorrect, it's not true, I could use some other words, if I had kept something secret in the negotiation process. If it were in force what's called "silent diplomacy" it's true, that's what I've already told you about here at this pay phone. "Silent diplomacy" means that in a particular circle of people, primarily experts, try to negotiate what is controversial. We have these agreements and these negotiations and these talks, as you will, led to the end, in one, I must say with pleasure, the friendly atmosphere, the atmosphere of understanding and what I think is extremely important, respect and mutual respect. If with every disputed fact, with every disputed provision we went out in public, it's absolutely certain, ladies and gentlemen, that Prime Minister Pahor and I would never, and perhaps even then, agree. Because that's because here's the storm we're witnessing, and it's telling itself that a lot of people, unfortunately, don't understand, are looking at what's called an agreement. The agreement of the two sides means always to go the hard way, but once again, in the atmosphere of respect and respect, it requires a way out, and the way out for Croatia means, I am more than ever convinced of it, the way out for Croatia means the way out, the solution of the dispute means definitely open and what is extremely important finally the way for Croatia to enter the European Union. I don't think there's any dispute about it, that we agree on this agreement that is before you, if it is signed, it really guarantees it. Ladies and gentlemen, this is a perfectly safe moment. I'm not going to use big words. I'm going to try to speak as easily as possible. This is one of the important moments when you need to know how to take responsibility. As far as the ruling coalition is concerned, we did it. As for me as Prime Minister, I did it and I think this is a moment where it really doesn't need to and can't hide behind others, and I think this is the moment where we really decide in a certain way about Croatia's future. We have two options, why am I talking about Croatia's future? Because I think it is exactly the crisis, the resolution of the crisis and the problem faced by many countries that has shown how important it is to be at the table of European countries and European peoples. Surely the crisis is over and beyond, I would say, perhaps more easily, when at a table where you have far more partners who can help than when you are alone and when you try to overcome obstacles that sometimes seem truly insurmountable. This is, for me, if you want ladies and gentlemen really one patriotic decision because I think patriotism can be evaluated and therefore Croatia is on the way to the end of the negotiations, so patriotism in terms of decision or not. Either it stays in the same place for the next 10 years or I don't know how many years and I think we're deciding on it today in this House. In fact, it's impossible to divide into two groups again one is a patriot, or possible, but it wouldn't be good, one is a patriot, and the other is not, one is ignorant, and one is smart. And I think there's really a lot of burial in one place. To negotiate hard, to negotiate and to come to an agreement, it's extremely difficult, it's the hardest way. It's much easier to fight, it's much easier to criticize and it's much easier to stand in the same place. And I'm going to say something that's really quite personal. Today as Prime Minister, I understand differently, absolutely differently, all of the so far Prime Ministers of the Republic of Croatia, so those in wartime, here also, via Prime Minister Racan, Prime Minister Sanader, to this day. I now understand from this position the different and many decisions that have been made and many of the moves that have been extremely difficult. But you can only do that when you come and sit on this hot chair that I'm sitting on today. Ladies and gentlemen, allow me a few words about what might be called the chronology of negotiations on resolving the border dispute with the Republic of Slovenia. So border negotiations have actually started in 1992 as part of the Interstate Diplomatic Commission. And then it went as it went with smaller, bigger ups and downs. We know what happened in 2001, so when the draft demarcation agreement was rejected as an inappropriate and failed attempt at a solution. Then the official calls for the appropriate international body to be addressed back in 2002 were the initiative of Prime Minister Racan, and the official invitation to address the relevant body in 2005, all unsuccessfully. So then the Sanader-Jansa Agreement on Bled, where it was agreed in principle that the dispute should be settled before the International Court of Justice, that the issue of the dispute should be a border at sea and at some points on land and that the two commissions should prepare the necessary documentation to address the court. The result of the deal in Bled was the establishment of two interstate expert commissions. The result, you know, nothing happened under that agreement, and we're back on track. A blockade has been opened, Croatia's negotiations have been stopped. Then, now I'm going to skip a little bit of course, then we came to May this year and namely, by January until the beginning of this year when it was started so-called. Rehn's initiative, supported later by the European Union's troika, has offered a way of resolving the dispute on the Croatian-Slovenian border with the removal of the blockade. A compromise proposal was presented in April this year. Croatia has officially accepted it. We have a decision from the Parliament of 8 May this year. I ask MPs and MPs to take a careful look at this proposal that the Croatian Parliament has accepted. The proposal that no statements were made in public, no petitions were signed. Compare this, it's called Colloquial Rehn One, compare this agreement, you'll see important differences. And I'm more than sure, that's what the experts say, that this agreement that is in front of us in one part and I speak it very openly, and better about this proposal that was then voted in the Croatian Parliament. I repeat, there's no public storm. Ladies and gentlemen, as you know, I am talking about Prime Minister Pahor and I met in Trakoscan, and then in Gdansk, behind that in Ljubljana, where we agreed, where the blockade was finally raised, the negotiations continued, right behind it. Chapters opened, chapters closed, an open perspective for the continuation of negotiations and for the conclusion of negotiations. What are the reasons, ladies and gentlemen, for accepting this agreement? So what I think is important and what is before you is that the border agreement is being resolved according to international law. That's what we've advocated all these years. The border dispute is also settled before the international judicial authority, so it is the arbitration court. Unlike the proposal that the Parliament adopted on May 5th and, as I have already said, so I will probably repeat today, there have been no objections in public, there has been no major halabuka, calling MPs. I hear some respected people are calling you today and asking you not to support this agreement. So, unlike the proposal the Parliament accepted in May, where Slovenia's contact with the open sea was determined. This agreement speaks of a connection to the open sea. And that is ladies and gentlemen, in line with what Croatia has always been willing to offer in the negotiations. Croatia, by this agreement, and I want to make it clear and loud, does not deny its territory. Croatia is agreeing to settle the dispute before the arbitration court, on territory, on a final settlement. This agreement does not speak, and it is not mentioned in a single word, but it will all happen under international law and before the international judicial authority. Maybe the most important newspaper. In this agreement, which is before you, unlike the one of May, why I personally think this is a better solution for Croatia, is something that we have long discussed and why these negotiations have lasted so long and why until the last day actually I couldn't tell anyone but the rope group that worked on it, talk about the details. Because our proposal has been and this has finally been accepted and it is before you, pay attention to Article 11(3), so that all deadlines before this arbitration body begin as from the moment Croatia will sign an agreement to join the European Union, when Croatia has actually completed negotiations and in fact an irrevocable member of the European Union. From that moment on, those deadlines are starting to run. And please, this is this important moment to be appreciated. That's what we talked about most, that's what we talked about most, and that's what seems personal and most important to me. So I repeat, international law, nothing's settled, nothing's agreed. It is said that before this arbitration court, they will decide on the border on land and at sea and on everything else that is very clear and taxing. Nothing between the lines, nothing before and nothing after. Ladies and gentlemen, of course it should be said that this agreement was also supported by President Mesic of the Republic of Croatia. It is important to point out, please do not forget that when you ultimately decide, of course, in the debate. The President of the Republic, who, under the Constitution, is of course co-creation of foreign policy, the President who has been declared for years in how this dispute should be resolved and who, as I, as the Government, sees as the ruling coalition the particular value and importance just in Article 11(3). I will not speak now, ladies and gentlemen, because it was an object and may become an object in the Croatian Parliament of what we call mutual political bickering, but if it is necessary to do so. So, the difference between how this agreement happened and how the Racan-Drnovšek agreement was initialled and which then became known to the Croatian public. So me and I'll just stop at that fact. I come before you without paraphrasing anything, without anyone of mine, I mean mine, yours in the government paralyzing anything, let alone signing anything. And I suggest ladies and gentlemen yes, it's just my suggestion that you can, of course, respect it and completely ignore it, that today we're not exhausting ourselves by going back to the past, which is who did what, who did what wrong. We can, of course, see that you've already gone that way, but let me say mine and then the microphone is definitely yours. So, after agreeing with Prime Minister Pahor in Ljubljana at the press conference, we both made it very clear that we agreed to go first on the deblockation of the negotiations, in the preparation of the agreement, to go where we care and June 2009 because to start something, to take a step further, you have to start from something, that we will start from June 2009. Immediately after that, as you know, an intergovernmental conference was called where negotiations were opened, and immediately this agreement continued to be prepared. This whole agreement is absolutely on the trail of that letter that I sent to the Swedish Presidency, which I have shown you where it was clearly spoken of which our next steps will be. Ladies and gentlemen, more about the difference between the so-called. "Rehna One" and this agreement. The so-called "Rehn One" I will repeat again about Slovenia's open sea contact and you have supported it, as the connection to the open sea is now being talked about. In the "Rehn One", therefore, in that agreement which was before you in May, the arbitration court of the sea under that agreement, which was then not accepted in Slovenia, the arbitration court must reach a verdict within a year, so before Croatia becomes a member of the European Union and probably before Croatia ends negotiations for the European Union which could, of course, remain in force for new blockades. And we're back in the same place, standing there waiting for what's gonna happen. I now repeat once again all the procedural deadlines of the arbitration court begin only after Croatia has completed its negotiations and signed an accession agreement with the European Union. I think it's important to inform you that here's what you see and you know probably a lot of people are working fast at this point and on the so-called. the financial package for Croatia, which is at the very least good signals for us. Ladies and gentlemen, I have already said something about a procedure that is different in Croatia and Slovenia. So, I'll finish. I don't think there's any further need to talk about it, the procedure is different, before you are now the Government with this proposal for an agreement. You decide whether I sign it or not. It is a decision that is certainly yours first but I think that in that process, all relevant political forces in the Republic of Croatia should participate in that decision. And in the end, I still want to say one technical detail. There have been remarks that we have not consulted anyone in these negotiations. That's not true. So, at any moment, at any point in time, legal experts have been consulted on this area, including all parliamentary party presidents, especially Dr Vukas, who has absolutely certain references to the job because Mr. Professor Vukas was the Vice-President of the International Court of Law for the Sea. And I think that the person who was vice-president of the International Court of Law must know something about this job, knows something about how these problems are being solved and that none of you will dispute his qualification for consultations with the government or with the government's negotiators. And yet, that Professor Vukas not only read the Convention on the Law of the Sea, he wrote it himself. So I think it's a person that no one can deny that she worked for this party or that party, that she worked for this party or that side of the negotiations, but a person who's really professional. But of course Professor Vukas isn't the only one. Ladies and gentlemen, if there is any need for the public, I will during the debate and read this agreement before you. What I'm only asking and asking you not to take it away from me for what I'm about to say in the end. I ask indeed every MP and every representative to read the agreement once more in peace. I think it is extremely important that what the Government of the Republic of Croatia, so government as a whole, coalition as a whole, be fully understood. It is your decision, and I personally believe that we are deciding today what is extremely important for the future of Croatia, for the future of our children, and this is the conclusion of Croatia's negotiations and entry into the European Union, the sitting at the table of European peoples and European states in the civilization circle that Croatia has always belonged to. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-02-0.u41758	Thank you. Two corrections. One, MP Ante Kotromanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-02-0.u41759	Mr. Vice President of the Parliament, Madam Prime Minister. Gentlemen MPs and counsellors. I'll quote Mrs. Kosor. In her opening statement, she said, "It's all in your hands now." No, Mrs. Kosor. There was nothing in mine, you were talking, you were making deals. ... This agreement is... [[Everyone speaks out loud, they don't understand.]] Under your agreement, we can't get anything because we have everything. [[Everyone speaks out loud, they don't understand.]] Slovenians can get anything. This isn't a poker game. There is no one's right to question state territory by word or deed or failure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-02-0.u41760	Ms. Representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-02-0.u41761	Mrs. Kosor, you said that this proposal for a decision to give consent is an expression of patriotism, and then you said that such a contract is good that it will not come into effect immediately, but only when we are... Yes, that's what you said when we enter the European Union. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] So it's already one logical mistake. ... You're probably even bothered by the mention of patriotism right now. [[Everyone speaks out loud, they don't understand.]] But here's to this last one, when it's so good, why it doesn't apply right now, why didn't you work out that it's being applied immediately, but you're telling us here it's so good, and then you're comforting us to apply it only when we're entering the European Union. ... You shall refer to the provisions of Article 11(3). ... [[Everyone speaks out loud, they don't understand.]] [[Everyone speaks out loud, they don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-02-0.u41762	Comrade Ingrid Antičević, this was not a correction to the incorrect allegations but to one claim. And the Prime Minister did not say what you say she said, but said that according to Article 11(3), the procedural deadlines will begin to run since Croatia signed an accession agreement with the European Union, which is quite a hundredth of what you have chosen to declare. The Committee on Foreign Policy. He wants the board president? The chairman of the board, Mr. Mario Zubovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-02-0.u41763	Mr. Vice President. Madam Prime Minister, Vice President, Mr. Minister. The Committee on Foreign Policy held its session today. We had a proposal for a decision to give consent to the Government of the Republic of Croatia for the signing of an arbitration agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and a declaration of non-judication. At the 29th session held on 2 November 2009, the Foreign Policy Committee of the Croatian Parliament discussed the proposal for a decision to give consent to the Government of the Republic of Croatia for the signing of an arbitration agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and a declaration of non-judiciality submitted to the President of the Croatian Parliament by the Government of the Republic of Croatia by an act of 30 October 2009. The Committee on Foreign Policy discussed this proposal by the Government of the Republic of Croatia as a home working body. Since the Republic of Croatia and the Republic of Slovenia have so far failed to resolve the dispute on land and sea demarcation in their attempts, and in good hope of a peaceful solution to the dispute and the mutual will to maintain good neighbourly relations and protect vital interests, both sides agreed on the establishment of an arbitration court. They have committed to respect the Court's decision on the basis of international law, justice and the principles of good neighbourly relations. Therefore, the members of the foreign policy committee in the debate highlighted the importance and interest of the Republic of Croatia in the resolution of the dispute on the distinction between the Republic of Croatia and the Republic of Slovenia and decided to support the proposal for a decision to give consent to the Government of the Republic of Croatia for the signing of an arbitration agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and a declaration of non-judication. After the debate was held, the Committee on Foreign Policy, with 1 abstention, supported this proposal by the Government of the Republic of Croatia and decided to propose to the Croatian Parliament a proposal for a decision to give consent to the Government of the Republic of Croatia for the signing of an arbitration agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and a declaration of non-judication. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-02-0.u41764	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. IDS representative club, Mr. Representative Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-02-0.u41765	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President. Madam Prime Minister. Your Honor, gentlemen, the MPs. I always said that the Racan-Drnovšek agreement for Croatia was a harmful agreement. I also said that after this paragraph, it is impossible to expect that Slovenia will go below the agreed principles, as I also claimed that Croatia will never return to the condition of the agreement again. But I was wrong. Not with Slovenia, Slovenia has remained firmly in its positions, but Croatia has therefore returned to the condition of a initialled 2001 agreement. The day Mrs. Kosor was first in Ljubljana as prime minister, I said wait for what we're doing. We actually agree to the second Rehn proposal, we give up the court, we agree to arbitration, and we will eventually lose 115 square kilometers of the territorial sea. The answer was clear, it was my mockery, he's running some campaign, and what's left for me is to defend myself. So did I run the '93 campaign? when we started the Istrian brewery, also in a long-term Croatian-Slovenian relationship? Did I run the '96 campaign? When did I sign concessions in Piran Bay against the Foreign Ministry's decision? And finally, did I run a campaign in 2001 when I, along with Fatso, answered the former prime minister that fate must not follow and those two, three acres around Joras' house? Unfortunately, that's when Fatty and I didn't see any sea-separation tickets. Everyone made fun of me. In the first wave, from Jakovčić, my boss, to Mesic, everyone supported the agreement, and I was just telling them, so you gentlemen will come to mine and slowly now comes, the public comes. In a letter signed now by Mr Ibler Rudolph, Vidas, Sikiric. Now even Professor Vidas is no longer defending the firm position of the government that I heard he was consulted all along. And I see the president, Vukas, and then I'm sorry. And I see that President Mesic has changed his attitude a little, too, talking about the fear of Croatia losing this touch with Italy, which is certainly not going to happen because it was not predicted by that 2001 agreement either. But it is certain that Croatia will lose some of its territory. Why is that certain? This is under (b) Article 3. So Slovenia's connection to the open sea is guaranteed. Clearly, international law, justice, the principle of good neighbourly relations for the purpose of achieving a fair and fair outcome, including all relevant circumstances for the determination referred to in Article 3(1), will be applied, as the Slovenians would say ex aequo et bono. So, justice and honesty, and Mr. Rudolph would say about this, I quote him that by formulating the agreement that the arbitration court decides on a merger, the contact of Slovenia with the open sea is not required, for example, to consider whether Slovenia has the right to do so first. The court's decision is made in advance, because the court must act as the parties of Croatia and Slovenia have instructed him in the arbitration agreement, etc. That's what Mr. Academyman Davorin Rudolph writes. That now the government is afraid that it can't guarantee that it will be able to preserve its own or ours, anyway. And Slovenia is fighting for ours all the time, and we are clearly giving in to our witnesses and this famous statement about the reserve, about the case that the court decides differently than we like. When the agreement for Croatia is favourable, when the agreement that we are talking about today is so ideally the best possible for Croatia, when Croatia loses nothing by agreement, then man asks himself why such a statement. I think it's an immature behavior, and it should have been thought of a long time ago. I argue that today we are in a difficult situation when we are in a relationship with Slovenia than we were after 2001. I would also like to know who put together this agreement, whether Ljubljana and Zagreb, whether the Americans or the European Union. Why was it lying, too, that nothing was agreed outside of that letter sent to Stockholm, and then we got first that famous statement from the Foreign Ministry, and now suddenly a final arbitration agreement. I now see and the Church speaks stand on the ball, and this statement attached to this agreement testifies that no one in the government believes in the outcome of the arbitration itself in favour of the Republic of Croatia. And, yeah, speaking of that famous 11th, and, boy, I don't know now. Three years will be peace, and what will follow then. We will, therefore, enter the European Union. Only after that will a decision be made on the demarcation at sea. I know about what kind, and this is going to happen in a way that in Istria or Croatia is still trading with our own. I said you'll come to mine. If anyone is interested in the best possible relationship with Slovenia, then it's me. I live almost on the border, I know that mentality, we speak the same language. Historically we were always tied together, from the national rebirth that I know through the folk-freedom struggle, from that diplomatic struggle for the western borders of Paris, London, Ozima, to the common development after World War II I don't know, or there in the 1990s, we always performed together at least when it comes to Istria and the Croats and the Slovenians. It came in '93, and that unfortunate Slovenian memo came in, and evil began. It came in 2001 that unfortunate parade and the return is gone. Croatia is, I admit it in an uninvited situation. Slovenia is certainly taking advantage of this situation today. Croatia needs Europe. That should also be said to the Church, clearly to all why, among other things, that it is stolen less, to open up Europe's market, to investment, to get to the euro. Because next year it'll take 10 billion euros, at least that much more. So, over the next two years, it will take up to 25 billion euros, and the external debt will not go from 42.5 billion euros to 15 or 10 today, but will increase to some 55 billion euros. We're right where we are. We need Europe, we need to get rid of the border. But how is the border to be resolved? That line needs to be resolved fairly, it needs to be settled justly without dictatorship, without humiliating any side, and I think it's in action. And I think since you're yelling behind me, Madam Prime Minister, that Croatia is on its knees. Slovenia is not prepared for the slightest gesture, nor to return to Croatia what is ours, to give back to St. Gera, to return those 300 million interest marks clearly for the 115 thousand savings that they have there since '91. who can't even buy the medicine today, is not ready to solve property-legal issues Krško – Good, etc. Croatia on the other hand needs Slovenia as much as Slovenia needs Croatia. I also like to say, that we should not be now to joke under the quotes of larger Slovenians than Slovenians. But this agreement ultimately leads me to lose over a hundred square miles of sea. Now, is that why someone will appreciate you if we agree to everything? I don't think so. We have sent one nation and another upon one another. Economic exchange is I don't know, Slovenians export here a billion and 700 million US dollars. We export a billion and a hundred plus 600,000 tourists or whatever. So there's no deficit, there's no surplus. It's all about the naked interest now. But I think that the agreement is unfortunately not the happiest and after this no one will be able to talk about the Racan-Drnovšek Paraphras – but only Kosor-Pahor. And for the end, I'll say it one more time. We're going back to the 2001 treaty in 2009 and then a real man is asking himself a question, did it take us eight years to go through that agony? And there's an absolute SDP right looking for an apology. But I don't think the Prime Minister's apology on the other hand will give or the government can't, because then she would bless that decision from 2001. All right, Croatia's not going into the European Union is not only Slovenia's fault. She braked all the time. It's also the fault of what's been going on with us that I don't know about corruption and... the uprising and what I know about non-cooperation with The Hague, and all that we had before that war, Bosnia and Herzegovina, etc., but let's let it go now. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The agreement was also heard by President Mesic, whom I respect very much, who is co-creating foreign policy. I assume that the prime minister without Pantovich was doing nothing on her own, but I for... Surely I will not vote for the agreement, because it is necessary to return home, to live with the burden that you have participated in something that may historically determine, as I would say, relations between the neighbours in that area in Istria. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] After entering Europe, I believe nothing will be dramatic, but let's let it go now. I remember a question from Mr. Franjo Tudjman when he asked me why you never said the Slovenians took 15 villages from us. And I said, no, Mr. President, by... 25 records, and this is how he started beating on the table that, that, that. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But don't forget, Mr. President, that at the same time, we won both as a hole and as a dog. He pictured himself and said, "We won't talk about it anymore." Well, you see, that's how it was done, and today it's done differently. Today we are able to lose what is unquestionably ours. As far as the majority is concerned, I will normally defend the thesis of the two-thirds majority, because the agreement gives a mandate to withdraw the borders after our signature. So after the signing, it's over and it'd be over in 2001 if this deal was signed. And why did we insist on the international court all the time? Because we argued that paraphrased agreements do not produce legal effects. But whether it will eventually be a simple, qualified majority remains to be seen. And as someone here has noticed, so perhaps there was no need to discuss it at all in the House, although I absolutely welcome this initiative. The prime minister could sign it on her own, because it is somehow under the authority of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, or the Croatian Government. However, no matter what, we must know that after tomorrow's or the day after tomorrow's signature, there are no more returns, and after 3 years, it means when Croatia will also be a member of the European Union, we will face it in accordance with Article 11, that we will be left without what I have always kept unquestioned Croatian territory along the western coast of Istria. We'll be left with that little triangle where we'll be bordering Italy, that's for sure, no one will take it from us, but after 20 years of an incorrect diplomatic battle, there'll be what's not theirs, and I see we don't know how to defend our own.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-02-0.u41766	Thank you. A few corrections. Mr. Representative Frano Matušić, first.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-02-0.u41767	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, if for the reason of the presidential campaign, there's too few incorrect allegations. First of all, says colleague Cain, why did it lie that nothing was arranged? It wasn't a lie. The evidence is this debate and what the Prime Minister here said before us and the fact that a possible signature will follow after the Croatian Parliament adopts the arbitration agreement. Furthermore, you said the terms of the 2001 agreement were fully implemented here. They were not implemented, because the 2001 agreement had a final solution, and we here only with this arbitration agreement are we going to the international judicial authority to resolve the dispute against international law. And third, the Prime Minister didn't say this was an ideal deal. You're not listening very well. She said this is an agreement that is possible in this time, in this context in which we speak today.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-02-0.u41768	Madam Representative Dubravka Shuica, next correction.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-02-0.u41769	Mr. Vice President. I want to correct a series of allegations that my colleague Cain gave in his very contradictory speech. So he said the president said this was the best deal. The Prime Minister did not say at all that this is the best, but that the only one at this time is possible and that this is taking responsibility and that this is how we end our path towards joining the European Union. And she just denied it by saying that the hardest deal is to create conflicts and war. His second alleged no one in the government believes in the outcome of this agreement. That's just not true. If no one believed at all today this would be before us, and that will follow when we enter the European Union after two to three years. Well, the Prime Minister has just denied it in a way that sitting at a common table will certainly make it easier for us to solve these problems.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-02-0.u41770	Third Amendment, Mr. Representative Boris Kunst.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-02-0.u41771	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, Agent Cain said a series of inaccuracies. I wouldn't have corrected him in that part where he had already decided in fact instead of the arbitration court, where he pronounced a series of inaccuracies. But I'd say it's not true that the prime minister lied that like he said nothing was arranged. Because if anything had been arranged, then we'd be here today, we wouldn't be discussing it here, so there was no secret deal. And in the end, it's not the Prime Minister's decision, it's us here today. So there's no secret deal, no false promise, no other innuendo that Agent Cain said here.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-02-0.u41772	Fourth, Mr. Representative Davor Huška.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-02-0.u41773	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. A fellow Caine said the church was talking about getting on the ball. That's not true. Today, in Croatia, we live 87.83%, and it is normal that the Catholic Church is interested in resolving this extremely important issue for Croatia, show the desire to be in the interest of all Croatian citizens. According to what we heard from our prime minister and government, she is thinking and fighting with all diplomatic means for the best and most just solution without losing one metre of square and sea and land, to repay the debt of the Ljubljanska Banka and parallel to Croatia's entry into the European Union, which today supports far more than 50% of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-02-0.u41774	And the fifth, Ms. Representative Marija Buric Pejcinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-02-0.u41775	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. So here's really in a series of incorrect allegations, I'd fix maybe two. It's the first, to be alleged, that we'll lose the sea. Here's a situation where we have a presidential candidate in the President of the Court of Justice. He already knows the result of this. And another false allegation that we're going back to 2001. We're not going back to 2001. This is a proposal to resolve the dispute, and it is not a proposal for a border agreement. The second will be based primarily on international law and not on a political assessment that was the case before. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-02-0.u41776	SDP representative club, Mr. Representative Zoran Milanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-02-0.u41777	Dear Vice President, respected members of the government, respected colleagues and colleagues. There's been a lot of dust about this arbitration agreement. You may not see it, but it's getting into the lungs, and what we do for who knows what times today, I repeat, we should've done it before. The Government today with an invitation to Article 129. The rules of procedure, which states that the government is proposing and other acts, require the parliament's previous consent so that it can sign an arbitration agreement with Slovenia and seek an ordinary majority. A few days ago, we were meeting in the Banski Dvors, ad hoc raid called me by someone at 10 o'clock in the evening to get to the government, okay, I came, and there I found half the HDZ presidency, 30 people who assured me it was a good deal, and today we're in the Parliament to decide by some ordinary majority. Why? This is not necessary, according to the Law on the conclusion and enforcement of international contracts, the Government has all the authority on all international contracts and agreements, and also on the border agreement to do such things on its own, to carry out the procedure, and then to re-enter the representative body and ask for confirmation or ratification, why didn't you do so? If for several months you've been sovereignly silently negotiating and finally brought us this agreement in which you, in principle, take or leave. Either you take or we will not enter the Union for 10 years, ask us to accept it and tell us, I expected a little more constructive in your performance but you categorically defend what you must and you can defend that this Agreement, which is prescribed in the essential points “Rehn 2”, from June 2009, which your predecessor Ivo Sanader did not want to take from the table in Brussels on 15, 16 and 17 June, and which later in form, letter and spirit and content welcomed you. That's a fact. This Agreement is, as you say, better than "Rehn 1. " Thank God that Slovenians and Rehn are keeping account of us, thank God that they know what's better for us than ourselves, thank God that we were lost as geese in the fog on May 8th when we are on the SDP proposal I will remind you, carried out at a meeting of half of HDZ and several opposition leaders in the High, or in the Banski dvori personally suggested that “Rehn 1.” In his Croatian Parliament, you know why? I thought it wasn't bad, I thought it was from him and we thought, and we made that decision unanimously can produce something that's fair, fair that it's not safe because the trial of judicatures, it's never safe, you never know when it's going to come out but it's set on the right and fair foundations. You've all been in. Then your predecessor left, you became Prime Minister, then you sat down with Mr. Pahora and made a quiet deal, and you brought in "Rehn 2." Which is better than "Rehn 1. " So let's go "Rehn 1. " So the Slovenians will be pleased. There's no such thing as my opinion of great consistency. Something's wrong with that. The better we got with rehn the 2nd, the better you said, rehn the 2nd is better than rehn 1. I'm getting right. We saw you say rehn 2 is better than rehn 1. We've seen this agreement is about that, I'm talking about articles. I'm going to repeat my claim, and I'm going to need you to step with me in a business way. I'll repeat my claim correct it. In its essence, Articles 2 and 3, the article on the composition of arbitration, Article 2 and Article 3 which gives the arbitration work to do and how to do what is required of it. They're Rehn 2. And that's the essence of this Agreement, and that's the difference and that's the difference with Rehn 1. In Rehn one, we're going to arbitration or we're going like this. These days many excited, concerned, informed, less informed citizens intellectuals express their opposition to this Agreement. Because of course it's good, it's responsible but they don't decide. We have decided here in principle to take or leave, here you go, so if you don't decide if you don't raise your hand we won't enter the European Union for 10 years, and that's that, that's how foreign policy and state is run. So they say this isn't good. Ten of the leading international law experts, most of whom I know and know that political and world-class orientations, feel that this is not good. And that's what public statements are about, and that's what worries me the most, so it's not good. Worse than the last one, it's political. Now, let's see what you agreed to and what you allegedly negotiated. Therefore, Article 2 which speaks of the composition of the arbitration court has changed. Dear HDZ gentlemen, there are among you doctors of science, educated people, someone is engaged in international rights, there are several people who worked in diplomacy, I know that these are things that are boring and that from experience, if you have no experience you can hardly read. Have you been briefed whether they've explained to you what's inside, if they've explained to you what's the difference between what you adopted in May and what's now been brought to the table. A supplement appears here, and the government says it is better than Rehn 1, thank God the Slovenians are taking care of us and Rehn, where it says they will be recognised by international law experts based on a list drawn up by the European Commission, Commissioner for Enlargement, President of the Commission, and now I ask why? Why this change was introduced, obviously it wasn't our wish, and it's obviously not our proposal. And the question of Damir Caine who wrote that agreement is an excellent question. We didn't draft it, we didn't write the draft, and there's one proverb in diplomacy all young diplomats know well "Who drifts windows", "who does the draft wins". So, little digression, I'm the president of a party that won't prove to anyone its europeanism, all tolerance, all our reason, we practice it, our openness to people who think differently, people who are of different origin, different faiths, or they're not believers, Croats, Serbs, Jews, Bosniaks, it's not our complex, we don't have it. Roma, Roma, yes, Grubisic, Roma in the City Assembly, yes, you remembered well. Roma who take care of the rights of the Roma. However, this decision, i.e. this proposal for an arbitration agreement, introduces a category in which one political body, the European Commission, for my very own vague reasons, determines who will be elected judges. My people, it's the key to things. I'm not paranoid, I don't think this is a conspiracy against Croatia and I haven't called anyone a traitor or a traitor yet, I'm not even an amateur, but I'm going to say this isn't serious and I'm looking for an explanation of why this is like this I'm going to say. Why has this provision entered into an agreement, that is, to whom does two states, under their sovereign right, propose arbitration themselves? It's so in all arbitration procedures. So someone who wants to be like this has an agenda, has a plan, opposes sovereign law of the state, look out this isn't any pathetic, sovereign rights, today the concept of sovereignty is different than 50 years ago. But in the selection of arbitarians, and only a crazy man steps down from the right to propose himself, along with the other party that is in dispute and that in the event that they cannot agree, but without some list, the choice is done by the International Court of Justice. Why am I doing this kind of introduction, and why is this a huge problem? Because we're missing one crucial ingredient of this contract, the list of arbitarians. Gentlemen, colleagues and colleagues, have you seen that list? Is she irrelevant? Who's on that list? Is there a list, Prime Minister? They say there are legal experts, and you consulted on that? These people will decide the border. Well, you see, if it was "Rehn One" then they'd sign me an agreement and then we'd agree on who these judges are, it's different. There's a list like this that we don't know by which criteria it's drawn up. I'm very curious, I'm very interested in whether the moment he gave his statement and his opinion on this agreement, he knew the President of the Republic, behind whom I will never hide in making decisions, I'm very interested. You have no idea who these people are. Is that Schoebl, is that someone who tried the International Court of Justice? Is it someone who has experience in 10 arbitration or are they officials who have their own bosses? I appreciate red tape, but red tape works for the bosses, even in Belgium, even in Germany. That's my question to you and to you, Prime Minister. And without that clear response and the influence of Croatia on the civil, sovereign right, no right of the 19th century but the rational right that was in "Rehn 1", we have nothing to talk about here. I also invite Prime Minister Pahor to explain why they want it out? Why do they want it out? So in order to get to the third point of the Slovenian concession, I can now speak whether we can live with it or not. I can talk about how you translated that funny word "junction" on which the Slovenians insisted because English so much they know and know that "junction" can't be translated as a link in "Rudolph Filipović" or "Oxford dictionary" or "Webster", but as a point of touch, as a date, as a "railway union", as a intersection of something that would have to be something. Hard with a parachute, hard with the territorial waters of New Zealand. Well, I guess through Croatian territorial waters, I guess, along with the establishment of a regime. That's what I wanted you to say. Please say that, to tell your people, to the Croatian public, you can nod your head as long as you want to try to be as polite as possible, that is true, Croatian translation is an unofficial translation, you also know that. Croatian text is not an official text, English text is the only original. We can translate it into a native language, to standard, to stokwaski, to our dear and authentic waiting, to Cacaucan, that's not it, it's for home use. So, compared to "Rehn 1", "Rehn 2" leaves point A, where it is said that the flow of borders at sea and land between Croatia and Slovenia is determined by the rules of international law, which is not bad, but then, in point B. introduces novelty, completely sets out point B. and says "Slovenia's Union" so, a merger of Slovenia with the open sea. Whatever happens, happens, but it's new, isolated, and it's a warrant for the arbitration court to find that connection. Perhaps, if the Prime Minister convinces us, we accept the interpretation that the arbitration court will write deciding on point B. Slovenia has no "junction" and show the language and place the point. Is that what he'll decide? He won't, because he got a warrant to find that "junction" and find out which way it goes. So, is this the death of Croatia? It's not. Is this a serious job you've done? My opinion is that it's not, that it's far from a serious job. I apologize for the words diplomatic fush, I apologize to diplomats and fushers. Fushers because we've all used their valuable hands and services so many times and there are such masters, and diplomats because they don't really have anything to do with this. I mean plumbers and dentists. Well, he asked, your colleague throws, it's rude, so I answered him. So, as far as the deadlines are concerned, that's not bad, but let's not make it a big success. The previous agreement spoke of arbitration taking place immediately, but it is now under a new provision that procedural deadlines begin at the moment of Croatia's signing of accession agreements. That looks a little better, but the question is, is it even better? The question is, if we start to interpret what would be to, say, settle the arbitration dispute with the basis of the agreement of the 2 sides over the next year, and what would Slovenia block Croatia's entry into the EU? If we look at the logic of mistrust, perhaps, but doubtful, I doubt any government in Slovenia, if in a year the arbitration would be resolved in a way that does not suit them, to say the Croats, here's a fig tree you can't enter. I doubt it, but I can be wrong. So this is some improvement. And finally that famous statement, my first question to you, Mrs. Kosor, at a meeting in the Bane Courts where half the HDZ and us three, four of the opposition, was any statement? What kind of statement is that? Let me tell you, I'm not personally experiencing anything unlike you here, but the meetings of this format in Slovenia are the prime minister, the president of the SD and colleagues, not half of the government. Finally, a statement. My first question at that meeting is what kind of statement is this? Is Slovenia in agreement with it and will Slovenia react to our statement that strikes the essence of their expectations with its statement? You said it was agreed and it was negotiated and it was broken by the spear until the last day. As the spear was broken, we saw it yesterday, in a statement by Borut Pahora. My first question to you was that statement internationally does not mean anything, it undermines what Slovenia advocated in Article 3 b and represents only our beautiful wishes or wishfil opinion. Fortunately, the idea of a wishfil mind does not exist in this agreement, but there is a firm place for it, because this whole agreement is a wishfil thinking, or wish list. To recap and finish because my time is up and I have to respect that. Without the right of this Parliament, but much more than that, without the right of the Croatian public to know who people are in advance, who are the people who are going to settle this dispute, we have nothing to talk about here. And I can't believe you missed it and I can't believe Slovenia would refuse something like that, because it's at the heart of things. It's the right of the people, it's the right of civilized peoples. For Europe we are, we will not prove it to anyone, for dialogue we are unlike you, because unfortunately for the dialogue you were not. You're bringing us here for almost an act, that's not correct. Once again, it's not correct, it's not done that way, and now you expect us to take responsibility. Well, I'll tell you next. We are responsible, but the Croatian public must have this information. Why did you drop him so easily in your negotiations? Let your colleagues in HDZ evaluate that. Thank you. Information on who the arbiters are, which is a list of arbitarians.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-02-0.u41778	Thank you. A few corrections. Mr. Representative Mario Zubovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-02-0.u41779	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. In a sea of incorrect structures, I'm going to mention the first one I reported to, that this is the second Rehn proposal. This is not the second Rehn proposal, this is a proposal that is much better than the one we adopted and we all get together here in the Croatian Parliament. And what I see as you speak, this is just a speech of your vanity, and I can confirm that here they know and that the public knows that you were rude to the Prime Minister at a meeting in the Banski Courts, when she begged you, the prime minister asked you to respect the institution. And your anger was only for your vanity. Because Mrs. Kosor was able to do something that nobody had done before.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-02-0.u41780	Mr. Representative Frano Matušić, second correction.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-02-0.u41781	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, it's incorrect for you to take it or leave it. This agreement is the result of a silent diplomacy agreement, the result of two presidents and the silent diplomacy that was working on it, so that we can see what it is today. Second colleague, when you talk about the fact that we should have seen the list of judges. No one disowns Croatia's sovereign right to elect members of the arbitration court, because in other words, Article 2 which clearly states that both parties will appoint a president and two members of the arbitration court, plus one member each. Yes, from the list to be proposed by the President of the European Commission and the Commissioner. However, among international law experts, a colleague. You said someone was denying us our rights. That's not true. And secondly, did you know the list of judges when you raised your hand for the first Rehn proposal? You're not. Just as you don't know today. What are you talking about? So don't say anything that doesn't stand.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-02-0.u41782	Mrs. Dubravka Shuica's correction. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-02-0.u41783	Mr. President. I also came forward to correct the incorrect allegations relating to the composition of the arbitration court, which was spoken of by Mr Milanovic, saying and incorrectly elaborated Article 1 and Article 2. Because they are just saying if the two sides do not agree within 15 days, then they will be joined by the European Commission of the International Court of Justice in The Hague. And the second article gives the right to place both sides by one member of the arbitration court. In a series of allegations made by Mr Milanovic, demeaning this side of the assembly, saying that we do not understand anything, and by putting... an English language professor who is the only one who knows what the word "junction" means. I think that was completely incorrect.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-02-0.u41784	Thank you. Correction, Mrs. Marija Pejcinović-Buric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-02-0.u41785	Thank you very much, Mr. President. So here I would correct the incorrect allegations that MP Milanovic said was seemingly slightly better, so the fact that the agreement comes into force after the signing of Croatia's accession agreement with the European Union. Now this is a typical situation when diplomat Milanovic becomes a politician Milanovic, because for a diplomat, this would certainly be a much better situation, since what we have been representing will really happen. I think she represented the other apartment, which is to really separate the negotiations from the border dispute. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-02-0.u41786	Thank you. Correction, Jerko Roshin.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-02-0.u41787	Thank you, Mr. President. A few things I wanted to react to as incorrect allegations, but it's already been said. And you'd look at one in particular. It's a matter of interpretation of this agreement. Namely, counterpart Milanovic said this is practically an incorrect text, because it is in Croatian, and the original is in English and relevant. If only the English text is relevant, then I guess we should have talked here in the Parliament on English and English structures, not in Croatian. No, I know, it's clear to me, but we can only talk in Croatian here, we can't speak in English. Therefore, there is no alternative, which he pointed to. But I could also point out that the question of the word "junction" can be interpreted in other ways. But this is about a text that has entered both with a certain faith and with certain arrangements to go in that direction that it is. I have no right, no one has the right to give a different interpretation. However, the impression is that there is something else behind it, which is that there is actually one regret and envy that he did not participate in these negotiations. I think the government has its office, and the Parliament has its own.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-02-0.u41788	Thank you very much. Madam Prime Minister, Jadranka Kosor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-02-0.u41789	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Ladies and gentlemen. I only volunteered to help clear up some misunderstandings, without any intention of polemics. I think that I am certain from what Mr Milanovic said that, among other things, he does not know enough procedure to be carried out in the Croatian Parliament, which is why the Croatian Government must do. Namely, from the declaration, i.e. according to the declaration of state of interstate relations between the Republic of Croatia and the Republic of Slovenia in 1999, the Croatian Government is required and here I will quote point 11. "Before the final signing of the treaty on the establishment of border lines at sea and land," so with Slovenia, "the government is obliged to substrate for confirmation" writes here, a harmonised text of the treaty that intends to sign with the authorities of the Republic of Slovenia. And that's exactly what I'm doing. So, the government has to subdue to the Croatian parliament because Mr Milanovic claims that I could have signed it like this and what is not true, it is not true. The declaration binds us and at the very least representatives of the Croatian Parliament and the Government must respect that declaration. So, out of respect and duty, otherwise I can't even sign the agreement. Of course, this declaration was in force at times other when the Racan-Drnovšek Agreement was initialled and when the declaration was not respected, when something was agreed that was extremely unfavourable for Croatia. The difference between then paraphrasing, signing, paraphrasing, as you will of today's event is that I am coming before you to give me permission to sign what I remember at that time did not support the agreement that was already initialled, which was initialled far from the public eye, which was unfavourable for Croatia where we gave up part of the territory. And of course, because he didn't get support in the coalition, of course, he didn't get support then or in the Parliament. The difference between that is that I have the support of the coalition, I have the support of certainly all parties to the coalition and all MPs and representatives of the coalition in the Croatian Parliament. Mr Milanovic also interprets it and I must say it for the public above all that this agreement is prescribed so-called. "Rehn Two." That is not true because at a time when Mr Milanovic said he suggested that the so-called "Rehn One" was supported in the Croatian parliament, negotiations were not unblocked. And today when we discuss this and I ask the Parliament if I will sign the negotiations are unblocked, in the meantime they are closed and open many chapters. The so-called The "Rehnu One" Mr Milanovic mentioned was not also Mr Milanovic, which is interesting not to refer to any of the 11rd points, which says all procedural deadlines will run from the moment Croatia signed an accession agreement that actually becomes a member of the European Union. That's the difference. Second, about the so-called. The famous "junction" so nobody's particularly happy. Ask Slovenians, Slovenian MPs will see that they are not too happy about this formulation, but now they can say what they were not able to say. You must know that the Slovenians asked to enter the so-called so-called. The formulation of "teritorial contact", meaning it was an amendment to the so-called "terroral contact". "Rehn One" which the Croatian Parliament accepted and, as you know, did not pass in Slovenia. So we're talking about looks of shades but things that are very different in time when we were discussing so-called. "Rehn One" in the Croatian Parliament and on an agreement that is ahead of us that leads to a possible final solution. Around the arbiter, you're looking for a list of arbitarians. Mr Matusic was well told by a Croatian Democratic Community representative who is constantly mentioned here that the list was not presented to MPs or in a debate in May, so you all agreed, a possible agreement which, unfortunately, has not been signed. So, I have to say that I can't be surprised that he's doubtful because here it's clear that we're going to get to these arbitarians who are recognized judges, who are highly esteemed experts so that they doubt the way they choose, which means that ultimately, I can't be surprised at it, doubting the European Commission if you will. Well, I mean, the European Commission will play us all. Well, at least that's absurd. And on the other hand, I think that no world-renowned expert can put his authority, his knowledge, his profession at the end, and everything he has done in life to judge ultimately in favour of one or another country, but to rule in accordance with international law as clearly as it states in this agreement. Therefore, it will be tried on the basis of other international law. I wonder why Mr. Milanovic thinks that, for example, Dr. Vukas or here is our minister, Mr. Šimonović, who has a great diplomatic experience, is not known and acknowledged by experts, and I am interested in what is more than a dozen experts who oppose this agreement explicitly. As for the unilateral statement that I have made clear to you, I have discussed it with Prime Minister Pahor, said that Croatia will come out with a unilateral statement and that it will be back on the agenda before the ratification of the agreement in both parliaments or in this case in the Croatian Parliament. But it's simply a sad fact that someone else is more trusted, more believed in this case by Prime Minister Pahor than by the Croatian prime minister, and that's what I am, I'm not going to say it grieves me, I'm a little surprised, but the fact that we're standing before is the fact. And it is not true that the Croatian Parliament was put before the final act. The Croatian Parliament has this agreement ahead of it, it can decide in two ways, accept or support me to sign it or decide that it is not good for Croatia, that negotiations are being interrupted, that Croatia has a completely uncertain future for joining the European Union. That's two possibilities. Also around the finding that both Mr Milanovic and the leaders of the opposition were invited to raid the government. If this is about questions that are important for Croatia, I think it is enough to send a call 24 hours in advance. And if necessary, I would be willing to respond within 5 minutes because we all have to work for Croatia 24 hours a day, if necessary, if more than that is possible. And the fact that half the HDZ was sitting in the government. I want to warn you that's not true first. They were, of course, HDZ leadership, all the leaders of the coalition's parties who sat at a meeting that was just before but because of one single fact that is still important at the moment, which is that HDZ is leading the state with its coalition partners. And that's the only reason we sat there and waited and explained with much patience. I wouldn't comment on diplomatic fusch, but I think we should really discuss what this agreement provides, what opportunities for Croatia, and then decide by the end of the day whether the Government will sign it or not, and that's all, according to the 1999 declaration.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-02-0.u41790	Thank you. We have a few corrections. He's the first vice president, Mr. Neven Mimica. Here you go. No, he's giving up. Mr. Rajko Ostojic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-02-0.u41791	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Madam Prime Minister. A colleague of Roshin, Minister Jandroković, all of you who mention a union, a relationship, etc., in America children of 16 years of age are taking your driving test. ... Junction, connection, date, definition, Mr. Zubovic, allow me to finish... [[Everyone speaks out loud, they don't understand.]] Unction...... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] And Mrs. President. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Unction is the definition of... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-02-0.u41792	Please! We allow everyone democratically to express our views even if it is a matter of time off from the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-02-0.u41793	Thank you for your permission, Mr. President, but this doesn't go away. Junction English, Croatian intersection, intersection, touch point, Google it. At 16 years of age, children take a driving exam and the question is, "What is the union?"so who has the right to pass through the intersection, through the intersection. I am my exam, Mr. Zubovicu...... A driver's pass in New York with excellent success, therefore a union... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-02-0.u41794	Thank you!
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-02-0.u41795	Please, Minister Jandrokovic, if you don't have a driver's license, I'll teach you what a union is, I'll teach you what a traffic light is and what a connection is.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-02-0.u41796	Thank you! ... Please! ... [[Everyone speaks out loud, they don't understand.]] Please! [[Everyone speaks out loud, they don't understand.]] The important thing of the Croatian state is decided and please allow maximum tolerance in the debate. ... Please! [[Everyone speaks out loud, they don't understand.]] Everyone's gonna get a word in with whoever's asking. Let's not go below the level of problems we're talking about. There's a correction coming, Mr. Zoran Milanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-02-0.u41797	Your Honor. Dear Prime Minister, Ms. Kosor, Croatian Prime Minister. ... All right, all right. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] So, about the fusah and the diplomatic fusa, but I'm correcting the wrong quote, so I'm gonna stick to it. '99 Declaration. For years, he's talking about acceptance, about signing. Prime Minister Racan brought the initial text to this parliament and got political beatings for him, political beatings. He didn't sign it. Seven years later, eight years later we're where we are. So much for your interpretation of the declaration and what Racan did or didn't do. I skipped it on purpose. So he came to the Parliament with an agreement that wasn't signed, so it's not true that he broke the declaration. The agreement was not signed the moment he arrived. Article 11, look unlike you, I listened to you, I was outside, but I listened to what you were saying. I've been talking about article 11, almost two minutes, and everything you've said in this regard is wrong. So, I said that there was a change and a problem with how much more favourable it is for Croatia at all. And finally a list of arbitarians. Well, dear gentlemen, dear HDZ representatives who are fighting for the favor of the Prime Minister to correct the wrong allegations, please... [[Everyone speaks out loud, they don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-02-0.u41798	Thank you!
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-02-0.u41799	Read the agreement, so in "Rehn 1"...... [[Everyone speaks out loud, they don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-02-0.u41800	Thank you! ... Thank you very much. [[Everyone speaks out loud, they don't understand.]] Please... You'll be able to pick up another time, so for now, I think it's... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-02-0.u41801	No, no, no, we're not gonna answer that again because I've been turned off...
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-02-0.u41802	Please!
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-02-0.u41803	A list of arbitarians, crucial and important, read the agreement. "Rehn 1" doesn't talk about the list of arbitarians because it's not there, because it's gonna be state-owned after they sign the agreement themselves. This "Rehn 2" is talking about a list of arbitarians who put together a commission. We don't know who these people are, and we don't know that they're teachers. Mrs. Kosor, so tell me who these people are... [[Everyone speaks out loud, they don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-02-0.u41804	Thank you very much!
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-02-0.u41805	That's crucial information. You've been listening wrong. Without that list of people, this is a show. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-02-0.u41806	Please! It can be tolerance, but it has its limitations as well. Please! Let us be, I ask of you tolerance, prudence and political wisdom. Why did we get a mandate? We decide and everyone will be able to declare themselves by voting, so let's not get excited, everyone has the right to say and finally raise their hands for this or that. Please, nice. Mr. Dragutin Lesar, correction.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-02-0.u41807	Madam Prime Minister, Mrs. Kosor, you said the basis for proposing or your request for the prior consent of the 1999 Assembly of Declarations is the 1999 Parliament. You have thus confirmed my position that no provision of the Constitution or the law provides for such a procedure. But how come you didn't call for a declaration on this submission you signed with the Parliament? How come there's no calling for a declaration in the preamble? And finally, most importantly, please tell me there is no misunderstanding during the debate and before the vote, which do you consider to be in agreement with the majority of the Parliament? A simple, semi-half or two-thirds, or maybe that's what the declaration says? I think it's very important. What majority of the votes do you think you've been given the consent to sign the contract? ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-02-0.u41808	I owe it to the Rules of Procedure to explain, so I will answer your question in this regard. For this, let me put it this way, the support that the Parliament could possibly give to the Prime Minister to sign this agreement is required by the majority of Croatian MPs present at the session. That means there can't be less than 77 MPs because then there's no quorum. That's one thing. The second thing is that the prime minister is quite right to seek the widest possible support of all parties in the Croatian Parliament. She specifically said it, she wants it, she actually made it possible and suggested that the debate be delayed a little while because it could have been on Friday as regards the political position of these or those. She could refer to the procedure, put it in the agenda, put it on the agenda all within the Rules of Procedure. But it's not. It has multiplied everything, given to all MPs on Friday and wants to get as much support as possible for the Croatian Parliament for this agreement. In the end, you will decide what support it is. So let's not, and when it's ratified, that's another question. When the Parliament is the only one who can decide to change the border. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Please, it's all in the Constitution. We are obliged to discuss this issue in a democratic way and ultimately take a position. Everyone will be able to plead, and let's be patient in the debate. Let's not charge each other. Everyone has a right to speak their mind. And finally, we have another correction to the incorrect quote of Vice-President Zeljka Antunovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-02-0.u41809	I give up, it's already fixed.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-02-0.u41810	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, it's the SDSS Club and Mr. Representative Milorad Pupovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-02-0.u41811	Mr. President, Madam Prime Minister, colleagues and colleagues. One of our writers said for literary purposes that the homeland is a difficult issue. And indeed it is. I'm saying that one of our writers in one of his texts a few years ago said, "The House is a difficult question." And indeed it is. And it's a long time for us in Croatia, 20 years. And we can't get to a time when it's going to be something easier and something for us, who live our country more relaxed. Of course, its borders as well as the borders of any other man's homeland are not and can't be an easy question. I deliberately say borders, not territory, because some today want to identify these two questions by suggesting that we're still moving within the last 20 years and that we can't get out of them. The territory as a difficult issue has been dealt with badly, with severe consequences, but the boundaries as a easier question are being resolved. Now, how do we handle this? One of us who isn't between us tried to solve it the way mature policies are trying to solve it, which is a bilateral, political, state-run deal eight, nine years ago. He took on all the risks that, in this matter as well as others, he would be declared a lack of respect for his country, not to say a more difficult word and come with it before the Parliament convinced that he was doing the best thing for his country, that the question would not be complicated, that the question would not be disturbed on the road without which this country has no perspective, and I would dare say there is no good future, which is Europe. He came before the Parliament and there were those who didn't discuss the measure of things but discussed whether he betrayed or didn't betray his country, whether he sold or didn't sell his country. And it's fair for Ivica Racan to tell him his name here, he wasn't a man who sold himself in anything, and at least in that sort of thing. But someone felt it was good to promote such a policy to win over the government and understand Croatia's position. The government is conquered, the government passes, but the problems of the homeland always remain the same if only for the sake of power. I hope that those of us here today who need to decide on this arbitration agreement will not be burdened with this kind of question and this kind of dilemma. I hope we learned something in these eight lost years. If we're not, maybe someone will decide to give us a few more years to learn. I hope that there are those who are, I did not sit in this House at the time, but who are sitting and remembering the atmosphere and who remember the consequences and I hope in particular to think about our colleagues from the SDP as well as our colleagues from HDZ that they will not let that happen. Now allow me, I hope there will be no paradox as it seems, given how the debate has begun, that HDZ will become SDP and SDP will become HDZ. I hope that doesn't happen in this thing. As far as the consequences of the lost eight or nine years are concerned, I have noticed three of the most difficult and huge consequences of this policy and that. The first is political divisions, mistrust, the deepening of political divisions to those who are more committed and those who are less committed, to those who can be trusted when things about the homeland are about those who cannot be trusted. That division feels today. Not so drastic anymore, but she feels today. The most difficult thing is that those initiators, who are not in the Assembly, are allowed to try to enter the division among MPs in the Assembly. The hardest part is that those who do not have the burden of choice and the will of the people believe that MPs should listen to them, not listen to their political rationality and their constitutional commitment to find a solution that would be best for this country, in line with what their constitutional obligation is, given that they were, and that they are the result of parliamentary democracy. I hope in this sense that this House will protect us from this kind of influence and that we will make a decision in accordance with our conscience, our responsibility. And we won't let the outside of that divide the inputs between the things that are the matter of our shared responsibility, and mine. And a colleague from HDZ, and a colleague from the SDP and the HNS and everyone else. It's time for us to overcome these divisions, and it's time for those outside us to try and deepen the divisions we say we won't accept them. Secondly, in those 8 or 9 years, lost years, I also said that about the debate on Rehn's second proposal, so the former prime minister violently attacked me because it wasn't about lost years and there would be no solution that would be worse than what was signed in 2001. And that is 8 or 9 years lost because we have suffered a stalemate on our way to the European Union, because we have suffered a stalemate in reform, because we have suffered a stalemate in control, democratic, control of government and the will of those taking over power. We have suffered a stalemate towards the European Union and have not been able to take advantage of all the advantages that this Union approach brings and have not been able to take advantage of. Shall we open up another chance for that stalemate? Are we going to risk representatives here in the Croatian Parliament risking to our voters and telling the people that instead of a year, two will enter the European Union in 2014. Is someone going to say that? Will someone put that on a referendum? And will someone explain to people what this means and what these consequences are for this country and for this people? Maybe that works for someone. Someone with some kind of power, someone with some kind of money, someone with some kind of monopoly. But many people in Croatia, especially workers who lose their jobs, especially peasants who will lack resources to support them, are certainly not responding to those people if someone has separated the fog that someone here has been trying to create in the last two days, and we have, among other things, contributed to this fog beginning to stretch because we acted irresponsiblely several days ago. And finally, the worst thing is when such difficult questions are used to distract attention from real questions. This government and all of us here in the Parliament should continue to fight corruption, protect the state budget and state finances and the state money from taking it as anyone wants, given the political influence, power, connections and anything else. It's the only significant fortune we have left. And we will draw attention to that and instead of focusing on it, to focus on it and to try to influence that an international legal instrument, which is arbitration, use it for our own good and for our own purposes, and to build a partnership with countries that may have their own influence in that arbitration, we will decide to tear down the partnership, not to influence arbitration. I don't understand that. And I can't understand. Whatever possible reason it is. As for the very thing. The court's composition is problematic if we don't do anything. And if we let without our obvious, without our position, which we are entitled to under this agreement, agree upon the composition of a court that will be contrary to the assessment of our interests. If we don't want to, ladies and gentlemen, and the public has to know that and no one has the right to deceive her. Under this agreement, neither Olli Rehn nor the President of the Commission will do so, will the President of the International Court of Justice. If we don't make a deal. And if it doesn't suit us and our interests. And if we notice that there are lists that don't suit us, we're here to say no, we don't accept such lists. We want this to be determined by a metric court. This agreement is guaranteed and needs to be told to the people. And they should not be disturbed by those who need to do the job, but should be supported to elect the best composition for Croatia. The International Court of Justice is probably the best, most measurable in that sense to say it. As for "junction," I'd be a little more careful with that when we discuss someone else's word about our skin, especially if we're in that amateur interpretation. It's almost like someone's throwing us a bone without anything, and we need to gnaw around that bone. I'd be against it, too. We are a poor country still in many ways, we are a troubled people, but just because someone throws us some linguistic bone so that we can eat around it, I have such a minimum patriotism, so I'll say no. What's possible about that? It's possible more than that. Not what my esteemed colleague Cain says... Infiltration and territory. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It's possible more than that. What's that? It is up to us to work as hard as possible to create more possibilities and that the court of arbitration can choose between them, not just ours or theirs. Or territorial concession or nothing else. That's not true. That's certainly not how the court is going to work, and we need to make sure it doesn't work. As for the statement. The statement is a good protection mechanism. It is not only a fig tree of the Prime Minister or of anyone else but a strengthening of the position and understanding of Croatia in this matter, and let us not make it difficult for the status of that statement and let us not make it more difficult for those who will testify. And finally, I believed and still believe that this difficult topic is an opportunity for some kind of political community in this House, there are other topics that are no easier when it comes to resolving these issues, and Croatia is facing and emergency answers are sought. I thought and still think that the people's interest in solving these issues is looking for some kind of community. It doesn't have to be formalized, but it can be known as the responsibility of those of us who represent the people. If we miss that opportunity, let the redistributions, let the rediscover, let the distraction do something that is certainly not the interest of those who chose us, it is certainly not the interest of those for whom we meet here today and we meet regularly according to Business and other obligations. And that's why colleagues and colleagues I don't plead for what anyone will say for yes or no, but I plead for access, the issues I mentioned at the beginning, it's a difficult question for the country to approach this issue as it does, and also for the question of its borders, because it's one of the difficult issues that we have to solve so that we can move uninterruptedly towards an association that is of our national interest and of the interests of all our citizens, regardless of whether they see it or not at some point, but we need to see it. And that's why cheap giving up even cheaper attitudes in this respect is extremely politically irresponsible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-02-0.u41812	We have one correction, Mr. Niko Rebic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-02-0.u41813	An incorrect colleague said that the signing of the Drnovšek-Racan Agreement had done no harm or sold territory. Worse fellow, the former prime minister has given Savudrija Val a gift of nothing, and the consequences of that are here and who knows what he will be like in the future. I hope we'll never get to that opportunity again as it was when that Agreement was initialled. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-02-0.u41814	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, at 11:05 p.m., it's past 10 minutes' notice. Let's move on. It is up to the Club of HSS and Mr. Representative and Vice President Josip Friscic to be with you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-02-0.u41815	Mr. President of the Parliament, the Honorable Prime Minister, distinguished members of the government, colleagues and fellow MPs. Let me welcome you and I first, then certainly about the topic we are discussing today, reminding me that when we were in the campaign, when we ran, when we were in front of the citizens two years ago setting goals for working on the international plan, which our priorities were actually no different. We all said then it is national security related through NATO and it is a question of our perspective, the realization of our goals and aspirations and new relations through the entry into the European Union. We are aware that, at one point in time, at the realization of this second objective, because the first one we achieved, to realize this second goal was formally raised by one issue that we had once again had a consensus when we talked about the issue of relations, the question of borders, the question of relations between us and our neighbours should not and should not be a question of continuing negotiations, opening up, closing chapters and our path to the Union. We've been through different stages of interpretation, the importance of that question. Realising that it is not primarily, aware that it is not only because it is then and these days also confirms that the European Union was not actually ready for enlargement before it regulates individual views and relations within its members, or before the constitution is adopted first, but then as a minimum, the Lisbon Agreement. We have now welcomed again the moment when this Agreement was adopted and when the last member will sign it and when we are given the chance to speed up certain processes, but then we come back to the scene again. Our willingness, our determination whether we want to realize it or not. It is now clearly set, and this Agreement confirms that one negotiation process and another resolving the issue of relations between neighbours and borders but also that there is a willingness and determination to help us because we know that borders have formed throughout history, as well as in our recent past, some thought that they can form and resolve the issue of borders. They thought it was a war, an occupation, a NATO member and certainly no such danger. The second question is discussion and agreement between the two countries. We had one commission, we had another commission, we had, to the Parliament an agreement that came, we all exhausted it together, maybe not to the end we spent it because if anything else, then the experts who worked on it needed it in all those stores and evidences that this agreement was talking about, but it didn't get the results either. And now we have a proposal that included the European Union, including the United States and offering and certain guarantees and giving us some suggestions on how to do it. And how do we react? If the agreement states that international law experts will decide on this, then we will have most of the debates and what is sent and the messages to the public and what are based on certain messages, that is, they will steal us, they are not people who want us well. We fear whom they will propose in the arbitration court. Gentlemen, we are not going to Europe if we think that there are people in the European Commission who want evil in Croatia. Let's not accept such principles then, but we don't trust our profession either, because the government had a conversation with us with Professor Vukas, and then many asked him, and then there was a loud question: "Professors part of the profession thought differently, so did you read the regulation on the rights of the countries at sea?". He said to us, "Lords did not read but wrote." And is someone to be trusted now? I trust him even though there are those, and their opinions should be respected, who think differently. Do we have a certain fear? We have, he's always justified, he's welcome because there's one difference between us and Slovenia they're a member, and we're not. But this agreement is precisely in one of its articles saying that all actions will arise when we "de facto" will be a member. And then I don't see why anyone at that table, where we're going to sit, would like Slovenia more than they love us. I think we need to clearly through today's debate and give an answer to what it was before Parliament in 2001, and what it is today. At that time, it was an agreement that said what, who gives, what gives, and who gives, and today it is an agreement that we negotiate or determine how we deal with issues. And do we have an alternative? We do, and that's why this isn't the "take it or leave it" document. The alternative is, we don't adopt it, maybe the process will go further with the steps and pace it's going to take, but we're also taking responsibility for their impasse, and I don't think that once we've all stood up together and fought and we've shown that we don't want to support those others because we don't mind that there are other thoughts for some Balkan integrations, etc. That there are those who think we should all be together, not what President Mesic used to say, like those boats after each other when whoever gets the conditions, but all together attached as one composition. I think it's exactly a chance not to be. That what we've been doing so far, all the things that have been done through the adjustments, to get the equipment, to take advantage of that chance, and to help others after that because we never said we didn't want them, that they're also not on that path, but I don't think we're the ones who should stay in the waiting room while someone else is going to make the conditions or make some moves. In the way of preparing the agreement, every document when it is prepared, when it is seriously prepared, if the next day starts to debate it, and then especially if the political options are fundamental markings or commitment to its understanding and acceptance, then it is difficult to conquer and I think it is good that he has come before us in the whole proposal and we have the opportunity to read about it, define and when, and these days it will be very important, who wants to protect or protect national interests, what I am convinced of, and I am sure that none of us sitting here wants to betray national interests, what it is ours to give to someone else, give to someone else, and be the one who will tomorrow history as such to remember and write. And as for the interpretation of certain provisions or words when translated into other languages, then I am in favour of discussing in a manner and document written in Croatian, and then in translations, let it be as the esteemed colleague said, that this English word actually says who has the right to pass through the intersection and not to determine whose intersection it is. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-02-0.u41816	Thank you. Mr. Agent Ivan Chehok on behalf of the HSLS Club, SDH. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-02-0.u41817	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Madam Prime Minister, Vice-Presidents, ministers, ladies and gentlemen. In one of the most inspiring bodies in our culture in Plato's state, Tasimah and Socrates discuss righteousness. Tasimah, a well-known sophist, says to Socrates, "justice is nothing but the benefit of a stronger one", in which Socrates, on his own, a unique mayhem, from question to question, from word to word, tries to show and prove that righteousness is still equal distribution and the possibility that each party, every entity, in a possible distribution, will equally receive, equally acquire, and no one will be damaged. This sophistical arrangement that justice is a greater benefit, later on, it was based not only on state affairs, but on the basis of unfortunately relations between states, and unfortunately today often on international order. And the fact is that by discussing this agreement today, the fact is that today by discussing the whole complex of issues with the Republic of Slovenia, we are left with bitter taste in our mouths, that it is a sophistic impedimenter or what has become a sophistical impediment, indeed today in some way determining the international order and even order within the European Union. And that it is achieved so that justice is the benefit of the stronger or at least the benefit of the one when it comes to the specific question of who first reached the European Union, so Slovenia as members, or us still standing at the door. I'm not saying that because I don't think we should agree to compromises. You know the compromise is a perdeficient agreement with which both sides are equally dissatisfied. And when you read everything that is being debated in the Slovenian public today, I live in a town that is closest to Slovenia, when you read what is being discussed in our professional, quasi professional or yet politics of the colored professional public, you will see that we are equally dissatisfied. And our public is equally dissatisfied at the same points at which the Slovenian public is equally dissatisfied. And that's exactly what compromise is all about. It's a deal both sides are equally dissatisfied with. We may try to measure our dissatisfaction or Slovenian dissatisfaction more or less. But dissatisfaction is absolutely a dominant or overwhelming feeling that you will be able to read about here. Take only Slovenian presses or look at the electronic media either as much as ours or see if we can already use the voice of the people so hegelian, what they say on the beach or quite ordinary citizens driving by tram, train or on the street. And not only the feeling of dissatisfaction but also the fear, the anxiety of a certain interpretation of certain words, articles, agreements, agreements, what lies behind the agreement. Therefore, the fact is that we have to agree to such a compromise just to avoid this, that this damn sophism, that righteousness is a greater benefit, we feel on our own example. But in that case, avoiding it. I think that we are obliged and I think that the Prime Minister, including President Mesic, has said well that risks exist, that we are obliged to tell the citizens of this country, that the damn paradox is just that we are to enter the European Union, in order to achieve our national and civic goals, if you want our historic goals, that we must actually remove or postpone all this issue until the moment that Croatia enters the European Union. It is not within the European Union and before that we simply cannot resolve this issue, this complex of issues, prevail. In fact, to enter today, so to unearth that door and have a final ticket, to complete negotiations and to join, we must actually postpone the arbitration procedure when Croatia becomes or when it joins the European Union. I just want to say that the European Union, unfortunately, in which we rely as in the international legal order, does not have effective mechanisms for Slovenia, as well as other countries. And so let's not tell the citizens of this country, we are entering the European Union because we will find ourselves there because then we will take on a more effective legal order, because that is exactly the question that shows that this is not the case. And that there is no mechanism solid and secure that can be overcome by such disputes internationally. And that, in that sense, often and that international European order seems to be a right stronger. Not only in this matter, but also in many other issues, so if you want to be economic. And when we talk about choosing less evil today, accepting a conscious and part of the risk that can arise, because we choose less evil, to achieve our ultimate goal or ultimate purpose if you want our political action, that is, to join the European Union, then let us not say that it will be the greatest damage in what may be the year later, perhaps not in 2011 but 2013. And let's not say that we do it as soon as possible because then we're going to make it easier for the citizens and that they're going to get better, because that's not true. As we enter the European Union, we will live in the first place harder, we will have a blow to the standard, to the existential standard, to different categories. If there's nothing else we'll have to change our habits, and you know that the habit is a hundred pains, we'll have to overcome our narrowness of mentality. I'm just talking about not signing this agreement and agreeing to this minor evil justification by making it our priority to join the European Union in the sense that we have to enter immediately next year, in two years, and that we are doing it because citizens will be better immediately. That's not simply true. Let's just say that this is a long-term goal and that entering the European Union in the long term does not immediately create certain other foundations that can raise both living standards and security and legal order, and legal certainty, and citizens' rights and different other rights. I'm just saying that because I don't want it to happen to us. I'm sure it won't happen to us that we're going to go in like geese in the fog, but I don't want us to go in as sour turkeys, and I don't want us to have a bitter taste of this with Slovenia, but the citizens will realize that what we promised them, that honey and milk have been flowing since 2010, that it didn't happen. So we're not going in like geese in the fog, but let's not go in there like sour turkeys. Let us be realistic, let us realistically understand what brings us access if we remove already at risk, with bitter taste and such issues as relations with Slovenia. As for the possibility that the judges we choose are not something that can be trusted and that is a question that should be questioned in advance and doubted, of course I would always recommend the methodological "cum grano salis" should always be a little bit and doubtful but they are absolutely right to say that any doubt within the European Commission will not be able to choose reliable judges, the just judges do not really question the arbitration process itself and the arbitration court itself but will question our trust in the European Commission at all. So let us ask ourselves, then, should we not radically doubt everything then, and radical doubt means actually doubt, then and in the sense that we should join the European Union at all. Therefore, we must find an instance that will if we do not agree to determine these judges. We must believe if we do not always believe that the international legal order is always based on the principle of justice that they are as individuals, therefore individually according to their moral habitat and their legal competence, such as to provide us with reliable judges. I think it should be at least doubted, of course, with one more time I repeat the methodological "cum grano salis" and when it comes to this "junction" and when it comes to some other issues that certainly open the risk. It's always been the worst thing in history for us if you want to be a little historical when we're wearing rags, just remember a river cloth on certain words and on certain agreements, and that word can be a cloth. It can carry with it different interpretations and, of course, it is a risk that it is a legally denominable concept then there would be no compromise. But I am absolutely convinced that with the art, with the prudence and the justice of the judges and with our skills, we can still come to a compromise that will be mutually satisfactory. And let me finally congratulate both the Prime Ministers and the Government, I think that we and the Prime Minister had not only one possible question in front of us, but we also had the burden of all prime ministers who were trying to do something to them. We also had the burden of blocking negotiations, we had the burden and context of this sophism, which I say that justice is a greater benefit and that Slovenians unfortunately today are part of the European Union and we are not and that they can dictate the conditions. And I think it's really an skill to come to an agreement that's least evil and that's the least of the risks. And that is why we will accept such an agreement.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-02-0.u41818	Thank you. On behalf of the HNS club, Ms. Vesna Pusic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-02-0.u41819	Thank you. Mr. President, Madam Prime Minister, members of the government, colleagues and colleagues. My colleague Chehok said in the end that he would support, and I thought he would fire-refused, until the last minute he kept us in doubt whether he was speaking for or against the deal. I'll start on behalf of the HNS club in another way. First, let's get this straight. We are discussing that non-existent part of the agreement between our prime minister and Slovenian Prime Minister Pahor, and I think this situation just shows that such an approach should be avoided in principle. So, if something is being negotiated and there is no content to be said, there can be quiet diplomacy but it can be said and it is natural to agree on it. But you should tell the people we're talking about. It's a topic where we haven't reached an agreement, but it's the subject of an agreement, and it's not a claim, it's nothing, and then you find yourself among other things in the situation that we've been in today. And the second thing we're talking about, so this is an integral part of that agreement, which is the first part of the letter to the Swedish presidency, and the second part is this part that was agreed to no doubt, which was claimed to exist. Secondly, what we're discussing, I think it's important to clear up. We are discussing paraphrase, so signing by the President of our Government and the President of the Slovenian Government of this arbitration agreement. It's the present step. When these agreements are initialled or signed by both presidents, the government will come back to one and the other parliament for ratification. So we'll vote on this one more time. I think it's important that we clear this up so we know what's on the agenda today. So today we do not ratify this agreement, it must return to parliament to be ratified. This is only Parliament's consent to paraphrasing or signing by the two presidents of the government. Now the facts I'm texting an agreement. In the opinion of the HNS Club, three key points are in this proposal for an arbitration agreement. One, though not chronologically the first but most importantly, are the first tasks of the arbitration court. The three tasks of the arbitration tribunal shall be determined. The first is the agreement, so what the Court of Justice has to do if we agree. The first is the setting of borders on land and sea between Croatia and Slovenia. The second is a merger or touch, as the connection here writes in the unofficial version, so a merger or touch of Slovenia towards the open sea and is the third regime for the use of relevant or appropriate marine areas. That's three assignments. The first border on the sea and land, the second touch of the Slovenian territorial and international and third regimes in the relevant territory. The second point we're talking about, I'm going to go back to these three, the second point we're talking about is how we choose judges to participate, or be judges in that arbitration court, which I'm also going to go back to. And the third order of time is the outcome of the arbitration and entry of Croatia into the European Union. So I'll take my turn. As regards the determination of the border flow between Croatia and Slovenia on land and sea, so the first task of the arbitration court. That decision under this Agreement shall be taken solely by the basis of international law. It's something we've been looking for, and we think it's a good thing it is. So I am not based on any other rules but on the basis of international law. Another task is the connection of Slovenia or the touch of Slovenia towards the open sea. This is decided on by the basis of international law, the principle of justice and good neighbourly relations, as well as on the third point, which is the regime on the relevant territory. So here we have one foundation that we originally advocated in establishing borders and for the other two tasks we have a foundation that is actually closer to Slovenia's position, i.e. it contains what Slovenia has requested. The choice of judges. The choice of judges is different than in anything that we have discussed here so far, because it is neither proposed nor executed by a judicial body but suggests a list from which it is elected, proposed by the President of the European Commission, Commissioner for Enlargement, whoever it is. This is a sensitive and poorer solution than that of any kind of legal criteria or criteria used in the selection of judges, and that is the subject which, in the opinion of the CNS and in my personal opinion, to which we need to add something as our prerequisite and which we need to strengthen. Finally, a third point or a key task in this Agreement is defined as the outcome of arbitration. It's a positive shift compared to what we've seen so far, unlike choosing judges. It is a positive shift because Croatia's entry into the European Union is not conditional on the outcome of arbitration and the Court of Justice's decision. Therefore, the arbitration court will make its own right in this respect very clearly after Croatia becomes a full member of the European Union. We are faced at this time with the fact that Croatia has two key interests. The first interest is entering the European Union, and the second is definitely setting the border between Croatia and Slovenia. Why, perhaps, is it not bad to go back a little, our interest in entering the European Union? For economic reasons, because the fact that in all the countries that entered in 2004, the standard has been raised since they entered the European Union, for reasons of peace, stability, various other reasons that we can list here. However, in my deep belief, more and more important than all of this is the reasons that lie in our historical knowledge, if you look at Croatian history only in the last hundred years, and may be less, that for us the European Union is an institutional guarantee, that even as metaphorically spoken and the crazy head comes the crown, that we have certain stability of the state and institutions. It's our fundamental interest. In our history for the last hundred years, a crown has come on a mad head many times, in other words, people who have harmed us have taken power and been in power. And that is why, for us, it is a commitment ahead of time that we are about to ensure as much as possible, that no matter what kind of game the power in which time comes to the head of this country, we have guarantees of the stability of institutions and states. And that is for us, the European Union. That we have guarantees there will be no war. And that is for us, the European Union. And more than anything, more than all the benefits, funds and what we can talk about as direct profits from entering that institution, this is a historic chance for us to avoid repeating the history that we have seen so many times in these places. That is why the European Union is most important to us, and that is why it is our generation's obligation to fulfill it in front of those who will come behind us. Is there a risk in this solution, in this agreement, a risk? It's absolutely there. This agreement is risky for us because when it comes to the fact that the basis of different and international rights, but also the principles of justice to determine the merger or touch of Slovenia towards the open sea, this merger can be indirect, can be common jurisdiction or joint management and can be direct. The arbitration court may decide any of these three options. Absolutely with full consciousness, and you don't need to defend this as the last word of science and technology as best you can from the best. It's not the best you can do, but we're not in the best of situations. We are in a situation that is bad for us and that we need to get out of as quickly as possible to achieve our goals. This is, by our deep belief in the HNS, a moment of political responsibility. At the same time, every moment of political responsibility is an ideal time to collect political points, there is no doubt about it. And almost no man can resist that siren name. The dilemma that lies ahead of the HNS is very simple. First, let's not support the paraphrasing of this agreement and most will decide anyway, and we will get what point in front of the public who is scared, not sufficiently informed and will support our position. Is this responsible behavior in view of the goals Croatia has? In our opinion, it's not. Can it bring us benefits as strangers? Absolutely can, and we very cheerfully can set ourselves up that way. Another option is to support the paraphrasing of the agreement. Does that bring any points to us as HNS? No, I don't. He's not bringing us any. HDZ showed up with partners here with all the agreements. This support for the agreement does not bring us any political points. But is it in the interest of this country to clear up the situation now that possible? Every once in a while, he's got his own options. Of course it is. Therefore, we will support the paraphrasing of this agreement, but we will support it, provided that something of Croatian interest is provided, and in which this arbitration agreement as proposed in the text can be accepted, it can correct the pardon. And that's the key to being this trustee, people aren't little kids. Let's be serious about this. It's not about trust, it's about formal institutions that choose. Why did we want the International Court of Justice, not the European Commission? Because the European Commission is a political body, and the International Court of Justice is a judicial body. Here it is proposed that the list from which the arbiters, judges, the president of the court and two arbiters will be selected, so the majority is composed of the president of the commission and the Commissioner for Enlargement. The HNS will support paraphrasing here, but ratification, for ratification to support it, we demand that Croatia form its position and require Croatia to agree, and of course it can also require Slovenia if it wants to, that Croatia agree to the original list of arbitarians, so judges who will be president and two arbiters in the future arbitration court. Given how this agreement has been set up, it is a key issue in protecting our interests. And for us, it's not a matter of trust, it's a matter of formal procedure, of judicial criteria. Let's be serious about this. So I can't be politicians. They cannot be the result of the political election, because it is natural that the European Commission is a political body, but what would it be like. I hope it's not judicial, but it has to be in this case and the result of our consent. Therefore, the consent of the Republic of Croatia to the arbitration list. People, unlike what you did to Prime Minister Racan and HDZ and his coalition partners today who were once ours, unlike what you did then, what was also in the interest of the Republic of Croatia. Because at all times he wears his type of solution to collect political points the opposite, contrary to repeating the interests of the Republic of Croatia and we would not have been likely to be members of the Union today and not to deal with this now. Contrary to your obstruction of Croatian interests, we as HNS will not obstruct Croatian interests at this time, nor at the cost of winning any political point. We will support this agreement, because regardless of your views, we believe that if we have the opportunity to give or do not give consent to the list of judges of the arbitration panel, that in that case, regardless of the points, it is Croatian interest, and yet it is something more in front of the party than you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-02-0.u41820	Ladies and gentlemen, I saw when he started to shine, but I found it interesting to hear how the HNS proposal ended up. However, we should know that Croatia had never submitted any proposal in 2001, so it could not be declared. So that was one, please, that's a historical fact. There were no proposals in the Parliament and the coalition fell apart. That's a fact. We have corrections to an incorrect quote. First Mr. Andrija Hebrang.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-02-0.u41821	Thank you very much. The colleague, knowingly or unconsciously, mentioned three times that Article 3. point 1.b mentions Slovenia's connection with open sea and touch, which is not true. There's a connection. ... I'm talking about the Croatian variant that arrived in front of our benches, if you can't read, take the Croatian spelling. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] The second thing she said was that it was a date or a touch with the open sea. No, it says link to or English too the high seas. I'm having a relationship with Dubrava on the tram right now, but I don't own that road, I have the right to use it. And that's the ratio of words to the open sea. And secondly, Rachan-Drnovsek. In that agreement, he bowed down to a part of the Savadria Wave. It says here that arbitration takes place under international law. In international law, it is clear that all bays, if they do not have enough width, are shared in the middle. So any other decision or takeover would be against international law, and here we are calling for international law.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-02-0.u41822	Thank you. Correction, Mr. Frano Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-02-0.u41823	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, it is incorrect that we, as you said about us who are in power now, have obstructed Croatian national interests at that time. That's not true. Fellow Members of the agreement at the time, Racan-Drnovšek was finally offered a solution, under which an unequivocal part of Croatian territory belonged to Slovenia. So we can talk about it that way. Second of all, when you talk about risk-related notions of junction. When you talk about risk. That's what you could have said for the first Rehn proposal. We didn't hear you talk about risk. It was clear there that contact with the open sea, in the first motion of Rehn, that contact with the open sea, which is much more specific than a union, would be resolved in accordance with international law, according to the principle of justice and good neighbourly relations. So nothing has changed in that part. They're the same principles, only the difference in terms. Here's the term "junction," there was a term of contact. So don't deceive your colleagues.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-02-0.u41824	And the correction of Vice President Vladimir Shakespeare. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-02-0.u41825	It is incorrect that Ms. Vesna Pusic said that the Croatian Democratic Community has obstructed the resolution of border disputes with, Croatia and Slovenia, and in connection with the context of the initialisation of the Drnovšek-Racan agreement. It did not obstruct, but it did not come to the Croatian Parliament for the reason that Drnovšek-Racan, in the initialled agreement, was opposed to the initialled state territory of the neighbouring country, and this is about the way it was resolved. So it wasn't working. It is also a key difference, not a dispute resolution, but rather a violation of the Croatian territorial sea of the neighbouring country. That's why it's under... his own criticism and Prime Minister Racan gave up the initial agreement, as she did not accept it. ... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Comrades, look, one fundamental rule of polite behavior is to listen and not to enter the word of a speaking person. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] I've never, ever spoken to you or told you, but you do it regularly. Therefore, it is an inaccuracy in your key, in your assumption that it was a paraphrased agreement which meant that the Croatian state territory of Slovenia was infringing on the account of Croatia. That's what gave up, and this means resolution.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-02-0.u41826	Thank you. On behalf of the HDSSB club, Mr. Representative Boro Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-02-0.u41827	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, gentlemen of the Government. From the beginning, I will say that the Club of Representatives of the HDSSB, the Croatian Democratic Union of Slavonia and Baranja will not support the proposal for a decision to give consent to the Government of the Republic of Croatia to sign an agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, and a declaration of non-judication. There are more reasons for that. Here it is mentioned as an imperative, unconditional imperative to enter the European Union. No country that has entered the European Union has paid its entry to territorial concessions, and this proposal shows that this is very, very likely to happen. And those who talk about that Racan-Drnovšek agreement that there were concessions in the territory are also leading to this proposal. Moreover, it seems to me that if he was evaluated by that Racan-Drnovšek agreement, he was comprehensive, and this is just looking at the first stage. What else will follow on Croatia's path to the European Union we don't even know yet. Recommend about what a union means in English, whether it's a relationship, whether it's a contact, whether it's a touch, whether it's you or I don't know a date, it's completely irrelevant. It is clear in point 3.b of this Agreement that Slovenia's connection to the open sea is ensured. How will Slovenia achieve this. And that is an order to the arbitration panel or the arbitration commission to find a way to allow Slovenia to connect with the open sea. Is that gonna slide to the open sea? Is it going to be bigger on the bridge than on the sandstone? I don't know. There is no other way but through our Croatian sea. And the Croatian sea cannot be the integrity of the Republic of Croatia, territorial integrity cannot be granted to anyone, nor to the arbitration panel in which the majority of EU officials are, so of those five members one is a Croat and one Slovenian and three Europeans. Therefore, with today's vote, which would, in fact, make those who vote for, become offenders of their oath here in the Assembly, become offenders of their oath, give the legitimacy which has only the Croatian Parliament to a five-member arbitration commission, to which the Croatian Parliament and the Croatian government have no right to appeal, no right to appeal and no veto. The Arbitral Commission's solution is finally whatever it is. This should be made clear to the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. In Slavonia, there are very often recommendations from neighbors around the field, about the path to reach someone in the field, it's grunting that way someone's property and that neighbor can't get to the field unless it's used that way. In such cases there is a traditional right or right of service of the road. So who today defends the Slovenians to travel or sail our sea. After all, Italy and Slovenia have an agreement that they use the Italian sea to sail so-called Northbound. It is not about the contact of Slovenia with the open sea, it is about the epicontinental belt that is next to this chimney, with a stick of between 100 or 130 square kilometers of sea it takes another 350 square kilometers of Croatian sea and in which Slovenians do not intend to now have two platforms ready to exploit the submarine treasure. It is not a matter of contact and sailing Slovenia, it still has, today, whether our ships police, warships stop eloquences in sailing through the Piran Bay or the Savudrian Wave, stop, stop fishermen from stopping, where they hunt wherever they want. So how could we have confused the pots and we are now discussing this, in fact the Croatian Parliament as the highest institution of the state of Croatia leaves, if it were to be signed to a 5-man arbitration commission, it cannot be allowed, without the possibility of a subsequent debate on the decision of the arbitration panel and decision-making. Let's see what this will solve, this is blind, so we're being set up here. And now that says point 3c. about which no one is saying ‘I am directing for the use of relevant marine areas’, so what is behind this? That's what I was saying earlier, the regime for the use of relevant, watch out for relevant marine areas. And now here was the debate about us saying not to prejudge which is one-sided, so we prevent Croatia from giving any concessions to the territorial republics of Slovenia. And if this statement of not prejudge is read well, then it is clearly seen that it is very cleverly addressed, not to the benefit of Croatia, but to the harm. Mr. Seks at the expense of Croatia. Because this statement does not undermine Slovenia's views on "June Stick" connection, connection, contact, chimney, however you want Slovenia with open sea. So what she's saying, she's talking about how Croatia is denied, that is, she hardly ever thought it was hers, and she thinks, Croatia thinks, so nothing in this arbitration agreement will be considered as Croatia's consent at the request of Slovenia, so we give up the idea that we have done the territorial concession of Slovenia, so imagine what that statement says. Take a closer look at what it says, if you've promoted it here. Finally, there is an article 5 in this proposal which says that no document, no procedure taken unilaterally by any party after 25 June 91 will be attached. Well, neither is this statement, which is one-sided. Very conveniently arranged, very cunningly presented to the Croatian public as if it were something good that saves the matter, it does not save the contrary. She made it clear and loud that we will not complain that there is Slovenia taking our territorial sea. That's what the statement says about not prejudge, nothing else says. Read it a little bit. I also said here I was speaking on May 8th this year when this fugitive Prime Minister Sanader spoke of "Rehn 1." or of the proposal by Olli Rehn, number one, and then I entered a verbal duel with the prime minister, those who were known, and they were the majority here, that I didn't agree with that proposal either. Therefore, I remain very principled and principled, and we will not agree on this proposal either, because this is a proposal that humiliates the Republic of Croatia that humiliates us by starting with that unfortunate ZERP that we gave up on, and then we felt frustrated, is that so, gentlemen colleagues and colleagues, were we frustrated then that we had to give up ZERP. And we gave up. Is this fair administration of Europe accusing us of organising the Storm as a criminal enterprise? It is a fair approach to Europe to freedom and Croatian dignity. And here we are talking about honesty, and we hope that these officials will be, who will be appointed by Europe fair to us. What are we talking about here? What are we talking about? Now that this proposal is signed, it will find us a new catch, it will find us a new condition, and as far as 2020 until 2030. Well, they were from ZERP, so from me to say General Gotovina, Gunnic diaries, agricultural land, we don't, there's still a platform or a position on agriculture, in negotiations with the European Union in a chapter that's just been opened. And then we say that we have a well-intentioned approach, a fair approach, etc., and it's not true, gentlemen. After all, we as Croats must have our dignity. How much we suffered, how frustrated we were because of that unfortunate ZERP we were biting and attacking for the delay of ZERP. I appeal to you, gentlemen, to your conscience, to each and every one of you, given that today is Soul Day, to remember all those who have given freedom for this Croatia. I'm not talking about this demagogue but I'm talking about 15 thousand deaths, and today it's Soul Day, not to be the offenders of our oath that we made here in the Croatian Parliament because we give our right, the right of our Parliament above which they say, as someone said, only God, that 5 people, of which 3 Europeans, decide our territory, our sea, and we'll be frustrated again and we'll still be able to gnaw each other and say again who's guilty? Is it SDP, is it HDZ? So, in fact, everything stems from the incompetence of the Government of the Republic of Croatia since '95. years to govern this country and to negotiate with the European Union and their neighbours with dignity. Montenegro will appear tomorrow in connection with Prevlaka, Bosnia and Herzegovina in connection with Neum, Serbia regarding the Charengrad Ade and thousands of hectares over on the left bank of the Danube. Then what are we gonna say? Will the same principle as Slovenia and Croatia apply? Then what are we gonna say? So how do we negotiate? This agreement has far-reaching implications for the Republic of Croatia, for countries surrounding it, clearly and for integration into the EU, but we do not have to enter and enter and pray for entry into the European Union at all costs and give our territory...
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-02-0.u41828	What territory?
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-02-0.u41829	Mrs. Kosor, I'm asking for parliamentaryity. I don't cheat, you've fooled the public. Mrs. Kosor you have actually betrayed Croatia and you betray and that,... Wait a minute, I'm asking you to speak, I have, I'm responsible for my words, and by misleading the Croatian public and for 3 months you've claimed that Slovenia has no contact with the open sea, you've made that statement and there are TV and other media documents about it. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] That's one thing, then. And secondly, giving the arbitration commission the right to make an alibi for yourself to say, "That's not what I decided, but here's the arbitration commission. They decided, and here's how it's settled, and what can I do about it?" That's it. So, a premeditated betrayal and an alibi anyway, but I explained why and how. ... Please, just a minute, I didn't interrupt you when you were saying, I wasn't giving you a correction of an incorrect quote, you're going to have a chance here to say, I'm not defending you, right? [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Therefore, I believe that both the Croatian Parliament and the representatives of the Croatian Parliament are difficult to decide at these times. In the dispute and the choice between the European Union which is of interest, but I am not a skeptic, I am not a euro dogmatic, but I am a euro realistic and therefore, between the Parliament, the Government of the Republic of Croatia there are citizens, there is a Croatian people who can be a referendum to make you stronger in your decision, to make it clear whether an agreement with the Republic of Slovenia should be signed. ... Okay, here we go. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Therefore, the HDSSB cannot really be of this kind, for such a proposal to give consent to the Government of the Republic of Croatia for the signing of an agreement with the Republic of Slovenia and a declaration of non-judgment. Thank you very much. I'm sorry if it was harsh.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-02-0.u41830	Thank you, Mr. Representative. In accordance with Article 214 of Implementing Regulation (EU) No 515/2014, I give you a notice on the demeaning and insulting of the Prime Minister in his presentation. ... We have a correction to the incorrect allegations, first of all, the violation of the Rules of Procedure, the Honorable Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Vladimir Seks. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-02-0.u41831	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Thank you for properly applying the Rules of Procedure and for one unprecedented insult and slander and for the meal of the Prime Minister by Agent Grubisic, but this request and further sanctions. In accordance with Article 215 of the The Rules of Procedure represent both the government and the Croatian people, who are hardly insulting, who insults the Croatian people, the Prime Minister, and thus is a serious and offensive Croatian people, to tell the Prime Minister that she has committed a national betrayal. This is an unprecedented and shameful behavior, Mr. Grubisic, for you to go to the Croatian Parliament and tell the Prime Minister that she has committed a national betrayal. It never happened in the history of the Croatian Parliament, ever. ... That's what you heard wrong. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-02-0.u41832	Thank you, thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-02-0.u41833	I don't and never in the assembly has anyone spoken. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-02-0.u41834	Please don't talk or throw in benches because the session's order is provided by the chairman, I hope that I can do it. Otherwise, as regards the infringement of the Rules of Procedure requested by the Honorable Vice-President of the Assembly and by asking me to activate Article 215(2) as well. I believe in my rules of procedure that the notice given under Article 214 of the Rules of Procedure is sufficient for the time being for the sanctions provided for in the demeaning and insults of the agent Grubisic. We have another request for a breach of the Rules of Procedure, the respected representative Frano Matušić. Thank you very much. He's giving up. Now we have a whole series of corrections of incorrect allegations. In turn, firstly respected representative Susana Bilić Vardić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-02-0.u41835	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. A colleague, Grubisic, said in his statement other than these insults and a number of incorrect allegations. One of these is the proposal to quote: "This is a proposal that humiliates the Republic of Croatia.", which I strongly deny and from all that the president has presented in his opening statement and because of all those who have supported and who today will support and give consent to the signing of this agreement. And what humiliates is the fact that a respected representative says that members of the arbitration commission, I also quote "the acts of one Slovenian, one Croat and three Europeans" which is also incorrect. Because the Croats are also Europeans, and if we are to join the European Union, then the Slovenians are also Europeans. It is not a random mistake and the quote that counterpart Grubisic made today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-02-0.u41836	Thank you very much. Next correction of the incorrect quote, the respected representative Frano Matušić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-02-0.u41837	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, the incorrect allegation is this: it cannot be a torture when it comes to an arbitration agreement that addresses the issue of border dispute between Croatia and Slovenia where it comes to an international judicial body. So, it's not about the Arbitrary Commission that a colleague obviously can't even read, it's about the arbitration court. So it's quite clear what he's saying. Secondly, it is incorrect that the statement of non-prejudication is harmful to Croatia, because it cannot be a harmful statement saying that nothing in this arbitration agreement will be considered as Croatia's consent at the request of Slovenia for territorial contact with the open sea. This statement is also witnessed by the Presidency of the European Union and the United States. So that statement cannot possibly be harmful. It is harmful your behaviour as a colleague of Grubisic in this House.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-02-0.u41838	Thank you very much. The next correction of the incorrect allegations is the esteemed representative Zoran Vinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-02-0.u41839	I am sorry that there are no colleagues, Mr. Vice President, who said that this agreement is stuttery and that Croatia is offered kittens, not Croatia's smelly egg factory. Is only a crazy head can sign a paraphrasing of something that leads Croatia into the unknown. Because with this contract, unlike that of Račan-Drnovšek, we can lose Zagreb with this contract, not just the house of Joras and part of the sea.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-02-0.u41840	Thank you very much. I really don't want to, and I won't let the Assembly, nor in correcting incorrect allegations use the terms that demean and insult any MPs, or representatives of the government. And this when you mention the crazy head, that demeaning and insult was done, and I am not left with it, but according to article 214. ... Thank you very much. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] We are going to the next correction of the incorrect allegations, the respected representative Marija Buric-Pejcinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-02-0.u41841	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. So here in a series of really very ugly curses and false allegations, I would correct the one that's talking about how this is an alibi. It's not about any alibi. For some time after it turned out that bilaterally this problem could not be solved, the agreement also seemed to me a consensus to go before the international judicial body. Now, this agreement that's ahead of us suggests it. So, no alibi, but the best next way the Croatian government can find, and that the problem that really is the problem is solved. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-02-0.u41842	Thank you very much. Next correction of incorrect allegations and respected representative Ivan Bagarić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-02-0.u41843	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I think that colleagues have already greatly corrected, but I think it is necessary to point out once again in this Assembly that everyone can agree with anything and express their position, but it is not correct and unacceptable and it is unacceptable that those who seek a solution to this difficult question to call these people traitors. So it's really inadmissible, because we could also conclude that looking for that solution is also a solution to these people and thus, since it requires great cooperation and great support for each other here, in its own way is also a betrayal. So we can't do everything we can to find a solution, to call out to traitors, because it is indeed in favour of no solution in favour of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-02-0.u41844	Thank you very much. The correction of the incorrect quote also has a respected representative, Djakic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-02-0.u41845	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, in a series of inaccuracy Mr. Bora Grubisic, I would only like to correct what he said about this agreement talking about the concession of Croatian territory to Slovenians and that it is a treasonous act. In addition to being incorrect, which does not say it anywhere in this agreement, it is offensive and clearly an unequivocal statement declaring the Prime Minister as well as all those who will vote for this agreement, traitors of the Croatian homeland. In this context and those who died for the country of Croatia, I can clearly say that we who defended and freed her and shed blood for her and today would do so if there were any doubts in this agreement. Since there are no doubts, your inaccuracies are such that they insult all MPs, all Croatian defenders and all honorable people who want Croatia well. So, with bitterness, I reject your inaccuracies that you've said in this Visko home. You certainly don't like Croatia's homeland and you don't want it well.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-02-0.u41846	Thank you very much. The correction of the incorrect quote also has a respected representative, Roksandić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-02-0.u41847	Mr. Vice President, in this debate where fellow Grubisic said all sorts of things, and most ugly things, and then left the assembly, I will correct in addition to what my colleagues have corrected: "you have given Croatian territory with this agreement". Nowhere but nowhere to be mentioned by this agreement. This is an agreement to give consent to the Government of the Republic of Croatia, I read this for our public, because of our fellow citizens. For the signing of the arbitration agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and a declaration of non-prejudication, which he also said of this declaration was devastating. No, she's just protecting Croatian interests.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-02-0.u41848	Thank you very much. The latest correction of the incorrect allegations has a respected representative, Nedjeljka Klaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-02-0.u41849	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Here I am sorry that I cannot give up not only the false assumption, I will also allow it to be qualified and as a dangerous assumption in which Mr. MP says that this agreement gives Croatian territory. I must again, we have heard in this morning's debate countless times that it is an agreement that settles the dispute on demarcation on land and sea, we both want to maintain good neighbourly relations, protect vital interests, and both Croatia and Slovenia agreed on the establishment of the arbitration court. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-02-0.u41850	Thank you. Now we have a final application on behalf of the clubs. It is the application of the Croatian Democratic Community and the Honored Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament Vladimir Seks.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-02-0.u41851	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President, Prime Minister, members of the government, ladies and gentlemen of the MPs. Today, this debate is not about ratification, not about the confirmation of the signed arbitration agreement between Croatia and Slovenia, but about allowing the Croatian government to sign an arbitration agreement between Croatia and Slovenia. And for this debate, it is important to give consent to the signing of an agreement between Croatia and Slovenia, which is why it is also brought with the ordinary majority. In the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, the Constitution of the Croatian Parliament sets out precisely what decisions are made by the majority of the votes of all MPs and the taxaneously listed and the number of decisions made by the majority of the votes of all MPs and those made by the two-thirds majority. Neither in the Rules of Procedure nor in the Constitution of the Croatian Parliament has any of these provisions, it is not included in the provisions of granting consent to sign for the approval and approval of the contract in order to vote to any other majority of ordinary majority. Is it when it comes to ratification, is it necessary to apply Article 139(2)? The Constitution which speaks when international contracts which are granted powers under the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia are adopted by the Assembly by a two-thirds majority or related to Article 82(3) in respect of the amendment of the borders of the Republic of Croatia is another issue which will be discussed at the time of the signing, when the ratification of the signed contract comes. And I would now return to the debate of 8 May this year when the draft agreement on the settlement of the dispute was adopted by the European Union, the European Union Troika and Olli Rehn. The draft of this dispute settlement agreement was adopted in the Croatian Parliament on 8 May with 118 votes for and 1 abstention. So that's where "Rehn One" was accepted. The essential ingredients of this Agreement on the settlement of the dispute which was proposed by Olli Rehn and under the patronage of the European Troika which has been adopted are the matters which concerned the composition of the arbitration court where the parties will deliver within 15 days, to appoint the President and two members of the arbitration court who have recognised the members. In the event that they cannot agree within that deadline, the president and two members will be appointed by the International Court of Justice in The Hague. But what's most important is what were the tasks of the arbitration court. According to this proposal adopted here, the arbitration court was to establish the course of borders on land and sea between the Republic of Croatia and the Republic of Slovenia and the regime for the use of relative maritime areas and contact of Slovenia with the open sea. The right to apply the rules and principles of international law for the establishment of those rules, namely for the flow of borders on land and sea, and for this contact of Slovenia with the open sea and the regimes of use, was laid down in that draft agreement of international law of justice and the principles of good neighbourly relations. So what has now changed in relation to this present proposal for an agreement, compared to the proposal for an agreement which was to be served by the arbitration court on 8 May by Olli Rehn and the European Troika. As far as the relevant law is concerned, the same remains. I recall the debate that was held on 8 May and the president of SDP, Mr Zoran Milanovic, who, I quote, said: "The proposal for this agreement clearly separates the demarcation of land and sea according to the rules and principles of international law. That's acceptable.". And another part of Mr Milanovic's quote: "Today a constructively responsible tone prevailed here. We have a proposal for an agreement that is a rational political compromise because in the end, regardless of what the law and rules and the principle of international law will apply, we must agree politically first. I appeal that we refrain from hard words and show one level if not the state's social responsibility.". As Mrs Vesna Pusic said in her debate, "It is important for Croatia to resolve the border on the basis of international law.", quote. Therefore, the same thing that we now have in this proposal, which is that the borders, the course of borders between Croatia and Slovenia at sea and on land, have been accepted by the Parliament since 8 May and adopted by 118 votes in favour and 1 abstention. Article 3(1), point (a): "The course of the border at sea and land between the Republic of Croatia and the Republic of Slovenia will be determined by the rules and applicable international law in accordance with Article 4(1)(a).". The first proposal, adopted by the Parliament with 118 votes, states that the regime for the use of relative maritime areas and the contact of Slovenia with the open sea, which all but one abstention has declared acceptable, now states that Slovenia's connection to the open sea will be resolved on the basis of international rights, justice and the principles of good neighbourly relations, etc. So content, textual, virtually identical and way of applying the applicable right to resolve what was in the first part, in the first agreement contact, now what is in Croatian translation is the connection to the open sea of Slovenia that Slovenians take with contact. Here it is resolved, in the Croatian translation it is taken, so it is identical that it has changed, why it is now going to dispute from some, not all, fiercely when they all accepted it, to be applicable to the right, when they accepted it on May 8th and when they were unanimous all political parties except one individual, from one party, who was restrained that this was a rational, realistic and good proposal that was then and so on May 8th this year, and why would he now be killed or dangerous or harmful today on November 2, 2009. Great criticism and objections are addressed by law and by doubt towards the composition of the arbitration court and doubt that this arbitration court could address in a way that accepts the maximumist aspirations that come from the other side of Sutla, the maximumist aspirations that would require and lead to the amputation of a part of Croatia's state territory, the territorial sea in favour of Slovenia. Why are the very small and unrealistic chances that, establishing the border, the arbitration court is establishing a border between Croatia and Slovenia, and by resolving on the basis of international law and international law rules, it could bring such a solution for Croatia in the darkest scenario, for which these minimum chances are almost zero? Because international law applies to the establishment of the border between Croatia and Slovenia at sea and on land, international law, the '82 Convention on the Law of the Sea. the year in Article 15 does not give any foothold so that the black scenario could take place. This Regulation shall enter Conventions on the Law of the Seas which both Croatia and Slovenia have accepted, ratified and installed in their constitutional and legal order and form part of their and our rights. When the coasts of the two States are in contact with or touching each other, none of these two countries are authorised, if there is no other agreement, to extend their territorial seas across a line of environment to which each point is equally distanced from the nearest points of the starting lines from which the width of the territorial sea of those two countries is measured. This provision does not, however, apply where, for reasons of historical title or other specific circumstances, it is necessary to distinguish the territorial seas of the two countries in a different way. What was, our neighbors' aspirations to get the chimney first, the second, to get a direct connection to the open sea, cannot possibly fit into Article 15. The Convention on the Law of the Sea, neither in international maritime law nor in the law of the sea. This could only happen if these arbitration judges who are in any case, because there will certainly be no agreement between Croatia and Slovenia and that it will be the President of the International Court who will appoint internationally recognised experts of international law, the truth from the list of this list provided by the President and the Commissioner for the Enlargement of the European Union. But can it be rationally and realistically taken to be internationally recognised by the experts appointed by the President of the Court if no agreement between the two states would occur, so that they would be those who would betray their reputation and who would in the most harsh way make a decision in violation of, ignoring, ignoring the fundamental principles of international law, and fundamentally principled this Article 15. The Convention on the Law of the Sea. Therefore, there is no concern and therefore the fear is extremely low in order to have pre-confidential confidence in the profession, as well as the lack of confidence in those international arbiters, top professionals, to resolve them in a way that would be completely contrary to international law and to resolve against Croatia in this way. The whole practice and the International Court of Law in Hamburg and the International Court of Justice in The Hague, the whole practice learns that there was always and only the international right to address such situations as are related to the demarcation in the coves to which the two countries are attached, in all these border cases. So even to conclude, I think this agreement is good for Croatia, good for Croatian national interests, and we will discuss its ratification, decide when it comes to that time and when it is therefore signed. Uh, ladies and gentlemen, this agreement is not a trade in Croatian state territory and it is not an instrument that Croatian state territory will be able to surrender to the hands of arbitration judges who could then hand it over to another state. This is therefore not an agreement that pays for entering the European Union by Croatian territory. Let's back him up. I believe that this proposal will now be supported here by the same majority as it was supported by the majority that was on May 8, '91. A year. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-02-0.u41852	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Corrections to an incorrect quote. First of all, the respected representative of Shima Lucin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-02-0.u41853	Thank you very much. It is an incorrect assumption that a half-dominated majority of MPs are needed in this House in order for Prime Minister Kosor to be given the mandate to sign the agreement. Just like it's incorrect to need two-thirds. In this House, no MP needs to raise his hand so that Mrs. Kosor can sign this agreement. The second thing, if they are so minimal or how counterpart Shakespeare said the almost incredible possibilities for this agreement to end in a devastating way in Croatia why they are even opening up. Whether this agreement is good or not the problem is in the next which is obvious for all those who have read in detail that there is something else missing in it. And when we get those answers, then I think it'll be easier to raise your hand or not for that agreement.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-02-0.u41854	Thank you very much. The next amendment has a respected representative Dino Kozlevac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-02-0.u41855	Dear Vice-President of the Parliament, here I am with my esteemed colleague, Seksa, who I consider to be, and that a legal expert, a couple of exellances, did correct the following. He said there is no concern, that there is a low level of concern that Croatia will lose its territory, i.e. that the decision will be made by which we will be dissatisfied. I would like to correct or supplement that article 7 of the agreement with us on the agenda today states that the decision of the arbitration court will be binding on the parties and will form a final solution to the dispute. Therefore, the decision of that and such a court of arbitration is mandatory, whether or not we agree, whether or not we are ready to defend our interests. And Article 11(1) states that both parties will immediately, without delay, ratify the final solution in accordance with their constitutional conditions, the final contractual agreement. So, there's a lot to worry about.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-02-0.u41856	Thank you very much. The next is for correcting the incorrect allegations, the respected representative Zoran Vinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-02-0.u41857	This is already for warning now on this side. Dear Representative Shakespeare said that today's decision does not require a two-thirds majority. Now I wonder why the Prime Minister's been looking all this time for a two-thirds majority and a consensus among all the political parties. It is likely that by the end of the day this decision will take a third of the MPs. And another correction to the false assumption that this agreement cannot happen is the blackest scenario because it is guaranteed by international law. I am only asking you to remember ZERP and then block the negotiations for the European Union.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-02-0.u41858	Thank you very much. The correction of the incorrect allegations also has a respected representative Vesna Pusic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-02-0.u41859	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. In his statement, Shacks argued that this agreement does not change anything compared to "Rehn One", so what was voted here on May 8th as the basis. That's not true. It changes procedures and the way judges are elected, and that's the problem. The word "contact" in the word "junction" is changed. I use English words on purpose, because only the English version will be relevant for interpretation that can only be done by the arbitration court. "Contact" can be much clearer both directly and indirectly, etc. of the word "junction" which is a touch or a cross if you really want between those two seas. The difference is who, according to which criteria he chooses the judges of arbitration. In this case, today's agreement is done by a political body, drawing up a list to be selected from. In Rehn's first proposal, they did so without a list drawn up by a political body. If the two sides cannot agree, the judicial body has worked, so the International Court of Justice.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-02-0.u41860	Thank you. Time's long gone.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-02-0.u41861	In any case, we must see before you, that list is definitely Croatia's consent, precisely because the political body is its consent to the list of arbitarians. It's a kind of protection we need.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-02-0.u41862	I must warn you that the time has elapsed, otherwise Vice President Shakespeare will include my over-tolerance in his breach of the Rules of Procedure. The breach of the Rules of Procedure has the vice president of the Shex government. [[Intruder Pusic: I'm sure he will.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-02-0.u41863	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I don't want this injury, I'm a tolerance, and I love it when someone has something good to say like Vesna Pusic has to extend the time. But the violation of Rules of Procedure 214 consists of, if you listened carefully then you could see that I did not say as you claim that I said the same provisions in the proposal that was made on 8 May and now in this proposal regarding the arbitration court. That's not what I said. I was saying that the same provisions regarding applicable law and the tasks of the arbitration court are identical. And I've just pointed out the differences between, in terms of the arbitration court, with regard to Rehn's proposal, so from May 8th and today.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-02-0.u41864	Okay. Thank you very much. They may establish or confirm that, in his statement, the Vice-President of the Assembly did not explicitly state the identity of the first and Rehn's proposal and these provisions and that the honourable representative interpreted the statement. But in that second part, I think it was good to hear the differences between the first Rehn proposal and the proposal for an arbitration agreement. We continue to correct the incorrect allegations, the respected representative Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-02-0.u41865	Dear Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, you said there was no concern or that the possibilities were minimal loss of our territorial sea, and in connection with the Convention on the Law of the Sea. Please, that convention is applicable then the International Court of Hamburg and the International Court of Justice in The Hague would be relevant to this case. But they're excluded from it, they're ad act. We have nothing to discuss about this convention anymore. In this regard, Article 3 makes it clear and loud that the task of the arbitration tribunal is to find, find or enable Slovenia to connect to the open sea. How's he gonna find out? Well, you know how. The loss of our sea. Ours for ours.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-02-0.u41866	Thank you very much. He is next to correct the incorrect allegations, the esteemed representative Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-02-0.u41867	Thank you very much. Mr. Seks, Mr. Vice President of the Parliament, said that as far as the court's task is concerned, the first draft agreement of May is almost a small difference. I have seen one big difference, which is precisely the word "junction", which has been converted by the interpreters of the agreement into a homonomial, and English linguists do not agree that it is a homonomial word because it cannot be interpreted at the same time as a date, contact, connection, touch, what we are doing in Croatia and Slovenia these days. And the compromise is always the result of concessions from both sides. What concession did Slovenia make with this draft agreement? She promised that she would no longer blackmail us in the negotiations on the accession of the European Union, and no one else. And the European Union has unfortunately accepted one country's blackmail against another as a legitimate method of conduct. And therefore, if this is the concession that Slovenia has made, then this is a compromise, but in a political sense, it is the result of blackmail, not a deal.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-02-0.u41868	Thank you very much. And the final correction of the incorrect allegations has a respected representative, Ivan Drmic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-02-0.u41869	Mr. Shakespeare performed a performance here at the pay phone. He's telling us that there's actually no problem, that we can't lose anything with this agreement, that everything is clear and his exposure is trying to back up with a series of quotes. I don't think that's the way it is and that the Croatian public can't be fooled, that we're actually playing one gambling game, one poker with this arbitration agreement. The only problem is that we are investing in this game our territory, and Slovenia is not investing in anything. The only thing that can happen, and I'm warning you this time that MPs don't get surprised, that we can be big losers with this agreement. Every square of Croatian territory was paid with blood, people were killed in '91. for that, and I don't think anyone has the right to gamble, play, or donate a single square of Croatian territory to anyone, with no alibi, even if it is the European Union.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-02-0.u41870	Thank you very much. Infringement of the Rules of Procedure and the Honorable Vice-President of Parliament Vladimir Seks.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-02-0.u41871	Particularly respected representative Drmic, I have not performed any performance. It would be, perhaps I'm mistaken, I'd like to know what you mean by performance. Maybe you've got some other perspectives for performance. I didn't say anything about that, nor did I say in any way that Croatia should give up its territory. I don't know if you've been sitting in the same hall together with us or maybe you've been to some performance.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-02-0.u41872	Thank you very much. If this had been a replica before, this would have been a correct response to the replica, and this way I can't accept it as a violation of the Rules of Procedure, the more you didn't even call on the Rules of Procedure. But we'll get this over with. Request for damage to the Rules of Procedure Ivan Drmic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-02-0.u41873	I would ask you not to conduct the Rules of Procedure selectively. Mr. Shakespeare reported a breach of the Rules of Procedure, it wasn't an injury, it wasn't even quoted in what article. I'd ask you to give him a warning like the rest of your colleagues.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-02-0.u41874	I estimate that the way this institution has been used in breach of the Rules of Procedure, which is not in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, was sufficient for me to indicate that it was not a breach of the Rules of Procedure and that the notice would not be appropriate in this case. Thank you. This concludes a whole series of corrections of incorrect allegations. The President of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, Mrs Jadranka Kosor, came forward. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-02-0.u41875	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, MPs and MPs. Here is the need, in the end, for a short while, at the end of the debate on behalf of the clubs to be briefly summed up, to thank for the debate which was mostly tolerated, to the presentation of the arguments and to remind, once again, of the fact that the respected representative Lucin mentioned it earlier, saying that I should not have come before the Parliament and that I could have signed this proposal agreement. No, I did not, and I respected first of all this body, all of you MPs and MPs, because on the basis of, I repeat once again, the declarations of the state of interstate relations between the Republic of Croatia and the Republic of Slovenia, I am obliged to come to the Parliament, because in that point 11 states: "Before the final signing of the treaty in establishing border lines on the sea and on the mainland, the Government of the Republic of Croatia is obliged," then writes to the House of Representatives, then it was changed, to the Croatian Parliament to give confirmation of the agreed text of the contract which intends to sign with the authorities of the Republic of Slovenia. Therefore, the government intends to sign because the government considers this agreement to be a solution to one problem and continues to open a Croatian perspective for the conclusion of negotiations, so the European perspective of Croatia, and therefore the Government is coming to this House to give permission to the Government, that is, on behalf of the Government, sign this agreement. And that's it, so it's about respecting procedure. I just want to say a little bit more about judges who have mentioned themselves a lot, and in fact, from most of the debates now it turns out that it's some key place that some representatives or some clubs think this agreement is not good, and that it shouldn't be signed. So I think we just have to do it once, because every time and it's said in this debate a lot of times, it's certainly one step further, one step away from us. So in overcoming it is often, one theory of conspiracy, which has bound Croatia, that all against us, that no one should be trusted, so neither should the President of the European Commission, because the President of the European Commission, as you have seen in Article 2 of this Agreement, is one of those who make up candidates, as it says here, and experts of international law from the list of candidates drawn up by the President of the Enlargement Commissioners of the European Commission, and in case we do not agree on these persons, two members or presidents and two members of the arbitration court will appoint the President of the International Court of Justice in The Hague. So it would not be good if we were to show complete mistrust with all of them because I think the institutions and the International Court in The Hague and the institutions of the European Commission and the President of the European Commission deserve our respect, our respect. Finally, we seek and strive and there is an agreement between most of the parties in parliament that Croatia becomes a member of the European Union as soon as possible. It is true, it is absolutely untrue that we are giving up anything by this agreement, it is not true that we are giving up anything by this Agreement, and in particular to give up or dignity, especially to give up territory, or to crawl on our knees, or to crawl or not know how we are going to the European Union. It's a lie, it's a lot worse than that, it's a deception to the public, it ultimately shows one fear that I don't understand since the completion of that big deal that's still ahead of us. Therefore, this is an agreement that allows problems to be solved. I will tell you that in the talks with Prime Minister Pahor, I have certainly talked about strengthening the economic relations between the two countries, that this has begun to be realised because the Croatian-Slovenian Economic Forum in Zagreb was held, but we also spoke very openly about the execution of other difficult and painful issues such as the issue of the Ljubljana Bank. And we're not dealing with this agreement in front of you, it's up to you, it's up to you to make a decision, I repeat, I don't know which way. And it is not true that this agreement was the result of any blackmail, who could blackmail Croatia and what. So, we have a chance to sign this, complete the negotiations, all procedural deadlines will start, once again please read who is not Article 11(3) from the moment the Treaty is signed which de facto Croatia becomes a member of the European Union and I do not believe that anyone in this Chamber or anyone in the Croatian public may doubt that at that time when these judges, these arbiters, people known in the world for their expertise, will be more famous than Croatia, it is simply absurd. And finally, since one of the MPs has even dared, with all due respect to me, the Croatian Parliament and the Croatian MPs indeed say something that I can judge with scandalous, so use the word betrayal, I will very clearly say before you. I will never accept either my government, nor the party that I am at the helm, that those who negotiate, that those who try in the atmosphere of respect and respect by defending Croatian national interests, will be declared traitors and those who are convicted of war crimes and thus embarrass us all will be declared public heroes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-02-0.u41876	Eight corrections. I ask my colleagues and colleagues to really correct the incorrect claims. Mr. Representative Shime Luchin, first.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-02-0.u41877	Well, thank you very much. It's an incorrect assumption that Mrs. Kosor should have come to this House about the document and the point you quoted, because if that's true, and as far as I remember I don't have that document in front of me, that's where you're talking about the border. Then it still takes two-thirds of the vote to get through this. The other thing, you see, you tell us not to trust you. Well, there's a lot of reasons over the past years that we don't believe you especially when it comes to relations with Slovenia. You say you won't allow a millimeter of Croatian territory, which means. That means if the arbitration court makes a decision that does not contribute to Croatia that we will not ratify it. Well, on behalf of the HDZ Club, we've heard about the minimum possibilities for it to still be something called self-indulgence.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-02-0.u41878	Let's not correct the incorrect forecasts. Mr. Representative Zoran Vinkovic, second amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-02-0.u41879	Thank you. Dear Madam Prime Minister, it's nice of you to come to the House unlike your predecessor who has always been when these topics were avoided by the Parliament debate. But I will correct you, I'm trying to correct one of a series of incorrect allegations that it's absurd that today someone is doubting this Agreement. ... Mr. Rudolph, you're doubting the church, and I doubt that. [[The speaker's off, you can't hear it.]] Because by this agreement, I told the HDZ gentlemen, when I show up you can make waves like a football game, this Agreement does not define what Croatia can... agreements with the HDZ in the Assembly whether a 2/3 majority, an ordinary majority, is needed, and what Croatia can lose with this agreement. [[The speaker's off, you can't hear it.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-02-0.u41880	This is also not a correction, this is a correction just like that Mr. Lucine, there's a forecast here is something else. Madam Representative Vesna Pusic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-02-0.u41881	Madam President, I'm sorry to have to fix this, and I have to say, as far as I'm concerned, I appreciate you coming to the Parliament, and I think it's good and smart whether it's necessary or not to follow the rules and regulations. But I want to correct your claim that we have no confidence in the European Commission or the President of the European Commission or the Commissioner who would draw up a list of arbitration. In fact, it is two different criteria, it is not about mistrust on the European Commission, but the European Commission and its leadership is a political body and it is about arbitration judges. Therefore, it is in our interest and there is no need, in my opinion, to avoid it, it is in our interest to choose as a country, when it chooses, that list suggests a political body, that we ask that as a country we have insight into that list of judges that they will propose and that we have the opportunity to agree with it or not.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-02-0.u41882	This is the same correction of trust or mistrust in arbitration judges.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-02-0.u41883	No, it's a claim of mistrust in the European Commission.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-02-0.u41884	Or the European Commission then... Mr. Representative Ranko Ostojić. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-02-0.u41885	Honored Mr. Vice President, honorary Prime Minister, esteemed colleagues and fellow MPs. I am correcting the incorrect assumption that Croatia is not being valued. Croatia is valued and I will use exactly the arguments that you have said, and that is unless we accept what you have proposed to us today at that moment, all processes of pre-accession entry into Europe cease. So let's be aware of the fact that we're being blackmailed.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-02-0.u41886	And Madam Representative Milanka Opačić. Here you go. Mr. Representative Ivo Josipovic. What? ... You didn't have the correction of an incorrect quote? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] My big, big cup, max. Mr. Representative Gordan Maras and Ms. Representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-02-0.u41887	You say, Madam Prime Minister, that judges will not go to the Slovenian side and against Croatia. First of all, they're not going to judge the judges. They're going to judge the arbiters. They can be quite people from any area, we'll see that yet, it's all still in that finale and uncertain. And that's one thing. And as for other things, you say this: "Croatia will not give a millimeter, donate, nor a millimeter of its territory."and that may be true, but you haven't said a word about miles. ... [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-02-0.u41888	That's funny enough, that's enough. Mr. Representative Ivo Josipovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-02-0.u41889	Dear Mr. Vice President of the Parliament, Madam Prime Minister. Today, this House is facing one of those tough decisions. In front of one of those decisions that may make many, as it is said, not sleeping. Why? Because today we are at a crossroads where we must respect two great national interests. One is the entry of the Republic of Croatia into the EU, and the other is the preservation of the unity and territorial integrity of the Republic of Croatia. In principle, those two goals must not be contrary to each other. They unfortunately became it for reasons we know well. The Republic of Slovenia has used its privileged position and has conditioned in some way access, the entry of the Republic of Croatia into the European Union through a solution to the border dispute of the sea in a way that we do not like. Why don't we like him? Because the solutions offered and presented are not the result of the application of international law but also of some other factors that make a possible solution unfair. Today we have a choice here that says or accepts an agreement that is offered or not a European, you're not into the issue of corruption, you're not for this, you're not for it. First of all, I think there's a need to remove all prejudice. Being skeptical or critical of any agreement does not mean not being European. I think there are enough examples for that. I also don't think that high treason is an advocate for an agreement that may pose certain dangers. I think that today we are ahead of a decision that we must make soberly, we must look at the perspectives of that decision and what it is making for us. A solution that would be extorted, a solution that could lead to or could lead, as we heard, to the reduction of Croatian territory so that it is smaller than Croatia would belong to international law, offers serious problems, long-term problems that can first be in danger of the referendum in Croatia for the European Union failing and the other to generate bad relations in the neighbourhood especially towards the country with which we have such long and good relations, such as the Republic of Slovenia, and of course that one of the strategic goals that we have the best possible relations with Slovenians. That's what we've had for centuries, there's no reason why it shouldn't be in the future. We're wondering what's the reason to offer such arbitration and such an agreement if everything is according to international law? It is obvious that this is not so because a rational decision if the problem is to be solved according to international law would be to accept the jurisdiction of one of the 2 important, large international courts, the one in Hamburg or the one in The Hague. But our neighbors don't want that. Our neighbors want arbitration, they want the introduction of elements that are different from the application of international law, they introduce new elements. Why? The only and logical answer, hoping to get more than it belongs to international law. It is a dangerous decision, a dangerous negotiation and I say it can produce very serious consequences also in the Republic of Croatia, according to its territorial integrity, but also in politics. By European policy in Croatia and good neighbourly relations with the Republic of Slovenia. The way to solve the problem that we said in principle okay, we said we could, we want arbitration, but the way that means we don't know who the Arbiters are, that the applicable right isn't always in our will. And the way that there is no way to predict a possible result because of the inaccuracy of the subject-matter, including the terminology that is questionable, is leading us to a serious dilemma whether our decision will endanger the national interest, the first major national interest in the preservation of national territory. In my court of law, there are dangers, they are much larger than they were presented and in my court should also be before the conclusion, before the signing of the agreement to clear these things up and come out with very clear indicators which can be expected from arbitration in principle. Croatia is now in a position to sign, something we would paint as "a cat in a bag", it is not good, it is frustrating the public, it is frustrating the Croatian public and it certainly generates bad feelings on the political scene. There is probably no one in this assembly who is against Croatian entry into the European Union. There is probably also no one who is generally against the preservation of Croatian national territory. We're wondering how to reconcile those two goals? I'm pointing out they mustn't be squirmous. These two goals must be resolved together, even if they negotiate a little longer. We are not at the races, the primary goal is to get strong Croatia into the European Union, unique with its entire state territory. And the entry that would mean compromise, the compromise that is unprincipled, which means a deviation from the clear rule of international law, is hardly acceptable to the Croatian public, it could have very serious political consequences in the Republic of Croatia. My appeal. Let's stop at the ball, take a look around, see what are the controversial points offered in the agreement and try to further negotiate something that's much better than this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-02-0.u41890	Thank you. Ms. Representative Biljana Borzana. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-02-0.u41891	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, at first, I'd like to say that everything that's in your debate is said.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-02-0.u41892	Excuse me, colleague Borzan, I'm sorry, please. It was a replica I wrote down. Comrade Dragutin Lesar Replication Correction.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-02-0.u41893	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. If you have noticed today's discussion of the obvious and Mrs Kosor and on behalf of the HDZ Club today, the theory of the ruling is that for the acceptance and adoption of consent for the signing of the contract, an ordinary majority is sufficient. 77 men in the hall and 39 for. Whether ratification will follow Articles 139 or 82. The constitution needs two-thirds, although Vice President Shakespeare would still be talking about it. Imagine this situation, that we usually give Mrs. Kosor's consent to sign the contract, and then the ratification doesn't pass when it comes to Parliament's agenda. What is Croatia's legal and political position afterwards? And that's why I appealed to Mrs. Kosor, not only... about ratification but also today trying to win and ask for a two-thirds majority. And finally. They say a small risk, even President Mesic says it is a small risk, the minimum risk would be if the case went to court in The Hague or Hamburg. As soon as the arbitration, the ad hoc arbitration court, regardless of whether the judges or anyone else, the ad hoc arbitration court, that risk and that danger are a little higher. Any court and consent to the Minister's trial is a risk. And in particular, it concerns your statement that the concepts used in the agreement are not until the end nor legal, but also political. Does this mean that we also point out that judges of arbitration can also apply political criteria? And so as long as we don't agree on most of which, both today and after ratification, we need to decide, I think there's one body smarter than us. And these are the citizens of this country and the referendum.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-02-0.u41894	Replication response, Mr. Representative Ivo Josipovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-02-0.u41895	Mr. Vice President of the Parliament, I thank my colleague Lesar because he actually didn't replicate me, but the Prime Minister did, and he actually completed my discussion. Of course, the point of my discussion was that the dangers are much greater than they come from certain interpretations, and I can actually say that Mr. Lesar's replica is welcome as a complement to my debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-02-0.u41896	Thank you. In accordance with Article 221, the President shall provide the necessary explanation of the link to the work of the sitting and other previous issues, including the vote. So when Mr Lesar asks that question about the vote to give consent, to grant approval to the Government of the Republic of Croatia for the signing of the arbitration agreement with Slovenia, then by explaining that, under Article 226(1), the laws, decisions, resolutions, conclusions and other acts of the Parliament are laid down for the majority of the votes. Unless the Constitutional Republic of Croatia and this Rules of Procedure are specified otherwise, the majority of MPs are present at the meeting of the Assembly. And Article 226 of that Article states: "which decisions are made by the majority of the votes of all MPs", therefore, which is decided by the Parliament by a majority of the votes of all MPs and are precisely a number of those, there is no interpretation or interpretation. And Article 227 sets out exactly the decisions made by the Croatian Parliament by two-thirds of the votes of all MPs. In this proposal, the government's decision to sign an arbitration agreement with Slovenia is not intended for the Croatian Parliament to take the majority of the votes of all MPs, nor to make a two-thirds majority of all votes. Because the precise indication is precisely clear and overly tax-counted all of those cases. It is the numberus Klaus has no outside of it supplement which is brought by most votes of all MPs, and which is brought by a two-thirds majority. Here's the explanation. And now it's Mr. Agent Neven Mimica's turn. Or who? Biljana Borzan, it's my assistant's fault. It's got to be somebody's fault, I can't. Especially in a difficult case like this. Ms. Representative Biljana Borzana. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-02-0.u41897	Thank you. Where was I? So what I was going to say at the beginning is that all I'm going to say today in my debate is not a reflection of any politics, of criticism, but simply a reflection of the real concern of what we are now facing. It is regrettable that today, by the government, we have been brought into one situation to decide between Croatia being blocked further into the European Union and between the agreements opening up a number of issues of sea and land borders, leaving an opportunity for everything and everything. For days, serious questions have been raised in the Croatian public, and I must admit that I have been through my head a thousand times, as is the case. What does this agreement really mean, what does it bring us? How is it that something so important has been offered in the House and the public so vaguely? The prime minister came back with a smile on her lips, did she perhaps sell Croatia with a smile? Are we the first country to enter the European Union to pay by territory? I'm just afraid of what the future will show. Today we have heard many persuasions from HDZ that there are no fears. But I wouldn't be so convinced and optimistic. Just because of all these questions being asked, I would say that this is not about the proposal for an agreement, but about one regrettable big misunderstanding. The minimum we've been looking for here in the Assembly are further explanations because we believe that the agreement must be more than clear before the arbitration commission comes in so that we don't scratch our heads afterwards and realize simply that we're in the mood. The prime minister said this is a win-win situation, so no one loses. Well, normally, when the famous term "junction" is used, which we obviously translate in the way that suits us and Slovenians translate in the way that suits them. So the word, one single word, gives essentially different explanations. Each country unilaterally interprets a two-way contract. If this is an agreement in which both parties are truly winning and no one is losing, then I wonder why the Slovenians have made us additionally willing and motivated us to vote offer a solution in the package and the Ljubljanska Banka and the Krško nukes. They obviously want to motivate us to vote for something that I think is ours anyway. Mrs. Kosor said the other day: "Every responsible political party must bear its share of the burden and part of its responsibility at certain times." I couldn't agree more, but I wonder where that responsibility was eight years ago when Prime Minister Racan's resignation was sought because of a similar proposal today, where that responsibility was in a number of other difficult decisions made by the coalition government starting with the Split Riviera and beyond. That's when Racan's head was sought and now it's almost done, and it's just a little bit worse and significantly worse. And why are the positions worse? Because Slovenia is simply in the European Union today and has the opportunity to block Croatia on its further path and then it simply wasn't and there was more room for manoeuvre. So now you gentlemen from HDZ are coming to the same positions that were absolutely unacceptable to you when you were the opposition, from the questions of Croatian generals, from the issue of the number of Croatian defenders, now and about the border dispute with Slovenia, and we will see what is next. Then we were guilty. Today, the SDP is trying to take the blame again that unless we are for what is proposed today that we are a party that will block the entry into the European Union. So I'm asking if it's our fault that we got into this situation. You have been in power for six years and only today is the issue of Slovenia being resolved, so after 20 years, Croatia as a state was created after six years of HDZ power. Please, today is a situation aside from all the economic difficulties we are in, it's really unfortunate that we are discussing this today. That is why I simply believe that today's debate is at this point where we are discussing the inability of the HDZ government to resolve the dispute before, and that is why we have simply asked for an apology and I would add recognition. It would be correct if you said okay the SDPs you were right, we took a little while to figure out, we're a little slower but here we understand and we ask your support. But that would be illusory to expect simply to happen, not even any elaborate speech on the subject of what Mr. Shex is actually doing with his interpretation, and to ensure that there is no need because you obviously don't need our hands for this thing. I heard Mr. Shakespeare's statement saying there's no need to vote on this with a two-thirds majority because the boundaries don't change, they just edit. According to this logic, today HDZ should be advocating that the boundaries are arranged with stepmothers and the SDP with bisons and that, in the end, a decision is taken by the overhalf majority, by which it is not the type of flowers that matters, but only that it is not red. I don't think it really makes sense that one of these important things takes only 39 MPs to vote on it. But I think you'll agree with me when I say that if we take the wrong step, the first wrong step in the wrong direction we all go into trouble.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-02-0.u41898	My colleague, I don't know why you're apostrophetizing me again in your debate. I've quoted correctly and precisely what decisions most people make. I have quoted exactly what decisions are made by the majority of all MPs and which decisions are made by a two-thirds majority, and I have quoted in my debate and Article 82(3) in relation to Article 8. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The constitution when, compared to the borders, they make a two-thirds majority change of the limits. Therefore, why are you constantly looking for an explanation in that section when I only quote again constitutional and business provisions according to which certain decisions are made by a certain majority. Two corrections. Mr. Representative Frano Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-02-0.u41899	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. It is an incorrect allegation that we have a solution above us in view of this arbitration agreement in relation to the Racan-Drnovšek agreement. My colleagues, it is a falsification of history because the Racan-Drnovšek agreement already had the intention of a final solution by which Croatia gave up its territorial sea, its part of the territory and here we intend to refer a dispute over the border to an international judicial body called the arbitration court, which will establish, according to international law, the land and sea borders of the Republic of Croatia. We're not giving up anything. There, in this agreement, Racan-Drnovšek gave up Croatian territory. We don't give up anything here.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-02-0.u41900	And Mr. Representative Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-02-0.u41901	Thank you very much. I will also correct the inaccuracies of my colleague Borzan where she claimed that the same agreement is Drnovšek-Racan with the current proposal for an agreement. Namely, in the Drnovšek-Racan agreement, it appeared that meeting Slovenia's unusual requirements for our territory and the establishment of so-called so-called "Drnovšek-Racan". A chimney, i.e. By giving up our territory, a chimney was created which would allow the Republic of Slovenia access to the open sea. There's no such thing as a suggestion in this agreement today, no one's talking about anything like that. So why do you deceive the Croatian public and say what is not? This proposal clearly states that arbitration will establish whether or not the possibility of going out, and 30 Baltic countries use similar concepts that say that it does not harm the passage through someone's sea can be the best solution.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-02-0.u41902	Vice President of the House, Mr. Agent Neven Mimica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-02-0.u41903	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Honorable gentlemen of the Ministers. Here are the numerous statements that have been circulating Croatia these days. It was easy to get the impression that the Government wants the Croatian Parliament to decide today instead whether the Government will sign the arbitration agreement with Slovenia. In this debate, it was explained that the Government did not want to do so but that it was about respecting the '99 declaration. The year, the Assembly Declarations. However, recent statements by the Prime Minister could nevertheless conclude that she even thinks the decision to sign the agreement should instead be taken by the SDP. I would firstly like to reject any attempt to transfer responsibility to the SDP for the possible re-blocking of our negotiations with the European Union for the rejection of the arbitration agreement, as should any attempt to involve the SDP in a decision that would lead to the loss of national territory. Where were the prime minister and the foreign ministry when they negotiated and accepted these terms of the arbitration agreement? Did the SDP then ask if such an agreement is good or bad for Croatia? A previous parliamentary debate, this is what we have today, and the conclusion of the Parliament before the signing of an international treaty is prescribed by the Constitution or legal procedure. This additional fuse is rarely used in practice and only twice so far, both times when it comes to regulating border issues with Slovenia. First, in 2001, when the opinion of the Parliamentary Committee on Foreign Policy was sought, on the signing of the Racan-Drnovšek agreement, and then on May this year when the Assembly declared its acceptance of the so-called First Rehn's proposal. As a rule, I have absolutely no objection to the fact that on such sensitive political-legal issues, the Parliament will, in time, engage and demonstrate support or disagreement with what the Government intends to do within its international jurisdiction. Moreover, in both of these two precedents, it was the SDP that proposed the previous inclusion of the parliament. We were the ones who sought and proposed a previous parliamentary debate and this proposal for an arbitration agreement with Slovenia, but not today but a month and a half ago when something meaningful could change in that proposal. As you know, then the Prime Minister rejected it, and HDZ's assembly majority strongly supported that refusal. Today, this text of the arbitration agreement that we have before us only confirms that we were right when we said that the government, contrary to the current mandate of the Parliament on the adoption of the first Rehn proposal, agreed to move away from the text of the second Rehn proposal. It is not only irrelevant procedural details but significant content differences that may further weaken the prospects for the arbitration court to resolve issues in line with our interests. Namely, the second Rehn's proposal for us is more unfavourable than the first, but by installing Slovenian amendments in it, and the former prime minister did not want to propose our amendments at all. But let's go back to what we're supposed to do here today, which is what we're expected to do. Parliamentarians have been brought, not by their own but by governmental action, into a situation to choose between two bad solutions, or to assess which of these solutions is less bad. On the one hand, if we refuse to sign the proposed text of the arbitration agreement, we are facing a re-blocking of our accession negotiations, but this time not only by Slovenia, but with very promising support from the blockade of all members of the European Union. On the other hand, if we accept the signing of the arbitration agreement, then we will agree that arbitration will be given a mandate that can lead to a outcome that is not in line with our interests. I would like to say here that I cannot accept the claims so whoever they come from, that by signing such an arbitration agreement, Croatia only agrees in advance with the concession or trade of its territory. Because it is really not responsible to claim that such an agreement necessarily leads to only one outcome of arbitration, to the loss of part of the Croatian territorial sea as a price for membership in the European Union. All those who want to be realistic and objective know that the real problem is that this negotiated arbitration agreement also gives too many free hands to the arbiters to decide on a wide range of possible solutions, thus opening too many risks that cannot be controlled. As much as we have here, I would say, enough linguistic and legal authority that today is trying to interpret the already famous terms of touch, connection, joints, contact, stick, June of Slovenia with the open sea remains the fact that the agreement itself says that it will only be interpreted by the arbitration court, whatever we think here and as convincing as it is. Therefore, this agreement creates a space to establish the right and conditions of the Slovenian passage to the open sea by corridor or chimney, which can either be Croatian or Slovenian or common territorial sea in terms of possible arbitration decisions, or may become part of the open sea. Each of the ownership variants can then also be combined with the national common or international use and management regime. The arbitration decision may also go in the direction of declaration of condominium, ownership or user condominium in the wider areas of the territorial sea and of Croatia and Slovenia and outside the corridor for the open sea. Therefore, the range of possible arbitration decisions is extremely large. Many variants are possible, not one I would say in advance that it is certain, nor impossible, of course, for the one agreed by Racan and Drnovšek. But the problem is that in Croatia some have been demonizing this agreement for too long, and now they are opening the door for its achievement after they have managed to spoil the overall Croatian-Slovenian relations and endanger our progress towards the European Union. And what exactly did Racan give up, what he gave up, what part of the territory he gave up, which he gave up to Slovenia at the moment when we today are discussing an agreement that has yet to establish the borders and the demarcation of the sea between Croatia and Slovenia. I would also refer to our unilateral statement of non-compliance on the Slovenian request for territorial contact for the open sea. Such a statement as we intend to make with the arbitration agreement is indeed not the highlight of our diplomatic and negotiating skills that the government is trying to demonstrate. It would have been if the government had been able to install it into the text of the arbitration agreement. This leaves only paper whose legal achievements cancels the text of the agreement itself which says that no unilateral document, and this is a unilateral document after June of '91. The year has no legal importance for arbitration. Of course, I finally have to say something that goes on and on. When assessing this arbitration agreement and MPs and their political parties must express the highest responsibility for state and national interests, even regardless of which majority we will vote today and which majority we will vote to ratify this agreement. On the one hand, the interest of finally removing the main problem that threatens good neighbourly relations with Slovenia, and thus regional stability, this interest of an uninterrupted continuation and the conclusion of accession negotiations with the European Union and thus the achievement of our priority development goals. On the other hand, there is an entirely uncertain outcome of the arbitration procedure that led us to bad negotiations, which can, but also does not have to lead to the loss of part of the territorial sea. In such a imposed and constrained choice, it is much easier to say no than yes, of course, if you would like to follow the populist profitability of such a decision. However, I am much closer to choosing Croatia in the European Union in this election, to choose Croatia in good relations with Slovenia, with the hope that this perspective will make the risks and potential consequences of possible unfavourable arbitration decisions much smaller. But to vote for the signing of the arbitration agreement will need even more clarifications from both the Prime Minister and the experts, in particular we need to get an insight into the list of arbitarians, because I do not believe that it exists. I don't believe the government is ready to sign this agreement before she's seen it at all or before she knows what the arbitration list is. When we get it, neither I nor the SDP will surely avoid responsibility and go on a line of less resistance when it is necessary to recognise and defend real national and state interests. Without all of this, the vote for this agreement would be a voice for something bad that the government, prime minister and diplomacy have done by skipping and demeaning the Croatian Parliament in negotiations with Slovenia. If the government decides to keep quiet on these questions, it will put us in a position to say "storage" to the arbitration agreement. Don't make me make a forced solution, don't make my voice just try to stop this government from doing even more damage before it leaves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-02-0.u41904	Thank you. One correction, Mr. Representative Frano Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-02-0.u41905	So, counterpart Mimica said that this arbitration agreement opens the door for a solution as it was in Racan – Drnovšek. It's not true, it's not true, Col. Mimica. You know this well because you have read this agreement and when it talks about the legal foundations on which these issues will be resolved, it also speaks in one case and another international law. So, based on international law, land and sea borders will be resolved. And also behind that are the foundations of international law, the principles of justice and good neighbourly relations and this combination that we are talking about towards the open sea. So, both are being dealt with by the basis of international law. And international law did not know the solution that you gave in the agreement Racan – Drnovšek which did not even reach the Croatian Parliament, which caused your coalition to fall apart. And it's not clear who you're accusing of bad relationships with. I will only tell you that former Prime Minister Sanader has arranged for Bled with the then prime minister of Slovenia to go to the International Court of Justice in The Hague. Therefore, you cannot go with such a thesis to the public that are not true.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-02-0.u41906	Three replicas. The first is Mr. Representative Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-02-0.u41907	Comrade Mimica, you mentioned a number of public statements before today's debate in Parliament. I will remind you of another one other than Mrs Kosor's statement, and it was given on "Open" on HTV by Mr. Shimonovic. "Junetion" is not a legal term. Then what is it? No one agreed on that question after that statement. I'm afraid it's not commercial, I'm afraid it's not marketing. But I'd like to hear someone explain to me what it is if it's not real. Other statements have also been repeated today that legal experts will decide in the arbitration court. And in The Hague, the war crimes court is decided by legal experts. How many times in this HDZ Council, especially when they were in opposition, has been found to judge the war crimes court by political and not legal criteria. How many times did you say it was political, not legal court? Now, at once, the argument that they will be experts is worth uncut and resents questioning the list of arbitarians. And finally, that Mr. Vice President Shakespeare should no longer read the Rules of Procedure about this proposed decision. He gave him a proper presentation, and he's right. With 39 votes, the decision can be made. But I call on the political wisdom of both the Prime Minister and the Parliament's leadership, so let's avoid the situation of today's decision being to give consent and to question ratification. That's what I'm talking about all the time. And the Rules of Procedure, the shame that could possibly happen, is not solved.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-02-0.u41908	I'm sure it tends to consensus like it was consensus when it was May 8th. Then that one abstention voice was not de facto abstention but it was some mistake by Mrs. Pusic who pressed seems wrong shots, and in fact she voted in. So she later asked for a correction to be included in the record that she also voted in favour.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-02-0.u41909	But I gave the Prime Minister a chance to say it today, so she refused to repeat it to the two-thirds majority of the consensus.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-02-0.u41910	The two-thirds majority is not a consensus, but a hundred percent majority.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-02-0.u41911	Last time, that's exactly what happened. We asked for a two-thirds, and we got a unanimous vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-02-0.u41912	Last time, no majority was asked except for the ordinary majority, and I'm going to believe tonight and the two-thirds majority, and even far more than two-thirds except here and there. Vice President of the House, sir. You won't? ... Okay. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Mr. Representative Marin Jurjevic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-02-0.u41913	Thank you. I think it's the worst of all that we've obviously entered into the zone of divination, predictions, so there's some confrontations and quarrels, which is what happens if there is and what happens if there is, and there's no answer. There is no answer because he is quite right when he says that the arbiters have such a range of decisions that they can really make a decision that will be below the level and quality of the decision we called Racan-Drnovšek. That's a fact. We can appeal to international law, which is also a stretching gum, and I would like to present to this Assembly a list of these arbitrationists. I can't believe she doesn't exist, that the government isn't familiar with her. And on the other hand, there have been linguistic discussions here. It is entered into English and Croatian linguistics, and yet it is some simpler things. In order to say that 39 votes are needed, it is said that it is not about the change but about the adjustment of borders, and that is what Mr. Vice-President of the Parliament said publicly, and that is what I would say is unnecessary. Here it goes towards a consensus that cannot be achieved in such a way as to still demonize Ivica Racan, to speak at a small door about betrayal, I say by unrepeakable to a small door. In this House, he was asked to resign for it. The street rose to rebellion for that. We're not blind, we're not stupid, and we remember. That doesn't mean that we're going to act the way you've been acting, but I remind you that this behavior here today won't lead anywhere.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-02-0.u41914	It's an old rule, once-repeated untruth remains a lie. My colleague Jurjevic, I repeat here a hundred times, I have repeated to the public, both in the media and in the electronics, and printed that for this phase of decision-making to give consent to the government to sign the agreement is enough for most of the MPs from the quorum. Why do you keep spreading this story to me that I have said somewhere that it takes a simple majority of 39 advocates to ratify the agreement? Why do you do this when I have distinguished and told the Government to agree to sign the contract in all my statements, most of all of the MPs and cited the provisions of the Rules of Procedure and the Constitution that speak about it, and for the two-thirds majority, I have said that in my opinion it is not necessary if it refers to a change in borders. If it refers to a change of boundaries that requires a two-thirds majority, and if it does not apply, if this agreement does not give rise to a change of boundaries, then the majority of 77 MPs are sufficient, and then determines the character of the decision and the necessary majority. And don't ever point out to me again that to make this decision requires most of the total, of the present representatives, so from the quorum. Replica reply, Vice President of the House Mr. Agent Neven Mimica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-02-0.u41915	Thank you very much. Now I'm going to get a chance to respond to the replica. I agree that not only is it taken, but it is incorrect to claim that any variant of the solution and ownership, and the user part of this territorial sea between Croatia and Slovenia under the provisions of this arbitration agreement, that it is impossible for the arbitration to happen and to rule so. Insisting, so I would say idealizing international law, as a fuse that won't allow, I don't know that arbitration decides something similar or the same as Racan and Drnovsek agreed. It's just that idealizing international law is not true. In this case, this international law is the International Convention on the Law of the Sea. If it is a demarcation in the Piran Bay, then the drawing of the environment is not only a solution under international law, or under the International Convention on the Law of the Sea, but there is room for other elements to be taken into account in such a decision. Therefore, I just want to say that it is wrong, it is not correct to convince anyone in Croatia, or here in the Assembly that any solution is excluded in the application of this arbitration agreement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-02-0.u41916	Replica, Mrs. Anticevic Marinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-02-0.u41917	You tell your colleague Mimica about the damage and harmfulness of this government's actions, so you tell me if it's going to be a few more years. That's how you end your debate. But the fact is that this government was often accused and it was her greatest sin of inaction. But the bigger fact is that whatever she touched and whenever she started to act, we were in an even more difficult position at the time, both in economic and foreign policy. And that's certainly true. When you speak and ask an open question and what everyone is, and to the citizens of these debates again vaguely, which means that it is unclear in the contract itself. As closely as people follow us, they don't know what's going on or what's going on. In fact, you're asking a logical question what citizens are asking is this a trade in our territory? In Article 3, it is said, and thus translated, the arbitration court will determine, please listen well now and listen to this one who has translated at all, the course of the border at sea and land. The border never runs. Development of events some course, and rivers have their own flow and so on. So this isn't even a language translation, and let's see what the reflections of this one are. So there's no starting point. We don't know at all, we haven't determined that arbitration and that's what's controversial. Borders, or at least the starting point that used to be undeniable, at least the point and towards that exit, towards the open sea. And then a lot of things would be clearer. And in this way, you ask yourself the question of a union relationship. A relationship can only be one small road, a passageway, and it can be state territory. And that's what's most controversial. Is this really about a degree in territory or just passing through, which is what the Slovenians already have. So it's not what hurts them. The patron also said that for them access to the open sea is a sacred thing, that's what he said. So, here's if it's really working here, whether the prime minister washed her hands like Pontius Pilate handed it over to arbitration, unknown arbitration, and it's all going to be one day when we join the European Union, and she says it's not likely to be that important. On the contrary, it will be very important then. And just allow five seconds, the Slovenians in this way are obviously given territory, and Croatians and Croatian citizens are given sea fog. So here's the government still talking about patriotism. Despite that...
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-02-0.u41918	Thank you very much. You've gone more than you have, please, if we're going to do these replicas instead of two minutes four then we'll never end up. Mr. Mimica's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-02-0.u41919	Thank you very much, Mr. President. In your replica, you have only confirmed my thesis that the main problem of this and this arbitration agreement is its complete openness, that is, the possibility not only that we cannot control the outcome that we cannot predict the outcome of the solutions that arbitration judges can choose but we cannot predict which arbitration judges will be involved in this resolution. Thus, this fact also raises a major doubt that this is a good agreement. I have said and I have advocated that it would be good to get further information, further clarifications and regarding at least some restrictions or orientations if there are them in this text of the Agreement that can make our forecasts more likely and I have also advocated that we get a list of arbitarians or now before the decision on making, on granting consent to the signing or at least before making a decision on the ratification of this Agreement. Without such full information, without open dialogue with the Government, without a transparent relationship, we would really get into a situation where our voice is being extorted, I do not want to take part in making a good decision that you will convince me is best for Croatia's national and state interests. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-02-0.u41920	Thank you. Let's move on. An individual debate, Mr. Gordan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-02-0.u41921	Thank you very much, Mr. President. We have an 11th article agreement ahead of us, and I would say never again a dispute or more emotion over a shorter agreement. Unfortunately, my opinion that there are two possible and two bad solutions ahead of us. One solution that leads us to a problem with the European Union, i.e. the process of joining the European Union and the possible blockade of Slovenia, Croatia. And another solution that we are not even aware of right now is that many things can be produced from this arbitration court that can be even more unfavourable for Croatia. At this point, I find it difficult to find answers, and I find it difficult to raise my hand for such an agreement which might question part of the sovereignty of the Republic of Croatia over a certain part of the territory, seemingly above the sea, i.e. the sea route of Slovenia towards the open sea. And on that side, I can hardly take that risk as an agent. My view is that this agreement is much worse than the 2002 Racan – Drnovšek Agreement. It is worse because at the time we had everything on the table, we knew what the problems were open, we knew what Croatia had to accept to solve these problems and we knew what Slovenia was looking for, that is, what Slovenia should accept to solve all these problems. Here we know what Slovenia is looking for, that is, the passage, the touch, the path, the right passage towards the open sea. Croatia does not, for its part, solve any problems it has open with Slovenia, meaning something we will certainly give in return we will get nothing back. The Agreement Racan and Drnovšek was then tried by HDZ, including many people who are now active participants in these talks as traitorous, as the one who gives Croatian territory, and in some way the HDZ was not ready to plant its back to solve these burning problems with Slovenia. Now 7 years later, the fact is that we could already be in the European Union if we had a more favourable environment and would certainly not have had problems like this in joining the European Union that HDZ was then more responsible for the Republic of Croatia. Unfortunately, the HDZ then behaves as it is now in one established custom, solves only its problem, see what you are resilient, which bothers you not to look beyond your interest. Is that how you run the state, and if that's how you can make responsible decisions my opinion is that you don't. Unfortunately, we are already giving the arbitration court guidelines in advance, giving the court in advance how to decide whether and how Slovenia should have access to the open sea. In the opinion of certain experts, the Court of Justice may decide only one way. TO establish a sea passage, corridor in the part of the Croatian Territorial Sea towards the open sea, territorial corridor and not free navigation regime as it would be very likely for Croatia to be acceptable. That's it. when we talk about the territorial corridor suspension of all rights of the Republic of Croatia in that area. In this corridor, Croatia will have to give up part of its sea, seabed and underground with all its natural resources. In that part of the sea, including the airspace above that corridor and whether we, as representatives of the Croatian Parliament, have the right to accept this Agreement, i.e. to accept the foundations, which will lead to such an agreement, because this Agreement establishing arbitration and guidelines which will decide on what kind of final agreement will be, provide exactly the basis for Croatia to lose sovereignty over part of its territory. Especially above the sea, i.e. the accession path of Slovenia to international waters. Unfortunately, we will not only lose that sovereignty at this time nor know how much the surface of that passage and the path to the international sea will be, or how big the surface of the territory will be. And of course, in this situation we cannot accept such an agreement, i.e. at least at this point I cannot accept it as a representative in the Croatian Parliament. And another fact that goes in favour of Slovenia being here in a better position than Croatia is that Slovenia can directly influence this member of the arbitration tribunal through the European Commission on another 3 which will be proposed by the European Commission. So Slovenia is already familiar with these people who will sit in the arbitration court and Slovenia can decide by informal pressures and influence which people will sit there. Croatia, as is now known, has no information that is human, or if the Government has, at least this House of the High has no such information. And that's another reason why we shouldn't support this agreement. All that I have said and the responsibility that we must have in front of our voters, in front of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, gives me the conclusion that of the 2 bad solutions, a solution in which with this number of unknowns we enter into a possible agreement with, that is, the arbitration court that will bring an agreement to resolve these issues with Slovenia, I think it is a worse solution than to risk the blockade of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-02-0.u41922	Thank you. We have two corrections and two replicas. First correction, Mr. Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-02-0.u41923	Mr. President, I only have one incorrect quote. The opinion of a gentleman, a respected colleague, that this agreement was worse and that he was more transparent and that all the cards were on the table. In fact, that time, you didn't know anything. Now everything is defined and this agreement clearly states what will be, that it will be tried, that the arbiters will act in accordance with the International Law of the Sea and no other way. Now it's clear, and then it wasn't clear. Why do you twist reality and want to present something different? Your opinion really isn't justified and it's not true.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-02-0.u41924	Correction, Mrs. Carmela Caparin.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-02-0.u41925	Thank you very much, Mr. President. It is incorrect that HDZ only solves its problem and does not see it spread its interest. If he only solved his problem, this wouldn't be at all today's debate, and it's up to us whether we agree to this or not. So do you, buddy. It is incorrect that this agreement will lose sovereignty. This would be terrifying, in the end and a statement of non-judgment says: "Nothing in this arbitration agreement will be considered as Croatia's consent at the request of Slovenia for territorial contact with the open sea, let alone with Croatian sovereignty." Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-02-0.u41926	Thank you. Vice-President Željka Antunović, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-02-0.u41927	Thank you very much. Col. Maras asked himself in his presentation and concluded that this is not a good way to manage the state, and regarding the events surrounding this agreement in arbitration. I keep wondering, and I want to be really constructive, I want this open issue with Slovenia to be resolved, for years I want to and for years I've been thinking about what a good way to do it. I don't think there's a good way. As soon as you're in a dispute and there's no good way to do this, and we were in Croatia looking for the best possible way or the least bad way for Croatia. One that will be acceptable to us in some fundamental values and protect the political and national interests of the Republic of Croatia. It wasn't a good way to get the edge of Racan that he gave the experts to find a solution and then wanted to politically verify it. Politically arranged only in fact the desire to resolve itself. Now it's not a good way for Mrs. Kosor to make political arrangements there, keep it a secret, and then bring us before a done act, us who need to take responsibility, share with her the responsibility for it. It's not a good way to do it either. And that's why it seems to me that Mrs Kosor actually made a mistake because she should have taken negotiations in parallel at every turn to seek consent. I will now not appeal to anyone, but openly to Croatian citizens, not to bring all of Croatia into one schizophrenic situation where everyone remembers this agreement and political circumstances and international maritime law and everything. And everyone tells their own story, interprets it their own way. It scares the Croatian people more or less, if necessary. And we in the SDP and myself personally want the best solution, but we want to agree on it and take conscious responsibility for all the good and bad consequences.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-02-0.u41928	Answer, Mr. Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-02-0.u41929	Thank you very much. I told my colleague Antunovic in my presentation that this, that two bad solutions are being put in front of us. The only thing I've been estimating is that at this point, it's a worse solution for us to go like geese in the fog. Where we don't know what's going to happen from that arbitration court and what's going to be the solution and whether that solution will be acceptable to this assembly at all to ratify it. We are giving a mandate to arrange something that we may not be able to raise our hand or two-thirds later if necessary. And our statements, as my colleague Caparin warned me, do not limit the arbitration court at all. They have no influence on the arbitration court and its decisions. So whatever our government has now stated after we adopt this agreement, it will not be relevant, it will be only relevant to what it says in Article 3. D This Agreement, which is to establish Slovenia's connection to the open sea, and it is very likely that Slovenians will not only satisfy the right to sail but one part of the sovereignty that Croatia will lose in that part of the Adriatic Sea. So whatever the government says now will certainly not affect the decision of the Court of Justice. And that's what I'm saying.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-02-0.u41930	Replica, Mr. Representative Ante Kotromanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-02-0.u41931	You spoke about the emotions that this agreement has in general about the emotions that this agreement has produced on us, and on the whole of the public. I'm just gonna ask how many people here in the Parliament lost someone in the Homeland War? In the Homeland War, about 15 thousand people were killed, about 36,000 people were wounded, about a thousand 100 were gone, and surely this country was soaked with absolute blood by people who fought for the Croatian state. And it's hard to explain to people now, of course for these people, I got hundreds of messages yesterday and today, it wasn't a good deal either Drnovšek-Racan or this one today. How do you explain to people today that this agreement is good for us when we definitely don't get anything under this agreement? What do we get under this agreement? We have an agreement that will surely lose something. Which way, we'll see in a couple of years, right? Therefore, it is certainly one thing that the defenders of the Homeland War are very disappointed and I hope that there will be wisdom and intelligence in a way and we will create some ways and assumptions that we will set ourselves up differently and that we will resolve this difficult misunderstanding with Slovenia in a way that is in the interests of the Croatian people.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-02-0.u41932	Thank you. Mr. Gordan Maras' answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-02-0.u41933	Thank you very much, Mr. Kotromanović. I told Slovenia it would not be safe to satisfy the free navigation regime, as at this point Slovenians can reach the open sea through our sea. They'll be looking for a territorial corridor. In that case, Croatia will have to give up part of its sea, seabed, underground with all natural resources and, of course, air space corridor above that corridor. Do we want to agree to such an agreement? And do we even want to give this agreement the basis to make such a deal in the arbitration court? I don't want to. And I don't believe that Mr. Djakic wants it, since he announced that if anything like that happens, he will go alone to defend such things, not to happen.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-02-0.u41934	The replica of Mrs Ingrid Anticevic-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-02-0.u41935	You are surprised by what this very similar thing in the Racan-Drnovšek agreement was then called treason and high treason from the same group that now calls this kind of proposal a patriotic act. There's no room for surprise here, colleague Maras. The truth has a place to be disgusted. However, it is perfectly clear that the content is not evaluated here, but the proposings. Whatever they suggest, let's remember the Split Riviera as it was turkeyed there, so we don't give the generals. Let's remember how the transfer of the General to The Hague took place. Then let's remember the promises we will restore dignity to the Croatian defenders, and now they are returning the documentation with their unresolved status. And the difference between Racan-Drnovšek's proposal or the unparadised agreement and this proposal is that it was clear what was, whether something was acceptable or not, we are judging about it. We can talk about it today. But we knew where we were. But now we don't know what we're on. So, the hands are washed here, I repeat the thing, Mrs. Kosor washes her hands, like Pontius Pilate, gives arbitration in an unknown direction. Where are they going to take us and where are they going to take us, and what are the gauges of all this? But in addition, that first 2001 agreement addressed the whole issue. He solved the question, no one here says the Ljubljanska banks, the savings and the nuclear issues. And now we have this part of the biosegment that was then disputed in an even worse version. And that's what the dispute and the subject is, that we've given things to solve by determining the gauges.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-02-0.u41936	Thank you. Mr. Gordan Maras' answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-02-0.u41937	Thank you very much, colleague Ingrid Antičević-Marinović. I'm not surprised at anything, it's very clear to me, and I said in my presentation. HDZ tends to solve only its problems in its policy, and now it seems to them that this is simpler and better for their policy-making. In 2001, they are also to an agreement that was certainly better than that that it solved all the problems. Let me just mention it saves the Ljubljana banks. Everything could have been solved back then, but then it wasn't in HDZ's best interest and he yelled, he invited people to the streets and the radio mess. Yeah, that's HDZ. And the difference, Mrs. Ingrid Anticevic-Marinovic, is whether the state is run by a statesman or a politician. Because the statesman is thinking about what the next generations will do and how all decisions will apply to the next generation, and the politician decides in the short term today. It solves the problem from today to tomorrow. Unfortunately, the last two governments are run by a politician, and the government was led by a statesman from 2000 to 2003.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-02-0.u41938	Ladies and gentlemen, we still have 40 reported times one five replicas here. That would be best if we had nicely exhibited here on a big map that was in 2001 and what is now proposed that the people know what we're talking about. This is how we cloud things. And secondly, if you don't talk about it, everyone will have the right to vote against or for. What's the problem? And everyone will be able to take responsibility. Exactly what my colleague was saying. I won't be here unfortunately, but I'm in favour of an agreement. So there's no dilemma. But I can deposit it here, I ask here those who know better the Rules of Procedure than I do, and there are. Deposited and if I were here, I would suggest a single vote. So there are traces left to know. I think it might. Now it's Mr. Agent Tonino Picula's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-02-0.u41939	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Gentlemen, members of the government, colleagues and colleagues. I would say first of all that we are leading this debate on the subject in light of our country's general delay on its way to membership in the European Union, the good part as Croatia returns or while others return to the unresolved border dispute with Slovenia, will be in a state of extended transition and will be exposed to the uncertainty of each species. This is indeed the case with the bad joke of former US President Clinton, because it is not a matter of whether global warming will resolve the dispute in 50 years, but how to prevent any new local overheating of the dispute with Slovenia from continuing to extend Croatia's time of entry into the European Union. If Croatia, according to its standard of rule of law, had, at the level of one Switzerland or Norway, our delay in entering the European Union would not have been a big problem. However, in terms of Croatia, I quote: "Industrial production is still about 20% lower than in '98, when total debt of external and internal sectors has increased to 60 billion euros in the last 19 years, when the number of employees in Croatia is among the lowest in Europe, when we are expected in 2010 to pay off foreign debt of 10 billion euros and almost 2 billion interest, delaying our entry into the European Union can have very negative consequences. There were many words about documents that allegedly prejudge the Croatian-Slovenian border. Unfortunately, the quality of Zagreb and Ljubljana's relations over the past 18 years shows that it has become almost impossible to predict anything about this open dispute. So-called The soft sea border with Slovenia has turned into a very hard political dispute with serious external and political but also internal implications. The paradox work should be said that the disputes were not only in 1991 in the year of the two states' isolation. Our diplomatic relations were established on February 6th 1992, which on the one hand began a period of interstate cooperation and, on the other, continued and serious divergence in some areas. The history of the dispute between Zagreb and Ljubljana is the chronology of missed opportunities after which there was a growing mistrust and the space for any agreement was narrowed down, not only in the metrics but also in the way of reaching a solution at all. From the memorandum on the Gulf of Piran and made it difficult to apply SOPS through the withdrawal of ambassadors from Zagreb and the dispute of the epicontinental demarcation in the Adriatic, to the declaration of an ecological fishing zone where there are no conditions for it, Slovenia has made claims that it should be granted the right to part of the sea which can hardly be bilaterally agreed or based on international law. Our joint failure to completely remove the biggest problem of the state border deal in 18 years added to it an increasing specific weight and periodically led to a serious deterioration of relations. What solution can bridge a gap between such distant views that it has not already been tested in the past 18 years? If the solution is to be said I would be elegant and simply will not be acceptable at least to one side, and if it will be complex and innovative it will take a lot more time for adoption, times that Croatia definitely does not have. Slovenia wants to settle the border dispute in its favour, I would say, by over-using the principle of justice while Croatia wants to continue the deblocking of negotiations, their successful completion and entry into the EU without entering part of the territory. The question also arises whether Croatia needs any settlement that would have an extracurricular basis, given that international law stands on its side. any deviation from its requirements. A year of blocked membership negotiations in the European Union shows that it is necessary. What differs significantly from other ways of peaceful dispute settlement, however, is that the acquis is expressed on the basis of legal rules, which means on the basis of general international law. However, we must be aware that the language of the agreement may also hide the unwanted solution. There was a lot of talk about the fact that, in the first proposal, Rehn spoke about Slovenia's open sea contact in Article 1(3), and this proposal that we received was about Slovenia's connection to the open sea. I have personally consulted several dictionaries of different origins that interpret English and I really must say that there is no dilemma. It's about the possibility that you should be concerned about if anything else at least shows concern. And what if, then, the judgment of the arbitration court still allows Slovenia direct territorial contact with the open sea. Did the government, accompanied by a statement of non-judgment, merely want to secure such an alibi on the charge of pre-predicting the possibility as a completely realistic solution to the dispute. The agreement reached between Croatia and Slovenia is fundamentally and cannot contain full reciprocity, denying the prejudge of the border line in the documents intended to negotiate membership. Why? Slovenia has already installed its documents in the European legal heritage before entering the European Union, which is impossible for Croatia. But there are other examples when even international agreements dealt with the same sensitive issues. The Memorandum of Understanding of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, Slovenia and Italy on the establishment of a common navigation system in the northern part of the Adriatic is a successful attempt to contribute to the demarcation of the Piran Bay through the application of the centre line and without innovative corridors. He was signed to remind me of May 20, 2000. Each country has set aside part of its territorial sea for the corridors of ships returning to... The Parliament is to remind that agreement ratified. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And quite contrary to the thematics of the gulf Memorandum of Piran Bay of 93, which claims to be brought about by the life issue of obtaining sufficient amounts of natural resources to survive the Slovenian people's 2000 memorandum, it is demonstrated that a practical contractually multilateral solution to the problem of safe passage, detachment from the world or the consumption of fishing rights is possible. Of course, all of this guarantees Slovenia's international law of the sea and without a memo from Ancona. A word, two on the unrealised agreement between Ivica Racan and Janez Drnovsek. The agreement is also a conjecture of the so-called so-called agreement. silent diplomacy. It is an agreement that also passed a check with the coalition partners at the time. It is an agreement discussed on the Committee on Foreign Policy but it is also an agreement that has been halted by political and professional resistance. He had no effect on the legal or physical situation at the border with Slovenia. It should be pointed out that each bilateral contract is a subject to itself and cannot be taken as a precedent. For example, the fact that France has granted part of its territorial sea to Monaco is neither precedent in international law nor binding on anyone except the two states that have so agreed. I remind you that the Government of Ivica Racan by diplomatic means enabled the return of the old town of Zrinjski near Croatia to Kostanica as well as the departure of the UN mission from Prevlaka and its accession to the mainland and the open opportunity to establish the limits and regime of the use of the surrounding sea. Ladies and gentlemen, it has been shown in our European story that only obligations but not dates are clearly fixed. We must not forget that the entry into the European Union requires double support from members of the European Union for Croatia and also Croatian citizens to join the European Union. Obstructions of Croatia's progress towards membership in the European Union can be divided into rough in two groups, domestically consisting of an unsettled state of domestic economy, justice, administration, agriculture and the rise of Euroscepticism in our country. We should first and foremost prevent the harmless passage of many individuals and groups through criminal prosecution institutions because of widespread corruption. I see the European contribution of uncertainty in the rise of the Euroscepticism of the citizens of the European Union after a major enlargement from 2004, especially after Bulgaria and Romania's entry 2007. Draphing and sponsoring this proposal, the European Union and the United States have probably solved their problem but it is not until the end and Croatian-Slovenian since the unblocked negotiations will not soon bring about a certain solution to the border dispute. In case of disagreement with the solution, Slovenia can, regardless of the risks, stop Croatia once more in the final of the accession process. Slovenian political and professional public already hesitates whether a referendum on the process of concluding a final border agreement with Croatia should be installed. However, if we know what our priority is, and this is about joining the European Union, we must not waste our heads but even less time. Just a Slovenian experience suggests that a solid domestic political consensus strengthens the country's negotiating position. Therefore, anyone who votes for the agreement today is not a national traitor, as the opponents of this agreement cannot be said to be the enemies of our country's European future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-02-0.u41940	Thank you. We have two replicas. First, Mr. Dragutin Lesar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-02-0.u41941	Comrade Picula, I fully agree with you that no unilateral solution will solve this long-standing problem, although two years ago, Slovenians were quite successful in unilateral moves when it comes to blocking Croatia in negotiations. But just one such one-sided solution follows this document, which is this statement of non-judgment, which is a unilateral statement in which I noticed two things. As a witness to the signing of the agreement with two Prime Ministers, only the Presidency of the Council of the European Union appears, and as a witness to this unilateral Croatian statement with the Presidency of the Council of the European Union, the United States also comes. No one explained why the agreement, the signing of the agreement, was witnessed only by the Presidency of the European Union and this statement by the United States. And as I understand it, Prime Minister Pahor, the prime minister of Slovenia, Pahor, said the agreement would not be signed if the signing of this statement was witnessed by the Presidency of the Council of the European Union. This means that this unilateral statement, which is offered as a guarantee of the fears that are present among us in the Parliament, and especially of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. So, that unilateral statement to the Court of Justice, believe me, in my court, I'm not a diplomat or a lawyer, but it's worth as much as Sanader's bail card.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-02-0.u41942	Answer, Mr. Tonino Picula.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-02-0.u41943	Mr. Lesar, you have indeed seen in a series of signatures that should naturally follow both documents, the arbitration agreement as a statement of non-judgment and several representatives of countries that seem to have no direct links or even interests in resolving this dispute. However, it is obvious that the United States, especially after President Obama's arrival in the White House, has decided to lead a more active policy in this part of Europe and to change primarily the technique of implementing US foreign policy in the east and southeast of Europe. I remind them that they have given up already on that famous missile shield, but they also really want to do away with the excess uncertainty in Southeast Europe with strong support among other clear independence of Kosovo, the situation in Bosnia, but of course they expect very much that exactly two countries, one of which is already a member of the European Union, and the other should be, both NATO members, to make their contribution just coming out of this story that may be too long for 18 years. However, when you talk about the situation in Croatia, I would only say that there are signatories of the European Union of Sweden and it has made a series of golden advices in its time that a country should negotiate with Brussels that, via facts, after a certain time and enter the European Union. If you allow, and they're very short, I'd just read these few tips of gold sent from Stockholm. He says this, make a full national consensus, be transparent and honest, don't accuse Brussels, the public support you get from individuals and forums don't take for granted, ask for negotiations in the package, narrow down your priorities, look for allies, but get to know the opponents. It seems to me that a lot has been skipped before this agreement was drawn up that we are talking about here in the Parliament today.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-02-0.u41944	Thank you. We have another replica. Representative Arsen Bauk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-02-0.u41945	Thank you, Mr. President. In your discussion, you touched and mentioned the period when it was initialled or the agreement of Racan-Drnovšek was agreed, and in today's debate we heard a few actually objecting to this agreement that the ruling coalition had fallen apart because of it. For this reason, and due to historical truth, I would like to read the statement of the then President of the Croatian Parliament and President of the Croatian Peasant Party, Mr Zlatko Tomcic, that on Croatian television on July 27, 2001, carried by "Vjesnik" on July 29, 2001 and can be found on the websites. And the statement reads: "We do not have a guaranteed 101 votes in the Croatian Parliament at this time. But for several days now, as intensely as I have felt about this conversation in political circles, I feel a change of mood and a perception of reality in different parties that it is necessary to sign the agreement." Asked if he would personally raise his hand for the agreement, Tomcic said, "I have to be a little bit more reserved because I want to see some more details, but in principle yes." So after the public actually continued to discuss this agreement in the coalition, things actually changed and the agreement ended. But it is not true that the situation cannot be compared because the agreement has also been declared by the County Assembly of all the counties bordering the Republic of Slovenia. A broad debate was held, Ivica Racan was ready to come to the Parliament and bring all the consequences of the agreement. In May of this year, the Croatian Parliament adopted the first Rehn proposal and no one will be against European integration if it votes against today, as it will not be a traitor if it votes in favour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-02-0.u41946	Answer, Mr. Picula. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-02-0.u41947	I don't want to in any way deny what you said, but I would also like to give an actual confirmation of your resignation. We return in 2001 when the prime minister and possible resolutions discussed meetings in Otočac, Krka, on 11 April 2001, in Bratislava at the edge of the meeting V10 on 11 May, and the agreement was finally reached in Rijeka on 9 June 2001. The formal negotiations on the text of the contract between the Republic of Croatia and the Republic of Slovenia began with the government's decisions to initiate the procedure for the conclusion of that contract and the establishment and appointment of the Commission for the borders adopted on 5 July 2001. The Prime Minister presented the content of the contract at the Committee on Foreign Policy of the Parliament on July 18th, and the government adopted a report on the negotiations and approved the initialling of the contract at a session on July 19th. Therefore, it cannot be said in any way that coalition partners did not know what was going on at the time, but they also gave generous help believing, of course, that they contribute not only to resolving the long-standing bilateral dispute with Slovenia but also to opening the European perspective of our country. Of course, the whole thing, we know for well-known reasons, didn't go any further.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-02-0.u41948	Thank you. It's Mr. Representative Nenad Stazic's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-02-0.u41949	Thank you very much. In this House, we have been chosen by citizens to defend national interests always, always. So when the time comes for us to vote on this proposal, no responsible MP will be easy to make a decision, whether voted in favour or voted against. Why? Because we have two conflicts of interest here, and they're both unusually important. Interest, it is no doubt the interest of the Republic of Croatia to continue accession negotiations and to become a full member of the European Union. Anyone who makes it difficult for this House to respect that national interest. But the national interest of the Republic of Croatia, without a doubt, also to preserve its territory, to preserve sovereignty over every step of Croatia's land and sea. Accepting this agreement could mean accepting such a decision that Croatia still loses some sovereign right over part of its sea. So these two interests actually turn into two uncertain futures. Whether to reject this agreement means automatically inciting Slovenia to return the blockade. Does this mean bringing the anger of all members of the European Union to Croatia? Does this really mean delaying Croatia's rise for an uncertainly long period of perhaps ten or more years? Whether to accept this agreement means knowingly risking Croatia's loss of part of its sea. It won't be easy for anyone, and in this business we have to be as responsible as we should have been in 2001 when it wasn't easy for Prime Minister Racan to find a solution to this problem. If the border with Slovenia were simple and easy to establish, it would have already been established. The solution he tried to find is very similar to the solution that this agreement can bring, very similar. At the time of 2001, Slovenia was not in the European Union and the negotiating position of Croatia was better. They were in a hurry. And we could use that moment to achieve the optimal or best possible solution for Croatia. So it is clear to all of us what each of us would like, that Croatia would enter the European Union, that nothing must be denied and that this is the end of the matter. Is that all that's possible? Obviously not. Obviously, some concessions must be made. Obviously, a compromise must be agreed to, like in 2001, had to be agreed to. A matter of responsibility for MPs, parties, politicians. The question of the responsibility of those who then told Racan in 2001 that he was a traitor, and today they are forced to make such a solution. My colleague Pupovac here, in his inspired speech, said that he would not turn SDP into HDZ and HDZ into SDP in this matter. The SDP won't turn into HDZ, we won't call you national traitors, we won't confuse people, we won't invite them to the street like you did, and in this way you delayed the solution to this issue that could have been done in a position when Croatia was stronger, when Slovenia was not in the European Union. At that time, we could solve the nuclear power plant in the package and save the Ljubljanska Banka. They're watching this transfer, I guess, and our citizens whose money was trapped in the Ljubljanska Banka because you were then insinuating people because you didn't want to agree to the efforts, the hard efforts and the hard decision of the Prime Minister at the time. We have the responsibility of the chosen to make difficult decisions sometimes. It's a different responsibility than those who talk to the media today and yesterday about the sale of national interests from the church, from intellectuals, from anyone who wishes to report in this matter. They have a right to speak of it, but only we have a duty, a heavy duty to make decisions. What are the risks and what are the guarantees in this agreement? The risks are pretty high, the guarantees are I'd dare say nothing. We don't know what the court of arbitration will be, nor can anyone here tell us. But the process of adopting or conducting negotiations on such a sensitive matter, the important thing for Croatia was, at first, bad. You know, when we find ourselves in a situation where this government is found, when it knows it's not going to be easy to make a decision, then that decision is required to start over in cooperation with everyone. It is then called all parliamentary parties, then negotiations are conducted in a way that everyone in this Parliament knows what we can get and what we must provide. Well, maybe it's not enough just to have a consensus of the political public, but to have the general public know what we're dealing with. In this case, it wasn't like that in this contract. She was doing quiet diplomacy says prime minister, and we've got noise on the streets. It would have been better if that diplomacy had been less quiet, and then the noise would have been less today. You are calling for the responsibility of all MPs, asking for cooperation, and you are still acting today in this House as if you do not need this cooperation. Prime Minister Kosor rightly said today I have an understanding for all former prime ministers and Prime Minister Racan. That understanding I don't see here in the assembly, I don't see it. Col. Frano Matušić has at least 20 times risen to correct the allegations, and every time he attacks Racan as a traitor. You're looking for cooperation, and you're not offering it. Nor did you offer it when the negotiations were being prepared, nor do you know today about your responsibility for the chosen, that if we have to make a decision that is a bitter pill to know why it is bitter, and that we know why we are taking it. There's one more thing about honesty. In addition to this document, a unilateral statement, in which the Republic of Croatia declares that nothing in this arbitration agreement will be considered as Croatia's consent at the request of Slovenia for territorial contact with the open sea. And the 5th article says that no document will be used in arbitration, nor will that statement. No unilateral document, and this is a one-sided document. So let's not cheat on people like that. So why do we need that statement? So let's not make a fool out of people. So tell me, frankly, we don't have another time. All responsible people will help you in this, as you did not want to help in 2001.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-02-0.u41950	We have one replica, Mr. Arsen Bauk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-02-0.u41951	Mr. President. A colleague, Stazic, also reminded of 2001 and the views of political actors at the time. I'm going to remind you once again of some other statements, in order to abate the passion on the right hand side of the assembly if we talk about 2001 and that agreement. What did the mayors say? In Međimurje, they were dissatisfied with replacing territories in their territory. Local settlements in Varazdin County could be calm, it is good that the government is taking steps to resolve all issues with Slovenia, according to Sabati Mayor. In Zagreb County, they say no party wins or loses through this contract. The border with Slovenia has always connected, not separated... and the coastal-goran county and were waiting for tickets to possible... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] pockets in Žumberk and in the area of Chabra. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And now what is most beautiful, Istrian Mayor Jakovcic felt, therefore, as far as the border at sea reached an acceptable, or compromise solution, that they are of strategic Croatian interest and that these documents do not endanger the vital state interests of Croatia. When we talk about who was involved, so he was familiar with the agreement, at HSLS he was then mayor of HSLS in Međimurje. In Zagreb and Krapina-Zagorje County from HSS. In Karlovac County, he was the mayor of HDZ, Primorje-goranska, SDP and Istarska from IDS. Thus, a large number of political actors from different parties were then introduced, and only later did they give up the agreement, purely due to the historical truth of fellow Members. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-02-0.u41952	Answer, Mr. Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-02-0.u41953	When we talk about these times, about 2001, let's say another truth. Well, even then, the government wasn't the happiest one to offer anything better. Well, none of the responsible people at the time were the happiest that we offer Slovenians a corridor. Not as wrongly as a part of Croatian must be given in Slovenian property. No, it was supposed to be there, where international waters would be withdrawn, the regime of international waters to Slovenian ports. Not that it becomes their territory. That was the solution, that chimney. What do we got here? It's an open sea compound. A relationship, as it is said here. But that relationship, God's people, it won't be a metaphysical relationship. Well, it's gotta be some corridor. The only question is what kind of regime will be in that corridor. That's all the arbiters will decide. We give them the corridor, it says in the agreement. That's the starting point for the arbiters. What kind of regime are they going to determine? We have no idea. But let's face it, we have no idea. Could be... It can only be a suspension of some of the rights that the sovereign state normally has on that territory, that our navy must not, that the army must not, I don't know what. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] There can be a lot of things. But let's face it, we don't know what's gonna happen to people. We don't know. But it's a necessary evil. Or let's just say we throw it away and stay in the suburbs of Europe for 10 years. That kind of dialogue you didn't know how to bring or how to run it today.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-02-0.u41954	We have two corrections. Right, Frano Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-02-0.u41955	Thank you, Mr. President. Fellow Stazic, it is incorrect that today we are forced to make solutions that are identical to those of the Racan-Drnovšek agreement, first of all. Second, it is incorrect that I said today in a statement in the corrections of false allegations that Racan is a traitor. I don't know what you came up with, but obviously I didn't say that, which you can check out in what I've been correcting and saying so far. But that I said it was a harmful contract for Croatia, absolutely. He is also hurt because he defined the border and defined that part of Croatian territory belongs to Slovenia. This isn't about having anything prejudged. Only here will the border be determined both on land and at sea, according to international law.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-02-0.u41956	Correction, Mr. Mario Zubovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-02-0.u41957	It is not true that the Racan-Drnovšek contract could solve the problem of the Ljubljanska banka and Krškoga. The money of the Ljubljanska Banka has been estranged from our citizens, and since your money has been estranged, not to say stolen, it cannot be the subject of a succession. And it has been interpreted, since several times today has already been said to have been a package of one, it could be considered that this money from the Ljubljanska banka, as if the Slovenians had given it to buy this piece of the sea, and so the people interpreted it. And another thing, Mr. Stazic, was not Drnovšek-Racan's agreement for HDZ, but failed because, in the coalition, it did not pass. And don't move the ball over to our place. You have it. He didn't go through with you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-02-0.u41958	Thank you. It's Mr. Representative Frano Matušić's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-02-0.u41959	Thank you, Mr. President. I will try to talk cold heads about this and this topic that is ahead of us and in some way say that this debate shows that this government has had a very good right and reason when through quiet diplomacy it solves this burning problem of relations with Slovenia and attempts to resolve the border dispute. In fact, it is quite certain that we have conducted the debate in the way we are today and that we would certainly lead it according to every point of this arbitration agreement so that this arbitration agreement would not see the light of day and that today they would certainly not debate. Because the way it is being discussed today is more defence of the Agreement Racan – Drnovšek than the debate on the essence of this Agreement. All day long, we have been listening to the defense today as Racan – Drnovšek was on the trail of this arbitration agreement. However, in order for the public not to really think that this is really how it is then the public should get to know the facts. The fact is that the Arbitrary Agreement is on the trail of what we've been wanting, on the trail of a possible solution that will be reached through an international judicial body. One international judicial authority in this case will decide where the land and sea borders between the Republic of Croatia and the Republic of Slovenia will be and that is, in paragraph 1 third paragraph, this is clearly defined. First, the land and sea borders between Croatia and Slovenia will be established, as defined in Article 4 of which rights, based on international law and point. Therefore, the land and sea borders of the Republic of Croatia and Slovenia are determined solely by the basis of international law. A sea rights expert, Mr. Vukas, mentioned here today by one of those people who wrote the convention, who wrote the Convention on the Rights of the Sea, which was adopted in 1982, which was ratified by both Croatia and Slovenia. And he clearly assures us that it is a minimal risk that something that is not in line with international rights will happen. It is simply impossible to decide on the basis of international law without being a decision in accordance with this same international law. It's just impossible. So that's one point. The second point that speaks of so-called. Junction or for our public as translated into Croatian about Slovenia towards the open sea. And that part of Article 4 clearly states that this part will also be solved by the basis of international law again, the principles of justice and good neighbourly relations but also by international law. And a union to Mr. Vukas and to legal experts from this area as a term in the Convention of the Sea does not exist. So that's the term, it's simply a non-existent legal term when we talk about this. Therefore, the arbitration court will need the basis of our submissions and submissions of the Republic of Slovenia to decide what and what kind of association Slovenia will be towards the open sea. But this does not prejudge in any case does not mean that in this case Croatia will lose some of its territory. No one can say that today and has no right to say it. It just doesn't stand. As far as the arbitarians are concerned, that was also the case today, it was about the differences between the first Rehn proposal and this proposal before us today. The first proposal makes it clear that in the event Croatia and Slovenia disagree on members of the arbitration court, so around those three members of the arbitration court that the International Court of Justice will do so in The Hague. What is the difference now is that it is also the same in this arbitration agreement, with a small amendment, that the European Commission and the Commissioner will, whoever he is, because the composition of the European Commission is changing, that they will propose a list of judges, but a list of judges who will be made up of recognised international experts dealing with these problems. And it is truly surprising that individuals in this House have no confidence in the Commission that, in good intentions, they will propose really good experts in this area, but should be proposed by the CNS, according to Mrs Pusic, they will probably propose some bureaucrats who will, under the influence of this or that member of the European Union, decide against international law. It is simply unacceptable, such mistrust with the European Commission is unacceptable. The more the... the more that it's about recognised international experts, I guess it's clear who can be an international expert, quite certain that not who's sitting somewhere in the office, and who's the assistant of some judge who has nothing to do with an international legal case. So there is no doubt that it is a single proposal that is absolutely acceptable. The more Croatia and Slovenia can agree in this process on these three members of the arbitration tribunal because it is their right, so no one takes away their right, as Mr. Milanovic said that someone is taking away someone’s sovereign right to choose those judges, no one will challenge us. We have this right and today according to this arbitration agreement Croatia and Slovenia can agree on the overall composition of all five judges, one gives Croatia one Slovenia and about these three we need to agree on which these are. If we don't come to an agreement, the International Court of Justice is on stage in The Hague. So you don't think the President of the International Court in The Hague will also give confidence to decide on this dispute to someone who is not a known international expert and you don't think that the European Commission will again plant on him some non-professionals who will decide. So you're also doubting the International Court of Justice in The Hague. You doubt whether it is the President of the International Court of Justice in The Hague who will justly decide what three judges are members of the arbitration court. So, double into the court you asked for Croatia to go and get arbitration there. It means that by any chance we could make that decision, and we could not make it for the Slovenians because the Slovenians did not accept arbitration at the International Court of Justice in The Hague, of course it is simply impossible because both sides must agree to the arbitration take place before the International Court of Justice it is clear that both sides must agree. Does this mean that now, by any chance, it would have occurred to you to ask the question and the arbitration of the International Court of Justice in The Hague? Because today you are questioning whether the President of the International Court of Justice in The Hague would make a fair decision regarding membership and composition of the arbitration court? So, about that, two Mr. Milanovic, about which two Mrs. Pusic. It's just something that's amazing. I will not talk about EU doubts or not the EU. I think that we have left these doubts far behind, that a consensus has been reached on all the parties, but it is absolutely certain that these doubts appear in public, but we clearly have to tell the Croatian public that we are neither Norway nor Switzerland, that we are not. Then what are the alternatives? We can say, "We don't want to go to the European Union" we can make that decision, but what is the alternative? What's the alternative? Who are we staying with, what society are we staying with, and what can we expect in the future? So, I think it's clear to everyone, I'm not going to specifically elaborate this part. Calling for broad support, I think, with the right of Ms. Prime Minister, has asked for broad support in this arbitration agreement because, simply with such a broad support, Croatian national interests can be defended more and more strongly. And it is logical that in the Croatian Parliament, of course, we take responsibility for making such decisions just as you could have broken over your knee in 2001, but obviously you failed because the coalition fell apart on that very issue. Because there was no Parliament, there was no debate in the Parliament about this agreement. And when you speak of him, why do you remember him today? That he's not harmful and that he has no consequences. So why should we today, mention him all day, and apparently he wasn't harmful and there's no consequences.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-02-0.u41960	Thank you. We have a correction first, Mr. Arsen Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-02-0.u41961	Thank you, Mr. President. So, a comparison of this proposal for an agreement and a proposal for an agreement by Racan-Drnovšek, which Mr. Matušić stated, I would actually read what is also an inter-recognising international expert and Croatian law expert for the sea said, Mr. Davorin Rudolf, so this agreement was called a quote: "The poor version of the abortional attack of the 2001 contract Racan-Drnovšek. For example, the draft in Corridor was designed to open the sea, and in the current draft along with this variant a worse solution is possible. The award of Croatian territory in Corridor of Slovenia." That's what Mr. Rudolph said, which we can also put into international and recognised experts. As for the second allegations of the coalition's disintegration, therefore, that this Parliament, that the agreement could have passed in the Assembly, then needed 101 votes, so the coalition was not enough to bring it in and therefore a broad support was sought and it was not received and we move on.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-02-0.u41962	Thank you. We have a correction, Mr. Joseph Leco.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-02-0.u41963	Mr. President, the respected colleague Matušić is incorrectly and legally incorrectly the objectives of the agreement, which we are discussing, to be interpreted through the provision of paragraph 1 only through the provision of paragraph 1 of Article 3 and to say that it is the task of arbitration to establish the border on the sea and on land because it is still on, and the subject of the dispute is said in paragraph 2. It is necessary to determine and it is slow to leave Slovenia to the open sea. And that's the task of arbitration. In so doing, Croatia has accepted a certain role to give concessions to the Republic of Slovenia on the territorial sea for the purposes of joining the EU. That's the task of this agreement. If that is the case, it would be better for Croatia to do so willingly, voluntarily, with its decision than to leave it to the International Arbitration Body, which, instead of us, will satisfy the EU's entry point, in which we do not know the scope, the Republic of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-02-0.u41964	Thank you. We have one breach of the Rules of Procedure. Mr. Frano Matušić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-02-0.u41965	Thank you, Mr. President. So the violation of Rules 209 and 214 because my first colleague didn't exactly quote me. He didn't say what I said, and I misquoted the agreement again. It is not the task of the arbitration court only to establish the link of Slovenia but first under A. is to determine the land and sea border, and under B. is then only the link of Slovenia towards the open sea, under the C. is the regime of use, etc., relevant maritime areas. So you incorrectly quoted me. It wasn't a correction to an incorrect quote.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-02-0.u41966	Mr. Dino Kozlevac, correction.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-02-0.u41967	Mr. President, two corrections to the wrong quote. The first incorrect assumption is that the debate here all day on the defence of the Racan-Drnovšek Agreement is here, rather than just a debate on a decision on the adoption of an agreement that has a lot of misunderstandings and which just allows for it not to determine the arbitration of the International Court, i.e. the profession, is contained in it that the policy, or the European Commission, determines the policy. Another incorrect allegation was literally said: "no one can say that Croatia will lose". I would say that no one can say that Croatia will not lose.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-02-0.u41968	Thank you. The European Commission may ask, but it does not have to, because if it is not exposed within 15 days then the President of the arbitration tribunal will appoint... The International Court in The Hague. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It's two variants, and it's probably the other one. Secondly, we still have Mr. Dragutin Lesar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-02-0.u41969	counterpart Matušić said no one can say that Croatia will lose a piece of territory. It is incorrect as the incorrect claim that no one can say that they will not lose the smallest part of the territory, as well as the incorrect claim that it is only about establishing borders, especially on land, because that means that we indirectly acknowledge that we do not have borders if we are just now establishing it and that this procedure cannot lead to a change in borders can, because we have a border line which our neighbours do not recognise. If, however, we remain on the claim that it is about setting limits without its possibility of change, it means that Badinter would be wrong to report that Croatia has established limits.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-02-0.u41970	Thank you. We have one replica. Mr. Zoran Vinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-02-0.u41971	I did this on purpose so you can answer that it's not a correction to an incorrect quote. Therefore, it is not about the arbitration agreement, but about the arbitration agreement. Two different ideas there you can agree with me. Unlike that Racan-Drnovsek contract, we really don't know where this agreement is headed. And indeed no one can claim that Croatia cannot lose with this agreement. By reading and following the media these days, there is also a duty for the President of the Parliament to answer one question, whether a two-thirds majority is needed to make such a decision in the Assembly or, as said by the Vice-President of the Parliament, a simple majority or a third of the MPs present. So, I expect as a representative one correct answer about that question. On the other hand, I'm afraid we're not just going to lose a piece of the sea, we're going to lose St. Geru, for God's sake, is that part next to the house of Josak Joras. Not to say that... and indeed I have no doubt of the European Union yes or no. But in such a way that every time Croatia raises its head slightly to set up ultimatums, it really is not the way Croatia can enter the European Union. We still have an unresolved dispute with both Bosnia and Herzegovina and Serbia and Montenegro. Will we then, as we did not bring ZERP, and after a few months, negotiations were blocked, whether this will happen every time a certain ultimatum is placed on Croatia, that at any cost, even by taking off our pants and on our knees, we must enter the European Union. Therefore, this agreement does not bring and is not known where Croatia is going.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-02-0.u41972	Here's another question I've been asked about most of them. I referred to Article 82(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. And Article 8 reads: "The borders of the Republic of Croatia can only be changed by a decision of the Croatian Parliament". So there are and then they can change. If they do not exist or have not been established and then it is not a change of the border, but rather a way to edit the border. It's another thing. It takes a two-thirds majority to change the borders of the Croatian Parliament. So 102 MPs. Today, it's not about any changes to the borders, but about this, as you said well, it's not about the arbitration agreement, it's about the arbitration agreement, it's about that. Thus, it is clear that the two-thirds majority are required when the borders are changed. And it will be respected. When this agreement is discussed and where it is referred here that both states will ratify the agreement, then we will see and decide in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and the Constitution what kind of majority we will need. That's why I need a simple majority, because it's not about changing borders. If it's a border change, then there's no doubt it's a two-thirds majority. That's it. Here's the reply to the replica, Mr. Frano Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-02-0.u41973	Thank you, Mr. President. I cannot agree with my colleague that this arbitration agreement does not show where Croatia is going, or what we want. The tasks of applicable law, therefore, in Articles 3 and 4, are very clear what Croatia wants. Croatia wants borders on both land and sea, regardless of what counterpart Lesar thinks is already set, but is not fully defined. It's mostly we can say 95% famous and it's defined and agreed. However, there is another few percent of the border between those parts is this part of which the land border ends and goes to the sea. Which hasn't been solved yet. So no agreement has yet been reached between Croatia and Slovenia where the border line is. And it will be clearly achieved through arbitration, that is, through this arbitration court. That's what this is about. So you need to know that. Therefore, Croatia knows very well that their aim here is to establish the land border in the area where it has not yet been established and the sea border will be established. And that part will be determined exclusively under international law. It's clear and it's written in applicable rights. Furthermore, as far as this merger of Slovenia towards the sea is concerned, it also calls for Croatia to seek respect for international law and that is in the arbitration agreement. So international law, the principle of justice and good neighbourly relations. The situation is very clear. Who really well-intentioned to read this arbitration agreement that's ahead of us.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-02-0.u41974	Let's move on, Mr. Representative Murio Zubovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-02-0.u41975	Thank you very much. Here we have a few months ago in this House brought the first agreement on the arbitration court, which the Assembly adopted with 102 votes or 108 votes, even Mrs. Vena Pusic, who counts that she was abstentioned for it, just misjudged and today turns out to have been held back. The agreement had no major objections and opposition and positions of both SDP and HDZ were for the agreement. Today we have a second proposal on the agenda, because this proposal was not accepted by Slovenia. In that second proposal, we claim he's better than the first. Better than the first for Croatia. Because the first proposal was about contact, it was about contact with the open sea. Here we have another word that translates the link "junciton" which we think is better suited to us. We have one more thing in this agreement that all deadlines concerning this agreement will begin only after Croatia has signed a treaty with the European Union, which is also a convention, because Slovenia cannot block us in our negotiations. And we know that Croatia's goal is to enter the European Union as soon as possible and avoid the blockade. With this agreement, we have made this proposal that we will adopt that we have finally managed to separate negotiations with the European Union from bilateral problems. And I don't see any reason why they're raising such tensions today in the Parliament except what I saw last Wednesday in the Banski Dvori when Mrs. Prime Minister presented this proposal to us from the HDZ so she presented it to coalition partners and opposition. And what happened there? Both Mr. Cacic and Mrs. Pusic from the HNS were in favour of the agreement, he was in one hour and Mr. Milanovic then said that he did not have enough time to get to know it and that he needed another or two days to study it. The prime minister invited him to come to the Bane Courts on Friday morning at 10am and set up a meeting and discuss how this session could be prepared. However, Mr Milanovic did not come or check out the meeting. From that moment on, both the media and the parties have begun doubting the validity and value of this agreement. It is certain that every agreement, every arbitration agreement carries one part of the risk, but if we were to be sure that we would achieve it or if the Slovenians were to be 100% safe then there should be no need for such arbitration because it would be clear in advance. So it's certain there's a risk. We think it is good this time, that this way we will realise our interests and that we will arrange the border with Slovenia but that we will enter the European Union in a relatively fast time, which is very important to us. I'd like to say right now that there are a lot of debates going back to the past here today. There was very little discussion about the agreement itself. It wanted to be relativated here as well as that 2001 agreement, which as HDZ did not support, was good. HDZ had nothing to support the agreement because it had already failed in the ruling coalition itself in 2001 and should not honour the HDZ. I can say that I am hoping that this arbitration agreement and arbitration will finally end well in Croatia and that Croatia will realise its national interests. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-02-0.u41976	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect alleged Mr. Representative Davorko Vidovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-02-0.u41977	I'm correcting the quote of a colleague who can create a false impression that this problem of deblocked our negotiations has been solved. That's not true. Slovenia can block us like any other European Member State of the European Union on another issue, not as far as the border is concerned, demarcation of what is the subject. So let's not make an impression now here's what we've done and that's our price for joining the European Union. We still have a lot to do in different areas and who knows what else is waiting for us in these negotiations until they are finished.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-02-0.u41978	Replica First Speaker of the Parliament Mr. Luka Bebic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-02-0.u41979	Mr Zubovic mentioned Article 4(b) here, so he listed some elements on which to determine the connection to the open sea, to the sea. International law is one foothold, the other is justice, which is a slightly less legal problem but it is still legal... And the third is and I consider the most important element of this is the principle of good neighbourly relations. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] What would those good neighbourly relations do here if everything was known as some seems to be all pre-known? What principle of good neighbourly relations would be something to take care of? So this is firmly based on the legal basis of this term mild, benevolent, etc. which is called the principle of good neighbourly relations what he would do in this agreement. In other words, it is firm (a) to set the border on land and sea on the basis of international law, principles and rules of international law. And the other thing less legal is calling for international law, justice and the principle of good neighbourly relations. I therefore conclude that this is the first principle of unspeakable, unquestionable and based on international law and that this second one is a component of all of these elements in order to determine the regime and there is an agreement between Croatia, Italy and Slovenia to enter the ports on the Croatian territorial sea and on the Italian territorial sea it comes out. And I don't see any reason why there'd be more problems here and imagine black forecasts. I think what I'm talking about is the special principle of good neighbourly relations actually relativized the legal problem to a lower level than this floor). Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-02-0.u41980	Reply to the replica Mr Mario Zubovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-02-0.u41981	I would agree with this replica of President-in-Office of the Parliament and I would add that Slovenia proposed to resolve the border at the beginning when it began to negotiate that they also wanted to put the border line to be just. Croatia has managed to remove this and will be determined solely by international law for setting the border line on land and sea.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-02-0.u41982	Second replica, Mr. Representative Frano Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-02-0.u41983	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. A colleague of Zubovic rightly stated that Article 11 which speaks about procedural deadlines is extremely important, i.e. the start of all the deadlines concerning this arbitration agreement. And to explain this a little further, I think it is important for the public, so only when Croatia completes negotiations with the European Union, so only after that moment and when it signs an accession negotiations for Croatia's accession to the European Union, then the procedural deadlines set out in this Agreement on arbitration begin. Only then is it possible to decide who will be members of the arbitration tribunal, only then will the 12-month period begin when a submission can be submitted on the one hand about the process itself, so only then begins and the arbitration process opens. Only then. So, after Croatia completes its negotiations. And the fact is, as someone said, that they can block us from these or those or other, third reasons, but the fact is that Croatia has already done an extremely large part and that there is one small part left, let's say so, the trail, conditionally say the path that needs to be passed by the end of the negotiations which can be so by spring or by the summer at the latest next year, if Croatia meets all the criteria, which I hope it will. It is therefore extremely important, therefore, that only after the conclusion of the negotiations and after the accession or signing of the Agreement on the accession of Croatia to the European Union are the deadlines set out in this. Here we have returned to that colossal of bilateral relations this problem that we have been saying from the beginning is a bilateral problem, and it is not a problem of Croatia and the European Union, but that it is really a problem between Croatia and Slovenia that needs to be solved in which way, here I hope that we will now agree in which way.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-02-0.u41984	Replication response. Mr. Representative Mario Zubovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-02-0.u41985	Yes, I agree with Mr Matusic, and indeed in the hope that this arbitration will solve our problems, that we will be satisfied with the Slovenian side as well as the Croatian side. I think we should say here that even those of us who support this agreement today don't like it, we don't feel like we've achieved some kind of success that we should celebrate. And I said, every arbitration carries its own risk, and we're also worried that in the end that arbitration will come out, but we believe with all those arguments we're going with and with the experts who did it, that this arbitration will bring good. I hope neither people in Slovenia nor people in Croatia, as I watched on TV yesterday, that on Serbian television is the most popular show from Croatian Radio Television "The Sea", that it will not be in Slovenia or Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-02-0.u41986	And Mr. Representative Zoran Vinkovic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-02-0.u41987	Dear fellow MP, you said here at the end of your debate that you hoped it would all end well. Hope is still a matter of religion, of religious culture, no matter what religion it is, but hope should not be a matter of politics. ... The policy issue should be solid and concrete. [[Everyone speaks out loud, they don't understand.]] I can talk about religion, I say just you raise the waves, it'll be my real pleasure, it's the way you show in the stadiums. I can do as well as a pragmatic believer, but about that after. I'm worried about one other thing, and that's the thing that Rehn's proposal wasn't so good for Slovenia, so Slovenia rejected it. Then the proposal was obviously good for Croatia. Now Croatia has no right to refuse this arbitration agreement, as it is likely that, most likely, the Prime Minister knows, sanctions will immediately take place. That's probably what you should say openly. I call you again, now Vice-President of the Parliament, to take a good look at this text of the arbitration agreement, and you will see formally and legally that this is the first step towards changing the borders of the Republic of Croatia. And to pass one such agreement requires a two-thirds majority of MPs and would not, for free, ask the Prime Minister for a consensus of political parties, but asked for the required number of votes in the parliament and asked for 2/3. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-02-0.u41988	She didn't ask for 2/3. I've been on all of this along with my colleagues from the SDP, from the HNS, at all these talks and negotiations, but we've all talked about how it would be desirable, politically good to demonstrate community over this difficult issue and to try to reach consensus here. And not that she asked in the sense of the Rules of Procedure, in terms of the Constitution, for a two-thirds majority to give consent to the Parliament for this signing. That's, uh, since you called me... What? ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Neither was I, nor were they, and perhaps... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] It's not. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] All you have to do is read carefully, and even sometimes in between lines. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Mr. Representative Luke Denon. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-02-0.u41989	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President. I will also go with the Racan-Drnovšek Agreement, however much such an agreement today is not the time to speak, so let me put it this way. We may or may not have had the chimney, but we didn't want it, and the chimney won't now, but we'll definitely have it. This stems from this agreement on arbitration between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, as much as you try to try to say on this side that this chimney means going out into the open sea with something else, it really does not say anything in the agreement. Our expectations, of course, are, if we speak only on the Croatian side, that this will not happen, that we will settle the border according to this agreement and that the chimney will not be. This agreement is not only ours, but an agreement on the Slovenian side as well. If you listen a little on the other side of the border, what are their expectations? The chimney, nothing else. It means we fix the border and give them passage to the open sea, and they wouldn't sign it if they didn't expect it. I mean, we're really fooling ourselves if we think that, with a saying in the agreement, it doesn't say it won't be like that. And that it will be at the end of the ballad is partly in this Agreement but it is partly in the explanation of the president of the HDZ Club of fellow Shexes. My colleague Shakespeare insists that we do not need 2/3 of the majority for this Agreement and warns us on behalf of the SDP Club that the two-thirds majority is required code, not when we confirm this Agreement, which means Mr. Shakespeare you know something more than all of us, because the two-thirds majority is needed when changing borders. Which means that this agreement will ultimately have to change the border, but it will be different from that Drnovšek – a Racan agreement in what. Racan – Drnovšek Agreement can be bad, we can talk about it anything but we participated in it, we ran the game, we talked about the terms, we talked about it, and we negotiated, when I say we think the Croatian side and the Slovenian side. Now in this Agreement we say we should not interfere, but we give the third to decide what kind of chimney that chimney will be and what kind of border it will be. For being so incompetent that we cannot discuss the border with good Slovenian neighbours. I think that the difference between Racan – Drnovšek Agreement and this Agreement on arbitration where we give the possibility for the arbitration judges to determine which border we will end up with, possible fate, and possibly that part of the sea or territory of the Republic of Croatia may give way to a friendly Republic of Slovenia, because when we read it from this arbitration agreement, then it is said that "The Court of Arbitration's decision is binding on the parties and will form a final solution to the dispute," there is nothing to complain about, it is as they determine. And this Agreement will ratify without delay both parties in accordance with their constitutional conditions. We said and we heard from the president of the club, on behalf of the HDZ Club, Mr. Seks, according to our constitutional powers, will have to be 2/3 because we are obviously going to have to change the border. We say and we keep saying that we will do it according to international law and we will establish the border and add something other than international law to Slovenia's connection to the open sea so that I do not repeat that there are other conditions, good neighbourly relations, etc. But we claim that the International Court of Justice that we've all been here somewhere agreeing that maybe you could decide and that we let ourselves into his hands wasn't and didn't respond to the Slovenians, so why do they fit the Arbitrary? It may also be that Article 6 which treats the proceedings of arbitration is spoken, unless otherwise provided for, and otherwise provided for by the Court of Justice of the Court of Justice of the European Union, it is the case that the law of the arbitration tribunal of the Court of Justice of the European Union means that it is not binding or equivalent to the rules of the arbitration tribunal, the international law and the university law are not an expert, I suppose you will not tell me that it is the same or identical. And about that justice we're talking about will be according to international law, I guess, as a layman, that international law says it's the right of the Republic of Croatia to have that and that's an amen. Judges of arbitration, who are experts who I assume are experts, for whom we do not know who or who they are or what they are, should decide in Article 7 how, the arbitration court makes decisions by majority of the votes of its members. If there are 5 of them whether they will be 3:2, so whoever's right wants to be 5:0, I don't understand why if we are based on an international law which is the same for all judges we decide in the arbitration procedure by majority of votes, so we won't be voting there, so maybe we'll have a little right to those 2 votes and they'll have three votes right, something in this Agreement smells and doesn't seem right. And as much as we can convince that it's good for the Republic of Croatia in the end as it's written, it might turn out that we're going to lose some of the territory and that's that fear that in this Agreement, from every page, it's running away because it's written and it's so concise, I think it should really change it then or the Agreement in a way that these things don't stand to be academic, to be most votes, to be more convincing, and in particular it would be best not to stand at point 5 of Article 3 b of the link of Slovenia to the open sea. We resolve the borders, we resolve the borders, so let even arbitration do that, and what we're going to do with Slovenia because of good neighbourly relations, I think we can still agree whether it's a right to pass or something else that we really wouldn't want to do. And that's why it's a little bit like that. The Agreement Racan – Drnovšek we played the game ourselves, we decided to be bad, to be better, to be what it is or not to be. Here we have allowed someone to tell us in a way that is not very great to decide and we have to accept it, it seems to me that it is not good, and as a fellow Pupovac would say, the interest of those we are here for, and that is to represent their interests that we do not give our territories at any price, no one and never, in any way, have the priority of joining the European Union to be reconciled in this Croatian Parliament, not in the way we are now speaking, not in the way that we are in some way slowly reassured by this great Europe, or ZERP or Europe, or Piran or Europe, or agriculture or Europe, or Europe, I do not think that this is a good way to communicate with a mature, good and decent Europe that we aim to be part of this great community. And if this agreement goes on, and if this Agreement is under control, I'm sure you didn't think that we were going to get a piece of territory, so we're going to ratify the border in favor of us when you were talking about two-thirds of what you're probably assuming is that we're going to lose some of the territory. But since other borders, with other republics of the former Yugoslavia, are not very well arranged, will this be a rule for both Charenagrad ade and some other controversial moments we are in, and then someone will wave with an arbitration agreement, and where international law and the right to have our border on Badniter will be neglected. I think we should take care of that now that we vote yes or no for this kind of agreement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-02-0.u41990	Thank you. I must again use my duty as ordered by the Rules of Procedure to make certain explanations regarding the vote on this item of the agenda. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, as referred to in Article 81. The constitution states: "If the Constitution is not otherwise defined, the Croatian Parliament shall make decisions by majority of votes if most MPs are present at the session." This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Constitution: "Laws, organic laws governing the rights of national minorities The Croatian Parliament brings two-thirds of the votes of all MPs." This is not an organic law governing the rights of national minorities. The 82nd Article of the Constitution states: "Laws, organic laws which are developed by the Constitution established human rights and fundamental freedoms, electoral system, structure, detour and way of working of state bodies, and the establishment and detour of local and regional self-government, the Croatian Parliament brings most of the votes of all MPs." None of this, giving this consent to the government to sign the contract falls under organic laws. The Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with The Constitution states: "The decision referred to in paragraph 2 paragraph 7 is to send the Armed Forces across the borders of the Republic of Croatia and Article 8. The Constitution of the Croatian Parliament brings two-thirds of the votes of all MPs." This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Constitution says the Croatian Parliament decides to amend borders and to amend borders in accordance with Article 82(3). The constitution decides by a two-thirds majority of the votes of all MPs. This granting consent to the Government to sign an arbitration agreement between the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia is not a decision of the Croatian Parliament to change borders. This Regulation shall enter into The Rules of Procedure are detailed cases where the Croatian Parliament makes decisions to the two-thirds majority. One, brings the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and changes to the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. Two, certifying international agreements conferring powers on an international organisation or alliance under the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, establishing a Constitutional Law on the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia, shall take the decisions referred to in Article 7(2) of the Armed Forces' referral across the borders of Croatia and Article 8. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia on the change of borders, when the Croatian Parliament makes decisions on changing borders, adopt constitutional laws, organic laws governing the rights of national minorities and adopts a decision to initiate the procedure for determining the special responsibility of the President of the Republic. So, ladies, MPs and MPs, it is no doubt that from these provisions of the Constitution that I have quoted, from these provisions of the Rules of Procedure, this decision of the Croatian Parliament which is to be given or not agreed by the Government to sign the Agreement on arbitration between the Republic of Croatia, between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, is not an act adopted by a two-thirds majority. It's so obvious, so clear that I don't know if anyone needs to be explained anymore. You can't be a colleague. [[Intruder: Since I can no longer contact the Rules of Procedure...]] My colleague, I'm sorry. Infringement of the Rules of Procedure, I am obliged and obliged to give explanations to my colleague Šprem. And then don't come in on me with a plate to hurt the Rules of Procedure. It's just so preemptive to you. [[No, no. I'm not.]] Here's a colleague of Denon's.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-02-0.u41991	I can't go into business and tell you anything.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-02-0.u41992	Let's go to the replicas. Why so many replicas? Mr. Representative Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-02-0.u41993	Comrade Denon, you said the Slovenians might get a chimney at sea. But I remind my colleagues and colleagues that when it comes to land border, one of the longest disputed border lines, it is those famous 5% that are not agreed on is located in the Međimurje area. One such point is quite long called napolitanke, the other tent caves and the third two wild garbage dumps. The Slovenians may get napolitans and a tent of caves, and we probably get these two dumps of waste. And one more thing. We entered NATO without a referendum. We are preparing constitutional changes without a referendum. No one dares to offer this agreement to citizens in a referendum, and for the European referendum, we are changing the rules in a way that a minority of citizens will decide on Croatia's entry into the European Union. And to the citizens and to the will of the citizens, we only call upon them to vote for us in the elections. And I'll finish the next one. I will no longer repeat international experts to be members of the arbitration court. But the worst nightmare or dream that can be realized, what if one of the three international legal experts appointed by either the President of the European Commission, whether the President of the Court becomes Mrs Carla del Ponte?
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-02-0.u41994	Comrade Lesar, you're telling me about a referendum not to call a referendum to change the constitution. Right? Yeah. Paragraph 86. The Constitution. The Croatian Parliament can call a referendum on a proposal to change the Constitution. Okay? Right? Referendum And how can she do that? [[Intruder Lesar: That's right.]] It can thus, according to paragraph 2, that the Croatian Parliament will call a referendum if it requires 10% of the total number of voters in the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-02-0.u41995	Well, it's not my fault that I represent 10% when we're looking for it. Well, I mean, what can I do?
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-02-0.u41996	So you're not 10%?
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-02-0.u41997	Unfortunately, I'm not 10%.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-02-0.u41998	If 10% of voters in the Republic of Croatia are gathered to seek change in the Constitution, the Croatian Parliament will call by force a referendum to change the Constitution. And a reply to the replica Mr. Representative Luke Denon.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-02-0.u41999	Mr. Lesar, of course, you're right. At the beginning of my presentation, I said we almost had the chimney, we almost had it, and we didn't want it. If we didn't want this chimney at all, we'd say today we won't have it, but in the end, we won't want it, but we'll have it. And Mr. Shakespeare, Mr. Vice President, you didn't listen very carefully. I read these articles of the Constitution neatly, so I know little about it. You were indisputably not listening to what I was saying. I have not said in one word that this majority of you can vote this agreement to move on. Not one word. I only commented on you as an exhibitor on behalf of the HDZ Club, who claimed that this agreement must come for ratification, that it must vote two-thirds. When he comes... [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-02-0.u42000	I didn't say that.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-02-0.u42001	That means two-thirds have to vote. Because there's going to be a change of boundaries. It can't be any different, because you already know that the border will have to change. Because the Slovenians don't want to sign an agreement unless they get a chimney. You don't understand. It's for you, and for me, that's all you have to say to the public.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-02-0.u42002	My colleague, there's a huge difference. I didn't say what you said to me. There's a huge difference between border changes. Only those limits which have been established and which are undeniable and which are regulated may be amended may be determined by limits which have not been established and which are not indisputable. It's a border crossing. Mr. Representative Zoran Vinkovic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-02-0.u42003	Dear colleague, I think that the Croatian public should explain this story about chimney, that someone does not really think it is a smokewater drain, but this is really about miles and miles of Croatian territorial waters. So it's about this agreement, which is why I said that someone should read it well in English, that not only should you read the loops in this Rules of Procedure that have nothing to do with life, because this is the first step, this is the first step towards changing the borders of the Republic of Croatia. After all, such a suspicion would not be expressed and would not only be expressed by the representatives here. Well, that's what the Catholic Church said. That's the suspicion, and you keep your mouth shut about it. That suspicion was expressed by a series of intellectuals, and you keep your mouth shut about it. Among them is Mr Rudolph, who is one of the top border experts who has just resigned for the sake of this agreement, an arbitration agreement. And Mr. Shakespeare would to you, I have no doubt that you are a legal expert at all, and I realize that probably for the sake of peace in HDZ you have to claim that only a simple majority is needed here. And you know very well that here it takes a two-thirds majority of all MPs in the Parliament. Because you know for yourself, just like the MP said, that we had a chimney so we didn't want it, now we don't want the chimney, and God, we're gonna get the chimney.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-02-0.u42004	First, my colleague Vinkovic, I didn't claim anything, it was the Constitution. This is claimed by the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The constitution that was brought in in the '90s. And he hasn't changed in that part. The Rules of Procedure did not change either. So I was just a spokesman for the Croatian Constitution. And a reply to the replica, Mr. Representative Luke Denon.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-02-0.u42005	Here, of course, we lost a lot of time around the translation of the word links to Croatian, which means "junction" in Croatian, but if I understand correctly, the Slovenes have translated it just like that... Because they're looking for it and they're going to get it, and it's clear to everyone here, I just don't know why we're hiding it. [[A speaker away from the microphone, you don't understand.]] So it would be good if we and the Slovenians had made bilateral efforts to arrange it ourselves and that, if we had to give something for something, we would know why we gave it. So this is how the arbitration will make it three to two, four to one, most of the votes. It will not be according to international law and rules, but it will be possible and there will be a procedure under the university rules of the permanent body, so it can do this, it can do this. It's not good that it's in agreement. It's not good.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-02-0.u42006	Mr. Representative Dino Kozlevac, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-02-0.u42007	Your Honor, Vice President. A colleague of Luke Denon, exactly, after eight years lost in solving our approach to the European Union, here we came with one agreement, a normal agreement I would even say at the ruins of an attempt to communicate. Unfortunately, we must always return to it, which was an attempt to resolve the land border, to resolve the savings of the Ljubljanska Banka. Not what was said earlier in the technical section, but to solve the savings problem it was about political will whether someone would solve this problem not, the Krško nuclear power plant, and that agreement came from only solving the sea border, the land was an ad act. But after 8 years of lost time, Croatia is nowhere near the same situation it was in 8 years ago. 8 years ago, Slovenia was not a member of the European Union, it was in a hurry, it had its chance to become unfortunately, it became open, unfortunately or fortunately, with an open problem, and we stayed where we are today. For eight years, it's done, we're in a situation today that we're being blackmailed. We did. Because if we don't accept it, we don't go into that agreement, there's no unblocking, there's no whole procedure. It's a classic blackmail. But here it is, we're here today with that agreement. In this agreement, many things are open. The agreement is not communicated to the public, it is not communicated to parliamentarians, with politics. I was personally frustrated that my colleagues over on the Slovenian side knew a lot about this agreement, which we couldn't find out from the media either. We're in front of him today. So that's our problem, and I agree with you for saying that. It was a cartoon chimney, we didn't want the chimney, now there's no chimney, and we have every chance of getting a chimney.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-02-0.u42008	Mr. Representative Boro Grubisic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-02-0.u42009	Dear counterpart Denona, you said there was mutual concern, therefore both from Slovenia and Croatia in connection with this agreement and the arbitration commission, and its decisions. But I have to say, it's not really because it's in point 3.D. clearly stated, clearly written, that the task of the arbitration court is to enable Slovenia to connect to the open sea. So, even before the arbitration panel was formed, the Slovenians, I say, secured themselves in connection with their main requirement.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-02-0.u42010	Ms. Representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović, a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-02-0.u42011	Says a colleague... And we didn't want him. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] That time was declared a treasonous era. They were traitors, and there was a patriotic charge. And recently, the former prime minister, he resolutely said, "We will not buy EU entry into Croatian territory." He showed his atrophied muscles back then. And what happens now? And you asked a key question, so when we could solve it, or better or worse, it was an open matter for discussion, and then, let's not forget, we solved the border completely and on land, we solved the bank, and we would have solved the nuke "Krško", but it was a high treason act, and now this worse part is portrayed as a patriotic act. Mrs. Kosor says it's a patriotic act, but we don't know, what you specifically apostrophe, we don't even know who the Arbiters are or who they're going to be, we have the right to a two-arbiter which the president will determine which one they're going to be. And absolutely defined quotas in which direction. You say chimney, says counterpart Vinkovic "smoker" no matter how much chimney he can be? There's no guarantee, and Titanic had a lot of chimneys. So then from that little chimney who knows what things can turn into because they're absolutely undefined. So whenever HDZ can talk about anything, maybe you should trust him, but when it comes to patriotism, things are very, very suspicious.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-02-0.u42012	You should choose your colleagues' words. You shouldn't go with offensive names. Then it causes and how to sow so and...
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-02-0.u42013	That's what I was about to tell you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-02-0.u42014	That's where it sows, yeah. So around these chimneys and smoking, you know that's a very slippery area, right? Many chimneys smoke and smoke, right? Replicate response, Mr. Representative Luke Denon.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-02-0.u42015	I thank my colleagues Ingrid for this replica, but in fact we are here in the Parliament of the Republic of Croatia, I think there is no person who would say that it is not for us to join the European Union. As much as there has been lately and a part of those we represent in this House and who are thinking a little bit of the euro skeptical I still think that we need to get into the Union and that that's where we belong. But we cannot enter the Union in a way that there is no small possibility that part of it, part, at least a small part, of a large, any part of its territory, if that is our territory, we step through one of these agreements, or we give the possibility of it being settled through this agreement in a final decision of arbitration that is irrefutable and we have no right to appeal. She's like that and she's making up a final solution to the dispute. I think we have to stop at the ball and say that, we want to go to Europe, that we want good neighbourly relations with Slovenians, that we have enough intelligence and knowledge and that these disputes that we have borderline, we solve them ourselves, in one way or another, and not that someone third that we don't know what they are and what they are and what they are, most of the votes then they make our borders where we can turn out to be losers.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-02-0.u42016	Thank you. Mr. Representative Arsen Bauk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-02-0.u42017	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. At the beginning of my debate, I would like to defend the Croatian government against the attacks of all those who, because of this agreement, impute traitors or any other adjectives. No, I'm saying they're not traitors, they're just incompetent. Could this agreement have been better? That's the question we should really answer to each other today. If he could've been better at this deal then the one from 2001 could've been better than he was back then. Because this agreement is not just about us, it is not just about Croatia and Slovenia. And that is, of course, a number of parties in Slovenia and left and right. He's actually a friend of Jansha's today. He's not tomorrow. Today, some years he's been on Brijuni now causing trouble again. The same can be true for some other Slovenian parties, but I would actually describe the politics of the Croatian government, these HDZs from 2003 to 2003, from the end of 2003, towards Europe and towards the EU and especially towards this issue with Slovenia, in one sentence, and it said, "We have our principles if you do not like our principles, we can change them." And that has just happened on every important issue regarding entering the European Union. This happened on the ZERP issue, it happened on the issue of relations with The Hague and the extradition of the generals, and it is now happening on this border agreement with Slovenia. It responds to this House, it echoed a sentence, and to the Croatian media, of course, that we will not pay EU entry by territory. This agreement is nothing more than a blank check on which to write how much territory we will give to join the EU. With that number on that check being zero. Yes, indeed, according to this agreement, the borders can go in the middle of the Tirana Gulf as we think they should go and then all that we think today is Croatia to be tomorrow. But he can, colleagues and colleagues, be different. Exactly what he said was a colleague, Josipovic, who said this was actually a cat in a bag. If this agreement is so good, so fantastic, I suggest we immediately refer it to Bosnia and Herzegovina, Montenegro and Serbia so that we can arrange the border with them. I am quite certain that this agreement will not be signed with Bosnia and Herzegovina or Montenegro or Serbia. This is one chess game, in transfer terms, with Slovenia in which we agreed to play black figures in advance, but in the meantime we agreed to give the jumper, give the hunter, give the cannon, and today we give the queen. And we can't win with such figures. He says there will be prominent legal experts in this arbitration court. As far as prominent legal experts are concerned, we cannot agree in Croatia what the legal experts are. They can be, like those chosen in the Constitutional Court, such as Mr Jadranko Crnic, and they can be like Mrs Banic or Mr Palaric. Of course, all of them had different reputations and criteria among parliamentary deputies. As far as the arrangements are concerned. I didn't characterise her for anyone who she is, but you see the difference, so as soon as you react, you know there's some difference. So, as far as the possible adjustment or change of the border is concerned, it is very clear, if something is Croatia today, and tomorrow it is international waters or Slovenia, then it is a change, it is no editing. Because if it were an arrangement, then this debate would be held at the Geodetic Institute, not in the Croatian Parliament. And just one more sentence, so I don't take any more time. There's a lot in the Croatian public about what the word "junciton" means. And that's obviously the biggest problem in this agreement that's different from the popularly called "Rehn One" that was acceptable to us. So I'm afraid that in future at the house of Josak Joras and in the rest of the area that is alienated from Croatia if of course things go badly for us, our colleagues will just write "that's what a union is". Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-02-0.u42018	Thank you. One correction to an incorrect quote, Mr. Representative Boris Kunst. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-02-0.u42019	Well, I would make it right since my colleague, Bauk, is that this agreement could be offered by Serbs among other countries. I thought you were a more serious representative. That you know that Serbia has no sea so that you cannot offer it that agreement when Serbia has no sea. But you obviously don't know that. So unfortunately, we cannot offer this agreement to Serbia.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-02-0.u42020	Replica, Mr. Representative Boris Sprem.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-02-0.u42021	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. So, Mr. Bauk said that the agreement represents one of the Bianca's checks for possible territorial advances. That's right. And it is not true what Mr. Seks Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament said that Article 8 of the Croatian Constitution can only be interpreted in a way that the Croatian Parliament decides to change the border by a two-thirds decision, that is correct. But this arbitration agreement is exactly what it does, because it transfers power to the government to decide the arbitration court to change borders. As it states in Article 1 that the Party hereby establishes an arbitration court, Article 3 of the arbitration court will establish the course of the border at sea and land, and the link of Slovenia to the open sea. The arbitration court shall take decisions on the dispute. And one last thing, and I'm done with it. The arbitration court's decision is binding on the parties and will form a final solution to the dispute. The ratification of this agreement will then be just a formality.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-02-0.u42022	I have to explain again. Article 8. The constitution you quoted, which I quoted, is about changing borders. And as the Croatian Parliament decides to change borders, then it will be necessary to decide with a two-thirds majority of all MPs. If there is and when it is necessary to decide. This granting the government's consent to sign the arbitration agreement is not a decision of the Croatian Parliament or in an indirect way of changing borders. I am the last to allow the Croatian Parliament to vote on changing Croatian borders by violating the Constitution and allowing the Croatian state's borders to change without a decision of the Croatian Parliament. And a reply to the replica Mr. Representative Arsen Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-02-0.u42023	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So this blank check that can be written on a larger and smaller amount than the one on which we have already, that is, the coalition government and part of the parties were willing to pay, and of course it's no secret, it's certainly a bad move, it can be bigger or smaller. So this agreement can still be better, but it can be worse than the one in 2001. But as for the fact that Mr. Kunst said about the seriousness or indifference of the MPs, I believe that he wasn't going to insult me, he was going to make a little joke. But since you mentioned it in this contract, it says that the border will be set on land. And as you know, Serbia has land. So I don't think your remark was appropriate, and you haven't quite read the agreement. But I won't say to you that you're insecure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-02-0.u42024	Now it's, uh, just a moment, fellow Friscice. You, in response to the replica, are implicating your colleague Kunst. There is always one decision that a representative who has been mentioned and has not been in the debate, to report for a breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-02-0.u42025	It was me who was the one who hurt the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-02-0.u42026	This Regulation shall enter The Rules of Procedure was injured by MP Bauk, because he was generally not responding to the replica, but was responding to me. That's before the world. And second fellow Bauk, you said, among other things, that this agreement could certainly be worth it for Serbia, and this is where the sea is mentioned. And Serbia, as you know, should know that there is no sea. There's a problem. Let's take a look at the map if you don't believe me.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-02-0.u42027	And Mr. Representative Silvano Hrelja. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-02-0.u42028	Dear Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. So these days I'm often referred to as our third-age citizens, and these are those who are in most Eurosceptics, who don't exactly believe that membership in the European Union is going to make them a big improvement, but these are the ones that we owe all of what we had and that we eventually destroyed during the conversion and privatisation and other processes in the creation of our country of Croatia. They call me bitter and object to why we allow the problem of the border of Croatia and Slovenia to be reopened, which we were convinced was solved, by the Insistent Agreement and by the Badinter Commission. Why do we keep giving in to those with whom we lived for 45 years in brotherhood and unity and when all ours were theirs, and theirs was theirs alone? There are many Slovenian cottages and resorts in Croatia and there are others, and I have not noticed that Croatians own at least one resort in Slovenia, and we certainly do not have mountain houses on Pokljuka or in Kranjska Gora. I understand our citizens, because the demand for Slovenia and their behaviour regarding the entry of the Republic of Croatia into the European Union goes beyond any framework that can define good neighbourly relations. It should be said that Slovenia is very fit and that the economical status of the Schengen border guard is profitable and will do everything possible to maintain this status as long as possible. This will not be particularly difficult for them, as they will constantly accuse us of corruption in Croatia and the soft border towards Bosnia and Herzegovina. As long as the guards of the Schengen border are their importance for the stability of the European Union is far greater than their area, or of the importance of the number of their citizens. So, in a negotiating sense, it is only clear that by changing at the head of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, nothing has changed compared to the Slovenian strategic objectives as nothing has changed and in relation to our keen desire to become a member of the European Union. Only the Slovenian strategy has changed to reach the goal and it is certain that the rhetoric and public appearance of participants in this process has changed. So, instead of having a proposal to sue the International Court for establishing disputed points of border on land and sea, not all but only disputed points, we are today discussing a proposal for a hybrid political and legal agreement on arbitration that gives more attention to each other than the border dispute. The proposal for an agreement is incompatible because it combines political problems with the matter of a purely legal profession and citizens have reason to suspect that it is trade in territory regardless of the obligation to ratify the signed agreement in the Croatian Parliament. The agreement carries too high a risk for the following reasons. Could not close temporary folder: %s Political influence is possible on arbitration. The process can open up the problem of the entire land and sea borders. It opens the problem of contacting Slovenia with the open sea, although there is a huge difference in interpretation of the category of open sea and international waters. I think there's a mistake in the agreement. It's about contact with international waters. The concept of the open sea is something else, and experts claim that it starts somewhere in the Otrant gate. Furthermore, no one is talking or explaining the formulation of the use of relevant marine areas, whether it is fishing, whether it is the use of submersible oil or marine gas, or whether it is another possible ecological belt. Point 2 of Article 3 was to determine the details of the dispute, not to say that it would be determined within a month of the particulars. So why are we going into an agreement that is so undefined. Furthermore, the political and legal framework for resolving the problem is not good when the two countries do not have the same negotiating status and especially when the principle of justice and the principle of good neighbourly relations are proposed in order to achieve a fair and fair outcome. You want a fair and fair result and we don't have an equal political or negotiating position. The arbitration court's decision is binding even if the laws of the Republic of Croatia do not allow the application of the solution. Then we are obliged to change our laws in the spirit of a solution to the arbitration court. I think this is a little too much, too much blow and even to our sovereignty if you want to go so far. Based on Article 10, even citizens of the Republic of Croatia cannot protest the possible statements of some irresponsible politicians in Slovenia and Croatia because they can speed up solutions or compromise the work of the arbitration court and this is about maintaining the status quo throughout the negotiations. And if everything were to be fine and decided properly, and if we were to get even satisfaction and it were to be decided, if the decision of the arbitration court were to be as we expect Slovenia can again be blackmailed after all in a way that does not ratify our Treaty of Accession to the European Union. So the whole job and finally we can be in the position we're in right now. The agreement is certainly a delayed solution to the problem but for us it is too risky and long-term damage to the Republic of Croatia and as a representative of the Croatian party of pensioners in the Croatian Parliament and as a citizen of Croatia and Istria I will not cast my vote for this Proposal for an arbitration agreement. I propose that negotiations be continued with Slovenia, requiring Slovenia to provide us with a corridor from Bregana to the Austrian border and from Bujo to Trieste, so that we can be in a level playing field because as I see it, solving this problem will take a long time and our entry into the European Union will not happen so soon. In the end, I would ask Mr Milanovic not to take Croatian citizens hostage and ask for an apology from the prime minister in exchange for his support for the agreement. Secondly, I would ask him to make himself clear and to publicly present what he was talking about and to promise Prime Minister Pahor. I want him to speak in public as he did in the Croatian Parliament this morning. I would like the Prime Ministers of the Republic of Croatia to reconsider all the well-intentioned arguments against the adoption of the agreement and to be aware of the gravity of the decision and the possible long-term consequences of such decisions, I agree that the short-term prime minister will receive the room for manoeuvre. I am also not pleased that the Prime Minister of Bosnia and Herzegovina can also ask the question of the Ljubljanska Banka and that under all these pressures, we will not be able to ask it at all during the visit of Prime Minister Pahora in Croatia. I don't think it's a policy entirely subordinated to the interests of our citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-02-0.u42029	Thank you very much, colleague Hrelja. We have one application of the replica, dear colleague Zdenko Franic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-02-0.u42030	... You mentioned that this agreement foresees Slovenia's exit to the open sea and you mentioned that you hoped it was a mistake. [[The speaker is turned on afterwards, you can't hear it.]] I personally think that when such an agreement is made that it must weigh and indeed every word is valid and this open sea could in theory cost us that Slovenians get a corridor there from Piran Bay to Montenegro because we have declared ZERP that we suspended but it still exists. So, the sea or sea borders first have internal waters of 12 nautical miles, the territorial sea, the external belt of 24 nautical miles and the exclusive economic belt that comes to Italy. So, what is the open sea by definition of our diplomacy?
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-02-0.u42031	Thank you. The answer to the replica, my colleague Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-02-0.u42032	Dear colleague, thank you for your clarification. You have gone to the limit in what I have set as a suspicion, but I must openly admit that I too find it very strange why Slovenia does not seek a solution to its problem with neighbouring Italy. I mean, both countries in the European Union would probably be easier to deal with these problems, about that chimney, about that stick, about that Junction, easier to agree with Italy where to be equal negotiators than to block our way into the European Union as a manners of good neighbour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-02-0.u42033	Thank you very much. Next is the debate of a distinguished colleague, Jerko Roshin. Here you go, Comrade Roshin.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-02-0.u42034	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues. I should actually say, dear viewers, if there are others who have the strength, the endurance to listen to what we are saying here in the assembly, but they must have understanding, if we are not as their representatives the best among them, but at least we are the same as they are, so they don't take us for harm. In fact, all that is said in the assembly today is more or less, I can't tell the performance, but actually speaking is addressed to the public and in relation to what the public thinks because more or less everyone here in the assembly has come with some views, some beliefs, decisions, and no matter what the individual says will probably happen by the clubs as agreed to vote, so to vote. So it really seems like all of what we're saying is just for the sake of the Croatian public to give them some of their views, to get their attention, their sympathy for the future. But things are very serious no matter how they happen here because they're kind of apostrophe of patriotism like someone has one, like someone doesn't have one, and it turns out that some people who speak one way or another are more patriots who talk in a different way. However, as complex as it is, no matter how serious and responsible it is, and in some ways very simple and pragmatic, and if we clean it from these political outbursts that happen around here, we strip it to what's important, which is. That's two goals we want to achieve. The two goals we want to achieve, and one of those two goals is both the need to do. The two objectives are, one is to solve the border problem with Slovenia, it is also the need to have our relations resolved with our neighbours, and the other is to join the European Union as some commitment that we all voted together in the Assembly and we think that entering the European Union, regardless of many euros of skeptics, is something that brings something good to Croatia. On that road to the European Union which we think we have the right to go, Slovenia has been averted from us by blackmailing or non-suspecting, however it will qualify, but by seeking satisfaction, the maximum satisfaction of its interests and there has been a problem which has stalled us on that path towards the European Union for a long time. We have now come in one position to open the door to the European Union and to address this problem in a further discussion, but to begin to address it, this arbitration only at the moment we became members of the European Union, although not yet ratified, but when we met all those conditions to move forward. So, one proposal, the "Rehn 1" they call popular, we accepted it in the Parliament, it was not accepted by the Slovenians, so it fell off as that possibility, and we expressed our willingness to get rid of it, to approach problem solving. Now we have a new text of an agreement that we believe has been agreed on, and it comes to us from the government that it's practically agreed, agreed, and that this trail could go forward. We don't know whether the Slovenian side will adopt it either or not, but we're opening some doors to get somewhere. The public or media through the public or through the media, various associations, intellectuals, churches, all have, not only have the right but they have the obligation to say what they think because it happens in a place where they also live and there would be no opinion, no matter how acceptable or unacceptable, they would not take it maliciously, I think everyone has the right to say no, but also the obligation to say something, to make a statement about it. However, all who plead have the right to say, they do not have the burden of responsibility that only the Government and this Parliament have on their shoulders. So it's not a transfer of the government's responsibility to the Parliament but to all of us together, because the government has prepared it, all of us together, to decide whether we're going to go forward or not. Of course, if we have the courage or the knowledge or we have the belief in the Parliament, we can remove it, and by doing so, we have removed the possibility of moving forward, but opening that possibility does not mean that we have come to the end of that road, although some things are assumed. I think this is a very strong national topic that should not be compromised by day-to-day political discussions and debates, no matter how funny they are sometimes or have one within the Republic of Croatia, interesting for some political points. There's an alternative question. Does Croatia have an alternative to this, can someone come up with a better idea of an agreement or someone wants to say with this if I were you, I'd do it better, let me do it. However, someone is acting in power, someone is working in Parliament, and someone is standing by and has the right to criticise, only there is no obligation of responsibility for everything he says. The matter of the arbitration court is one of those things. I asked a question today at a meeting of the Committee on Foreign Policy as much as he is arbitral, as he is a court. I was convinced, and also from conversations that experts have so far, some experts have said, that it is still a court, that it is a matter of law and that it will not decide, that I would not say, some type of installer or so to say, it will not be decided by the architects to use his calling, but will be decided by people who are very professional in the field of law, especially by the law of the sea or the law of the sea. Of course there's a risk, there's always a risk. We have a constant risk in our lives. The question is whether the risk is more than 50%, less than 50%, but I could also say in advance no matter what decision the Court of Arbitration would make that neither party would be satisfied, and even if it was satisfied, it would not show its satisfaction. One thing I would certainly like to avoid and say to all my colleagues here in the Parliament who seems very important to me is the foundation of a previous experience when my picture, along with a picture of many other colleagues from the Parliament, took place in one newspaper and said: "They have disgraced Croatia." I would not like it to happen no matter how we vote yes or no to declare me someone who has disgraced Croatia. Namely, my right to my opinion is my right and I think that in this democracy that we have so fought for the great effort and the trouble in which we are still learning this democracy, it is not right for someone else's opinion to be declared a disgrace. Therefore, what we will conclude here will be the decision of the Croatian Parliament no matter how it will be, not Croatian shame. In one of our neighborhoods is also a trade topic, bagging is a topic, so it was in the sense of a store who will tell you who, if you can't get him, then let no one. It's hard to expect that way to come to an end. We need trust, we need reason, patience. But above all, I think we need to open the door, a door that will give us a chance to enter the European Union and a door that will give us a chance to get arbitration as we hope, at least judging by today often mentioned to Mr. Vukas, who has such experience and who is on TV on one of the shows I followed said that it is almost impossible for the arbitration to end differently from what the right itself actually requires. The question of which are the arbiters who will decide. Of course, we'll see that list, we'll see names for which we'll then assess whether we're more politically acceptable or not, whether we're more prone to it or not. Each line will look for, but we still have to trust that the right will be the basis for their decision and that this decision, however acceptable or not, will be more just than many decisions have ever been in history in relation to Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-02-0.u42035	Thank you very much, colleague Roshin. We have one application for replica, colleague Boris Kunst. Here's your colleague, Kunst.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-02-0.u42036	Thank you very much. Col. Roshin, whatever we decide today, we will be exposed to the criticism of a part of the public whether they will criticise us that we are buying the territory of the European Union for opposition or to criticise us and not forgive us for making it impossible for us to enter the Republic of Croatia into the European Union. But we need to put on a scale what we get or lose with this agreement. We're getting what? We are receiving a deblock of negotiations, a recent entry into the European Union, a strategically important benefit for economic development. And what does that mean? Well, a better standard, a better life, a better future for our children. And what are we losing? So if the agreement is not signed, we lose our entry into the European Union for an unknown time. That is why we remain in the society of the countries of the former Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia in the Balkans in which tectonic disorders were still in, as far as the economic, political or those of civilization levels are concerned. And what's the worst thing that's gonna happen to us, and that's even harder life, even lower standard of living for citizens. So nothing good will happen to us. Now you need to put it on the scale as best you can. We want to think about our future or we will try to get a part of the public for ourselves and wash our hands of everything or we will openly tell people what is better for the Croatian future, this or that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-02-0.u42037	Thank you. Replication response, colleague Roshin.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-02-0.u42038	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. It's very short. I don't think there's a man in the assembly, not even in the public who doesn't carry a single dose of it. This dose is also carried by Slovenians, what they will bring them, whether they will actually be allowed to achieve what they would like to achieve, whether they have rights or not, but have such goals. So, there is absolutely no one who says that the agreement is signed in a way that absolutely everything is known. That's just not true. But a man has to decide at one point where he's gonna take the street, if he's gonna take the left street, if he's gonna take the right street, and he's gonna take the conjecture, and that's what he's gonna do. What? Okay, that's political. But there's something a man should decide whether to go alone or there. So we have to make one decision today or tomorrow, it's undeniable. Because if we don't make that decision, we'll be absolutely sure to stay where they are. We won't have any movement. And if we go then we have a chance to work something out. If we don't go, we know we haven't solved anything, and we're going to fight to continue all negotiations and the rest and arbitration in the end. After two years, we'll be more mature. We're going to have a slightly different position in international politics, so we're going to try to achieve the best possible result. I mean, in any case, it's not good if our national interest issue of the team comes down to the debate between Hajduk and Dinam or, say, Vartex and others. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-02-0.u42039	Next debate, distinguished colleague Zdenko Franic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-02-0.u42040	Dear Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. It is not a fact that, by respecting international law, and in particular the Convention on the Law of the Sea, apart from the right of the safe passage, Slovenia could neither have contact nor connection nor June with the open sea. After all, Slovenia itself has once declared itself a geographically disabled state. However, this proposal for an agreement that lies ahead of us according to its content and already contains a verdict unlike Rehn's proposal, the first Rehn's proposal, which contained in it a point of uncertainty which does not exist in this Agreement. In this regard, Article 3, which specifies the tasks of the arbitration court, says that the arbitration court will establish the course of the border at sea and land between the Republic of Croatia and the Republic of Slovenia, and the link or the famous June of Slovenia towards the open sea. And in that hundred words, fifty words open up a few doubts. First of all, does this also apply to the opinion of the Badinter Commission? If not, why isn't it implicated in the agreement. Article 41a It is said to be tried by the rules and principles of international law. And why is there no indent in the agreement that quotes the Convention on the Law of the Sea, which is the truth compensated, consummated in this statement on international law, but if that private indent existed in the agreement it would be much more favourable for the Republic of Croatia because it was ratified both by the Republic of Croatia and the Republic of Slovenia and the European Union. So why give it up? As announced in August, on the basis of the meetings, Mr Sanader's timely meeting at Bled with Jansa was due to insist at the International Court in The Hague. It was supposed to be held, not allowed to go to the arbitration court. It is hard to believe that the European Union or Slovenia should openly oppose such a request and that our diplomacy has well prepared the ground, sure that the Slovenians should not oppose something that they have voluntarily introduced into their legal system, which they are committed to today. If they had opposed it, we could have, for example, openly reported them to the UN secretariat that they did not respect the conventions they ratified in their parliament. The text of the agreement is English, and we can't run from it, no matter how we translate it. Why is English important? Because the agreement also provides that arbitration will be conducted in English, the documents of the arbitration court will be written in English and we will have to abide by it. So, if Slovenia gets this Junction, link, intersection, intersection, touch, touch, touch point, binding, connection, connection, intersection, node, node, sume, contact, inter face, we call it whatever we want, it can only be achieved in two ways. And as far as the union is concerned, I would like to mention that this term does not legally exist in the law relating to the law of the sea, but can only apply to a combination of tectonic plates or sea plateaus, but not in the legal system. Therefore, the question arises, if this union is more favourable for us, why did so many Slovenians insist on erasing contact as provided for in the Rehn Agreement? So, this contact, connection, June Slovenia can accomplish in two ways. First, a territorial corridor or so on. The chimney that will become part of the Slovenian state territory, including the sea, the wealth of the submarine, the air, or will be an exit to international waters with all rights granted, other than sovereignty, and this variant would be much more favourable for us. At this point, however, it is entirely uncertain and risky. We're talking about an area that has a length of 26 kilometers and a width of about 5 and a half kilometers, if we're talking about international waters, if we're talking about the open sea, which is mentioned in this agreement, I don't know why, then we can even talk about the corridor to Montenegro, because it's well known what international law is talking about the open sea, which is the definition of the open sea according to the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea. So, the open sea is located only in front of the territory of Montenegro, because Croatia has a ZERP and Italy has its ecological belt. Another way to achieve this claim from Slovenians is to reach their territorial sea so that we no longer have a border with Italy, so we are no longer talking about the corridor, but we are talking about some area along Italy. This would eventually mean that we unilaterally renounce the Auxiliary Agreements, so we abolish Article 2. Except for the contract. Unfortunately, the wider the public doesn't even know, the quiet revision of the Except is already on its way, because first we gave up the road, the Trieste-Rijek highway, although it was part of the Exceptional Agreement package. Second, when Italy and Slovenia unilaterally abolished the trilateral Udinski Agreement, signed in 1962, which arranged for the transport of persons and goods, as well as road and maritime traffic in the border regions. Slovenia and Italy have therefore ruled it out, and the revision of the Isolation Agreement is, unfortunately, quiet in progress. Our ministry didn't react to that. Finally, it is extremely unusual that an international agreement contains a statement of prejudge, non-judgment because such a unilateral statement that our government intends to publish at the same time as the signing of an arbitration agreement, that Croatia will not recognise any territorial corridor, does not oblige the arbitration court or Slovenia. Especially when it is an attempt to deny it itself to be an agreement, because let us remember that Article 3 of the arbitration court's task is to determine the course of the border at sea and land between the Republic of Croatia and the Republic of Slovenia and the link of Slovenia towards the open sea. So it's impossible to achieve it without assigning any corridor, any nature. Therefore, it is obvious that the government itself doubts the content of the agreement, when, though read from the debate so far, and perhaps from the clarification of Mr. Vice President-in-Office of the Shexs, it is a matter of regulating the border. Therefore, the technical Republic of Croatia cannot even give way to territory when it is nominally and not yet its territory because borders are not regulated. In other words, it seems that the content of arbitration is already in advance, at least 80%, agreed and that this is what some colleagues from the ruling party say is a public show to gradually get acquainted with the facts unfavourable by the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-02-0.u42041	Thank you very much. Next, a debate will follow with distinguished counterpart Davorko Vidovic. Here's my colleague Vidovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-02-0.u42042	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. So I have to say that I came to the Croatian Parliament today with the housing porch and that I was a little caught up with those who don't have the porch. When there is a topic on the agenda that is certainly not devoid of its political, legal aspects, it is not devoid of deep emotional dimensions that are the true consequence of years of manipulation of topics such as the topic we are discussing today, which is the determination of our borders. That is, the ease of talking about something that is obviously problematic in itself, but also in the very fact that there are so many divergent, conflicting views on the one hand and on the other, the fact that so categorically and apostotically defends this or that position, they say that we should pay far more attention and far more respect for the arguments on both sides of this debate, this topic. What does that mean exactly? I think that the citizens of Croatia deserve and they are asking, here in the e-mails that are coming, in letters, etc., to say precisely why we are in the situation where we are today, that we need this kind of agreement? So why did we get into this situation? And what are the solutions as well as the answers to two possible questions, what if we sign and what if we don't sign the arbitration agreement here today? I must say, it seems to me that the most measured in today's debate in the House was just the prime minister who managed to shake off the "Sieren name" of an apodic and categorical defense of one position and that she had left the possibility of just qualified this agreement as not too good, but necessary. That she left the possibility of talking about him to Croatian citizens in a more serious way than what we are talking about today. In other words, Croatia is indeed located, the Croatian public, Croatian politics and that it is both ruling and opposition, facing a serious challenge. This challenge is how to respond to the current requirements in which the Croatian state is present and how to ensure perspective, the best possible perspective, for the protection of Croatian national interests in the future. That's where we are today as a challenge. It would not be good if it were to go lightly in order to defend such a proposal for an agreement, if any danger would be removed from it. She, however, mentioned here in terms of the foreign or government side, may be hypertrophyd on the other side, but the fact that this risk of loss of territory is not small, should be clearly and clearly said here. That risk indeed exists, even more so I would say that it is much more likely than the situation in which Croatian state territory will not be touched. Why is that? So it is so simple from the fact that in this case they are obviously not respected by Badniter's borders, because Slovenia refused to resolve the border issue before the International Court of Justice in The Hague, but insisted all these years just knowing that there was nothing to expect before that International Court, which is why it insisted on arbitration. We, as the weaker party in the dispute, had to agree to arbitration, be it in this form or that form. And when in 2001, when he tried to seek a way out for a solution to this, at that time more of the dispute that lasted for more than a decade, then they had right before their eyes those arguments and those principles that are mentioned here today and which the President of the Parliament cites as a particularly important, principle of good neighbourship and the principle of justice. In my search for these solutions, I am pleased that today the prime minister has admitted, however mild, that optics changed the moment she took responsibility and now has little more understanding for those who, when they are in power, are looking for solutions that will not harm national interests. But forgive me, for years, there have been miles in which Croatia's border issues have been treated as matters of national pride or national betrayal, which have been spoken of on one side of their underpants, crushed pride, etc., and on the other hand they have spoken of blood, on the other hand, it has been paraphrased "The life of lady, Trieste we do not give.", etc. There was an atmosphere where every other solution, except for war with Slovenia, was national betrayal. And now, in such a situation in such a wrinkled atmosphere, you are looking for the transfer of the Croatian public, the passover and the acceptance of the counterargument with which it is going, which is of course not entirely unfounded. What do we get or lose with a deal like this? Please, I am in favour of good policy preserving national interest, for good policy to be active, and that good and active policy must protect both national pride and national dignity, but it must at the same time be realistic. Unfortunately, our position at this point is not such that it would give us too many reasons to wave as we would like. The non-signature of this agreement certainly means entering into conflict with both the European Union and America. What this means for a country that is on its knees in an economic sense that has to solve the 45 billion debt issue, which is likely in a very critical period, therefore for its own development, I can understand this kind of pragmatism that is managed by the government. But this should be made clear and loud to the citizens of Croatia, that because of the bad policy and the bad circumstances we may have found ourselves in, we are paying the price we would not have paid if we were in another situation. Reflections, reflections of this kind of approach will certainly reflect Croatia's principled approach to resolving some other open disputes with neighbouring countries and which have no sea, but we have a water border and demarcation with them, etc. In other words, I am in favour of a good and quality policy that includes all these aspects, but I am not in favour of manipulating, demagogue and facilitating the labelling and classification of the Eurofilt or Eurorealist drawers that people are suffering and dissipating in this way if you want a Croatian political entity that is so sensitised. I think we must send a message to the citizens of Croatia that there is one serious and responsible policy on both sides of the government and the opposition, and that they must be consensually made that is good at what the prime minister insists, and that you must consensually conclude in such serious issues, because it is from the point of view of the long-term national interests whether this or that Government has at some point made those decisions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-02-0.u42043	Thank you, fellow Vidovic. First of all, we have a correction to the quote, colleague Josip Djakic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-02-0.u42044	Thank you very much, Vice President. So an incorrect quote comparing the current agreement, the time that has gone away and what are the differences between the current and the agreement signed by Racan-Drnovšek. Big, huge, immeasurable. It's incorrect that these agreements are the same, because that one really wanted to give up state territory and set up a chimney to the open sea, so-called. "The chimney." Now it is not said in this agreement, it is now not and is not spoken of on the territory, it is not about an agreement that will allow arbitration to determine what it is and how it continues to communicate in that space. Do not deceive the public and demagogue to appear that the time has been wasted and that the agreements are the same or almost similar. That's not true and that's not true.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-02-0.u42045	Thank you very much. We have two replicas. First of all, dear colleague Dragutin Lesar. Here's your colleague, Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-02-0.u42046	Thank you very much. Your colleague Vidovic said and mentioned several times the risk in this agreement exists and our position is weaker than Slovenska. I agree with you. But because of that risk and our position, I want to remind you of something else. This agreement when signed and ratified in the Croatian Parliament is actually an act on the transfer of part of the sovereignty of the Republic of Croatia. According to our Constitution, only the Parliament can decide the limits. By means of an international contract, when we take our authority out of the Constitution and transfer it to an international organisation, it is a transfer of a part of sovereignty. We have two options. Let us follow Article 139. The Constitution and such decisions are now and during ratification by a two-thirds majority or to discuss the referendum. Obviously, attitudes are so different in this House that the two-thirds deal will be extremely difficult. Why Slovenia is announcing a referendum and not only the Slovenian opposition and the Slovenian Prime Minister has started talking about the referendum. It is precisely because by announcing a referendum before ratification in parliament, it further strengthens its position as Republic of Slovenia. Why, finally and in Croatia, the political elite, asking citizens and giving them a chance to transfer part of the sovereignty of the Republic of Croatia to an international organisation, would not advise its citizens on this. And if they decide that this is useful and that they say that it is minimal risk, then that responsibility is indeed shared. And that's what I've been stressing all along and I think you're right that we need to strengthen our position in relation to Slovenia. One way is a referendum.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-02-0.u42047	Thank you. Reply to the replica of his colleague Vidovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-02-0.u42048	Yes, I agree with the request and it was my debate that went that way. So as wide a consensus as possible on such important issues. God forbid it's possible to question and ask for the consent of all citizens. I'm trying to say that we should make a consensus of the political elite if you want or the key political actors. And not only in this Parliament of political parties, but also in all other social factors and actors, because it is important issues that are not devoid of me I have said other dimensions. And the emotional and national charge that goes with it, etc. And yet these are the topics that you know, historically it will be registered somewhere, that the question of borders, these are state issues, solved then or in that era, etc. It is very important to have as much support as possible. Of course, I do not reject the possibility and the referendum when it comes to this issue but at least to be able to talk here in a civilizedly responsible way and to draw closer not to extremes of some kind, but to what makes me a substrate of such an agreement.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-02-0.u42049	Thank you very much. An esteemed colleague, Pancic, came forward. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-02-0.u42050	Comrade Vidovic, you have well noticed that part of Mrs Kosor's speech where she called for some kind of community with words to stop sharing. And you noticed well if someone shared a political Croatian nation then all these years it was the ruling party. It was on these polarizations that she drew her power to prove that even from the age of 20, 16 of them were in power. All others who suggested perhaps a slightly different solution were identified if it did not suit the party as nepatriots. Let's just remember those events of the people regarding the co-operation with the Hague court. Let's also remember the reaction to the Racan-Drnovšek agreement but it all comes to its own. True, six, seven years we spent on the loss of unnecessary energy and today as someone said HDZ is beginning to represent the SDP's position at the time. Where did this metamorphosis come from? Could we have done far more if we hadn't faced and faced each other unnecessarily? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-02-0.u42051	Thank you. And my colleague Vidovic's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-02-0.u42052	I remember my colleague Pancic having a conversation with Ivica Racan about 2003 in the summer or in the spring. That's when I'm going as a little curiosity here or as a secret little one we're talking about whether to do something, it doesn't matter now what it is, which was very risky and risk losing the election or even if we lose the election. We both agreed that elections should be lost and that this is not the biggest problem but that it must not be damaged in any way by the state, national or civil interests of people, the social interests of people in this country. I'm proud to remember that. I don't want to fall into a trap and deny what I was just talking about. It may be worth it in the short term to abuse the political public, maybe that's how elections can be won but it's never, it never ends well for citizens and ultimately for those who are actors of such policies. Responsible policy, a serious, state policy differs from irresponsible precisely because it is able to recognise what is the crucial interests of citizens and not what are the partial party interests or interests of a particular group. I therefore think that all that we have done personally I can say that it has been primarily motivated to protect and improve the interests of the citizens of this country.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-02-0.u42053	Thank you very much. Let's move on. Dear colleague Ivan Hanzek. He's gone. He's losing his right. A colleague, Stipo Gabrić. He's gone. He's losing his right. Mr. Secretary came to the floor, so first I give him my word on behalf of the motionary.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-02-0.u42054	Dear colleagues and colleagues. Very short, both for the Croatian public and for you who are here. I have to respond to the allegations of the distinguished representative Pancic who is trying to say that what we are and what we believe to vote today and sign very almost that it is the same thing as what was signed or initialled in the Racan-Drnovšek agreement. It is simply not true and this message must reach Croatian citizens. Racan-Drnovšek was an agreement that finally defined the border, not on the basis of international law, but on the basis of a political agreement. It's on that side. As far as this arbitration agreement is concerned, it is a contract that will ensure that an international judicial body is established, so an arbitration court which will decide on the basis of international law on where the border line is going. I am asking you colleagues from the SDP to respect a certain remorse you have because of an agreement that has been initialled which was not good for Croatian national interests not to confuse the Croatian public and that this agreement, you do not equate this arbitration agreement with the Racan-Drnovšek agreement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-02-0.u42055	Thank you. A fellow Pancic rectification quote.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-02-0.u42056	It's not true it's the same. I'm going to quote one of our distinguished experts who says it's true that it's not the same, but that today what you're proposing is worse than... What Racan tried to negotiate with the other side. [[The speaker is off, you can't hear it.]] But in any case, we leave time to see what kind of seed you sow.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-02-0.u42057	Thank you very much. Next comes the debate of distinguished counterpart Ranko Ostojic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-02-0.u42058	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President of the Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. Nothing new in this House. Nothing new, i.e. we keep changing the laws faster and faster and faster... Someone shut me out, so I'm gonna... [[The speaker is off, you can't hear it.]] And you and I know the numbers, 156 63. [[The speaker is off, you can't hear it.]] The current agreement lasts four, five months, 150 days, Minister Rehn One. If there's a competition government or parliament that changes laws faster, then tell us. Maybe there's something "under cover" there, maybe there's something for "believe it or not," maybe there's something that's not formal but be fair and say we change the laws, we compete for the right place, maybe we win first place. Okay, then I understand. But that we, colleagues and colleagues, parliamentary representatives of the Croatian Parliament, change laws, decisions, agreements every 4.5 months, and in those 4.5 months nothing experienced, professional, scientific, political has happened, then what is the problem? We have a problem with colleagues and colleagues because we're putting ourselves in a position to be someone's shield, to be back up someone else's, to be someone's friend, not to say what we're here for anyway. Then we have a problem. What happened since May when we, when I voted in favour of the agreement, until today? "Rehn One" let's call it parole. What happened? Has there been a change of policy? Has the definition of the state changed, has the definition of the sea changed? Has the International Court changed in The Hague? Has the International Court changed in Hamburg? What happened today is that we're rejecting something that we unanimously I think we accepted in May, and today there's obviously a dispute about it. There's a fight. Or it didn't happen. This is a constant. I said and I said again, I finished medicine in Zagreb, first in a generation, suma godfather lauda or magna godfather lauda, never failed the exam, never dropped the colloquium. In the assembly, I keep falling, I'm a repeater, I'm a repeater. We repeat the laws, additions, changes and all three four days. So what's wrong with you, colleagues and colleagues? You're with me repeaters. Don't be. You don't get a chance because you have most of them to be repeaters. Please do not be repeated because we must be a Croatian country of knowledge, excellent people and professional people. Now let's make a deal, Mr. Minister. May I? Thank you very much. [[Intruder: You can.]] I hope you learned what a union is. ... So in the United States, children of 16 years of age take a driving test. [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]] 16 years. We've been going for six months, almost a master's degree and a Ph.D. from those driving exams. You drive, you drive years of ministers like me in New York, 22 kilometers, you drive out 19 miles, four people sit in a van, you lay down, you fall. They put your glasses on, they take pictures of you, touchscreen, you get your driver's license, your colleague Bukic was out a lot, in four hours if you know. If you don't know how to pay 22 bucks and come in seven days. And there's a question of what a union is, what is a union? Okay, the union is a touch point, it's not a relationship, Mr. Frisce. I wish it was a relationship, but it's not, it's not, it can't be. Unfortunately not, I'd like to. You and I would love it, personally, but it's not. No, unfortunately not. Some of you googled, so you came to ask me so you said what you think a colleague, but the intersection, the intersection, the touch point is between June 42 and 43, so the path between the junction and the juncta puts in the previous or future. And that is why it is wise, my dear colleagues and colleagues, written in Article 3.b, to determine the Juneation of Slovenia according to the high sea is a task, a task. It's like a bridge that exists in Karlovac. There's supposed to be a bridge in Karlovac that has one access road, and the other one doesn't, but eventually it'll be built this second time. That bridge is a splinter, okay, is it a little closer to you now? That bridge is a splinter. That's how you'll end it, named after some minister, I don't think it's the minister of this former parliamentary representative of ours, so it's a bridge in Karlovac. But as that bridge will be made and determined, I am afraid, and I hope you are, too, and I believe that you are afraid that this relationship, that there will be no, fellow colleagues and colleagues, a submarine, that there will be no territory, that it will not be for what we are, and there are many of my friends from '91. We went together to the RPZNG, the National Guard Assembly. I'm afraid of that. You're scared, too. You must be scared. Fear, skepticism is an inspiring fellow, and this is another dogma when you're not afraid. So, Mr. Minister, nothing happened, but you're refusing the Rehna 1 court, becoming an arbitration commission. We are a sovereign state. Croatia is in '94. in May, to remind you, 94% of Croatian citizens voted for a sovereign, independent Croatian state. ... You want to pick one up? ... [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]] Yes, but I hope you're writing or remembering what you're about to correct. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Write. So, the scheme and the term "it's all in your hands" no, no, for this, it's not all in our hands. Here is the scheme or scheme to transfer the ball to the Croatian Parliament. For this agreement is sufficient for the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Government of the Republic of Croatia and as you can see, only 39 votes. So, in conclusion, from a relatively correct May agreement, we enter the gray zone. From a relatively correct agreement that we all unanimously, I think, supported in May this year, we enter the gray zone, we get into the mud, we get into the dust that's around us, which is suffocating some. I hope he doesn't choke anyone and don't let God choke someone, but it's time to cough, think, read and vote by conscience. If we vote by conscience, then the result will be very, very interesting. Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-02-0.u42059	Thank you very much. We have two applications for correction of the quote. First of all, colleague Frano Matušić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-02-0.u42060	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. A lot of things should be fixed. First, you should have read it correctly, not said anything that doesn't stand anywhere. You say it is abolished, under a new agreement, the arbitration court is abolished and the case is handed over to the arbitration panel. So where did you read it? So where did you read it, buddy? ... What are you talking about? [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] What are you talking about? The tribunal's arbitar. What are you talking about? The arbitration court is at stake. Read the document you're talking about, don't deceive the public this way about something that doesn't say. It clearly states that it is an arbitration court which is an international judicial body. What arbitration commission are you talking about now? ... What are you talking about? [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] It's an international legal body, an international legal body. .../Speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-02-0.u42061	We've got registration plates. I'll give everyone my word. But first let's use that right. Correction of the alleged, distinguished colleague of Andrija Hebrang.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-02-0.u42062	Thank you very much. I need to correct your quote, says you're afraid that the Union does not mean ownership of the sea and the sea. We're not scared. And you know why? Because we read article 15. The Convention on the Law of the Sea. Article 15 of the Convention signed by Croatia and Slovenia in '92. Otherwise, the convention is out there in the '70s, and it says exactly like this. For the bays, therefore, the type of Savudria vala is the division of the central bay, equal to the distance from the left and right coast. In this text it is precisely referring to the rules and principles of international law. Whoever judges can't skip Article 15, and that's why we're not afraid.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-02-0.u42063	Thank you. We have three replicas now. My colleague Ingrid Antičević Marinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-02-0.u42064	Regardless of this reconciliation, this is the key to what you're setting up for your colleague. Here's the concept of a relationship that's not a legal concept. It's a coloquial term that can mean anything. It can mean a benign passage for Slovenian ships, what the Slovenians already use extensively to the International Organisation, the Maritime Organisation. And what they need it for when they already have it. So the free passage of their ships and every year their load increases enormously. So that's not the problem. The problem is something else. That's not what they're asking. Again, President Pahor said that the sacred thing for them is to contact them openly, so they are now speaking in general. There's a connection here. Now, if you knew me with a saying that it wasn't territory that you're saying it wasn't, then who was happier than us. Why isn't it written here, but off property over the territory. So it can also be the right to use and pass and drive this or that width. All of this can be okay. And then there wouldn't be a bit of a fight between us. But it's not here. Now you're saying it's not there, you're categorically saying it. Tomorrow when that arbitration committee comes, who knows what kind of clock. It can be all right, but we don't know that, and we can't afford to know that. We'd better create something by consensus, which is possible and unfavourable. But we know, we're aware. We're tragic people here. People in the history of literature are tragic who were unaware of their position. We're tragic here, the government puts us in a tragic position because we don't know what we're going into. So, tomorrow, you say it's not territory. Tomorrow you'll say, and we didn't know or happened, nothing or you won't remember anything like you didn't remember what you said in 2000 or 2001 or so. and so much closer. Well, give me a minute. There's no one here to call him for this, but to see what's really there, and there's no firm argument that's what you're saying.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-02-0.u42065	Thank you very much. I have a feeling that you didn't replicate the esteemed colleague Ostojić, but Matusic, I guess. Okay. A colleague of Ostojić's called in for a reply to the replica. [[Intruder Antičević Marinović: Yes, but it is a hindrance here.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-02-0.u42066	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. It's human nature to forget especially bad things. Yeah? If bad things were remembered, everyone would sit there, cry, and then they wouldn't do anything, they wouldn't be productive. That's the first fact. The second fact of colleague Ingrid Anticevic is that the past cannot be changed. If you noticed anything, I didn't say anything other than mentioning the '91 referendum. which was our obligation, because 94% of the citizens in charge of us then, and that's where I think Mr. Bebic and Seks were sitting, who were sitting and then. I don't know if he was sitting on Andri Hebrang, it's probably. The then Parliament and we are defending the sovereignty of the Croatian state and I would therefore like it here, as you have made it very clear, to be explicitly stated that this does not apply to the submarine, to the territory. I'd like it, I'd like it, and I demand it. I can't demand that it be, because that's how we do, and we're the legislative authority, we respect the decision of our constituents. And as for contacts, connections, couplings, intersections, intersections, unfortunately, we're not going to talk about it because it's already become a linguistic problem. But I'm stressing, and so is that bridge in Karlovac, and you need to connect this junk. That bridge is supposed to connect with the brother of a senior government official... And here this union must be connected to land, land, land you know which states? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-02-0.u42067	Thank you. Next, a colleague named Roshin signed up for the replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-02-0.u42068	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I'm not Peter Salem even though I'm sitting here because this one, so someone doesn't replace me by registering. I'm as tall as him, but... I'd like to rephrase it, my colleagues. I'm going to stay on the subject of repetition. It's really repetitive, we're repeating, and there's something I totally agree with you about. First, we repeated the Smoking Act and gave up after 156 days, so it was absolutely not my right, and I wish we had stayed on that bill like it was no matter what the government of my party did. But there was a lot of public pressure, there was a lot of pressure on your part. I don't know why, but it would have been better if we hadn't given up on that stronger smoking law because you're not going to any cafe today, and you don't have a di. However, some things are repeated to improve, to improve. So we made one law. Thinking about it, we keep moving forward, so it improves and perfects. Why did she come to Parliament this story? Well, Rehn and I had one in the Parliament when we talked too, and there were 118 votes for and 1 abstention as much as I remember, so it seemed to me that it was good for this one to be in the Parliament and if it hadn't come to the Parliament then it would have been negotiated why it didn't come to the Parliament, why don't we discuss it in Parliament. And of course fear, you were talking about fear. In my debate, I said "Zebnya." Of course there is a toothache. Zelena is every moment of her life, and so is that. Compared to what your colleague Ingrid was replicating for you, which is why I can mention that ad hoc, so also tac and hit and that as a colleague, Zoran Milanovic and I would say something in Latin once in the Assembly. That's Hitch Rhodus, hit the salta. So, those who speak out there, there's room here to discuss all this. And that's why I just think that one thing is very important about this repetition that doesn't happen anymore, that we don't repeat the history that we've been through, and it was wrong. I'm not afraid of repeating the law again in the debate, but some posthumous past times that it might not be and that's why I'm pleading for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-02-0.u42069	Thank you very much. Replication response, esteemed colleague Ranko Ostojić.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-02-0.u42070	Thank you very much. My colleague, I agree most of the time, and I would say about the pace of the seas, but we don't learn from mistakes, we don't learn from those 156 days that we've changed the law, we don't learn from the IPO, so we don't learn from this either. So the problem is that nothing, as well as for smoking. You're, if I may quote and you'll allow it, you said there was pressure to change the Smoking Act. Right? The word you used was pressure. You even said on this side and on the other and on the fifth. I'm afraid by analogizing the pressure here, I just don't know whose pressure. I'm prepping... I have some information, but I don't know whose pressure it is. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Where there's no vision of people getting hurt. They're Rotarians, and you know it very well you pulled a very good action to save the world from poly. There are no polys today. We are a land free of poly. Well, I'd very much like to have done it with smoking and some other laws and if we'd stayed on such an agreement, because then it wouldn't be worth it where there's no vision of people getting hurt. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-02-0.u42071	Thank you very much. And a third application for replica, colleague Pancic. He's giving up. Thank you very much. Let's move on then with the debate. My colleague Ingrid Antičević Marinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-02-0.u42072	Thank you. Dear Mr. Vice President, gentlemen of the Ministers, colleagues and colleagues. Before I say anything about this contract itself, where slowly in some way crystallize what is controversial in this contract. So what is questionable is what is not there, as is disputed in the Constitution. So you might as well start with the interpretation, because several times Mr. Vice President here quoted Article 8 that says that the borders of the Republic of Croatia can only be changed by a decision of the Croatian Parliament. But it's also true that this constitution of ours is disabled when it comes to establishing borders. He's not talking about establishing boundaries anywhere. Which wasn't an accident. I know well when the constitutionalists, or promoters, thought about it. It was not forgotten at that time, but it was deliberately omitted so that we would not prejudge ourselves that certain limits were not established. And now we have to admit that the sea borders have not been established. They haven't been established. And please nicely, although it's not, I'm just telling the truth for the sake of it, not because it's going to be some point of reluctance, you can vote with whatever majority you want, or minority of that majority, because here's almost 36 votes you need for it. And I wouldn't be surprised when the government discussed such an important issue in what way? On the phone. It was a phone session. So, the Constitution says that the borders of Croatia can only be changed by a decision of the Croatian Parliament. Only by the decision of the Croatians, and the fort does not speak of anything. It also says that such a contract is made by a two-thirds majority. Well, you see, gentlemen, in order to make a difference, you need to determine something. So if something comes out of something, and it's derivated, it's two-thirds of what you're looking for, so please, for the determination of a minimum is two-thirds. And that's where I say it won't be our point of dispute. I want to say this, that at this point in time, we have not only a deep economic crisis, a social crisis, but we have, above all, a political crisis, a crisis of political institutions. And they make a good contribution to political elites. And today, citizens are more politically mature than the political elites that lead them. And for what? And we have to imagine that. The way decisions are made. How does he present himself to the public? How does he communicate with the public? It's just as important as content itself. If that's bad, then the content can't be good either. Why am I saying this? I'm saying this for that very reason because we have one heavy unbelief when it comes to content and even the content of the contract itself. This is where it was supposed to be asked, I'm not going to ask Mr. Minister because he didn't say it and that would be unfair. We can't talk about some general responsibility anymore. We need to personalize responsibility. Responsibility is never collective, no collective responsibility. Responsibility is always individual. A certain person, no matter what, and that person can't hide behind a collectiveity either. Mrs. Kosor said to the express press that I had nothing to say to Pablo about the open sea. She's repeated it several times. And now we see that it wasn't true. So, what's the question? So the lady was lying now. It doesn't even matter what's more harmful, is what's in the contents of the lie or the contents of what's now being revealed? And when the most responsible persons in Croatia behave, then it is normal for us to have a crisis, a political crisis, a crisis of institutions, a crisis of trust and a crisis of erosion rather than in some way that institutions themselves are consolidated and that one particular trust is acquired in them, without which there is no policy, no real policy action, nor is it credible that they are presented in public by these same policies, or institutions. So it hasn't been right since the beginning. Hiding here today again pompously behind patriotism is absolutely unacceptable. That's not acceptable. Why? I am now not going back to what we've lost all morning when for the same things, or much less things people have been here, then power, today's opposition... , you in the reverse situation called for treason, or high treason. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] There was no debate. That's what the vice president says, but there was no debate in the Parliament. ... The debate in the Parliament, but it wasn't a bill of law, the decision that you didn't start your debate. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Now it's another thing. So don't talk about that patriotism, because whenever you call for patriotism, any defenders, it's weird to be a beaker, so an economic belt. You don't like to remember that, but then we finish that story about it. Let's not, today the Madam President has spoken again and represents this treaty of patriotism. We're interested in content, and people will judge how patriotic it is or not. So when he wants to close the discussion, then he waved at patriots, but that patriotism so dried up, it dried up her patriotism in such a way. Especially when she simply returned the papers to the defense attorneys, here are the unsettled papers. Now we're going to go back to the provision of Article 3, which is what my predecessor, dear colleague Ostojić, is talking about, and that's the most controversial thing. So it wouldn't be slow about what you, which most of us, what HDZ interprets is so, that it says here and that we have a guarantee that it is. Then we could agree here right now, not to spend electricity, water here, and what a citizen who wrote to me tells me, says if it's because the HDZ assures you then you have to agree, the corridor is there, it wants to be a little tighter or wider, the main thing is that it's not territory and go home, don't circus. That's what the citizen says. Now, but it doesn't say what you're saying here, and it's not the first time we've been told when and in law it's something controversial or in the bill of law, so it doesn't say, but you're explaining often not only written explanations that are not part of the law later, but oral explanations by dying us or some people who suspect, who question that it's not exactly like that. No, it's gonna be okay. After that, the law was passed. It's what it says because that's not how it's supposed to be. So I don't see why there were no or no guarantees here, so there are no guarantees. Now I don't have your explanation here, I have this naked text that we all know how to read, which is not recommended and where we're lucky on the team while we're already at Latin is that so. But this link "junction", now whether it's a corridor, whether it's a point, whether it's, it's all it can be. You have different dictionaries and different things that anyone understands by that, and what translations are and what kind of authors you will find. But in a legal sense, it's not a legal concept, it's a relationship that can mean the right to pass, but it can also mean ownership, part of territory. It may mean what some colleagues have also expressed concern, ownership not only of the sea but also of the sea. And let's remember that 2001 agreement never included property over the sea, and for us, it's a submarine, especially this submarine, rich in gas, and who knows what kind of findings. After all, and the marine organisms are much more interesting because we must give the right of passage and the Slovenians already have it. I will repeat, the Slovenians of the International Maritime Organization are using their ships extensively, and is it possible that we are giving the arbitration to decide on something, we do not know how they will decide, we do not know what the Arbiters are, what they are, after all, something that Slovenia does not belong to or according to the configuration of its position, since we have the Gulf of Trscan here as well. So we're going into one big uncertainty, and we don't have any security. But why did this happen to us? Because we accused each other, or you accused the authorities of the time and continued, of the traitors and then used it safely for Slovenia. Instead of solving these things with us, then such problems that we would go on an adventure would not be the day of today. Here's not to repeat what my colleague said about the arbiters is the whole point, and that's something that's controversial, and that's what's causing the breakthrough in both the professional and the general public. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-02-0.u42073	Thank you very much. 2 corrections of the quote. First of all, colleague Matušić, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-02-0.u42074	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So although it doesn't make much sense to correct the incorrect allegations of counterpart Anticevic, I will still correct one when she said Prime Minister Kosor lied. It is the first inappropriate term, the second incorrectly, that the prime minister lied when she spoke about what was being discussed with Slovenia and how. Secondly, I have not heard a word of criticism from your ranks when we accepted the first "Rehn's proposal" in which we clearly have contact with the open sea, which clearly includes everything you're talking about today. At that time, we did not hear a voice of objection on your part, and what we are based on and which is why we are convinced that it will be as we say and that it is Article 4 that says that everything is based on international law. Therefore, fellow Members, read the good text.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-02-0.u42075	Thank you. Further rectification of the quote, colleague Roshin.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-02-0.u42076	Mr. Vice President, I'm giving up my corrections, and I hope my colleagues on this other side of the "Baden-Baden" hearing so we can do it as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-02-0.u42077	Thank you very much. Replica application, Ivica Pancic. Dear fellow Pancic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-02-0.u42078	I already gave up the replica once, so here's one to take advantage of. So you noticed when you said this agreement was the result of the crisis of institutions and policies that are in place in Croatia. Because that is exactly why the position of the Republic of Croatia is bad, which is why large-terroral aspirations of Slovenia come to terms and why Croatia is subject to such blackmails. The government's been bitten by corruption, I guess that doesn't have to be explained to anyone. Several members of the government are likely to be the main obstacle to further negotiations to join the EU. In this way, the institutions of the state are weakened. The economic situation knows what it's like. Until 6 months ago, we should not have said from the parliamentary majority that there is at all an economic crisis in Croatia to make progress today and we are talking about the economic crisis as something normal. And that is why Croatia is forced to accept, even though the foreign minister will disagree again, such a bad agreement. That's not what I'm saying, I may have passed a few international law colleges so I don't consider myself an expert on international law, but I probably read more than a call expert on the other side, which today explains that there are no dangers in Croatia. It was enough yesterday to listen to Mr. Davorin Rudolph who was critical of the previous agreement, and to see that there was a mine hiding in this agreement that would explode just don't know when and where and with what consequences. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-02-0.u42079	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, Mr. Jandrokovic. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-02-0.u42080	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I am obliged to react on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Croatia because of the inappropriate and rude statement by MP Ingrid Anticevic-Marinovic that the Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia is lying. So, first of all, it's inappropriate, it's not true, and I don't think that such a form of communication is similar to this House, and please also, Mr. Vice President, to protect the dignity of the Government and the Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia. As for your exposure, it's a lot of contradiction, I won't tell you that you're lying, but I'll tell you that you're not telling the truth. You mentioned that in the Racan-Drnovšek agreement that the object was his only surface of the sea. No, in these 113.4 km square, so this is the "zone 1" which the agreement also envisioned the Croatian sea to give to the Slovenian side, it was also about the sea floor. So do not misinformed the Croatian public and express what is not true. So this 113 kilometers here is your ticket, it's supposed to be given to the Slovenian side along with the seabed. So, I'll repeat what I've already told Mr. Pancic. This agreement defines and determines the establishment of an arbitration court that will decide on the basis of international law on where the border line is going, and the Racan-Drnovšek agreement did not lay the basis of international law, but determined it by political means.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-02-0.u42081	Thank you. Next is the debate, dear colleague Damir Cain. Here you go, buddy Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-02-0.u42082	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, gentlemen of the Parliament. What do you say I'll be against this deal, I already said. Don't shut me down, please. However, what else to add. Slovenian politics did not show that Croatia, not Croatian politics, is ready to do the smallest service. They still keep it up today on St. John's Day. Gary's army. I once listened to Kucan, I think Stankovic interviewed him and asked why you were so. He says, the truth is yours, but we're still staying. Until when? So until the moment that limit is not defined. Slovenian politics has been pressing all the time by retegorising these border crossings in Istria, around this freight traffic, most often happening precisely in the area of my Buzestina. She does not want to damage the 115 thousand Croatian savings that have been waiting for their money for 20 years. And Croatia that is what should also be pointed out, is among other things taken over 600 million marks so-called. Transferred savings, but remained frozen somewhere around 300 million marks. As much as it is today with some tight interest, I don't know. This remains in the Ljubljana Bank, which Ljubljana wants to return today through a succession, which will tell common money in the area of the former ex-Yugoslavia. .... /The speaker excluded./... the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, not to say "diing" to expect that money, and there is no money for the cure. It's simply not fair, because such a policy towards our premises is, at the very least, hypocritical. It is clear that Croatia and Slovenia are neighbours. We'll always be neighbors, we'll be the closest neighbors. That's why I want to believe we're the best neighbors. If I feel like traveling out of the country somewhere, then I have to admit that I feel the best in Slovenia right now. There has never been a misunderstanding between these two nations or these two states. Today, I say, gentlemen, there is no misunderstanding amongst the citizens on one side, or on the other side of the border line. And the only misunderstanding we have is those misunderstandings that cause political elites, which try to impose solutions beyond the citizens themselves. And now where are we and what do we have? It's over now. We see it clearly, some suggestions have fallen. Some were even initialled there in 2001. And now it's clear that Slovenia no longer wants a reverse. But now what do we have with this agreement? Now, unlike the one in 2001, some territory is now emerging. Slovenians know very well that Škrile, Mlini, Buzini, Škudelini are Croatian territory, as well as they know very well, if someone gave them the entire Piran Bay, which is clearly impossible for them to get the entire bay, again without a huge concession simply couldn't the gentlemen reach the open sea. And that's actually that fundamental problem. Slovenia knows very well that it is wrong, but it blackmails us all the time. Slovenia also knows that it does not prevent it from being free to sail, but as they say it will... And that's where this agreement goes. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So it includes undeniable.../ The speaker turned off./...and eventually it will happen that we will get our land, and our sea will get Slovenians. Here's a brief proposal for this agreement that we're discussing today. So all the time Slovenians or Slovenian politics are fighting for ours, and our policy simply doesn't know how to resist it and defend its own. It's a short sentence that can be concluded by reading this agreement. Why is gentlemen avoiding this international court now? So in order for these er arbiters to say the Slovenians ex aequo et bono for justice and honesty, to set a limit as determined by the gentlemen of the former prime minister in 2001. And that's actually the whole point of this agreement. It was clear that without a concession, Slovenia would not agree to the agreement in a month after Sanader left. Well, it is clear that without the resignation of the Croatian prime minister within a month with Jansa, she would not be able to reach this agreement. It is also clear that the blockade damages us, it is clear that Slovenia can hold us for a while longer, but Croatia should also tell Slovenia as much as Slovenia needs Croatia at this time. What is important in this game is the suffering of neighbourly relations, the suffering of economic relations, the suffering of small people, local self-government, the suffering and the European perspective. And that's clearly not good. Although it should be admitted that the Croatian blockade is not always the fault of Slovenia alone, we sometimes blame ourselves. For what? For corruption, for flirting with philosophies, for not working with The Hague and so on. So what's to do, what's the solution? This government obviously thinks the solution is to give in. The church offers forgiveness, but would not yield, and I think the solution is in yet more intense, economic, cultural, economic cooperation.../ The speaker's off. Emphasis of good examples, for example, when Mr. Krasovec, CEO of Cimosa, in the wake of the crisis of the automotive industry from Koper and Maribor, opposed to the demands of his trade unions in one Buzet, moved two economic lines so that the Buzecans would have a job there. Here, I would be even if the Ljubljana Bank were allowed to open a branch in Croatia as soon as possible because it will finance the Croatian economy. But I would also insist every day to get rid of that line, to settle that debt to our savings and not count on it. In one word, I am for that Cardinal Kuharic thought in a conveyed sense to use if someone burns down your house clearly that we will no longer burn down or tear down his house. Let's just be as good neighbors as possible, but the neighborhood and the good neighborhood can't be bought by discounting and trading territory. So, the more exclusive someone is, so I would be in that economic, economic sense, much more lenient because I'm aware of the fact that time heals everything. But if someone loses their territory once, then they'll never regain that territory again, and that's the thing that should be thought about as well. Europe, of course we're in a hurry. True, we've been coughing after her for over seven, eight years, but if others see that we've made our own home, that we've solved this corruption, that we've opposed this transformation, that mob turned me, I'm sure that others will help us too. All in all, I think Croatia has weakened its position with this agreement. It was written by someone in Europe, America, Sweden and that the government does not believe in the outcome of this arbitration agreement, it simply does not believe that he does not believe the most eloquent witness to this famous statement that it is clear that if he produces any effects at all, the Slovenian side will not agree to it. We simply can't sign anything and then build on it. That's not serious, that's not how it works. You're embarrassing yourself in that way in my court. Either you sign or you don't sign, but when you sign something, take responsibility. And if in two or three years, the arbitration court decides that we have lost a part of Croatian territory, then you who will raise your hand for the agreement get out of Croatian politics.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-02-0.u42083	Follow the debate further. Dear colleague Daniel Srb. Here's a colleague of the Serbs.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-02-0.u42084	Thank you very much. Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. After this whole day's debate on this decision to give consent to the Government for the signing of the arbitration agreement, I will try not to repeat what many colleagues have carried out during their discussions. But what is the continuity of relations with Slovenia over the last ten years? So, I would like to remind myself of the time when the Croatian party's Club of Representatives proposed to the Croatian Parliament a Declaration of Relations with the Republic of Slovenia on the basis of which it happened, as the Prime Minister today said, that any document concerning the relationship between the Republic of Croatia and the Republic of Slovenia is being discussed in this House. However, what is the fact that the Republic of Slovenia is not satisfied when it comes to... to the open sea. [[The speaker is off, you can't hear it.]] What Slovenia is interested in is obviously territorial claims that exist on a continuous basis. Here several colleagues also mentioned the Council of Geru, therefore the fact that the summit is practically under occupation because it is evident that even the Slovenian presidents admitted that it was Croatian territory in the early 1990s. But when we look back a few months from so-called. First Ollie Rehn's plan to today what do we have? We have another proposal for an agreement in which it is the very composition of the arbitration court that we have agreed on many of the unfavorable for us. There is also a certain term problem of this so-called. "junction" or links of Slovenia to the open sea or the regime of use of relevant marine areas. And this is actually about one continuity of Slovenia's policy of increasing demands compared to the first Olli Rehn plan accepted here practically unanimously. I must point out that since then, since the adoption of the first Olli Rehn plan, we have had the first rejection of that plan in the Republic of Slovenia. After that, we also had a special statement from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Republic of Croatia, which many legal experts believe can make Croatia a major challenge to the position of either in the international court of justice or in any arbitration. Then came the second Olli Rehn's plan, which the government of Prime Minister Sanader considered unfavorable and therefore rejected. And in the end, we have today, or yesterday, a statement by Slovenian Prime Minister Pahor, who said explicitly: "If Croatia adopts a special statement with witnesses from the Presidency of the Council of the European Union and the United States that this agreement is written here, Slovenia will not accept this agreement." My question now is what actually happened since then. We have this statement here on non-judgment, but unlike last week's text, we do not have the signatures of the Presidency of the Council of the European Union, the United States of America, which was an integral part of this agreement last week. So it shows that, practically, from agreement to agreement, Croatia has an increasingly unfavourable situation. And when it comes to the fact that our reasons are to continue negotiations or avoid a new blockade, let's not forget that there are two so-called. Back-up blockades. One is "topic diaries" and the other is a state of justice. Therefore, we must be aware that even by accepting this agreement we have not solved all the problems and any possible blockades over the continuation of the negotiations for Croatia's entry into the European Union. And to conclude, at this point, I believe that the launch of a dispute before the United Nations International Court could reach a maximum level of protection of Croatian interests, as then Slovenia would certainly be in a much more difficult situation to defend its possible new blockade because someone against it is leading the dispute before the International Court of Justice in The Hague. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-02-0.u42085	Thank you very much. We also have one application for replication. Dear fellow Dragutin Lesar. Here you go, Comrade Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-02-0.u42086	Thank you. Dear Serbs, you mentioned a statement, a unilateral statement prepared by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, and I don't suppose you could see in your debate the new text of the decision on today's decision that came to your bench when you had the debate, which is proposed by the representatives of the ruling majority, and now the matter is changing. Namely, that unilateral statement will be made by the Government of the Republic of Croatia after the signing of the agreement. Not as part of signing the agreement, but after that.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-02-0.u42087	Replication response, colleague of the Serbs.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-02-0.u42088	Thank you very much. Dear colleague Lesar, thank you very much for your information. In fact, you have confirmed by this only what I have stated to exist as a danger, which is the continuity of new discounts ahead of Slovenian requirements. This is another example. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-02-0.u42089	Follow the debate further. Col. Ivan Drmić. Here you go, colleague Drmic. He's gone. He's losing his right to debate. A colleague, Shemso Tankovic. He's gone. He's losing his right to debate. A colleague, Ranko Ostojić, answered. Here you go, colleague Ostojić.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-02-0.u42090	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President. Just for a little while. I'd just like to get the information, maybe the Prime Minister will be able to tell us the difference between what we had on the table this morning and what we just got. It is a statement of prejudge, i.e. the non-judgment of this situation. Do I actually read well that from what we have now on the table we have a situation in which we will not have at the same time, means the signing of this agreement, and that this same statement will be signed in the presence of witnesses, which means people representing American diplomacy, or the European Union. I would also like to say that also this House, if it is just agreeing to such a variant, as I said earlier, is that the basis of the European Union is to enter into it on a pure basis. We're getting in trouble, and that's to eventually blackmail us. I would really like to ask Mrs. Prime Minister if exactly what I'm reading, which is that the Swedish Presidency and, in fact, the Americans, which is the best proof that this is no bilateral problem, has come to the point of giving it up. I also want to say one more sentence on the transfer of responsibility. We're in this House, I have to say, we've been regularly ignored when it comes to everything that's been related to this negotiation. We had to look, pray and receive eventually a drop of information about what was going on with this process, so I would remind the respected HDZ colleagues that were wanted in 2001, so when the situation was the same, it means the same theme. At that time, according to the Law on the conclusion and enforcement of international contracts, and I quote Vice President Seks: "this decision had to contain a constitutional basis, an assessment of the situation so far, the reasons why it proposed the conclusion of an international contract, the draft international contract, the composition of the delegation and all the other details that concerned it". It is not today, it just shows that there are double standards when it comes to HDZ behaviour in 2001 and this year. I would just for the end, since we're all waiting for that decision already, there's only one important thing I've said, and that's when the lawyers, and I've been taught that way, want to make a problem there are two solutions. Or it's about people who are ignorant, legally ignorant, and then make a bad deal, and there's another option that they do it on purpose to benefit and cheat someone else. Unfortunately, we don't have a contract that old Ivanusha would be clean, clear and reviewed. Again, we have an agreement or a situation in which there are doubts for us, let alone for citizens in the Republic of Croatia. Unfortunately, you haven't downloaded, or looking for a consensus here, you haven't moved away those doubts that were needed to move them, and that's a situation where unfortunately we're coming back into the variant. You're asking those of us who have been regularly ignored in this House about this situation, what happens in the negotiations, you're looking for a consensus, and after what we get? Again, we haven't gotten the right information about what's going on in this situation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-02-0.u42091	My colleagues and colleagues, we've exhausted all applications for an individual hearing. And we move on to the final address of the club representatives. First on behalf of the IDS Club, colleague Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-02-0.u42092	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, ministers. So today we're deciding on an arbitration agreement and I thought we were deciding on that first statement, but no. We have now received a new Decision on granting consent to the Government of the Republic of Croatia to sign an arbitration agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and to give consent to a declaration of non-judication. And in Article 2, 100% in line with Pahor, it is said that the Croatian Parliament gives consent to the Government of the Republic of Croatia for a declaration of non-judgment to be witnessed by the Presidency of the Council of the European Union and the United States in the text submitted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia by the Act of 30 October 2009. The government of the Republic of Croatia will make a statement after the signing of the arbitration agreement and before its ratification. For how long? Maybe three, four years. I don't know when that's gonna happen, but I would really suggest that the Croatian Parliament and the Croatian public don't go in such a way. This doesn't mean anything in the end. This is for domestic use. We will call upon it, but no one in the world, and the least arbiters will hold on to it. When will there be ratification? I suppose after Croatia enters the European Union somewhere in two, three years. But that too should be kept in mind, the arbitration agreement of this type take it or leave it. There are no conditions here for Croatia and for Slovenia. So either we take it or we don't take it. I'm clearly not interested in any excuses. I would like to know how this next day will reflect the quality of life in Istria and whether in the end the Republic of Croatia will be able to preserve myself by expressing my sea and what is beneath the sea. I'm against it, so the prime minister apologizes for anything because this could mean that the 2001 agreement was a good deal, a good thing. That's right. It's the same thing I say was a good thing for Slovenia, not for Croatia. But Mr Račan meant to close the issue of the Ljubljanska banka, as he testified to me, he also told Krškoga and the border on the mainland that through the bilateral both on the route Zagreb – Ljubljana, and not on some international intermediation, which only makes us unserious states or governments, both ours and Slovenia. The second thing I want to say is what I said twice today. Slovenia did not make any gesture, or Slovenian politics, not Slovenia, to return it to Croatia. Neither St. Geru nor those 115 thousand savings were compensated, etc. etc. Secondly, what everyone wonders about will be the next day with or without the agreement of economic co-operation between Croatia and Slovenia. I say correct. Why? Because she is, so this cooperation is both in Croatia's interest and in Slovenia's interest. What will be this tourism or our cooperation in tourism? Absolutely correct. The Slovenians will not close the borders or what I know to strengthen control, because Croatia can reciprocate with the same measure, but such policies should be absolutely avoided because they harm all of us and them. What Slovenia can only do, but not as long as it thinks it can block Croatia on its way to Europe. That's clearly not good. But let's be honest, it's not good for Croatia or Slovenia and so let's stay, let's be, let's become the best possible neighbours. Let Slovenian ships travel up, down, boats, boats, yachts. That's what they've done so far. If that were not the case, Koper or Kopar would have grown into the most important port today, I could say almost this part of the Adriatic. Let's be good neighbors, but let's not trade clearly with our own, because the next day no one will appreciate it. For the end of most of which this agreement is adopted. It's been said a lot already. I'm going to defend the normal two-thirds majority, but I have the impression that as we got the interpretations, the explanations that the prime minister and herself or the foreign minister could have concluded or could have concluded such an arrangement. But what I will certainly appreciate is that such a contract has come for which I will otherwise be against coming before Croatian representatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-02-0.u42093	Thank you. On behalf of the HDSSB club, counterpart Boro Grubisic. Comrade Grubisic, please. Let's not throw it away. Here's my colleague Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-02-0.u42094	What are you going to do, that's power! Dear Mr. Vice President, Prime Minister, fellow MPs and fellow MPs. Here is the day-long debate that has really brought out many arguments of very bile debate and various even ideas about how perhaps at the last minute something might be done in connection with this proposal for a decision to give consent to the Government of the Republic of Croatia. We are now surprised that here at, half an hour ago, another material on the benches is the most arriving that changes the statement of non-judgment in the text delivered by the Government of the Republic of Croatia by the Act of 30 October. So, the act of October 30th today is November 2nd. So in three days we changed our minds again. When we look at the order or chronology of the events from 8 May to this day, then we see the constant defensiveness of Croatian policy in the international plan, that is, in relation to Slovenia and the European Union of the Rehn Plan one and then Rehn's plan two, then the dissuasion of courts, the International Court of Law in Hamburg, the International Court of Justice in The Hague, and now here's the last to say in this one sequence, it is in this series that this statement of non-judication will follow after the signing of the agreement. The agreement will be signed first, then the arbitration agreement and then ratification, and the statement will follow prior to ratification. That first proposal wasn't there this morning. Therefore, I think this is another paragraph and then a statement by Mr. Matušić. Just laugh, but you won't be long? And then it is another leap of Croatian politics, another sign of the weakness of Croatian politics. This is what someone actually said here that is missing Croatia, and that is a good responsible, capable national policy. The circumstances we discussed, which have led to economic, financial, cultural and other crises, have partly affected the status of the Republic of Croatia, and this results in a position to negotiate. Because if we know we're in debt here, I almost don't know how much that spins every day in euro, but almost 50 billion euros. Then it's clear that we're looking at these pre-accession funds, and other funds, which the people would say as a cat on hot porridge. And here we have come to the fact that with our concession to our territorial sea we are paying further negotiations towards the European Union and the deblockation of Slovenia. It's sad and I say, I stress that, as I said in that opening statement on behalf of the club, HDSSB will never and can't support it, as I do personally. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-02-0.u42095	Thank you very much. On behalf of the SDP club, distinguished counterpart Zoran Milanovic. Here's my colleague Milanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-02-0.u42096	Dear Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. We have clearly pointed out the shortcomings that this agreement is abounding with our convictions. I would like to remind you that in April, or May this year, we have just launched an initiative from the SDP to adopt an agreement, so to speak. Rehn one. We held that the agreement was also a difficult decision, but it contained the minimal risk that every country that goes towards arbitration, according to the adjucatur, given the authority of a third party to decide for it, that it is worthy of that denial. We also showed a certain understanding and sympathy for the Slovenian side, allowing it to be the Slovenian contact, some connection to the open sea. And we thought it was civilized, good, equal and just. It's the Parliament's decision. Then what happened in Croatian politics, the negotiations began again and then we got this second text. This text is more unfavourable to our conviction and we think that we have arguments more unfavourable than the first text. It contains some provisions that represent a definitive setback, and they represent one provision that we consider an insurmountable obstacle. In short, the provision under which a new version of Slovenia, i.e. arbitration, gives an obligation and task to establish a Slovenian connection with the open sea, is considered to be definitely a decision or a variant attached to Slovenia. As we were able to accept it, so we believe that this shows another additional sympathy, or understanding for Slovenian aspirations, I would not say appetites but aspirations, which we can consider legal or illegal, fair or unfair, but when we began to negotiate and negotiate this dispute we were aware that certain concessions would have to be done. So here we are ready to see as one reasonable concession, as one risk that probably ultimately leads to a solution that everyone has criticised so much and on which some have built their big political careers. But my God, it's a burden of statehood, and it's theoretically possible. However, the provision under which Croatia, at once, fully disowns its sovereign, basic right, to propose arbitration, the provision under which Slovenia is most surprised, also disowns that right, is so strange, so unusual, so unacceptable, and if you want to be unfair, that we cannot agree on it. You didn't ask us to agree to that, and we can't agree to that. And that's why the SDP club will be restrained and it will be actively restrained with a clear message of what we think. Well, you gentlemen who want so much in the European Union, and who have so much appetite, you should learn what constructive restraint means in the European Union. Go go google and take a look. So, once again, a clear message to you, first and foremost the Government and the Prime Minister. Point 2 of the Agreement, as proposed and as the Government gives it to adoption, is not acceptable. Croatia should not and should not, and the same applies to Slovenia, give up its right to initially propose arbitration. And until this issue is settled in a satisfactory way, we show with our abstention that we keep the door to solve the problem open because we've been doing it since the beginning, because we've initiated Rehn one ourselves. But we can't agree to anything you bring to our table. And that's why we're giving you a clear message, that we're asking for this to change, that is, to change in a satisfactory way. Any way to get back ad integrum, to the version of Rehn one, in which normal states themselves suggest arbitres and that in some other acceptable way. This isn't good. And for this support you won't win. As for ratification and the majority for ratification, you decide for yourself. I know that you have constitutional experts to put into the hands of the American Constitution they would find ways to bring slavery back to America. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-02-0.u42097	I beg a little more peace, because if that's not the case, then I'll call my colleague Mimica, you've seen him split two warnings in five minutes, I'm not one for three hours, but that was effective. But that's why we still have two applications on behalf of the club. On behalf of the HNS club, distinguished colleague Vesna Pusic. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-02-0.u42098	Thank you. Mr. Vice President, Madam Prime Minister with the ministers. On behalf of the HNS Club, I would like to remind you once more of what we discussed today and what we will vote on. So we're not going to vote on ratification, we're going to give consent to the paraphrasing. So agreeing that the president of our government paralyzes this agreement that has to be initialled and the Slovenian side returns it here to the Parliament. The HNS will support the continuation of the process, and will give or support consent to the paraphras. Ratification is yet to follow and without ratification in the Croatian Parliament this agreement will not and cannot enter into force. Today, many of the interests that the Republic of Croatia needs to be preserved and to be realized, which are key, have been discussed. At least it was talked about the interest of the Republic of Croatia to be a member of the European Union. Let me illustrate on one example how practical this interest is. Compare the port of Kopar and the port of Rijeka. Why is the port of Kopar developing to these scales, unlike the port of Rijeka? Because the port of Kopar is the port of the European Union and we can stand on our heads, we will not be able to develop Rijeka's port at the same pace until Rijeka's port becomes also an EU port. And when ships enter the port of Rijeka, they know that the whole of Europe is open to them. That the whole of Europe is free of customs, borders and everything that they now have when they enter the river they have all the goods. Thus, on this simple example of ports that are almost one by one, of which Rijeka was once huge, and Kopar small, and today Kopar is huge, and Rijeka is small compared to him. We want, among other things, to build a European location from the port of Rijeka and from all of our other institutions, economic operators and give them a chance to develop at the same pace as other locations, countries and economic operators within the EU. This Agreement should minimise the risk in that other interest, the realization of that other interest, and this is a decision relating to arbitration which will make a decision on the border. The Croatian government until ratification, is the position of the HNS club, must be the one in the position of giving consent or not on the list from which the arbiters are elected. It should be either a statement by the Croatian government, a stance, an integral part of a special statement, however you intend to arrange it, but that part minimalises then and the risk that is never existing exists, exists, but minimises the risk on the other hand. HNS has always advocated that Croatia, apart from geographically and politically, becomes Europe. And we're not even ready to stop this process right now and I'm not ready for five years to answer my daughter's question how is it that our neighbors have gone far beyond us? How come they've made a lot more progress than we have, and we haven't solved our problem yet? And that is why we will do everything in our power to protect both of these interests and never face this issue.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-02-0.u42099	Thank you very much, colleague Pusic. And last application on behalf of the HDZ Club, distinguished colleague Andrija Hebrang. Here you go, Doctor.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-02-0.u42100	Dear Mr. Vice President, Madam Prime Minister, ministers, colleagues and colleagues. Here's more than nine hours of discussion, and we still have an arbitration agreement that we're interpreting differently. I'll tell you how he's interpreted by our club. First of all, we need to say that in this agreement we do not find a single dictionary, not a single word, not a single set by which Croatia would give up its territory. The argument, in this agreement above all, we have made a major step because we have separated the border issue from the negotiations and this is a great success of Croatian diplomacy. All deadlines begin to run after we sign the Treaty of Accession of the Eu. And we solved a big problem that is now being talked about by colleague Pusic. Why do we feel that the territory is sufficiently protected by this document of the arbitration agreement? In view of the fact that the issue of the limit set out in Article 3 is 1A the issue of land and sea borders is resolved on the basis of arbitration, but how? This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. 1A says very clearly, based on the rules and principles of international law to establish borders. And what do the rules and principles of international law say? Let us take a look at article 15. The Convention on the Law of the Sea, which is the main international act to determine borders at sea, and signed by our neighbouring Slovenia and us in '92. A year. And Article 15. The Convention on the Law of the Sea makes it perfectly clear when it comes to a bay of limited dimensions, so as the Savadria Wave, the border goes in the middle by measuring the points of equal distance from one and the other shore. Which arbitration judge could rule against this Convention when the agreement states that the border will be set to quote: "in accordance with the rules and principles of international law for the determination of borders."? There is no possibility of a decision against the Convention on the Law of the Sea. Why isn't there? Because the decision will be made by people who are, as it says, recognised by experts on international law. It is true that they are from the list, but the Slovenian side of the list will also choose experts. So the limits are mutually equal, there's no reason to believe that someone gets an advantage. But on the list are international law experts, recognised by international experts, who will allow The ones on the list, the ones on the list. [[/Intruder: which one?]] We will see that when the list is published, but if it is recognised by an expert on international law, which of them will put their reputation on the line against the Convention on the Law of the Sea when it is said here that they must be tried by international law. And that's why we believe that the territory is fully protected. The next question being raised is what is the connection between Slovenia and the open sea? Unlike Rehn's first plan to write the word contact here does not write a contact but literally writes a link, but it does not write a link to the open sea or "junction to the high seas". Relationship to, it's not a connection. A link to the link may be a traffic link and that is the only correct interpretation, and that means a protected passage that will now be found by arbitration and confirmed. Therefore, in this document, if we compare it to the Convention on the Law of the Sea, which the document is called upon by reference to international regulations, there is no possibility of an international recognition of a judge judging against international regulations. If the European Union so decides, then there are many other issues that I would not like to raise or question in this place. So we will support this proposal because we believe that Croatian diplomacy has managed to produce such a proposal that Croatia does not buy its membership in the European Union by disowning its territory. And that's our conclusion that we insist on and that we can defend in front of every audience. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-02-0.u42101	Thank you very much. And in the name of the exhibitor, Prime Minister Jadranka Kosor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-02-0.u42102	Thank you. Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs and MPs, thank you very much for the debate that I repeat I will once again be in most parts and constructive and tolerant. Thank you for that. I will repeat once again if you give support I will give this agreement, as we have already said many times to sign it. What's important, and what I think here at the end of today, is that once again I can conclude that if we go that way, so after signing ratifications, and then all that follows, all the deadlines that are scheduled here, we're definitely sure that we've separated the negotiations from solving the problem, or better said the border issue. And that's the essence of this job we suggested you accept. So, I've spoken a lot of times and I'll say it in public and tonight I'd be glad to have as many MPs as possible to support the signing of this agreement. Of course I would like to remind that particular one more time, please Mr. Caine, Agent Caine, to pay attention, as Mr. Caine said earlier that he did not know when the ratification would be in a year, two, three, as you said. No, it says exactly here in a joint statement in the end very clearly after the signing of the agreement, we return to our parliaments and Prime Minister Pahor and I and we propose ratification. And that's the moment when one different majority will be sought. But I certainly wanted to, and I'd like that most of them to be as big as possible. It is written in a joint statement and it is very clear that we will seek to do this job by December 2009, so it is written in a joint statement at the end of this document that we have proposed. So, ladies and gentlemen, I'll see you at the ratification in parliament, and that's when the two-thirds majority will be sought. I believe that by then this active or constructive SDP restraint will also turn into active or abstention for, or in support. That'd be good. In any event, this SDP decision is actively, constructively abstentioned rather than active or constructively against. That's what it looks like to me now. It would be good and here we are going to do everything to eventually at ratification it actively-restrictedly change into active for. Why? Because it is good for Croatia, because it is good for the conclusion of the negotiations and because it is ultimately good for Croatia's future as a member of the European Union. Ladies and gentlemen, and in the end, I am obliged, since the clubs of the ruling coalition have made an amendment to the decision to say that the Government accepts the amendment. So it is a unilateral statement and that it explains here once again that the statement after the signing of the agreement will be made prior to its ratification in the Croatian Parliament. Thank you very much again. And I believe that soon we will see each other again here when we will discuss this document again and I believe we will successfully finish this ratification work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-02-0.u42103	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. And now to read what we have received on the basis of the agreed arbitration debate between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia as a statement on the non-judgment of the clubs of HDZ, HSS, HSLS, SDA, SDSS and the National Minority Representatives Club have established a proposal for a decision to give consent to the Government of the Republic of Croatia for the signing of an arbitration agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, and to give consent to a declaration of non-judgment. Article 1 of that Decision states: "The Croatian Parliament agrees to the Government of the Republic of Croatia to sign an arbitration agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia in the text submitted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, acting on 30 October 2009. Members of the second decision: "The Croatian Parliament agrees with the Government of the Republic of Croatia for a declaration of non-judgment to testify to the Presidency of the Council of the European Union and the United States in the text submitted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia by the Act of 30 October 2009. The government of the Republic of Croatia will make a statement after signing an arbitration agreement and before its ratification. This Regulation shall enter into force on the day of its adoption." That's what we vote on. And before we go to the vote, please engage to determine the quorum. Let's get involved and vote. It's just a quorum. Identify yourself. Do we have a score? 120 present, so we can make a valid decision. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament of the HDSSB's Representatives Club shall call for a first-name vote on a proposal for a decision to give consent to the Government of the Republic of Croatia for the signing of an arbitration agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and a declaration of non-judication. In accordance with this article and this item, if the club’s attitude is such, then it must be respected. I therefore ask the Registrar, because according to the Rules of Procedure, he is in charge of the vote to take charge of the vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-02-0.u42104	We can get started. Ivo Andrić – za, Ingrid Antičević-Marinović – abstensive, Željka Antunović – abstensive, Ivan Bagarić, Arsen Bauk – controlled, Luka Bebić, Davor Bernardić – controlled, Goran Beus Richembergh – za, Suzana Bilić-Vardić – za, Mato Biljić – za, Dragutin Bodakoš – absten, Ivan Božanović, Biljana Borzana, Rade Božnak – za, Marin Brkić – absten, Perica Bukić – za, Vesna Buterin – za, Karmela Caparin – za, Gari Capelli – Za, Brankica Crljević, Miržan – Sužan, Nada Čavlović – Ivan Čehok, Zdenka Čuhnilić – Zdnič, Zdenka Čulj, Zak – Zak – Zakljuk – Zvić – Zak, Khuljk, Kreljk, Koš, Kreljk, Kreljk, Kreljk, Kreljk, Kreljk, Krek, Krežić, Krežić, Krežić, Grežić, Žržić, Žržić, Žržić, Žrživić, Žrživić, Žržić, Žržić, Žrž, Žržić, Žrž, Žržalić, Žržvić, Žrž. I will now read these who were not: Luka Bebić, Miljenko Doric, Ivan Drmić, Iron Srecko Flego, Ratko Gajica, Branimir Glavas, Branko Grčić, Goran Heffer, Mirela Holy, Mile Horvat, Ljubo Jurčić, Ante Kotromanović, Goran Marić, Boris Miletic, Marijana Petir, Zdravko Ronko, Vladimir Seks, Tatjana Šimac-Bonačić, Marko Turić. That's it. Now let me add it up.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-11-02-0.u42105	I declare that by majority votes, 80 votes, 45 abstentions and 8 against the decision to give consent to the Government of the Republic of Croatia for the signing of an arbitration agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and a declaration of non-judgment. Ladies and gentlemen, colleagues and colleagues, here after eight hours of work by the Prime Minister, the ministers, I hereby conclude the session. It'll be that week behind, but if anything changes, you'll be notified of it. Thank you very much. Good night.
