ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-28-0.u41163	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs to all good morning and proceed with the session, with the agenda item announced earlier. First - Final proposal for a law confirming the guarantee agreement between the Republic of Croatia and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development for the "Credit Programme for Export Finance", emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 454 The Proposer of the Law is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, and you received the proposal by mail. On the occasion of the establishment of the agenda, we accepted the proposal from the Proposer to discuss this legislative proposal in an urgent procedure. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the The Rules of Procedure unites the first and second readings of the law, amendments can be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Finance and the State Budget. You received the reports at the session. Does the proposaler's representative want to further explain? Yeah. Ivana Maletic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-28-0.u41164	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. The Republic of Croatia has been a member of the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development since 1993, and since then these important funds of this very key international financial institution have been opened to it. The International Bank for Reconstruction and Development funds finance various areas of extreme importance for the development of one country from infrastructure, agriculture, health care to banking, pension and judicial systems. We now have before us the Law confirming the Treaty on Guarantee between the Republic of Croatia and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development for the Credit Programme for Export Finance. So another important programme that fits into the overall way of action and work of the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development is the lender, therefore the International Bank, is the borrower of the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development. What is really important is that the amount of the loan is 100 million euros, that the deadline is 28.5 years, and the interest rate is what is important in such programmes is an extremely favourable way of financing, a way of financing which is otherwise part of negotiations and agreements and at European Commission level when it comes to global and international financial institutions. So, the interest rate is the 6-month Euro library, increased for the fixed interest rate margin, which translates into if the loan today was signed is 1.49%, increased by 1.20% and 2.69%, respectively. The programme is intended to finance exports and will, in fact, encourage Croatia's Bank for Reconstruction and Development through the loan of funds to small and medium-sized enterprises and primarily to exporters, in this programme to further develop the economy, especially in the export section. Here, thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-28-0.u41165	Thank you. Do the Committee's rapporteurs want to take the floor? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the SDP Club Mr. Representative Davor Bernardić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-28-0.u41166	Dear President of the Parliament, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. In front of us is the Treaty confirming the guarantee between the Republic of Croatia and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development for the opening of the credit line as it says at HABOR for export lending. As domestic exports stand, the data from this year is best reported. In the first 7 months of 2008, so last year the export rate decreased from this year by 25.6%, so our exports fell by a quarter. The goods exports in the first 7 months amounted to 4 billion euros and is one of the essential items for the Croatian economy as a whole but with a quarter drop it is difficult to expect that level and state finances that were at the level last year. The reasons for such a fall lie in a few facts, but what the exporters pointed out as the biggest problems in terms that the state should solve according to the exporting producer's position is, first of all, insisting on the implementation of financial discipline in all segments of business, one survey questionnaire was sent to the exporters and this is the first thing that is lacking in Croatia at the moment. I will remind you that the outstanding obligations between legal persons in Croatia are more than 18 billion kuna, as well as that the outstanding liabilities among craftsmen are more than 4.5 billion kuna. THAT the unsettled liabilities to the state are greater than 9 billion kuna. In the battery, this means that 33 billion kuna in this country is frozen, or over 10% of gross social product. When 10% of GDP is blocked, this country cannot develop. Translated to public finances and to the state budget, 33 billion blocked funds totalled up to a quarter of the total available money from the state, even a quarter of the state budget, with such a blockade with such frozen funds, it is impossible to achieve a positive economic balance and positive economic growth. The main problems that caused Croatia's credit rating fell, and we heard these days and from individuals from the government mention that this measure is an anti-recession measure. When exports fall by a quarter, this measure can be nothing more than a fire measure. Our reputation, last year's rating fell again and Croatia today is increasingly expensive and Croatia is now in debt with a credit default swap of about 500 points. Croatian entrepreneurs cannot get cheap interest, and the reason is that the global financial market of capital does not believe that Croatia is to bring into order state finances. And here you have the information that in 2008, just when exporters are concerned, just when it comes to the Croatian economy, bank lending is focused on the state compared to 2009 has increased from 8 to over 50%. Which is the fact that virtually all capital from the capital market is being sucked up by the state, and entrepreneurs have to borrow dearly to service their current liabilities at least, and at this difficult moment, especially when payment deadlines are between 6 months and a year, when the number of insolvency firms has increased in the last year by over 50%, this is not a normal situation. They are forced to raise short-term liquidity loans so that they can pay their salaries. The reason is that 50,000 people lost their jobs last year, and in the following year, another 50,000 people will be out of a job and someone should tell people. It's just like that. The number of insolvent companies, meaning not those indivisible, you have according to Croatian economic developments compared to last year, increased between, meaning craftsmen or legal persons, between 40% and 60%. Well, it's an alarm, it's just such a result that's defeated, and because of the riots in state finances, our credit rating is at the level that all state-owned companies, the state itself, by placing their bonds, must be in debt at a far higher interest rate. Our credit default swap means the index of a certain credit return as a guarantee is 531 points. That is, in developed European countries like the Czech Republic, that index is somewhere at 120 points. Ours is about five times bigger. This is a major problem for Croatian public finances. This loan, which is approved, of 100 million euros, we hope that, let's say, it will bridge some things in the following year, but the fact is that it certainly cannot solve the approximately problems of Croatian exporters who fell 25% last year, and the state in the same year has drained over 50% of domestic money masses for borrowing these exporters. And I will say one more thing in the end, comparing our public debt which is sustainable, which is within the mastrician criteria and there is no dispute about it, the most vulnerable component of Croatia is the external debt measured by the amount of exports we can repay, and in that part we are among all the countries in the region and from the whole of Central Southeast Europe the worst. And that's what's worrying. Without increasing domestic production, without creating a new value, we won't be able to do it much longer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-28-0.u41167	Thank you. On behalf of the HNS club, Mr. Representative Zlatko Koračević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-28-0.u41168	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Madam Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues, I must first say that we at the Croatian People's Party club support this bill. A law confirming a guarantee agreement between the Republic of Croatia and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development. We support it for reasons because it is primarily intended for the most vulnerable part of our economy, and we have heard from my predecessor that without creating a new value, it is a common thing, that without creating a new value there is no way out of the crisis, there is no way of thinking any concrete future and it is certain that this support of 100 million euros through the credit programme of export financing, and through the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development is one, but I repeat and stress, one of the straws of salvation primarily for the export economy. Yes, the export economy is a completely neglected area, it's common knowledge, we all know that, we repeat practically from day to day nothing happens. That his influence, a strong influence that he has on the gross social product, on the overall competitiveness of this country, is completely neglected. It is known that exports can provide us with so much desired growth and progress, it is clear. And one thing that's very important that I want to especially emphasize and especially right now at this time. The time when they gave controlled or uncontrollable, but in any case there was a lift of the lid and by lifting the lid springs from day to day many affairs, that exporters were those who besides the rest when they went to the foreign market they should know how to work, but they should be able to do ethical business. And all those who know how to do ethical business out there certainly know how to do ethically and at home, and precisely those who know how to work and who can do ethically are the most damaged, bear the greatest burden, and the fact is also known that daily not 150 was not as much as a projection, 150 people to be out of work, now it's already gone to 160 with a further trend of growth, talking about the need to approach this problem systematically. It speaks of the need to approach this problem responsibly, by addressing all the negatives that interfere with normal growth and development, which interfere with one normal business. The Croatian Employers' and Exporters' Association recently warned of a high capital price. Why and why it's common knowledge, we know. But I also have to say that at this point our exporters pay twice the capital price than their competition pays, and they fight in the same markets and under the same conditions, I'm talking about the export market. The fact that one big cause, one strong cause of the overall state is indifference within the state. A colleague Bernardić mentioned how much these amounts are in absolute values, but it is also a fact that we in the HNS Club have referred to a procedure of a law called the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Public Procurement Act. The law which imposes on the public sector, since the public sector is the biggest cause of non-payment, primarily through its public enterprises of the county of some municipalities and cities, we have sent a law that requires a public partner when he concludes the contract to provide the contractor with any services, whether the works provide the payment instrument, gives him the opportunity to do his job, his service and charge. We sent this proposal to this House four months ago. Any amendment to the agenda shall take place on the basis of a legislative proposal and shall remain at the beginning. And what's worst is that the government has decided negatively on this proposal. It says in other words that the government is not ready and does not want to put order into payment. She just doesn't want to, because if she wanted to, then she'd accept that proposal. And the proposal is very simple. When you conclude a contract, fulfill a minimum obligation that you are unable to meet, and practice says that we are unable to do so, implement minimum obligations, which is to ensure that your partner is able to collect what he has invested, what brings him to the situation that his employees are among those 160 days who are out of work. The relief of the real economy is being talked about all the time. One of the very successful anti-recession measures that definitely relieves the price of labor is a harrassor. The total amount to be collected by the harras was at HEP's loss when he bought electricity at one price, sold to another country at another price and lost more than a billion kuna. It's out-of- budget. That's what we've been talking about for a while now. The economy warns of extra-accountary intrusions. The economy warns that this amount is somewhere around $12 billion a year. Something the economy must pay is not in the budget, but many provide a very comfortable future, and what the use of these funds is, I don't think I should stress specifically. And the fact is, for example, in the Croatian Chamber of Commerce, 600 employees have 300 million annual guaranteed revenues paid by the Croatian economy. Credit potential. A colleague Bernardic said the state is in charge of the domestic market, reducing the potential for the economy. However, it should be said that the state, with these funds, is financing projects that may not be the most needed at this time for all of us. And I'm going to take an example of a sports hall for the World Handball Championship. On the one hand, the possibility of our economy being in charge of a limited financial market, and on the other hand, the maintenance of these facilities again to whom we impose, who has to maintain it. Again, the economy, the one that creates a new value. The wood industry. The wood industry is often spoken of and the fact is that wood industry employs a total of 24,000 employees. The fact is that as a consequence of the global financial crisis and our structural problems in a year in that industry, 7,000 people were out of work. An industry based on its development on our natural wealth. An industry that seven times increases the value of basic raw materials, which I repeat again, our natural wealth. What have we made possible this industry, the industry that has a $100 million net foreign exchange income? Bigger exports than imports. What have we given them? We made it possible for 7,000 people to be out of work. And another set of pearls, when we talk about exports. In fact, the Government of the Republic of Croatia adopted a document called the Croatian Export Offensive in 2007, almost 3 years ago. Very pompously, in Sanader's style announced, a project that was supposed to double export income, and that export income at that time was about 54.4 billion, was to be doubled. We heard earlier, not to repeat these figures, from fellow Bernardic as much as today, and the fact that last year, for seven months, exports fell by one quarter. The export offensive was supposed to increase the number of exporters from 11000 to 13000, to nearly 14 thousand. It was meant to change the structure of exports, it was meant to increase the competitiveness of the host of repromation and a whole series of measures. It was delivered in 2007. ... until 2010. What are the effects of this Croatian export initiative? Are they quantifiable? Except for those data that are absolutely sure to be defeated for all of us, and I repeat those 160 employees who lose their jobs on a daily basis feel that unfortunately in a very bad story. And I think it would be correct to hear from the Government of the Republic of Croatia what effects do we have with this export initiative? Where did we go wrong? What did we do wrong? Are we even ready for one such conversation? Are we even ready to discuss an industrial policy that this country doesn't have? The fact is, there's a re-industrialization, the fact is that we're getting closer and closer to the invoice. And that's our reality when we talk about exports. And this item of the agenda and any item of the agenda that has any connection in the slightest treble with the economy should be mentioned, because that is what our future depends on. Finally, we at the Croatian People's Party club will support and support both this proposal and all other proposals that enable the economy, and above all the export economy, the possibility of life at all, without talking about development. The fact that in this dreary economic reality, it's an export economy that can turn on the light at the end of the tunnel, but really light, not the light of the train that's going towards us. The fact is that all our overall problems stem from our structural economic problems. The fact is, there is a dramatic restructuring ahead of the companies. I just want to believe that this is also our common position that by exporting the economy and our entire industry, the Croatian People's Party is proposing an intervention fund in the next 2 billion kuna budget that will directly help the medium economy, companies 100, 200 employees who have a real chance, who can be development generators in their midst. I hope the government will accept this proposal, the Employers' Association also proposes it. All those who know and are directly related to these matters have been talking about it for a year, but unfortunately we must also be aware in advance that we warned them a year ago, that in those years other than the three budget rebalances that increased state spending. We don't have any more quality anti-recession measures, and the fact is that this government is capable of saying it's very convenient, able to see it rain until the boats sail in the streets instead of cars. If we can expect this government to be trusted in particular, it's hard to believe. There is a cure for it, we expect it and we are ready for it but in any case until that time we at the Croatian People's Party club support this bill and in this way help at least in one small segment and enable exporters to do their job, to develop for their own good and for our common common common good. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-28-0.u41169	Thank you. On behalf of the HDZ Club, Mr. Representative Goran Maric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-28-0.u41170	Thank you very much. Mr. President, honorary secretary of state, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. By listening to my predecessors from HNS and SDP, I had to go check out the point of the agenda because I was not quite sure that this bill was but at the end of the conclusion I realized that because many of the findings made in terms of the general economic situation but here I am pleased to talk only about part of the proposal for this law to confirm a guarantee between the Republic of Croatia and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development for Credit and Export Financing Programme, because indeed in such a difficult economic crisis, the general global recession of this bill cannot experience anything except praise, with joy to welcome it and is really welcome in Croatia and the economy of Croatia. The International Bank for Reconstruction and Development hereby confirms that the Republic of Croatia is a long-term stable and secure partner, or even that the Republic of Croatia has one special status with the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, because it has been a permanent member of the Republic of Croatia since the arrival of the International Bank of Croatia on a continuously favourable credit rating, different donations, technical assistance, advisory services and everything else in any way aided, in various ways helping the economy of the Republic of Croatia and, in particular, small and medium-sized entrepreneurship. Under these economically difficult conditions, under the conditions of the global general crisis, it is rarely difficult for an economic factor, but rarely for which it is as difficult as it is for exporters. Most of the crisis has affected exports, including in Croatia. The truth is that in Croatia, the first eight months of exports were achieved with 78.2% compared to the same period last year. So it fell cumulatively during the first eight months of 21.8%. True, there are a lot of reasons for that, but the biggest reason is the global financial crisis that has hit the entire economy of the world. But exports in the total economy make up one of the most important parts of the economy. Export policy is an integral part of the overall economic policy which is one of the most important places. Exports are in these conditions, in the difficult conditions of management and the most profitable and when we speak, and most of us have listened now and about the indifference and inability to collect, then we can conclude that exports are the safest collection of our claims. It is true that in Croatia, exporters are in a particularly ungrateful position especially because of the lack of understanding of business banks in Croatia for their needs. Export programmes are very rarely financed by favourable credit ratings. There are even banks that don't finance at all. I know the case of an exporter who manufactures for the first installation of a world-renowned producer and exports worth 20m euros a year and collects all 20m euros a year. He received an increase in orders for next year but his business bank says he does not lend that type of production. This is just one example and therefore this credit arrangement and this proposal for a guarantee confirmation law between the Republic of Croatia and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development for a credit programme for export financing will be the most helpful one. Not to mention the extraordinary conditions of lending to this program. This is something that only the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development can do today, and that simply goes beyond the usual credit arrangements. Twenty-eight-and-a-half years of payment with seven years' worth, with an interest rate of six months'... Plus the credit margin is something that can really help the Croatian economy in these difficult times, help Croatian exporters and are these funds planned for both development and capital of small and medium enterprises and for crafts and for new production. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I believe and hope that everyone will be focused on the right goal and will receive the expected effects, stressing particularly in unremembered difficult conditions of management of the exporters. Therefore, there is no doubt, the HDZ Club supports the adoption of this bill and will vote to confirm the Guarantee Act between the Republic of Croatia and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development for a 100m-euro contract between the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development and the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-28-0.u41171	Thank you. On behalf of the IDS Club, Mr. Representative Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-28-0.u41172	Your Honor, Mr. President. Madam Secretary of State, Your Honor, gentlemen of the Parliament. On page 3 of this Proposal for a Law confirming the Treaty on Guarantee between the Republic of Croatia and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development is literally said that since Croatia became a member of the World Bank, I quote: "25 February '93. The bank is actively providing financial and technical assistance, advice, analytical services to Croatia." The IBRD has approved Croatia, so far, 44 loans of which are 30 direct and 14 loans with a state guarantee of 1 billion 840m euros plus 51 gifts worth 72m euros. The Government of the Republic of Croatia set the Strategy at its session on 31 July 2008, then adopted by the World Bank Executive Directors' Committee in Washington at its session held on 30 September 2008, and this strategy envisions a four-year loan programme for the Republic of Croatia amounting to USD 1 to USD 1.4 billion as a basic scenario. The aim that this law aims to achieve, means the law confirms the loan guarantee contract agreed by the loan agreement between the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development of the IBRD, the credit programme for export financing and, as many have said, the total amount of loans for the implementation of the project is 100m euros. Under the terms offered by the IBRD, the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development of Loans will be granted 28.5 years, including a 7-year start. The last date of the loan is 31 August 2013. If something is needed at this point in Croatia, then it is certain that it is necessary to monitor this export economy. Croatian exports, in the right sense, experience or experience one shipwreck. For 2009, it certainly won't exceed $11 billion, and imports will reach us somewhere at $22 billion. Exports by counties decrease by 25%, the Croatian average, up to some 45%, which is simply dramatic in this scale of crisis. Understandably, any help that these exporters may have come in handy as well. Exporters are generally the sector of the processing industry, so this loan is directly aided by the Croatian industry. In a country where a job loses about 160 workers a day help our industry is necessary. Unfortunately, Croatia has not reached industrial production since 1990 in 2009 either. First we had a war and then there was a conversion, then a policy of overrated kuna. I think that's exactly what I'm saying. That's three reasons why they destroyed export-oriented companies. Of course, I don't think 2009 should change the exchange rate of kuna, but a solid kuna from 2000 to 2007 de facto destroyed the export economy. And I think it was a catastrophic mistake for both the CNB and the Croatian authorities because in that period, the personal consumption based on imports must have tripled, and also in that period from 2000 to today, the external debt of the Republic of Croatia has tripled, and by the end of next year it will double. And now clearly such a policy has contributed to the fact that nothing is worth doing in this country, or dealing with agriculture, or exporting, or thinking about industry, in one word, we have subordinated all the economy to imports, state consumption and, above all, smuggling. And now we pay the price of such a policy. We're out of industry, we're out of exporters, we're out of what's just as painful and no devising. Clearly, the problem is how to repay these 42.5 billion euros in external debt by the end of the year, but an even bigger problem at the moment is finding foreign debt supplies to service the external debt. Since exporting, we have achieved, let's say, in the most optimistic variants, in 2009. 11 billion dollars, out of a new debt at an annual level of 5.6 billion euros, so that's $7.8 billion, out of the foreign exchange accounts of about 1 billion euros, from the sale of capital assets, but in this year there will be nothing, $1 billion and from tourism of about 7 billion, all of which could be about $30 billion, and we need $22 billion for imports to be financed, and next year, around 10 billion of foreign debt is due and it is understandable that we lack considerable funds to depreciate it. So we have to increase that export. In this one county alone, industry is the first economic branch down in Istria, and I think we should think of it the same way, as at this point we should imagine over the fate of shipbuilding because at this point in export it participates with 15%. Right, this shipbuilding today in Croatia has huge problems. The first is the intention of privatizing an industry that no one in the world is serious about, because they themselves have huge problems and the one that I think will solve our shipbuilding problem because they can't even do their own. The second problem with this shipbuilding is 17 million kuna commitments, which amounted to about 10 billion. The third is that without 2 billion kuna guarantees they will not survive. And the fourth, probably the largest, that by 2012, one ship can hardly be ordered in our shipyards. And I think that's one problem we should finally open up and talk about. It is clear that Croatian trade unions and must try to fight for shipbuilders' rights. In other parts of Europe, however, there is nothing better than a French situation, nothing better in Germany where this "Thyssen Krupp" sells to the shipbuilding group Abu Dhabi its shipyard, "Fincantieri" in Italy intends to fire 1200 of its shipbuilders by the end of the year. Norway's shipyards are in front of bankruptcy if new orders don't take place. Finland's Vortsila came out this summer with data that there is an opportunity to cancel orders for its 650m-euro products. It is interesting that Thyssen Krupp is considering closing its shipyards in Greece, etc. etc. In one word, Europe leaves commercial shipbuilding, but not the one for military purposes. There we have to step in and try to save what is to be saved, and the value of these ships is never less on the world market, first of all because South Korea is financing its shipyards with $20 billion, and China is financing its own with about $30 billion. Now that's what's also important to mention, so when it comes to not shipbuilding, it's about exporting because shipbuilding in Croatian exports participates at this point with about 15%. So what we have today in "May 3rd" and if we think of a ship-building project in Croatian shipyards but from the Croatian fleet, I'm afraid that in 2012, the problem that has today "May 3rd" will hit all other Croatian shipyards. God forbid I'm wrong, maybe even The Oilman. All in all this law that is before us today is something better that can happen to us or what happened to Croatia or what will happen to the Croatian economy. I think that money, that 100m euros, may eventually be a billion and 400m euros, I don't know why these funds are intended, but ultimately the World Bank provides for Croatia a billion 400m euros. So I want to believe that money will get real exporters. It's no longer a question of whether small, whether medium. They have to get everyone, even big as soon as possible. Why? Because in 2010, I'm afraid of the hardest years for the real sector since '95. A year. 2010 for the real sector in Croatia will be what was for the monetary sector in Croatia in 2009. If the real sector survives in 2010, then it will live under quotes forever, and if it kneels then I fear that there will be no more resurrection of these companies. And that is why it is important to preserve shipbuilding, which is why it is important to stimulate exports by interest policy, which is why it is necessary for exporters in 2010 to extend the repayment of capitals as the Italians do, and Croatian banks are de facto Italian banks, so I don't see why there should be different criteria here than what are normally used in Turin or Milan. Lastly, let the Croatian National Bank publish "off Shore" companies with which Croatian importers work, including exporters. First of all, I mean shipbuilders. I claim they're being washed at an annual level of hundreds of millions of dollars, so a year. I am sure that through every other such company, part of the money remains in private accounts and that, unfortunately, no one in this country has opened or been dealing with this problem so far. We just need to get serious. Let's look at this "spice Podravka" spice as money was laundered there not only through these off-shore companies, but also through this famous "FIMA" which also came to the "Mirna" of Rouvinia and in which they had fingers and some who were mentioned about "Podravka". For the end, it would be good to see by the county who exports as much, it would be good to see where what is exported and exported, it would be good to see what will replace the export of Croatian shipbuilding if God does not give it a fall. It would also be interesting to see why foreign-owned banks do not finance exporters, and the safest payment as Maric said was provided by exporters. There's no such thing as waiting to be charged for a year or two. It would be interesting to see when it comes to exporting what the Croatian Chamber of Commerce is doing with 600 employees and 300 million kunas of annual income, which is more income than the budget of the Istrian or Primorje-Gorski County, which is done by the Government, the County, the cities, and in 2009, there are 80,000 people without a job. And finally, it would be good to see why, in the last five, six years or seven years, we have still driven any potential investment that could have happened to the Republic of Croatia from the LNG terminal to the "Adrie Company", which could have provided 4.5 billion euros and opened 50,000 jobs, and this year Croatia will lose 80,000 jobs. So, the situation is painful when it comes to the Croatian economy. We see that there is no formula for getting out of this crisis and we will see if anything changes in 2010 for the better. I am afraid that so many of these contracts on guarantee to the Croatian economy will not need to be easily supported by both arms.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-28-0.u41173	Thank you. We're moving on to an individual debate. The first is Mr. Representative Davor Huška. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-28-0.u41174	I would like to thank Mr. Vice President, dear Madam Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. There is an extremely positive and good proposal for us as representatives in the Croatian Parliament, especially for our businessmen whose funds will be channelled through the credit programme of export financing. Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Guarantee Treaty between the Republic of Croatia and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development through a credit programme for export financing, I believe that it will support all MPs and MPs in the Croatian Parliament. But here's a few generals of this kind of information in my debate. It is also good to know that the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development aims to reduce poverty in underdeveloped countries and promote sustainable economic development. We also know that the Republic of Croatia has been a full member of the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development since 1993, since it has been using different forms of assistance and loans through this loving international financial institution. For the Republic of Croatia, this is the most important in terms of an international financial institution that continuously and versatilely supports economic social development and reforms on the way to the market economy. Since wartime, the time of the Homeland War, when other sources of funding have been closed to our country, so to date this is an extremely important source of assistance and funding. The financial support and the overall role of the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development is adapted to Croatia's needs from the time of reconstruction, construction and reconstruction of infrastructure, structural adjustments, so here we are today and the development of the Republic of Croatia. The financial resources of the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development give the Republic of Croatia in the form of investment and structural loans under the most favourable financial conditions that the International Bank achieves on the international financial market. Our country also uses numerous gifts, technical assistance, advisory services of the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development through which it is supported with economic progress and implementation of structural reforms in different areas of infrastructure, agriculture, health, to the banking, pension and judicial system. And this agreement today, i.e. the proposal, results in good cooperation between the Republic of Croatia and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, and the objective that this law aims to achieve is to confirm the loan guarantee contract negotiated by the loan agreement between the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction, Development and Development and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development through a credit programme for export financing. On the very terms of the loan, I don't think a lot of words should be spent because they're extraordinary. It is a long-term loan, 28 and a half years, including a 7-year start, and I must admit that I have not long seen such credit conditions for the Republic of Croatia, for the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development. And I believe that our entrepreneurs, exporters of great interest, will rush to the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development and run for this extremely favourable credit means to further encourage exports. I believe that both the Ministry of Finance and the Government of the Republic of Croatia will continue to provide and try to provide such favourable credits, not only for export operations, but for all production programmes, from food production, wood industry, textile industry, and other production branches in the Republic of Croatia. Of course, agriculture, and tourism. It's a good thing these funds are being placed over... Croatian banks, i.e.... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Croatian HBOR banks, and I hope that more and more credit funds will go through both HBOR and the Croatian Post Bank in order to place these latest financial fortifications of the Republic of Croatia in an even more favourable and better position. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Of course, I fully accept this Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Guarantee Treaty between the Republic of Croatia and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, for a credit programme for export financing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-28-0.u41175	Thank you. Mr. Representative Dragan Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-28-0.u41176	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I believe that today in Croatia we all agree that exports are one of the key factors in the recovery and growth of the Croatian economy and that we will therefore all support this Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Guarantee Treaty between the Republic of Croatia and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, for the credit programme of export financing. For this reason, and also for the reason that it is extremely high-quality conditions under which this loan is taken and which clearly will also be distributed to our producers under favourable conditions. But remember, we had a presentation a few months ago of the World Bank's convergence report with the European Union, where we talked about achieving and maintaining higher rates of economic growth and preparing Croatia for recovery. Namely, from somewhere in 2002 to 2008, it was noted that it had a 17% export growth rate, but also that the rate was continuously lower than the export growth rate in the countries of Central and Eastern Europe. Also important when we talk about exports is the fact, here we had a joint seminar yesterday with representatives of the European Parliament and representatives of the CEFTA countries, so from Serbia, Montenegro, Albania, Kosovo, Macedonia, Bosnia and Herzegovina, where there was also a debate on mutual trade exchange and where Croatia in this round of countries, which is also not negligible given their importance as external trade partners. So Croatia is the leader in this environment, so we have the most significant and export values for these countries, but also this whole crisis situation, etc. imposes and should be an additional incentive for the implementation of structural reforms. Here, when taken in 2009, when it comes to CEFTA countries, we are talking about a 33% reduction in foreign trade at CEFTA countries level. So the whole exchange has been reduced by one third, which is clearly a direct consequence and the result of this crisis and in some ways should be an additional incentive for structural reforms to be carried out with us and to adapt to this emerging situation. Namely, when we started with the Croatian Export Defensive, then the coverage of exports was about 50%. Unfortunately, this situation has not changed significantly, but what encourages is the structure of these exports where still the dominant role of the products of the processing industry, which means those products that have added value. What's the situation this year? So by calculating the data from August we have the value of exporting goods also lower by 1/3, so 32.8%, while imports are down 33.1%. The same coverage of exports means it increased to 48.9 by 45.5%. However, this increase in the coverage of exports does not say anything qualitative, does not say which reasons. Unfortunately, we have information that 37.8% is reduced imports of capital products, so those products that eventually end up in new production, and that is the data that should be worrying us. That is why I consider it important to adopt this Act, it is important to promote all measures to promote exports, these 11 million euros are important funds and I think it is important that they go through the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development and that it is a guarantee that they will end up in the right hands, namely that there will be real priorities, real exporters and real export programmes supported by these funds. It should be recalled that the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development in the 1990s became also Export Bank and provided care for exporters with one systematic activity, as well as that the large role of the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development played precisely at this time of crisis, where it supported with significant resources the re-programme of the debt so-called short-term obligations of our entrepreneurs, our businesses, which certainly improved their current liquidity. If observed over the last two, three years, then about 6 billion kunas were allocated via HBOR to our exporters, and only this year is 445 loans granted to exporters worth 3.36 billion kuna. Compared to the same period of the same year, there is an increase of 23%. It is also important to note that companies that used HBOR's funds in 2008 increased their export revenues by 15% compared to 2007, therefore, these funds are clearly rationally, quality-based and deliver their concrete results. As regards the activities financed, the most representative are food and drink production, production of machinery and devices, production of chemicals and chemical compounds, etc., that is to say, the processing industry which, given the sharp competition on foreign markets, has a high added value, and that is our goal. Our goal, therefore, is to support in the future some form of competitiveness precisely the production of highly finalised products in which knowledge is built in which there is a great additional value which will certainly become a competitive advantage in the future, as already shown in our external trade balance above all from exports. And here I finally support this bill and I believe this will be a strong contribution to our exporters. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-28-0.u41177	Thank you. Ms. Representative Vesna Buterin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-28-0.u41178	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, Madam Secretary of State, colleagues and fellow MPs. The International Bank for Reconstruction and Development is the most important international financial institution for the Republic of Croatia. It continuously supports economic social development, reforms, and the co-operation of the Republic of Croatia with this bank has much more than financial and broader meaning for maintaining, above all, macroeconomic stability, then achieving sustainable economic growth, and meeting the conditions for approaching the European Union. The International Bank for Reconstruction and Development is the most significant source of foreign financial support that contributes to the overall development of the Republic of Croatia. Croatia has been a full member of the bank since 93th since it was granted a total of 44 loans of a billion 84m euros and 51 gifts worth 72m US dollars. The Republic of Croatia, the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development and the World Bank in Croatia signed a 100m-euro loan agreement for a credit programme for export financing on 2 September this year. The funds intended for this credit programme will primarily help the Government of the Republic of Croatia's efforts to expand and maintain loans to strategically significant branches of the private sector. The loan will also help the government to strengthen the competitiveness of the economy, increase exports or preserve all jobs in times of global economic crisis. The funds are intended for exporters and other companies that have foreign incomes such as tourism businesses through medium- and long-term credit for trade capital. HBOR will place these resources through business banks to private companies, or exporters. This loan is, in fact, the result of efforts to enable Croatian entrepreneurs to access as favourable funding as possible and to facilitate their business under the conditions of the global, financial and economic crisis. The global economic crisis has been particularly felt by economic operators, and financial assistance to this economic segment is very important. The HBOR plays a very important role in the Croatian economy through its credit lines and insurance programmes and participates in all segments from production preparation to export job collection. Under difficult funding conditions, with a lack of quality funding, the economy was increasingly addressing HBOR, and an increased interest in credit funds was already felt in the second half of last year. HBOR has introduced 3 new credit programmes during this year. This is the lending of production, permanent crafts and the liquidity-enhancing credit programme, all in order to increase the availability of credit assets for exporters and entrepreneurs during the period of the economic and financial crisis at a more favourable rate and thus directly affect their competitiveness and liquidity. In 8 months, this is very important to state, in 2009, so this year, 445 loans amounting to 3.4 billion kuna were granted, which is about 23% higher than in the same period last year. The most active programme is the preparation of exports by which more than 3 billion kuna is granted, and the most relevant activities under this programme are the production of food and drink, wood processing, production of machinery, etc. As regards the insurance of exports carried out by HBOR on behalf of and for the account of the Republic of Croatia in the first 8 months of this year, about a billion and 400 million kunas of export transactions were secured and around a thousand insurance policies were issued. On the basis of the above, it is actually evident how much this loan means to exporters in the Republic of Croatia and how much it will help them to continue their business abroad, and which ultimately contributes to increasing the share of goods and services in the total exchange of the Republic of Croatia with abroad. In accordance with the above, I fully support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-28-0.u41179	Thank you. Just at 10:38, it's been 10 minutes. We still have one individual discussion. Mr. Attorney Gordan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-28-0.u41180	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Madam Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. When we talk about this topic, or when we talk about the funds that will be invested in export and which will be put to the Croatian economy to promote what is certainly of crucial importance especially in this recession year, we normally cannot be against it, but we clearly have to say a few things that we think when we are discussing these topics we need to point out. The first thing is that we believe that the situation in Croatia, as far as exports and the economy are concerned, is not good. The data provided by the State Statistics Office every month tells us about the truly devastating situation of the drop in exports in the first 7 months decreased the rate of export growth by 25%, the goods exports amounted to 4.4 billion, while imports amounted to 9 billion euros. So we see that we have one extremely negative balance of payments, but that exports are constantly decreasing. A total of new orders have been received, meaning a decrease in orders from a foreign market by about 31% compared to August last year, which says the negative trend will continue. So we have problems in the Croatian economy and we have no more significant support from the state, so that the Croatian economy can make it through this difficult year. Not that we do not have support, but I believe that these 100m euros provided through HBOR will be just a drop in the sea of what Croatian companies need in this year. Unfortunately, the Croatian state, the Croatian government, instead of supporting it, has rerouted all loans from the banking sector, i.e. most loans from the banking sector towards itself. To meet its needs, to satisfy public spending that simply cannot be contained all these years. And then of course we must be happy to see that the additional 100m euros will be invested in Croatian production, Croatian exports, but of course we cannot be satisfied with this government policy which spends all the money available in Croatia in the banking sector or spends most of the money on its own needs. And that's why part of the capital in Croatia is too expensive and that's why we don't have enough money to focus from the state budget to the economy and production. Today in the world, the situation is somewhat different from last year, with resources available. I believe Minister Schuker will return with new money, new debts from his tour in America, I don't think that's the problem, but the question of risk and the question at which the money will be borrowed. We next year have to pay back about 12 billion euros in debt, which is interest, which provides money to cover the rebalanced, unbalanced budget. And Croatia will go from these 40, 41 billion foreign debt to 46, 47, 48, billion euros. Now, despite the trend in reducing interest rates in the world in Croatia, this will not happen because the risk level of investment in Croatia is high and therefore the capital in Croatia will continue to be too expensive for some competitive exports, for some competitive production. Of course, in the end, all taxpayers will pay because unfortunately from the standard of Croatian citizens, all that debt must be paid back. Without any general strategy, without any reform that the state must make once after these 5, 6 years of failure to make at all a Croatian economy, in order for the Croatian state to prepare for a more serious economic growth, we will do nothing. These 100m euros are just a drop in the sea that will not put out the fire that occurred in the Croatian economy caused by inaction, caused by any strategic measures that the Croatian government has missed and has not done in the past 5 years. And therefore, of course, although we will all support this loan, even though we will raise our hand for it, we cannot be satisfied with the situation because we think that next year will be even more difficult for Croatian companies to finance. Many companies will come to a blockade, will not be able to finance their commitments, and will not have adequate assistance from the Croatian government and the Croatian state. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-28-0.u41181	Thank you. We have a replica, Mr. Davor Bernardic's representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-28-0.u41182	Dear colleague Maras, I must only relate to one part that you have said, and it is bound that the situation will certainly be worse next year. So that it would not be worse, when the Croatian Exporters Association, means those most relevant, to suggest what should be done to encourage exports amongst the top 10 measures put in the first place the two that are already visible cannot be met. It is an insistence on carrying out financial discipline in all segments of business. That it's an internal debt, then. The failure to settle obligations between legal entities would not be at the level of 18 billion among companies, 5 billion among entrepreneurs and 9 billion outstanding liabilities to the state, which puts us in a position that 10% of the gross social product was blocked and I just said that earlier. And one of the most important things is that through the state budget, the financial liquidity of state companies and companies in which the state is a significant owner should be ensured. So that from us, that from the Parliament, that from the government, that's what the exporters are asking from the government. And we sent both us and the HNS club a proposal in which state obligations should be settled immediately and let no order be made on what cannot be paid. If that's what the exporters are looking for, and Parliament and the government don't accept it, then that's enough talking about the situation we'll be in next year. And what you've also noticed, this program is only enough for elemental refinancing. There is money in Europe, there is money in the United States, they will be on their way out of recession next year and early this year. We're not even close, unfortunately.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-28-0.u41183	Answer Mr. Representative Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-28-0.u41184	Thank you very much. In order for what you have said to come true, there must be a will, there must be a wish from the Croatian government to enter into a story of structural reforms. We know it's hard, but responsible people would expect them to take responsible steps. Unfortunately, this government is not responsible, it is only able to spend on the expense of Croatian taxpayers and do nothing to ensure the perspective of Croatian citizens and the Croatian economy.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-28-0.u41185	And on behalf of the Government, Madam Secretary of State Ivana Maletic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-28-0.u41186	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. I must conclude that this loan is evidence of a positive, not of a negative business and movement in the Republic of Croatia, as it has now been tried through different implications. So who would give 100m euros under favourable financial conditions for a very targeted programme, a state where there is no regulated system of public finances, which does not operate according to the modern concept of a regulated state treasury, whose business is based on a single account of the treasure and with modern budget processes, well-established and arranged? Also, who would give to a country where there is no very firm and clear and strategic management under these conditions of the financial crisis, the loan of this type under such conditions and still consider and definitely decide on the signing of a long-term strategy, at a level of $1 billion and $400 million to support and finance other different projects that are important for certain segments of our society. Therefore, this loan and all that it intends to continue to sign with international financial institutions and European financial institutions and the European Union is proof of a positive and quality governance in the Republic of Croatia. It also mentions negative indicators in the economy, hence economic, financial, economic indicators. This is otherwise something that is currently in these conditions of crisis common to all countries and the European Union and at the level of the world. This is why international and European financial institutions change their software content and focus part of the programme on the economy, so they have this export programme. In this Republic of Croatia, although the country's competition for these funds is extremely high. Therefore, all countries need this because they all record negative indicators, while the Republic of Croatia is wide-opening the door. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-28-0.u41187	Thank you. We have two corrections. Gordan Maras first.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-28-0.u41188	Thank you very much. I would correct the inaccuracies of the state secretary who said that due to the orderly situation in Croatia, the availability of funds from the World Bank and other institutions is in place. I think the administrative opposite, which is that we got too little money. So, the World Bank, the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development and the Investment Bank only gave 28 billion euros in aid to Eastern Europe in the first half of this year alone. 28 billion euros. So 100 million on one side won by Croatia and 28 billion by the entire region. Now, you tell me, is that equivalent and is that the World Bank's trust and message to Croatia or exactly the opposite? We got crumbs, we got a drop in the sea. We could have gotten more, but we're not because there's no trust from world institutions in our financial systems, or public finances, not the financial system. Excuse me.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-28-0.u41189	Correction Mr. Davor Bernardic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-28-0.u41190	Honorable President, Your Honor, Secretary of State. You falsely stated that Croatia has wide open doors. If that were the case, Croatia's credit rating wouldn't have fallen twice. When the doors are wide open then the credit rating of Croatia does not drop twice, and as far as the credit is concerned, and this is a loan, among the members, but I will also have to remind you that Germany's KFV, Germany's export promotion bank, means anyone can misjudge given to the new American bank two days before the breakdown. So anyone can make a mistake. But Croatia would not have dropped its credit rating twice if its door had been wide open.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-28-0.u41191	Thank you. On the basis of Article 156, the re-presentation of the Government of Ms Maletic as regards the provision of an explanation of paragraph 2.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-28-0.u41192	I have to warn here that various international financial institutions are being a little chased. When we talk about this loan, it is about the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development. The World Bank is an international financial institution and it has indeed given its $28 billion programme, out of which the Republic of Croatia $1.4 billion. So it's not about these 100 million kunas. Because these 100 million kunas are related to the financing of the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, not the World Bank.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-28-0.u41193	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. We'll decide when the conditions are met. We therefore move on, ladies and gentlemen, to the Final Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Guarantee Treaty between the Republic of Croatia and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development for the Credit Programme of Export Financing, the Emergency Procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 454, the proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. I am voting on the Final Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Guarantee Treaty between the Republic of Croatia and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development for the Credit Programme for Export Finance. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? The final bill was adopted by a majority of 77 votes in favour and 2 abstentions.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-28-0.u41196	Thank you. Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. The National Committee Report is before you, therefore, an instrument which controls the overall course of negotiations on the accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union. For the period from January 1st to June 30th this year, we have been kind of past the status status reported in this report, but I will warn of a few things that I consider important. Therefore, the period from the first six months of this year was marked by the Slovenian blockade or by the fact that in a formal sense it had not progressed in the negotiations, the chapters had not been opened or closed and all the designated or announced intergovernmental conferences at which certain chapters could possibly be opened or closed had been postponed and were not ultimately held. However, unlike some earlier periods, as regards our negotiating group and the ministries that have been tasked with meeting some preconditions for the possibility of progress at the time when negotiations are unblocked. There have been some progress so certain chapters are prepared to open up what we will talk about when there is a debate on the report for the second half of the year. So one part of the work that was possible was being done within both the negotiating groups of our own and the state administration was still going on. The cooperation of the National Committee with the negotiating group was good, quality as always and the negotiating group took part in our activities, reports the National Committee regularly on progress or in this particular case of non-progression in the formal negotiation and progress of the country towards the conclusion of the negotiations. In the first half of the year it was already and quite obvious that our date from the road plan that the original commission announced and Commissioner Rehn announced that we would end the negotiations by the end of this year has become completely unreal and unsustainable and that it will not actually be met. And it has already started to talk about new dates, as you know, and in the first half of the year it is also somehow indicated that this deadline is moving for some period next year 2010. Three sessions of the National Committee were held in the first half of the year, regardless of the formal progress. One of them also accepted a negotiating position for the judiciary and fundamental rights, so Chapter 23. As regards this chapter, and specifically related to the question of the rights of national minorities and the exercise of some of the rights which have been compromised by court procedures, the National Committee has written and concluded that it will write, write and send a letter to the State's attorney's office and have received an answer to that question, and has contributed somewhat to the problem being resolved in a different way now and to the respect of the full and recommendations and decisions of the Constitutional Court relating to this particular problem. This letter was also the condition of the National Committee to adopt a negotiating position for the judiciary and fundamental rights. Two working meetings were held on the initiative to meet with the Slovenian Parliament's Committee on European Affairs, something we thought could contribute to at least facilitating the resolution of the blockade and the problems caused by the blockade. Finally, we failed to reach agreement within the National Committee to hold this meeting because some members of the National Committee were against it, and as you know, the National Committee makes its decisions by consensus, so simply. Therefore, in the end, the meeting we were preparing for with the Slovenian parliamentary committee was not held. Two round tables were also held during that period. As you know, the National Committee organises because I am working in closed sittings round tables on topics related to negotiations and of particular interest to the Croatian public or parts of the Croatian public. The first round table was held on the topic "Social inclusion of persons with disabilities", and the second round table was held on the topic "Croatian agriculture on the way to the European Union". Both round tables were highly visited, representatives of interested associations, organisations, NGOs, associations of producers within agriculture were invited. So one and the other round table were extremely dynamic and interesting and the content can also be found on websites. In addition, I, as president of the National Committee and individual members of the National Committee, held a series of meetings and consultations with representatives of institutions and countries that are important to us as regards our progress, especially in this particular case, as regards the possibility of unblocking negotiations at the time. I'll point out a few there. So I also met with Enlargement Commissioner Mr Rehn and Swedish Foreign Minister Bildt and Swedish Minister for European Affairs Cecilia Malmströ at a time, say, weeks before Sweden was due to take over the Presidency of the European Union and with Agriculture Commissioner Mariann Fisher Boel. We also met with Astrid Thors, the Minister of Migration and European Affairs of Finland, representatives of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the United Kingdom, the rapporteur for Croatia in the European Parliament Mr Sbobod, so a series of representatives of the Irish Parliament, the Serbian Parliament, the Hungarian foreign minister, so a number of people who have helped with the deblockation, either for reasons of consultations within the region and for establishing contacts within the region for Croatia in this business relevant or interesting as representatives of countries that also have a European perspective in the region and can use Croatian experience, especially experience with the National Committee, which is a Croatian specific supplement, so to say, negotiations. The status mentioned here was of course on June 30th, the status changed in the meantime, but on June 30th, as regards opening and closing negotiations and chapters, it was the same as at the beginning of that six-month period. Then there were 7 closed, 15 open and 11 unopened chapters. I would like to warn you of a mistake that was undermined on the last page of this report under the heading "Finishment", in the second paragraph, the third paragraph writes these chapters for, 9 chapters for closing, actually 9 chapters for opening. As you know, in addition to those nine opening chapters, we had, and then, we have today two chapters in which we have not yet received a call from the commission to hand over the negotiating positions. It's the chapter "Justice and Fundamental Rights" and the chapter "The Market Competition". Meanwhile, of course, there have been a number of changes both in terms of Slovenian deblocking and conditions related to the Slovenian deblockation. There is, of course, no word in this report because it was not current in the first six months. We will discuss this at the end of this reporting period or this six-month period. However, it is certainly relevant that the institution that oversees the whole negotiation process on behalf of Parliament be fully informed of what is going on and has the opportunity to perform its function. During this period where nothing significant happened on this plan regarding formal opening and closing operations, our work focused on public information and communication with relevant representatives of institutions that could have had an impact on this. Here's so much for this period. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-28-0.u41197	Thank you. The rapporteur of the Committee on Development and Reconstruction? A colleague of yours? Thank you. I'm opening a debate. IDS representative club, Mr. Representative Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-28-0.u41198	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President. Honored gentlemen of the MPs. Here in this report on the work of the National Committee from 1 January to 30 June 2009, it is said that on 1 January 2009, there were temporary closures of 7 negotiating chapters, 2 negotiating chapters were without closure criteria, and that the negotiations were open in 15 additional negotiating divisions with certain closing criteria, from "Freedom of Movement of Goods, "Worker" etc., "Publisher" so that I do not read them all now, until the negotiations were opened in 11 negotiating chapters, etc. What it looked like was best seen on these pages behind. For example. Chapter 4.-The freedom of movement of capital, negotiations are not yet open, the opening of negotiations blocks Slovenia. Chapter 11. Agriculture and rural development, negotiations are not yet open, the opening of the chapter is blocked by Slovenia. Chapter 12. Food safety, veterinary and phytosanitary policy, negotiations are not yet open, the opening of the chapter is blocked by Slovenia. The chapter of Fisheries, the opening of the chapter, blocks Slovenia. Under regular number 13, Chapter 16. Taxes, negotiations are not yet open, the opening of the chapter is blocked by Slovenia. Trans-European networks also, Regional policy, coordination of structural instruments, opening of chapters blocks Slovenia. This Regulation shall enter into Justice, freedom and security, the opening of the chapter blocks Slovenia, then the Environment also blocks Slovenia, the Customs Union is blocking the closure of the chapter of Slovenia, the foreign and defence policy of opening the chapter blocks Slovenia, etc. So thanks to Slovenia, although we can say some other countries, thanks to the corruption in Croatia and a little flirting with the Philo-Government, Croatia could not see in this last period neither forward nor backwards when it comes to the European Union. And then we get to what? The 1.7th former prime minister is on his way to resign. A new prime minister is coming in a month, and in Slovenia one such harmony is being established that I am personally looking forward to it, but the price of this turn or harmony will be a significant loss of the territorial waters of the Republic of Croatia. God forbid I'm wrong? The Slovenian prime minister yesterday, the day before yesterday when he was here, offers a publication of the arbitration agreement, and we who have been so well through this arbitration agreement refuse the same and are asking the normal question why. It should not be supported, but let it be published, for it is all known anyway, and it is in some way present in public today, that the object of arbitration is no longer just the sea but also the land of which Racan did not agree. Let's go again to this second Rehn proposal guaranteeing Slovenia's "spread-sea stick" In one word, Mr. Vice President will come to ours, and we are unable to defend ours. [[Intruder Shakespeare: Let's go to the agenda!]]
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-28-0.u41199	Don't, wait, so let's go...
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-28-0.u41200	No, I'll take the agenda. I'm going right to the points of interest of the Croatian public.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-28-0.u41201	Well, she's interested, but...
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-28-0.u41202	And then I ask myself what we refused Ahtisaari at the time when Slovenia agreed to it. They were for, we were against, and it was 10 times more appropriate than this. But let's let Slovenia go for a moment now. What's also interesting is on page 5. This is a market competition, chapter 8. 4 criteria are set for the opening of the chapters. The Republic of Croatia and the European Commission, in the first half of 2008, quote: "formally submitted documentation to meet the criteria for opening the chapter after which consultations with the European Commission continued on meeting the criteria concerning shipbuilding restructuring. The consultations were successfully completed during the reporting period, etc. etc. However, the negotiations here are not yet open and I am not quoting everything else now. Now I don't know if we've recently fixed a first-round privatisation tender for shipbuilding. If we are, then it is for every conviction, because it cannot be deceived in this way by either Croatian or European, nor by what public, especially by investors. Although those who came to us are more in line, let me thus express myself to the world's hoh of sticks that lived on a corpse called Croatian shipbuilding. I said just before in that previous discussion when we talked about exporting or inciting exports that shipbuilding was a beating segment to just give up on it. It's also wrong for anyone who thinks the shipyards will save us foreigners, because if they could save theirs first, they wouldn't come to us, they wouldn't help us. They couldn't save us from seeing their shipyard, so they won't be able to save ours, and for ours they're interested in third-rate companies. I'm afraid this shipbuilding crisis, not that I'm afraid, but it's certain to continue until 12th, even in 2012 and at this time privatising it would be too brave and probably too risky. The truth of shipbuilding owes 17 billion kunas of commitments and about 10 billion kunas for the recovery of the same 1990s and after two thousand to date 30 billion kunas have been spent. Someone will say that with 30 billion kuna, one city of 100,000 inhabitants could be built, but let's not forget that the shipyards built one Pula, and one Rijeka, and one Split, etc. etc. And then the question arises now after the failed first round which will be with the second circle, shall we deceive So I am saying, there is no question about the market competition where the consultations with the European Commission continue with regard to meeting the criteria relating to the restructuring of shipbuilding. [[/Intruder Shakespeare: But the question is what will happen to the report on the work of the National Committee. That's the question.]] The consultations are still said to have been successfully completed during the reporting period. I talk about it all the time, and now let's see how in this reporting period and how the consultations continue to hang up on this second round. Whether we will continue to deceive the European Union, citizens of the Republic of Croatia, shipbuilders or finally someone will tell the truth that, what I know other than "Uljanika" nobody builds ships without a state guarantee, that once "3 May" needs to be guaranteed 211 million dollars, and that in the book of orders by 2012, there are ships for 350 million kuna, that the total book of orders of ships is 2.4 billion kuna, that there is no contract for any ship for 2012, that the earthquake of world shipping and without designing a ship-building programme in Croatian shipyards through the Croatian fleet, I do not think that three shipyards will end up in bankruptcy by twelve, but perhaps all five. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its The negotiations were opened at an intergovernmental conference on 19 December 2008. For the closure of the chapter, three criteria have been set, I quote: "In this chapter from 1 January 2009 to 30 June 2009, the National Committee did not discuss or receive documents concerning this chapter". But they say that one of the biggest problems is this very public procurement where in the Croatian highways, and the question of how will it end in the end. And what does that look like? The road costs 10m euros, and we make it at a price of 15m euros and then the difference is usually divided. It is interesting that the Croatian road is built with cash, and our companies in Montenegro enter into investments with or through concessions, here they raise loans. In Montenegro they build a road, run it for 30 years, it costs Montenegro nothing. But we see that in Croatia, for example, the Velika Gorica road to Sisak is built at the price of 180 million kuna, and it is probably the most expensive kilometer in Europe. This is why Croatia could not, among other things, enter the European Union. To end what here to say more? Clearly, the board was to be formed. He allows MPs to review things, but with the board, without committee, it is possible that MPs paint as these tunnels paint our down in Dalmatia. But sooner or later, there's less and less to know. It is clear that this report should be accepted. But what yesterday, the day before yesterday, everyone gnawed at least when it came to Istria. It is an announcement of the suspension of the international status of the pulse airport. And that is not less or less according to the Government of Croatia's action plan on integrated management of the borders of the Republic of Croatia, the strategic document of accession negotiations with the European Union via airports in Split, Dubrovnik and Zagreb. Direct air traffic with countries outside the Schengen area should take place so that a pulse airport could lose even a third of all guests arrived. I don't know what's true about that and this document, but let's not just let it happen, because the pulse port, the airport in the total number of Russian, Ukrainian guests arrive is making an enviable 49% of their arrival. So through Russia and Ukraine. While, for example, Split had 20% of its arrival from these countries, Zagreb 17%, Dubrovnik 12% of its arrival. That's life, because if that happens then Istria could lose one million nights a year, and I want to believe that the same way everyone in Istria is going to do, so will Minister Bise and Prime Minister, and Parliament, and the National Committee that must absolutely be against Pula losing its international status. Because for tourism, not only Istria, but Croatia too, it would be a disaster. Not only for the caterers, or tourist workers, but also traders, small craftsmen and so on, and I want to believe that this will not happen and that someone will take this problem seriously and that Pula will not lose its international airport status. All in all this way we could talk to you about each of these points, and about taxes and economic monetary policy, and I think I've been sticking strictly to this topic, and I don't see the need to fix me especially not interrupting as I talk about the topic that is... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-28-0.u41203	A school example of holding a theme. To view the pattern of holding the theme. He's living proof. Understanded in the broadest possible sense of the word. Thank you. HDZ representative club, Mr. Representative Mario Zubovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-28-0.u41204	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Am I supposed to stick to the subject like Mr. Cain?
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-28-0.u41205	You should stick to the subject of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-28-0.u41206	According to the Rules of Procedure. Okay. Mr. Caine as a presidential candidate is full of pessimism, and I don't know how he's gonna make it. He's all black, and he'd be better off sticking to the subject.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-28-0.u41207	Okay, not Mr. Cain. His pessimism is... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-28-0.u41208	Croatia's accession negotiations differ from all those led so far, because they are different and more demanding than those led by the countries on the last wave of enlargement or before them. Some of the old Member States have not negotiated or conducted negotiations, so they cannot fully understand how demanding this job is for the government, for the countries in which it is being negotiated, for its Parliament, but also for a whole society that has to adapt to significant changes in the short term. Croatia added new news to accession negotiations itself by establishing a National Committee that introduced all parliamentary parties, employers' representatives, trade unions, academic community and other relevant factors of Croatian society into the negotiation process. We are now finally approaching the end of these accession negotiations, which is also witnessed by the European Commission's report on Croatia's accession negotiations, adopted in the middle of this month, which positively assessed the efforts made by the Croatian government, but also by the entire Croatian society. Progress has been made, I would say, despite the blockade of the opening and closing of certain chapters by the neighbouring member states of Slovenia, which has led to de facto none of the chapters being opened or closed during the period covered by this report. I am convinced that the technical negotiations will be possible until half next year, as well as in all other negotiations and in these negotiations with the European Union, the most difficult and complex issues come before the end of the negotiations. Therefore, the discussions at the National Committee meetings in this year and as shown in the report on the work of the National Committee for the period from 1 January to 30 June of this year relate to these very most difficult issues. We discussed a proposal for a negotiating position for Chapter 23 of the judiciary and fundamental rights, and the National Committee added to this important chapter. At the last meeting of the National Committee, we also discussed the negotiating position for Chapter 8, competition, as another of the most important and most difficult remaining chapters. In this regard, I consider the most important work of the National Committee to be successfully done. By the end of the negotiation process, the National Committee will likely discuss some further additions to the negotiating positions and, in general, on the course of the negotiation process and preparations for the membership of the Republic of Croatia in the European Union. I believe that the time has come for us to consider together the role of this committee in the final stage of preparations for membership in the European Union. The National Committee has so far responded to all the tasks that have been set before it, and I would say it goes further than that, organising roundtables on issues related to individual chapters or meeting with officials of the Member States of the European Union and the institutions of the European Union themselves. In parallel with the completion of the technical part of the negotiations, there is an important task for all of us, as well as for the representatives of the Croatian Parliament. The task concerns the preparation of Croatian citizens for a referendum on membership in the European Union. There is a political consensus in the Croatian Parliament on membership in the European Union, but we must not forget that the last word will be made by Croatian citizens and citizens who will finally need to decide on that membership in the referendum. I hope therefore that in the coming months the National Committee will also play a role as promoter of the positive vote of Croatian citizens for membership. We will also need to act as representatives of the National Committee, as well as all MPs who will be in contact with the representatives of the Member States of the European Union and of the European Parliament to ensure that Croatia's accession treaty is confirmed as quickly as possible. Finally, I would also like to welcome this report on behalf of the HDZ Club, given its mission of parliamentary oversight over the accession negotiations of the European Union. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-28-0.u41209	Thank you. One correction, Mr. Representative Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-28-0.u41210	Mr. Zubovic says that as a presidential candidate, I see everything black, that I am full of pessimism. It may be all black to me, but for this ink is not due to Damir Kajin, but the associates are responsible for Mr Zubovic, who left us in the mud, and they wander around the world spending what they have earned here. That I see everything black and that I am full of pessimism, as Presidential candidate Mr. Zubovic I offer that light will turn on, but not as the 90s, but in a way that first someone will get dark so that this people can get light after that. You're saying I see everything black, and isn't getting a truck the biggest possible blackness, that's living darkness. It's not black and it's dark. Croatia's electricity industry where we lost a billion and 400 million kunas not that it was black but living darkness. Shipbuilding lives in the dark...
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-28-0.u41211	Okay, actually, colleague Cain, you're actually confirming your thesis to see all the dark black. It's good. Thank you very much. [[Intruder Damir Cain: But I also see a way out of this situation after someone really has to get in the ground and get dark.]] There is one proverb: “Until one day it gets dark with another” or vice versa. Club of representatives of the CNS Mr. Representative Miljenko Doric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-28-0.u41212	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. I hope you don't mind me saying under this point exclusively about the work of the National Committee and the period indicated in the Report. The colleagues and colleagues of the National Committee were even during the period when the blocking of Slovenia made it impossible to do something about the negotiation process and the National Committee did it in 4 directions, so I ask you to be patient. First of all, the National Committee sought to help the negotiating team to make full use of the goodwill of Brussels and to do as much as possible through technical consultations in bringing the Republic of Croatia closer to the European Union. In that sense, we had 3 meetings, 3 sessions, 23 January, 9 March and 19 June, then we accepted and added some negotiating positions and I think we did well. Secondly, using all the opportunities for parliamentary diplomacy, the presidents of the National Committee and members held 15 meetings with the most prominent people in Europe, in the European institutions that work directly or indirectly in the negotiation process. And we're in it, I'd say no doubt help. And as a result of this parliamentary diplomacy, Slovenia had to give up the blockade. Thirdly, the National Committee is likely to contribute more than any other body to the communication strategy of the Republic of Croatia towards Croatian citizens, in the past 18 months we have held as many as 5 round tables, on consumer protection, the environment, judicial reform, social inclusion of persons with disabilities and Croatian agriculture on the way to the European Union. I would like to thank the media who followed those round tables and who have informed the citizens in detail about these chapters, and I think that's the right way to do it. Namely, I would ask all of you colleagues and colleagues here to be parliamentary representatives and not just members of the clear National Committee to include more intensively in this communication strategy to interpret to the citizens every step that awaits us in the approach phase and afterwards as a full member of the European Union. Citizens have a lot of questions, citizens deserve precise answers, I think we should do a lot more here. I think that Ireland should be a reminder to us, when it communicates well with citizens, then 70% of the citizens are for, and 30% against the Lisbon Treaty, and a year earlier, with a bad communication strategy, we know that the results were significantly worse, and we can't make that mistake. The fourth and last thing I would like to underline in this 6-month period is the fact that our colleagues and colleagues have also taught us in the Croatian Parliament. This is very important because tomorrow when we become a member of the European Union, in this Parliament we will need strong logistics for all jobs, it will need fast, it will need professionally, it will need a coordinated response to a number of proposals that will come to us from Brussels, it will take within 10 weeks of a busy position, it will respond to any changes and additions that Croatia will seek to protect its interests, and we think that we have started here with regard to the way the National Committee is doing a significant process, and I think that the Assembly Presidency will have just gained experience in networking individual working bodies with clearly other executive authorities as an example of how we should work in the future. What I would say is that people who followed and helped us as logistics in the work of the National Committee really did a great job, every month updated all the data and every member of the National Committee could get the most relevant data at any moment that was very good. Therefore, such an update, this way of work is commendable and I think it is worth the emphasis here, and I repeat once again a request to the Presidency of the Parliament that, with regard to this kind of work, try to apply and operate a number of other bodies and network them into what we will call European affairs tomorrow. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-28-0.u41213	Thank you. Mr. Agent Tonino Picula's SDP club, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-28-0.u41214	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs. First of all, I would like to point out that the SDP club will support this year's report. I express one hope that this is the last time in the Croatian Parliament to talk about this regular annual report of the National Committee on Management is negotiating with the European Union, of course for one single reason, because I believe that we will indeed come across that last stage next year, which will certainly lead us to our common goal, which is EU membership. Well, I'd like to do the same at the beginning here. I'm playing a little symbolic. I would say that the month of October has often been very important in our relations with Brussels as the seat of the European Union. Here I remind you that in October 2001 we signed a Stabilisation and Association Agreement, and in October 2005, so exactly 4 years ago we started formal negotiations with the European Union. There are so many here today and October 28th, and I really believe that Croatia will be a member of the EU, 28th in a row. But of course, once we get a little further away from this numerology, there is a real measure that we're discussing here. The fact is that this year, especially in this part of the year, we are in a slightly more favourable environment when we talk about our European perspectives. There has been a double of what we could call major obstacles on our way to the European Union. First of all, the Slovenian blockade mentioned so many times as a problem, I believe it is not permanently temporary, removed and often forgotten that we also had a very serious threat that was beyond bilateral problems with Ljubljana, and it is about the blockade of enlargement as such, while the Irish for the second time in the referendum said that the Lisbon Agreement could have had better relations with Slovenia than we have, but would have faced a wave of Euroscepticism where I believe it is for a good reason and nestled, which is conditionally said to the old EU members who have for some time really considered the enlargement of the European Union a surplus and very unpopular topic. Why this could, of course, be discussed for a long time, I will only present here one piece of information that because of the fact that in just 10, 12 years the EU has more than doubled than 12 and 15 members, today there are 27, has caused major functional problems in the Union itself, which is why the Lisbon Agreement should, of course, be the one mechanism that would pave the way for further enlargement of the European Union throughout the continent. As far as the EU's enlargement costs are concerned, they are not so free. I would just point out one comparison here, which is that the 2004 enlargement cost for the EU meant a new 70 billion euros, and the comparisons only cost about 600 billion euros from the 1990s to the '99s. However, political and governance every other challenge facing the European Union is so great that only enlargement is no longer a popular topic and I would say that the golden age of desire for enlargement is behind us. Of course, we do not need to be exposed in any way to any added pessimism, but we really need to take care of the ambience in which it is happening. This is especially important for the Republic of Croatia because we are the first country to apply for EU membership in the 21st century, it was in February 2003 and then really should have gained courage in a situation that was not then politically strong for the then government and our country as a whole, to take such a move that we were told there was no individual appearance and to be realised in a positive response by Brussels. Still, it is. Here we are now entering, I would say, in one final phase of negotiations with the EU and it seems to me that it is legal and in our case that the most difficult chapters of the negotiations are somehow staying to negotiate them at the very end. When I say that, I mean, first of all, the problems that sparrows talk about a lot, and in various European languages, it is, of course, about judicial reform. First of all, on the fight against corruption, the European Commission is also waiting for what we will finally do with shipbuilding and of course the problem becomes dramatically important and will have, I would say, not only political but large social implications in Croatia itself. And there's one or two problems that I believe we'll really have to deal with, and that's agriculture, and above all environmental protection. These 3 problems are, of course, under the auspices of the Croatian public and Croatian politics every day, but environmental protection is, I would say, one of those major negotiating chapters that will really keep us busy at the last stage of the negotiations. According to some calculations over the next 20 years, so we will already be a fat EU member, our country will have to single out between 15 billion and 20 billion euros in order to make different areas not only of public administrations but of all that policy must regulate, in order to achieve a level with existing standards of environmental protection in the EU. Of course, as we approach this target line, it is these four areas that will come under a special glare not only of Brussels, but I would say to our local public. Of course, there is a very important and finalisation of relations with the Hague tribunal itself because it is one of the topics that can be successfully manipulated or of course put pressure on the Croatian side in negotiations before membership itself. As far as the European Commission itself is concerned, let me remind you, it does change the strategy a little when it talks about fighting corruption in Croatia. And they demand that we no longer meet the tiny fishermen caught in the network of large eyes that our judiciary sets before those who are prone to corruption rather than really seek to fight those who, I would say, are "master minds", means those who strategically shape corruption as a very widespread phenomenon in Croatian society. I believe that, of course, in the judiciary, we are about to take this crucial step and prove to the commission that corruption is not a style of governance for us, that it is not a matter of system, but indeed something that can be removed by the system. Of course, there should be something else to take care of that can be seen as another problem in the final. We do not, of course, only have a bilateral dispute with the Republic of Slovenia. I believe that by discussing it in the Croatian Parliament, if not already in the Committee on Foreign Policy, and it is an arbitration agreement, the problem should be removed in the coming days, but we also have our eastern and Southeastern borders and the European Commission also warns us of one part of our euro responsibility towards our Southeast neighbourhood. In order for our own example, but bilateral policy towards Sarajevo and Belgrade, as well as Podgorica, to give us a clear signal that no border problems will be imported with Croatia as the European Union has naturally made a mistake when it has allowed Slovenia to lead politics towards Croatia as it has led over the past year. To point out, the European Union only has an active border problem on its territory on that part of the common border that Slovenia and Croatia share. I think we could also do a better bilateral policy towards Belgrade, and especially according to Sarajevo, which is ahead of the truly turbulent times, we could show Burxelles that we are very much stabilising relations on this part of the European continent that is still far from what we all want. Here, at the very end, I repeat once again that it is important to congratulate all those who have allowed Croatia to have a more active position again at this moment in Brussels on the realization of what we have all called an external policy priority, which is membership in the European Union. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-28-0.u41215	Thank you. HDSSB representative club, Mr. Representative Boro Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-28-0.u41216	Dear Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, fellow MPs and fellow MPs and respected presidents of the National Committee. I say to the National Committee, because this material exclusively uses the term, although I would like it to be the full name of the National Committee for the Monitoring of Croatia's Accession Negotiations to the European Union. But here's one place I haven't found the full name of this, but it's using exactly the National Committee, so it can create certain other ideas with someone or with our citizens. And in that report that was half a year ago when the report mentioned the end of the second half of 2008, and then I talked to the chairman of the National Committee about certain chapters that were very interesting and which Mr Picula mentioned here, and I'm going to add something else about that. Namely, it is seen on page 13 of this report, a sentence that says, which is underlined and said: "The status of the negotiating process on 30 June 2009 is the same as on 1 January 2009. "years." Therefore, it is understandable that this report, which numbers 15 pages, has been denied for the opening and closing of a chapter that would have possibly been opened if this famous blockade of Slovenia had not taken place towards Croatia and in connection with negotiations with the European Union. And since Slovenia and I have a problem with saying that they are potentiating in terms of border dispute, it used to be ZERP, so now they're actual shipyards, so crime and corruption, which is quite justified. I fear there will be more of these obstacles on Croatia's truly painful path towards the European Union. Not to mention the UN tribunal and meeting the requirements of The Hague. So all these problems, all those obstacles, all those pillars nothing after each other. Here I have numbered six now and who appear on our way to the European Union. When it comes to this border with Slovenia, I must say that the HDSSB and HDSSB representatives did not vote on 8 May when it is here in the Croatian Parliament, so the consensus was given to the current prime minister and the Government for negotiations with the European Union, namely negotiator Olli Rehn and third party Slovenia. Therefore, the HDSSB was not for such solutions. Later it turned out that there was this second view of Ollie Rehn, and it was actually our debate here, and it was a little bile on my part and the former prime minister at the time, that was unnecessary. This report listed all the activities of the National Committee which were numerous and which were commendable, but when we look further and compare the report that was half a year ago, so for the second half of 2008, then we see that some things stand at a dead end, and then I debated and wondered about the views in some chapters. These views are very interesting for the region where I come from and the people I represent, which is chapter 11. - Agriculture and rural development. I wonder today, can there be at all, is it possible that neither the citizens, nor the associations, nor any of us can reach the negotiating positions of Croatia or, as the platform which has been handed over in the negotiations and offered to the European Union is said to be? What is Croatia's position in the agriculture chapter? That's what I asked the president of the National Committee half a year ago, and I don't think she has that answer today. That's right. So, we are interested, what has Croatia set as its position? How much Croatia represents its village, its agriculture in relation, and we see these days how much problems farmers in France have, etc. and how is it subsidised, how is it supported, structural and other in the European Union, as one of the most important economic branches in each of the countries? That's one thing. The second chapter, which also lacks a trail or a voice in the negotiations, is the chapter Regional Policy and the coordination of structural instruments. Only one criterion to open is fulfilled, the chapter is not open. Given that I am a representative of the regional party, I wonder by when or will leave it truly for the end of the negotiations and who, in fact, is in the interest of which it is aimed at the regionalisation that will be carried out on the internal agenda and negotiations on regional policy remain just for the very end of the negotiations. These are these 11 negotiating chapters. So, for 9 of them are committed negotiating positions and for two they are not. And is that what Mr. Picula said and the environment? Is the position of Croatia even handed over, or is it said to be a platform related to the environment or the protection of the environment? So, a series of questions are raised here and it is clear that the example of Croatia and Slovenia is one to say an ugly example of mutual and interstate relations, and to say blackmail that the HDSSB did not agree to on May 8th or will ever agree to trade in the territory and sea of the Republic of Croatia, regardless of the fact that Slavonia does not have the sea, Slavonia and Baranja. I wonder what will happen in the future when we have certain I will not say border problems but unresolved issues. Here, we know that in Sarajevo the construction of the Peljev Bridge has also caused controversy over the issue of demarcation in Neum or Klek. Furthermore, with Montenegro we have certain contracts regarding the Prevlaka solution and the joint construction of a hotel settlement, etc. We have a problem with the Charingrad Ade in demarcation with the Vojvodina i.e. With Serbia. And hundreds of thousands of acres of oracies and agricultural areas that the Danube has separated as a river, and they are through the catastrian property and grantuous citizens of the Republic of Croatia on that side of the Danube. And about that still, I know there is a mixed commission or commission between Croatia and Serbia but I've never heard of it here in this House, nor have I read in the papers that this commission is doing anything, and to hear or read the achievements of that commission. If we were to enter, I would say 2013 on a flat-rate basis because I do not believe before then open these problems or we will solve them during these negotiations with the European Union and in the spirit of good neighbourly relations but without trade in Croatian territory. So here are the presidents of the National Monitoring Committee of Negotiations we expect these suggestions, well-intentioned suggestions to say consider and that here in future reports we hear something new about it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-28-0.u41217	Thank you. We have two individual discussions? Does the president want it now? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-28-0.u41218	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Mr Grubisic warned on behalf of the HDSSB Club about some things that are really relevant and interesting, although these developments happened not in the 2009 process but in the second part of 2009, not in this period for which the report is but of course it is interesting because we are talking today at the end of October. So, just a few hints about those things you warned about. First, as regards the chapters – Agriculture and Rural Development was not opened during this period to which the report relates. Meanwhile, it was unblocked and opened at the beginning of this place. Our problem here is that we have 29 requests for different types of delays. So in itself it tells you, of course they're not equal levels of importance. Some are probably fundamental and principled, and necessary, some are very specific delays that are required. What this will look like in the negotiation process itself will, of course, be seen and the Committee will certainly discuss this issue more and more times. You know what the argument is for non-disclosure of negotiating positions. And frankly, I wouldn't mind it being made public, but, of course, in this case, it takes consensus. So let's stick to what's kind of a minimum common denominator. As regards the chapters – Regional Policy and the coordination of structural instruments it is of course very important, it is also important for agriculture this chapter because most de facto funds related and coordination of structural instruments are funds. And regional policy, most of the things related to regional policy and funds designed to help and finance regional policy projects are generally translated as funds for agriculture or improving the quality of life in the country, and many countries use them in that sense. We have one problem here that we discussed in the Croatian Parliament, which is to divide it into those statistical famous NUC 2 regions where we are divided into three statistical regions. This reflects the qualification of projects from these regions from European funds and in the meantime we have a likely situation where Zagreb could be a separate region and thus extend the possibility of funding from certain under favourable circumstances of funds for a longer period of time for one part of Croatia. And that chapter was not opened during this period, in the meantime it was open. And finally, the chapter – The environment is not yet open, it is de facto still blocked by Slovenia. Slovenia is not the only block we have and I'm going to say something final about it. But chapter – The environment at this point along with another chapter – Fisheries and Chapter – Foreign and Security Policy are still blocked by Slovenia.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-28-0.u41219	Thank you. Ms. Representative Marija Buric Pejcinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-28-0.u41220	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. So here's listening to this debate about the work of the National Committee, I couldn't help but recall, so I'll remind you, some may know, and some haven't read that book yet. Almost 20 years ago, a great intellectual wrote a little book called the Three Essiums on Europe. In the first of those three essays written in 1990, he spoke about Croatia, our young country, which we also created about Croatian aspirations on that journey to the European Union. I'll paraphrasise him, he said in one part of that time negotiations with Europe were not an invitation to dance at the Elisha Palace. I think everything we've heard now and what we hear about negotiations is actually very good about it. And what did he say were negotiations? They are a battle that will take decades, talented and witty, ravishing and cautious, stubborn and cynical, with victims and the will to break out near the top. That's what Professor Stanko Lasic wrote. I can't tell you how many times I've been back to this little book because everything we've been doing all these 20 years that man predicted in this. He said it would look like our negotiations, so that story with Slovenia is here somewhere. He said for decades, here they are, two decades, the other almost expires, and we are still running these negotiations with the European Union. This is why we need the National Committee, and therefore I have to admit every time we talk about this body, about its report, I remind myself again and again of how wise it was, how far-sighted it was in 2004, when it was agreed to justify such a single body, the National Committee, which is a very innovative and new way of introducing Parliament, in this case, of the Croatian Parliament in negotiations with the European Union. The negotiations, of course, are run by executive power, but I think that we have both the talent and the knowledge and the courage to enter into this story because certainly, as the debate has shown, there are very different opinions, but there are also different interests that conflict here and create, and in fact what we all want on the National Committee, and I believe all parliamentary parties in this Croatian Parliament, is that the final result of what we will negotiate with the European Union is for the benefit of the Croatian people and that one day, when we join the European Union, it is actually for the benefit of Croatia and all its citizens. Here in this sense I am actually pleased to conclude that the work of the National Committee in that main mandate that it has won, which is to give consent and debate on the negotiating positions of the Republic of Croatia, is actually over. In this period in question, we have therefore absorbed 32 chapters, and in the meantime, as we have already been told here, life has passed us from here to the time in which we are discussing. Sometimes life goes much faster than what's come to discuss this, so actually here we are now, at this point, discussing all the chapters that could be negotiated, actually all the points of view. And what remains to do to the National Committee, which is the National Committee to a certain extent so far and worked, but I see actually in this period until accession an even greater role, is of course to give opinions on those parts where it will be necessary to supplement views, and it will be necessary precisely because, someone mentioned, there is a chapter of agriculture, etc. We've asked for a large number of transitional periods. Of course, all of this will ultimately not be possible to do, and yet the National Committee will again, where it turns out that our demands are indeed from what is realistic negotiation must give its consent to such a position. What I see is actually, so I don't need to, I don't think we should go back to the story of Slovenia anymore. It is fortunate that these two, three last months have shown that we have moved significantly compared to what has happened, nothing exactly happened thanks to the Slovenian blockade in terms of formal negotiations. But here I would also like to point out, very often we politicians and journalists and the public also remain in the impression that nothing is moving unless an intergovernmental conference is held. The Intergovernmental Conference is the end of the story. Negotiations, the stubborn, persistent, and cynical things happen most of the time before. The Intergovernmental Conference itself is quite a formal event where everything that has been discussed, negotiated, worked out, etc. Only publicly announced before. Therefore, we should not be dissatisfied that nothing has been formally done in terms of these intergovernmental conferences, because indeed at this second level that is much more important and that precedes the intergovernmental conference has been made extremely much and I think that the National Committee in this sense is in a period which we are talking about, of these six months, worked naturally to the extent that the negotiating team, the Government, etc. put what we need to talk about on the table to the National Committee. What do I see as a future job? Well, I certainly see that the National Committee should continue the part that worked well. Someone was talking about round tables, so I'm sure they'll still be like that, but certainly what I think will need more and more emphasis, especially in that period when we get to the time when the negotiations are over, which is what we all hope will be in the summer next year, so we'll do as much work on this part as possible called parliamentary diplomacy. Let us not forget, it is not over when it is over but it is over when the accession agreement is ratified, and it will need to be ratified if the current number of members remains, so if we are the 28th member then it will be the 27th parliament. Many of them are two-homers, so there will be even more debates, etc. and precisely the National Committee, together with the Committee on European Integration and Foreign Policy and, of course, all the officials in the Croatian Parliament, will have a great job to prepare both the public and the foreign public for the adoption of the Agreement on the Accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union. Here, in that sense, I'd like to thank the negotiating team again. I think it should never be forgotten that what we are doing on the National Committee is actually approving what the government and negotiators have done until then or, of course, criticizing it and then asking it to change. So, praise to the negotiating team, to all negotiators, to all those we never see in the state administration and beyond working on this job. And here I would like to say that I will certainly support this report precisely because I think that the work of the National Committee, and therefore the work of the Croatian Parliament, contributes significantly to the quality of negotiations between the Republic of Croatia and the European Union. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-28-0.u41221	Thank you. At 12 hours and 7 minutes, it is time to report a debate of 10 minutes per item of the agenda. Mr. Representative Dragutin Bodakosh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-28-0.u41222	Thank you very much, Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable President of the National Committee, colleagues and fellow MPs. So here is today's report of the National Committee, which I have to say the representatives regularly receive, I think it is one important for our information on the negotiations, but here it is a little bit and pointed out about our activities that we can and should implement regarding the creation of an atmosphere related to our entry into the European Union. And that's why we're always here, and I think it's a good thing that we get that report so we can read it, and with this whole review that we get in such a single report, and normally we follow it definitely our individual interest is different. My personal relationship is usually with Chapter 11, 12, 13 of agriculture and rural development, food safety, veterinary and phytosanitary parts and part of the related thirteenth for fishing. So why do I point you out like this? Well, because of the quality negotiation of these chapters, I consider it to be one of the basics of the better development of the Republic of Croatia. Because this particular part applies to the economy and, in particular, to agriculture and rural development, also gather a large part of our economy, our economy. In that part, I would certainly highlight the country as one of the basic resources that certainly has a significant part in the negotiations, and I just think it's the most valuable thing we have in the field of agriculture, something that doesn't matter whose ownership it ends up in after the negotiation. We also know that the cost of land in Europe is quite different from that of us in Europe. One hectare reaches up to 20,000 euros. But what matters is that it is an important question of the quality of the land. And why, the question is probably when we talk about foreign customers when they show up, when it's for sale, this country will certainly be their target. So precisely because both technology and quantities and artificial fertilisers and pesticides used in Europe during these previous years have led to a concreteization of the top layer of that country unlike ours. We have a country that is probably much less used are artificial fertilisers because we are also in Europe by using artificial fertilisers in the last place, the last place or somewhere in the last place. But the same thing that is present is thousands of acres of our land on so-called land. Forced vacation. Well, emergency vacations are either mines that we've had problems over the last 20 years or land that we don't use, which is almost a million acres that haven't been used. Thus, such a country will surely be one of the qualities that will adorn the economy and agriculture of our country in the coming time. That's why I think in this segment we need to negotiate well, although what Madam President of the National Committee said is that we have 29 things I don't know about that demand for extensions, then it's certainly the country that needs to be well thought out and discussed. The other thing is rural development. And half our population lives in rural areas. There are certain problems with that. Europe has also become more and more rural as new members enter these last 10, 12 countries. And now she also looks at it differently. The funds for this will grow more and more in the placement. More and more, instead of direct support, Europe will be giving rural development, and I think it is also confirmed on this Round Table organised by the National Committee. Croatia's agriculture on its way to Europe, where that is exactly what it has pointed out, is that a growing part of the direct incentives will go through rural policy. And I think that we need the same in this part of the negotiations, but also in our internal reforms, to implement that part. Chapter 12 Food safety, veterinary phytosanitary measures. We had these four measures that should not pose any problems in the current organization of our ministry. Because both veterinary and sanitary inspection and others are safe, we have one quality service organization. I don't know salmonellas or anything like that. Therefore, the safety of that food is good. It is especially important because we are both a tourist country and it is certain that if we do not have a safe food and safety production and food so that millions of people who come from Europe and the world to our Adriatic will primarily be threatened if we do not. However, one danger that I believe would be seen and spoken at the next points that we have. It's the use of food of GMO origin. I think that if it were to be found with us to use such food that it would be a country that could create organic production that our production and our importance in the tourism and security of that food would be compromised. Is allergy and toxicity and drug resistance primarily antibiotics are risks of GMO food. We have enough land, opportunities to produce quality food, without the influence of GMOs and to introduce GMOs into the Croatian environment would not be good. In that segment, I believe that our negotiators should be, have one strength and firmness. And finally chapter 13, fishing. He's still on hold. As we can see, these two are already open. We don't even have conditions. Why? There's a question. I don't know. Unfortunately, the resolution of this chapter is important for Croatia, because Croatian fishing, it is a branch of the economy, which is of the most powerful sea fisheries and which has the greatest meaning also has a significant impact on the economy in continental Croatia, freshwater fishing and carp and trout ponds as sport fishing. We think in this part of the negotiations we need to know what structural bases we have, how we're going to deploy the market. And another question, ZERP. The ZERP we have prolonged should also have the right place in the negotiations. And quite finally, I can fully accept this conclusion made by the National Committee, that in the first half progress has been made exclusively at technical level. However, we know progress has lagged due to the blockade of the negotiations. But that's now removed. And secondly, I think it is important to stress that a negotiating group should also be called on, led by the main negotiator, to communicate more intensively with the committee, which is probably done, but also with representatives of this Parliament who should be promoters of Croatia's entry into the European Union. Because I also believe that every debate in this House and our debate outside this House should be focused on this section to promote and to point to the positive quality of these negotiations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-28-0.u41223	Thank you. 5-minute debate, HDSSB representative club, Mr. Representative Boro Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-28-0.u41224	Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, and colleagues and colleagues. I did not have the opportunity, according to the Rules of Procedure, to discuss with the president of the National Committee, Mrs Pusic after her intervention, and after my debate, so here is how I asked for the final word on behalf of the HDSB's Representatives Club. All that she said actually confirms my fears and my doubts about those chapters that I was talking about, which is the chapter of agriculture and rural development, the problem of the country that your colleague Koračević was talking about earlier, and in connection with the regional policy of the Republic of Croatia. You have also confirmed, and we all know that most of the pre-accession funds are just concentrated on these two chapters and can be extracted from pre-accession funds. It is also interesting that today we talk very little about the content or possibility of finding out more about, and I don't think you are familiar with the content of the arbitration agreement with Slovenia. It is also interesting that the SDP does not mention the content of this arbitration agreement between Ms. Prime Minister Kosor, who hides it as a snake of the legs and Mr. Pahor. It is covered by a veil of secrecy or secrecy, and if it is to believe the media, Mr. Pahor took note of the arbitration agreement between Croatia and Slovenia, i.e. Pahor-Kosor, the day before yesterday. So I would be, it would be interesting for the public if we were really going to pay for it under this arbitration agreement, at last, to join the European Union, either territorial or some other. And if anyone knows anything from the SDP or any other party, HDZ or the chairman of the National Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-28-0.u41225	My colleague, we'll discuss this when the time comes, you know. ... This is right here, but it's not there. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Correction of the incorrect allegations, Mr. Representative Frano Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-28-0.u41226	Well, I have to correct the incorrect assumption. ... The prime minister's arbitration agreement as a snake's foot as you say it is already an agreement not to go through with it before it deals with parliamentary parties and before it should come to this House. [[Because of the announcement, the speaker does not understand.]] So when it comes to Parliament's agenda. Second, it is not at all the subject of talks on the National Committee, and it will certainly be the subject of talks between this Parliament and all parliamentary parties.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-28-0.u41227	Final review, National Committee Chairman, Ms. Representative Vesna Pusic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-28-0.u41228	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I thank all my colleagues and colleagues who discussed this report. It is clear that at this point, it is actually more interesting to all of us than the first six months, but we are limited by the fact that we have to respect this order of presentation of the report. Of course, at the end of this six-month period, the National Committee will submit a report on what has been going on over the last six months. However, I think it is perfectly natural that it is interesting for Parliament at the moment when things happen what is actually happening. As for the objections related to the function of the National Committee, now that all positions have passed through it. We are not in this six-month period that we are talking about here, but today, so after closing and opening some chapters at the beginning of this month, we still have 20, so 5 chapters to open and 21 chapters to close. That objectively speaking will be a lot of deviations from what we've been looking for as delays in these 21st chapters that we need to close. So there will be a lot of change in what our negotiating positions will look like when we close negotiations, from what they looked like when they went through the National Committee as a prerequisite to open that chapter. This is where Parliament's control is crucial and perhaps even more important than in the original negotiating positions, because in the original negotiating positions you can write a wish list. In the final position after the negotiating period, there you have what will really be, and of course it is very important for Parliament to know not only that it knows not only what we would like it to be, but what will really happen and there should not give up parliamentary supervision exactly the opposite. The process, if we optimistically complete the negotiations in the middle of next year, we enter the ratification process, means confirming our accession contract, that ratification is not done by the governments, ratification is done by parliaments, and therefore the presentation of the Croatian case by my deep conviction should be done by the Croatian Parliament, therefore Parliament should go from Parliament to parliament, presentation of the Croatian arguments for the rapid ratification of our accession contract, and this is also one job that should be done, or at least prepare MPs and prepare the bases for this National Committee. And finally a bilateral problem with Slovenia, just one more note, is not the only problem and the only block, although of course it was the most comprehensive one by Slovenia. We, as you know, have one block that we are less talking about, which is a blockade of five member states of the Union related to the chapter of the judiciary and fundamental rights, and at this point, it is trying to resolve it even though it is still hanging over our heads, and that is related to the famous Topnic daily or co-operation with the Hague tribunal. This chapter did not block Slovenia, this chapter as you know we did not get an invitation to submit a negotiating position, but there is also a potential blockade that we do not talk much about but that we certainly need to keep in mind. And finally, a bilateral problem with Slovenia that everyone claims including us should be treated as a bilateral problem, unfortunately, has been objectively turned into a multilateral problem because of overcoming the realization of a multilateral goal. We can argue how much we want it to be just a problem between Croatia and Slovenia, if it is something that crosses our entry or progress in negotiations for our European Union, then objectively cross one multilateral process and goal and as much as we pretend that it is not somehow excluded from the whole negotiation process is obviously not excluded from the whole negotiation process, because we may have wasted the most time on it. We all know there has been a lot of debate here in the Parliament, whether there is anything else or not, I think that this debate is seen today that it has been unnecessary, there is, of course, an arbitration agreement and an agreement on an arbitration agreement that is clearly not yet fully completed or completed, however, which is an integral part of the colleague and colleagues of this process. Parliament has formed a National Committee to carry out its supervisory role as parliamentary authority over this whole process. I therefore call on the Prime Minister to report to the National Committee, at the very least, on the status of the arbitration agreement since it is something that is absolutely embedded in our entire process. It is important for parliament to know that it does not have to get information at certain stages but it is important to know which direction the whole thing is going to go because it will appear on the agenda within the following, no more than two weeks and perhaps less. Therefore, in order for us as Parliament to be able to perform our function, it is also part of the information that we must have and which is important to us. Thank you again very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-28-0.u41229	Thank you. I'm closing the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-28-0.u41230	We move to the report on the work of the National Committee for the period from 1 January to 30 June 2009, the applicant is the National Committee. The debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal of the Assembly Working Body, I am voting on the following conclusion: "The report on the work of the National Committee for the period from 1 January to 30 June 2009 is hereby adopted. A year.". Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? This report was accepted by most votes with 77 votes in favour and 3 abstentions, nothing against it.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-28-0.u41231	We move to the next item of the agenda - Annual report on the work of the Competition Protection Agency for 2008, applicant: Competition Protection Agency in accordance with Article 36(1). The Law on the Protection of Competition was delivered by this Report, you received the proposal by mail. The government delivered an opinion, the discussion was conducted by the Committee on Economy, the report was received at the session. The President of the Competition Protection Council, Olgica Spevec, will further present the proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-28-0.u41232	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished MPs, respected MPs. Allow me to present an annual report on the Agency's work for 2008 in the next few minutes. The report, as you can see, contains a series of data and information that the Agency is obliged to process and present to this High House, as well as to the Croatian public, which I will discuss further. Before that, let me look at the importance of establishing an effective competition in our country in order to develop and grow a successful market economy with a few sentences. Not even one of the biggest global financial and economic crises in history has questioned the fact that competition and competition are an irreplaceable instrument of optimal resource location and the condition of increasing the efficiency and competitiveness of the national economy. As we know, alternative models have become part of history or rarity in certain parts of the world. So only entrepreneurs who are pushing competition pressure to improve existing or develop new products or services create a new value and new employment. When more competitors fight or compete for the largest market share of innovations, improve technological processes, develop new technologies and generate economic growth. Empirical research by international institutions such as the World Bank shows that there is a stronger impact on productivity growth on competition on the market than on the quality of infrastructure, corruption levels or administrative barriers. Therefore, the market was also left engine and made qua non-success and competitiveness. However, by its own action alone, the market is unable to achieve the best effects. Not for consumers, not for entrepreneurship, not for society as a whole. Therefore, no matter how paradoxically it sounds, the development of competition and the effective functioning of the country's market has exceptional responsibility and importance. But a state less as an entrepreneur or not at all as an entrepreneur but as a partner of the market and market failures, which implies establishing rules and standards of behaviour on the market. The more the market develops the regulatory role of the state as institutions implementing these rules, the more efficient, quality and sophisticated it should be. The financial and economic crisis that has been shaking for the past 2 years and the world's most stable economies has shown this. It is therefore impregnable that the market can only function well if the relevant policies are committed. Trade, industrial, fiscal, monetary, competition protection policy, etc., and in particular those relating to the establishment of a system of rule of law, the functioning of justice and regulation of individual sectors such as the financial sector, the communications sector, the media sector, etc. In order to implement all these policies, an appropriate institutional structure is necessary and, of course, the coherence between all these policies and the coordinated action of the institutions in charge of their implementation is required. In accordance with such division of powers and the division of the tasks of the Competition Protection Agency is the exercise of law, so only the acts of competition protection policy, is the exercise of the right to protect competition governed by two laws. The Law on the Protection of Competition and the Law on State Aid. Whether it is the implementation of one law or another, our mission is to develop an effective competition and create conditions for increasing the well-being of Croatian consumers. Croatian citizens who are entitled to decent treatment by all those who offer their products and services on the market daily. The aim of the Agency is to prevent and prevent behaviour on the market that disrupts, restricts or prevents competition, but only through the conclusion of prohibited agreements, abuse of the ruling position or by entering into mergers and takeovers that may have negative effects on the market and on consumers. On the other hand, the control function of the State Aid Act is entrusted to it in the field of evaluation, award and control of all illegal forms of state aid which, unwarrantedly and selectively, provide an economic advantage to one entrepreneur, a group of entrepreneurs, or certain sectors, thereby distorting the principle of free market, impairing competitiveness growth and spending taxpayers' money irreparably, and at the expense of overall economic growth. Starting with its legal powers, the agencies shall, whenever they have an opportunity to do so, assist other bodies and institutions with their opinions, advice and suggestions in the preparation of laws and regulations aimed at promoting or preserving competition in individual markets. Through this activity, we seek to minimise the possibility of unnecessary restrictions on competition, especially when it comes to market access issues. In the past 2008 the Agency sought to carry out the tasks mentioned above, as far as possible, within its legal powers and competences and with available material and human resources. In a report before you, respected MPs and respected MPs, you will find information that our professional team of 330 objects received has solved 307, that we have initiated a series of activities related to the promotion of competition policy and culture through the conclusion and implementation of the Cooperation Agreement with sectoral regulators such as HAK, HERA, HANFA, with the Croatian National Bank, which is responsible for the exercise of competition rights in the banking sector. To co-operate regularly with agencies and the like. institutions in other countries, either EU member states, or neighbouring countries. That we are involved in negotiations on obtaining EU membership, etc. However, one of the most important activities and priorities in the work in 2008 was aimed at drawing up a new Law on the Protection of Competition adopted in this High House, which should strengthen the role of competition rights in the Croatian legal system and strengthen the Agency by strengthening its powers in the detection and subsequent appropriate punishment of law enforcement. To be even more precise, 268 cases were opened in the area of application of the Competition Protection Act, which ended in 234. At the concentration, we evaluated 35 applications, analyzed a contract in the field of telecommunications, evaluated 72 contracts of a single service provider, established abuses of the ruling position in the market for the distribution of ingested oil gas and the provision of services at the airport "Zagreb". Procedures have been initiated against the participants of the agreement on prices in the provision of car education services, price arrangements between apartment building managers in some Croatian cities, etc. At the same time, without the launch of the procedure by "INE" and "PROPLINA", the agency concluded that the Agreement on the Sale of Oil Products, or the hire of a gas tank, was brought into line with the provisions of the rules on the protection of competition. I also think it is important to mention that, by resolving complaints against the Agency's decisions in 2008, the Administrative Court of the Republic of Croatia in all 4 administrative disputes confirmed our decisions, i.e. rejected the rulings. The Constitutional Court also confirmed one decision by the Agency. In the application of the State aid Act, the agencies assessed in 2008 43 proposals for state aid of 18 individual and 25 programmes. They are all listed in this report. I must stress here that, although the introduction of the State aid control system in 2003, there has been a positive shift and progress in terms of increasing the discipline of the support providers in the reporting of support, the problem remains, however, the lack of expertise of the support providers in the preparation of the support programme or the intentional or accidental detachment of these programmes in the very granting of support. Therefore, an important part of the Agency's activities in the area of the implementation of the State aid Act is aimed at assisting and cooperating support providers in the preparation of the support programme, whether it is those that are changing certain legislation or that it is about programmes aimed at certain users, activities or the like. Or even about the supervision of the aid already granted, for example in the case of the award of support to the textile industry, the auto parts industry, the rockwells and the like. For the Agency, the support granted in the shipbuilding sector is a particular problem, as it is still not in line with the provisions of the State Aid Act. Therefore, the reform of support in this sector is a necessary and inevitable step, not only to meet the conditions set by membership in the European Union, but also to comply with Croatian legislation and to establish the economic and market sustainability of this sector. Since 2003, the Agency has warned of this problem, indicating the need to restructure this sector, which would also legalise the support granted. The opportunity for this restructuring to take place in the years preceding the economic crisis, so since 2005, it has been irrevocably lost. It is only today that we see, in significantly worse conditions in this sector at global level, where it leads to the delay of the necessary reform procedures and not the willingness to address problems that have been accumulated in this sector for decades. Last year, the agency also carried out an analysis, stressing the need to coordinate the support system for Croatia's radio-television with the provisions of the laws and regulations on state aid, without questioning the role of this institution as a public service in achieving the democratic, social and cultural needs of our society. Dear MPs and respected MPs, the agency of course accepts criticism of its work. We are aware that we must and can be better, that we can do more, that the effects of our work must be more visible and present in the everyday lives of our citizens. But that is why we need a better and more efficient tool, which has been provided by the new Competition Protection Act, which will only take effect next year. We need necessary resources such as educated and quality people, but also time for the results of our work to finally be translated into more efficient competition, less barriers to the market and greater economic growth. By the way, some OECD estimates require decades, but we are more optimistic and we hope that these results will be felt much earlier. To all those who support us in this esteemed House, but also those who point a finger at us and accuse us of insufficient activity, I must draw attention to how the agency cannot bear responsibility for the following. First, insufficient efficiency and slowness of the judicial system, whether it is the punishment of the Law on the Protection of Competition, whether it is the application of other laws and regulations affecting market relations, address issues relating to late payments and the like. Secondly, we cannot carry out jobs and be responsible for the work of other institutions, especially when it comes to sectoral regulators, which, on an ex-ante basis, regulate issues on individual markets. It is also not our job to interfere with the work of the state administration body, in charge of issues of unfair competition, public procurement, consumer protection and the like. Thirdly, as much as we warn our opinions and activities about certain regulations or behaviours of various associations or interest associations, local authorities or institutions, we are unable to stop the constant production of regulations or practices that close the market, pose barriers to market access and similar restrictions. Although we insist on such phenomena, we keep saying that these activities are directed directly against Croatian citizens, those silent majority who are often unaware of why prices are high and services are hard to reach. We don't have the legal powers and mechanisms to put an end to it. Such phenomena are present in a large number of areas, of almost all free professions, where price bargaining is often legalised and regulations on the provision of other services, especially in traffic and the like. I would like to stress that the task of protecting competition policy, protecting consumers and its right to choose. Consumer protection, however, does not necessarily mean protecting market competitors, competitors on the market. We cannot and will not protect those entrepreneurs who are unable to offer products that are competitive with quality and price products from imports or those who use our neighbours. If some entrepreneurs have to get out of the market because they're not good enough, it's what we wanted to admit or not, the price of market business. The Agency may only be successful and effective if it has partners in other bodies of the State, if there is a continuous and open dialogue and communication between us. This applies primarily to already mentioned sectoral regulators, the government itself and its bodies, the bodies of local self-government units, judicial authorities and the like. Many important issues on which decisions must be taken by working together and by being ready for joint steps and joint responsibility. The Agency cannot, of course, be present at any place at all times and overcome itself the problems of markets which are common problems of a large number of state bodies and institutions. The legislation must be improved in this area, made better, better, and certainly prevented from resulting from unnecessary restrictions on the development of competition. It's final. Once again, I must stress that strengthening competition is to ensure equal market conditions for all participants, open access to the market, as well as the ease of leaving the market, which the market and consumers do not accept as a condition of market development and strengthening the competitiveness of the Croatian economy. These are guarantees of change in economic structure, strengthening interest in investment, for the emergence of new products and for all types of innovation in the manufacturing and service sector. The policy of protecting competition is that policy which has an interest in the development of market and competition at its centre, which, of course, leads to a more efficient economy and greater benefits for consumers. However, as I have already said, the design and implementation of this policy is not only in the hands of this agency, it is not a monopoly agency, but it is in the hands of those bodies and institutions that are given the authority to adopt and implement laws and regulations governing different segments of the market and its aspects. As regards the Agency, it will continue, but in accordance with its legal powers and available material and human resources, carry out its tasks, and with its overall action, initiatives to improve regulations, expand the culture of competition and encourage the creation of coherent and harmonised policies with a view to creating a stronger and more efficient market. That we are on a good track, but on a long journey, confirm and find a recent report on the progress made by the European Commission in which progress in the field of competition is assessed as significant as the assessment that has been given for only a few areas and several institutions. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-28-0.u41233	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegation by Mrs. Agent Ingrid Anticevic-Marinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-28-0.u41234	I have to correct an incorrect quote by Ms. President of the Council, Olga Spevec, who has argued whether or not it is a single survey because it is simply not true or we can ever accept that freedom between other factors, for freedom of competition, is not an important level of corruption. The level of corruption and corruption leads to a rational and captivating market and we simply have to correct it at any time and we cannot agree with such an opinion or any quasi research.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-28-0.u41235	You disagree. ... I knew you'd enter zone one, I listened well. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] The Economic Committee? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. The club of representatives of HSS Mr. Representative Boris Klemenic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-28-0.u41236	Mr. Vice President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. Before us is the Annual Report of the Competition Protection Agency in 2008 and notices that this report is very comprehensive with a range of information concerning specific subjects, evaluations, opinions, explanations. The report is commendable for providing full information on what was done in 2008. According to the Competition Protection Act and the State Aid Act, the Competition Protection Agency, as the report states, performs competition protection tasks in accordance with the Competition Protection Act and the State Aid Act. The Agency's work on control and concentration in the field of media is also prescribed by the Media Act and the Electronic Media Act. In addition, the Agency is also obliged to implement the obligations undertaken in Article 70. Stabilisation and Association Agreements. According to the Competition Protection Act, the three key activities of the Agency are the control of the agreement between entrepreneurs, the identification and the taking of measures against entrepreneurs who abuse the ruling position and the assessment of the concentration of those same entrepreneurs. In accordance with the Act on State aid, the Agency approves and oversees the implementation of State aid and requires the reimbursement of State aid granted or used against the rules. The Agency shall also carry out the following tasks. It shall consider and assess the proposals for state aid and State aid programmes, monitor the implementation and effects of the State aid granted and order them to recover, collect, process and record State aid data, keep records of these same aids, cooperate with the authorities responsible for State aid in agriculture and fisheries in order to prepare an annual report on these aids and submit an annual report on State aid to the Croatian Parliament. During 2008, the Agency's activities were primarily focused on the implementation tasks of both the Competition Protection Act and the State Aid Act. In order to carry out the tasks referred to in the laws of the Competition Protection Council, which decides on all issues on the basis of the laws mentioned above, 25 sessions were held in 2008 to discuss 250 items of the agenda. At the same time, a total of 330 requests from the parties were received from the Agency, of which 268 concerned the area governed by the Competition Protection Act and 62 requests for questions concerning the implementation of the State Aid Act. The creation of a new Law on the Protection of Competition in cooperation with the Ministry of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship, the Ministry of Justice and other bodies of the State Administration, courts and representatives of the academic community and the use of experiences and best practices of the European Union and its Member States was one of the most important tasks and activities of the Agency in 2008. The Agency’s professional and administrative services relating to the protection of competition shall be carried out by the Agency’s professional service. As mentioned above, these transactions cover primarily the conformity assessment procedures of the agreement between entrepreneurs, the procedures for determining the abuse of the ruling position of entrepreneurs and the procedures for assessing the permitted concentration of entrepreneurs. In addition to those tasks and in order to comply with other laws with competition law, the Agency shall, at the request of the Ministry and other national authorities, provide expert opinions on the conformity of the draft law and other provisions with the provisions of the Competition Protection Act and on other issues which may have a significant impact on competition. In order to promote competition protection rights and policies as one of the relevant activities of the Agency and at the request of entrepreneurs and other addresses of competition protection regulations, it shall give interpretations and expert opinions on the application of those rules. International co-operation is a bilateral and multilateral place in the Agency's activities. These activities include the conduct of operations in connection with the implementation of the international obligations of the Republic of Croatia which have been transferred to the Agency's jurisdiction and cooperation with the European Commission and foreign competition protection bodies as well as the production of statistical reports. A total of 268 cases were opened in 2008 and the procedures ended in 234. Since its establishment, the Agency has maintained high urgency in ending proceedings despite the fact that procedures in extremely complex cases in determining infringements of the Competition Protection Act may continue for up to a number of years. In 2008, the Agency made several significant decisions establishing the abuse of the ruling one such as Proplin or the monopoly position of entrepreneurs, it is about the Zagreb Airport in gas supply markets or the provision of airport services. In those cases, the Agency has also filed misapplications to punish entrepreneurs while, for example, in the case of VIPnet, it has established the conclusion of prohibited agreements on the mobile telephony market and in the field of the distribution of motor vehicles is a temporary measure against the entrepreneurs of Adria Lada Croatia. For the purpose of preventing possible negative effects of the concentration on the retail market and in accordance with existing regulations, for example, the Consumu has been ordered to sell some of the shops in the Sibenik-Knin County area, including the most attractive locations in that county. All of the above procedures and decisions taken by the Agency concern markets or activities that are particularly important for the functioning of the Croatian market as a whole, which have a significant direct or indirect impact on the standard of citizens. In 2008, 53 employees and 48 employees and 5 members of the agency's council were employed. There are 22 legal professions, 20 economists. So the agency with employees 53 manages to do a huge part of its work although in its work the agency faces problems such as lack of space and so on. The quality of work, apart from the professional training of agency staff, certainly contributes to their continuous training and will ultimately have much more power by way of a new law as of next year. And in the end, the HSS Club will support a report like this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-28-0.u41237	Thank you. IDS representative club, Mr. Representative Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-28-0.u41238	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President. Gentlemen of the Agency for the Protection of Market Conduct. Your Honor, gentlemen, the MPs. So we have these, as we see from this report, horizontal support, then regional support, sectoral support and support of small value that I am now not translating into language what that actually means. However, I will touch here first of all shipbuilding, side 61 and beyond. Allow me to quote, meaning: "The conclusion of the Government of the Republic of Croatia since 22 August 2002, which was the legal basis for the adoption of the Regulation on subsidisation in shipbuilding, the Regulation on subsidisation in small shipbuilding, set out that the Republic of Croatia will grant subsidies to Croatian shipyards to encourage the construction of ships with first delivery deadline by 31 December at 10% of the contracted price." The award of support to large Croatian shipyards in the construction of the ship, both domestic and foreign contractors, in the form of subsidies and state guarantees is a traditional and inherited system of supporting this activity. Therefore, the business and competitiveness of these shipyards have been based for years on an important part and on these aids. However, regardless of support, most of the shipyards, here it is concluded, have begun to deal with losses in the last ten years. That it's only in the last ten years. And now what might be, to skip a little bit, interestingly, here again, I quote, "In August 2006. The Ministry of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship has submitted proposals for the approval of state aid for the rehabilitation of Croatian shipyards. Decision of the Agency on the approval of state support for the rehabilitation of Croatian shipyards since 21 September 2006 to the entrepreneur "Brodosplit Shipyard d.o.o." Support amounting to a billion and 700 million kuna was granted to Brodotrogir, a shipbuilding site of €625 million, a shipbuilding site of €221 million, and a shipyard of €221 million. Decision of 18 January 2007 The agency has granted state support for a 140m kuna rehabilitation to the shipbuilding site of special facilities. These solutions are allowed to grant support through state guarantees for loans and advances given to shipyards totalling 4.2 billion kuna." Why am I quoting that? To simply point out that in this package of 4.2 billion kuna aids, there is no "Oliens". They're all normal again and with these support problems, the Oilman, and today he's doing business without a single kuna of guarantees. So the Oilman can do without the rescue support, and the others can't, and then the man asks himself how is possible. The Oilman can do business today without a single kuna of guarantees from the state, the rest of them can't. How is that possible? Why "The Oilman" can, why can't the other shipyards? Was the 1990s "Olinik" ahead of any other Croatian shipyard? I claim not to, but one of the details why it might be so today lies in the conduct of local self-government in Istria. For example. '98. The year when the issue was either bankruptcy or rescue, and the bankruptcy was about to be pushed through the Istrian bank of Miroslav Kutle, then the local self-government had to write off the claims it had on the "Olinik" at the height of one entire budget of the city of Pula. Did we have to do that? We didn't have to, but we simply opted for that logic. Why? It was meant to save a simple system without which Istria, especially Pula, would not be recognizable. Has anyone valorized us? It's not. But no matter what, I say it is a small example that the problem of shipbuilding must not only be a problem of the state, nor only of the unions or employees, nor of local self-government, but simply all of these problems should be dealt with more than seriously because by the end of the year or next year we can expect, it can be said, the bankruptcy of three of the six Croatian shipyards. What's interesting is that it's on this side of the 63rd report and that's why I actually answered the word. And let me quote: "The most important findings that the Agency has come up with in the analysis of restructuring plans were the following. The restructuring plans," it is said and thought of shipbuilding, "for the period 2007-2012 do not contain enough data that would objectively, consistently and quality support these plans and show the reality of moving to a viable business. The analysis of the causes of the difficulties in which the shipyards are located is mostly insufficiently explained. Market analysis in view of the construction of planned types of ship is not sufficient and for most shipyards do not contain a minimum projection of what will happen in the event of a change in trends on the market. There is no assessment of the impact of variables such as price of iron, inter-currency relations, as well as protection mechanisms against influence, and a detailed analysis of costs and timing of implementation of restructuring measures is missing." It is then stated here that the productivity in shipyards is far below the productivity of competition, and the plans do not contain sufficient convincing arguments in favour of projections according to which their productivity will increase within four years by dynamics that would lead them to a level of competition. No shipbuilding site, it said, has developed a clear, defined, comprehensive business performance improvement plan that would provide for concrete steps and planned activities in terms of achieving objectives, increasing productivity and efficiency of business. It is then said that a total amount of 255.9m euros was proposed for new investments, with a total of 220m euros for the shipbuilding activity. The assessment is that 50% of that amount could be successfully restructured, etc. The compensation measure or the proposed compensatory measures are also proposed to differ from the shipyard to the shipyard, but they are generally insufficient because it was not possible to assess them because no information was received on the total amounts of support. The own contribution to restructuring is very small or none and not to list anything further. So it is not that the gentlemen did not know how to pass the first round of privatisation of Croatian shipyards. It was clear, but then a man asks himself the question of who was to be deceived with that contest. The question also arises whether a person would have to suffer the consequences, or conjecture. Personally, I believe that the consequences should be due to the state of shipbuilding but also to Podravci, HEP, etc. to be borne by a resolute minister. I don't know, however, when there will be a debate about his trust. He would have to, but the consequences far greater than the consequences that the minister should bear will be borne by workers, employees in our shipbuilding, carried by residents of our cities and not to list everything else. On the side of this first report, it speaks of the agency, and here it is said that in the same context, an example of state aid should be highlighted, only a little, when the agency completed the process of assessing individual plans for the restructuring of large shipyards at the beginning of the year. I don't want to talk about them anymore. But page 12 is about the number of cases processed by this agency. One item or 268 items per day ended 238. When a man sees how much work is done then he asks himself whether the Croatian state with 4 and a half million inhabitants must have all the agencies, all the offices, all the inspections, I don't know that I don't list as one country of 45 million people. I think the time has come, I think the mature conditions are not only to start talking about which municipalities can finance themselves but also to radically redesign that network of various agencies, ministries and everything else in the Republic of Croatia, because we simply cannot follow this stage of development at this stage. On page 34, we're talking about concentration in the media. In 2008, the Agency received a total of 19 requests from entrepreneurs operating in the media markets. Of these, two concentrations were assessed in accordance with the Media Act, while 13 were assessed in accordance with the provisions of the Electronic Media Act. Therefore, more than half of the total concentration estimated by the agency in 2008 refers to the media market. It's interesting that individuals are deeply complaining, mostly of this cable television, for example, about the treatment of ZAMP. Some cable televisions at the annual level must pay ZAMP 800, millions and more kuna. They are pushed in such a way by one way in an open bankruptcy, so these million kunas I don't know, so no one can stand it and that should be lifted as soon as possible. Here I see myself on page 49 only this is badly printed as a collectively-realizing and copyright protection association has misused its own ruling position in the market for collecting fees for the reproduction of copyright works. In particular, it will be determined whether there are justified differences in the discounts granted by the ZAMP to bonds organised in associations, etc. etc. I think we should really talk about it, because if someone has to pay a million or a million and a half kuna on an annual basis, or 800,000 kuna, then that someone simply can't survive. A shop for a little bit. That's just as interesting. During 2008, the Agency continued to conduct regular research on the relevant retail market in small and large mixed goods in the Republic of Croatia. The study was conducted by a sample of entrepreneurs. They cover 57 entrepreneurs who made the largest total income in 2008. Total income without VAT of all entrepreneurs operating on the retail market in the territory of the Republic of Croatia in 2008 is €28.6 million. What's the problem here is that de facto today various presses, kiosks actually turn into stores of everything and everything. That's what gas stations turn into. I think they become unfair competition for real and real shops, although at this point I have the impression of far greater problems of Pevec's trade or Kerum or Fizulic's, and of those small merchants that we're not wasting our words. One word should help all of them in some way, but also review some of the fiscal burdens that simply threaten the business of all these economic systems in the Republic of Croatia. Finally, this year's report on the work of the 2008 Market Competition Protection Agency, I personally consider it correct, that it is good. Perhaps that agency could be led under another agency or vice versa. I think there is a need to streamline costs in the Republic of Croatia in this direction. But anyway, this report is more than useful and it's so much supported by the IDS club. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-28-0.u41239	Thank you. HNS representative club, Mr. Representative Goran Beus Richembergh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-28-0.u41240	Dear Mr. Vice President, dear Mrs. Spevec and her colleagues. Unlike other colleagues who will thematically process all these most important elements of the report I will remind only of two by me very relevant things, and they are related to the work of the agency itself. The first is that I don't see that the agency in any way in 2008 has practically not been involved in the concentration that happens in the area of the sale of small newspapers and cigarettes. Namely, what is now happening and where are the main players Tisak and i-Novine is a monopoly that destroys or has already destroyed more than 80% of small entrepreneurs dealing with kiosk sales where practically blackmail determines business conditions. Because whoever didn't agree to the conditions given by the I-Novine factory, or the Adris group behind them, can't, therefore, distribute cigarettes, or whoever didn't agree with Tis's special arrangements can't get to the papers. Either someone pretends not to see what's going on or actually doesn't understand that it's a problem that particularly affects small entrepreneurs and don't forget among them and a large number of developed defenders who have been given the opportunity to self-employment through the kiosk, but also the employment of other unemployed people. So that's one thing. And secondly, I'd just like to deal with the efficiency of the agency. Among other things, 42 high-level lawyers and economists work in the agency. Of these, 25 employees are in competition business, 10 are employed in state aid operations. See how many cases have been solved in the past year, and you will see that in a group of employees in the field of competition, 9.36 cases have been solved by one employee, and in this second group on state aid operations, 7.3 cases were solved during the year. It's just amazing that those who work in competition jobs, when they take away all the workdays, so Sundays, Saturdays, holidays and vacations were on average 24 full-time working days to solve one item. And those who do business in the area of state aid for a full 30 days to solve one object. I think it's very difficult to explain why it is like that and that the agency has, unfortunately, placed itself in the ranks of those bodies where the level of efficiency is extremely low. By the productivity we see here, we see that, with everything else, the agency is a positive one large cost spot that burdens the system with very small results of its action. Solve 9 items a year, or worse 7.3 items in a year, and that's what I call a spa... Thank you very much. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-28-0.u41241	Thank you. SDP representative club, Mr. Representative Gordan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-28-0.u41242	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President, the president of the board of agencies with associates, colleagues and colleagues. I'm not going to deal with whether there were two officers or more or less, or whether they were less or more effective. Instead, we want to discuss this report on the situation that is in play today, that is, what is the situation with the protection of competition. To begin with, the SDP Representatives Club thinks that the situation is not good, that in situations of injury to the protection of competition, i.e. inappropriate and unauthorized behaviour, small entrepreneurs often suffer, and that large players, that those who do the biggest jobs, who have the greatest impact pass without any sanctions and do literally what they want. The agency received one strong position at the beginning, one important area of regulation independent as an institution of the Croatian Parliament, but to date we see that it has failed to introduce order on that market. This is evident from the presentation of the president of the council who said the agency needs cooperation and can't do it all alone. The fact is, she can't do it all by herself, but did we all get the impression that she did everything she could? We don't think so. The progress mentioned by the President of the Council, which was assessed as significant in the process of Croatia's accession to the European Union, can speak of the situation as being better than it was before, but still, the SDP's Club considers that it is not nearly as it should be. And now I'm going to try to explain with a few examples of why we think so. We don't primarily think about what we see and in the report one excuse that there were no sanctions, or that sanctions were imposed in rare cases and that they amounted to a minimum million kuna in the last 5 years, for such an area almost insignificant and for the offences that probably took place for certain entrepreneurs hundreds of millions of kuna profits, fines were imposed million kunas. But here we can accept that it's not the agency's fault, but because of what this domain really needs to do by changing the law to the Agency's jurisdiction, not to criminal courts. So we can support these initiatives that come from the agency, but other things that the agency has allowed us to think are not good. For example, the concentration situation in the area of trade. We saw the latest report that says the largest retail chain in Croatia has a concentration of 30%, and in certain areas, specifically in the city of Zagreb and up to 50% of the market. Is such a concentration allowed, i.e. whether it goes for the development of competition, or whether it goes for suppliers of such retail chain to finance the business of the 7 billion kuna chain as we have seen in recent months in the media, and whether this is all going towards the protection of Croatian consumers, i.e. whether they can have all the services and all the goods they need to live. I don't think so. I think it goes primarily towards protecting this entrepreneur, but the agency didn't react at all except what he's doing on a periodic basis as much as anyone has a share in the market. I'll compose it with another example. If the question of Zagreb and 50 percent market share is allowed, then why is school not allowed to agree on the price of passing exams, or education for drivers in Rijeka? It is the same thing, neither will I go shopping for goods and services in Rijeka, nor will someone from Rijeka come to Zagreb, go to auto school. So on the one hand, one archaic is heading towards small entrepreneurs, and I told the other archaic is going towards the largest Croatian retail chain that has a concentration that borders the minors with a monopolistic. And then we expect, of course, that this entrepreneur will not benefit from the situation, but will also develop producers. Normally, in that situation, they'll look at their own interests. Or another important thing, that same concert is allowed to spread to the press. Same retail. No limit whatsoever. And the third thing is to allow it to spread to retail advertising in Zagreb, to participate and to participate in the advertising company Zagreb poster and thus round the story, of course, with the sale of food where we can guarantee 100% that the protection of competition is not even close but that these entrepreneurs and this entrepreneur are in great advantage of everyone else. I'm not saying we're protecting other entrepreneurs, but I'm sure that's when citizens pay too much. I'm going to say another area that makes me think the Agency doesn't deserve a passing grade, which is to give an opinion on the laws. Several laws are mentioned in the Report one is the Law on Credit Institutions, but another is even more important is the Law on Electronic Telecommunications, where we in the Assembly disagreed with this Law because we said that it was allowed by a leading operator in Croatia to make it a right way to become a telecommunications operator and to sort of hold all other operators in a hand, especially those who are the smallest. But, okay, in the parliamentary procedure, it went through, the majority supported it not to develop and liberalise further that telecommunications market, but in the Report of the Competition Protection Agency which should work to promote competition rights and policies, we see no reaction to it, not a single letter has been said that this might lead to an unfair position for other entrepreneurs on the market. And of course we can't support that, and we don't think that's good. And if we're right here, or that the leading contractor in the area of telecommunications services has a position better than we should have, we get out of two data, the first thing that liberalization in fixed telephony doesn't go at that speed, like in mobile telephony, and the second thing when you see the profit that that company makes every year, and when it tries to compare it with other countries, it's really the most efficient or the best-organised company, or they make more profit than they should because nowhere in the world is the "Deutsch Telecom" that owns that company doesn't get it, even three times less than HT. And that's another argument that says that the protection of competition in this segment doesn't work. So we can talk about not being able to do it ourselves, and we need the help of the institutions, and this Parliament will help with the adoption of a new law that will give the agency even greater autonomy and the possibility of sanctioning, giving more penalties because the profits these companies make in billions of kunas, then the fine of a million kuna really means nothing, we will give that support but we expect the Agency to get the support of the SDP Club to use all those instruments it has in its hands and give it the current Law. So specifically in this case to talk about whether the concentrations in certain counties and cities are particularly acceptable in the retail trade, whether it is in line with the protection of the competition that HT gets the possibility of using the infrastructure that the Croatian people have built over the past 20, 30 years and that it is clearly apparent by this. When we see it, even if we don't have the Agency's ability to sanction and influence these processes, then that agency will be able to get our support from us. Given that this is not now in work in Croatia, the SDP Representatives Club cannot support the Report of the Competition Protection Agency. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-28-0.u41243	Okay. Thank you. Mr. Representative Kreso Filipovic's club, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-28-0.u41244	Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Presidents of the Council and representatives of the Competition Protection Agency, colleagues and colleagues. Here, before us, we could already conclude the report on the work of the Competition Protection Agency for 2008 which the Agency, as well as all the previous years, forwarded to the Croatian Assembly for consideration, on the one hand, because it is an obligation imposed by the Law on the Protection of Competition, and on the other hand for the purpose of ensuring the transparency of its work and openness to the wider business and professional public. Of course, this is not the only way in which the Agency shows a high degree of transparency of its work but also does so in other appropriate ways clearly listed in Chapter 3.6 of the Communication with the public of the report in question. At the beginning of this debate on behalf of the Croatian Democratic Community's Club of Representatives, I would like to say that the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community will fully support this Report. I will say something in general about the freedom of competition, as it is of crucial importance for the progress of all countries, as well as for the progress of the Republic of Croatia, which is based on the principle of free competition, rather than on state interventionism, which generally brings certain entrepreneurs and certain sectors in a more favourable position than others, thereby derivating market laws and market equality. Therefore, freedom of competition is a driving force of the market economy given the fact that it drives and motivates entrepreneurs who are in each other in terms of innovation or the development of new products and services, the application of new technologies and technological processes, the cooperation of science and industry, the integration of different forms of cooperation and so on, and all in order to find competitive products and services, which will be able to satisfy as many consumers as possible with their price and other characteristics. However, it should also be said that the unlimited freedom of competition is not in itself a guarantee of economic development because, in these cases and in such circumstances, those largest and strongest entrepreneurs exclude competitors from the market and restrict the right of individuals to launch their own entrepreneurial initiatives. In this way, such entrepreneurs, with the greatest benefit due to their position on the market, are, as a rule, causing enormous damage and the interests of the consumers themselves. It is therefore of paramount importance to make efforts to ensure that all entrepreneurs have equal access and survival in the market, and this is only possible by appropriate regulation by a state which will go towards a constant development of the right to protect freedom of competition and to ensure adequate conditions for the operation of all national regulators. Here it is necessary to stress that the Republic of Croatia has indeed done very much in this field in the last 10 years, and this can also be distinguished from the Agency's own report. Of course, the central place in this field of action is the Agency for the Protection of Competition, which is a legal person with public powers, whose primary task is to protect freedom of true competition. This basic task, as shown in the report itself, is achieved by the Agency on the one hand by preventing the conclusion of prohibited agreements and the abuse of the ruling position of entrepreneurs on the market and the control and assessment of the authorisation of their concentration, on the other hand by performing the assessment of the approval and control of the implementation and recovery of state aid. Therefore, all those transactions and activities prescribed by the Competition Protection Act and the State Aid Act. In my 2008 Work Report for which, on behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, I can certainly and in my personal name, say with full responsibility that it is truly comprehensive, quality and very educational. The Competition Protection Agency provides a detailed overview of its work and of all activities during 2008. the year, but also gives an overview of the activities of the part-round international cooperation, then a demonstration of the organisation and staff potential of the agency, and a final review of the financial operations for 2008. Indeed, in this way the concise report gives full insight into the work of the agency, its achievements, and the problems it encounters in its daily work, so it deserves absolutely every praise. Furthermore, the report concludes that the agency, with its modest team of 50 employees and budgets, is slightly larger than 10 million kuna during 2008 all the jobs and tasks put forward by it were up-to-date and high-quality. The previous claim is best supported by indicators that speak of 307 resolved by 330 received cases and the fact that the Administrative Court of the Republic of Croatia has ruled on 4 administrative disputes initiated by dissatisfaction parties in all cases, or confirmed the decisions of the Agency. Despite the fact that 8 employees are employed today in relation to the situation in last year's report and the current inability to work, we believe it is necessary to take account of the future, of course when conditions arise, of the need for further staffing of the agency. This approach will certainly contribute to a faster solution to the problem and to the implementation of a greater number of activities by the agency, which is taking the course of achieving its basic objective, i.e. creating a level playing field on the market for all economic operators and insurance as much as possible for all Croatian consumers, with a greater choice of products and services and their lower prices and increased quality. These circumstances can only be secured by markets where real competition is ruled, not monopolies and oligopolies. We particularly welcome the Agency's cooperation as a general competition regulator with existing sectoral regulators, such as HAK, HERA, HANFA and HNB, given that they employ a large number of experts who have specific knowledge from specific areas and who can contribute significantly better to the functioning of those markets by working together with the Agency's experts. It should also be said that such cooperation is a practice in all European countries which has proved to be a very successful means of establishing an effective competition for the benefit of consumers regardless of whether it is economic operators which have a significant impact on the costs of business or citizens who have a practical standard and quality of life. It is also necessary to welcome the Agency's initiative to establish cooperation with the State Commission for the Control of Public Procurement Procedures and the Department for the Public Procurement System at the Ministry of Economy because it should become a guarantee of a more effective public procurement system deprived of any possibility of corrupt action. Finally, this report shows that the Government of the Republic of Croatia and this House have recognised the importance and need of improving the competition protection system since this year a new Law on the Protection of Competition, which introduces a series of new solutions and a series of solutions embedded in the acquis of the European Union, has been adopted. Therefore, it should be believed that the application of this law, which awaits us at the end of next year, will bring greater benefits to Croatian entrepreneurs and consumers than the existing system in which, because of the lack of proper sanctions for law enforcement, the Agency's decisions did not have and did not have that strength and impact on the market as they should have. That is why we at the HDZ Club expect the agency to be consistent in the application of the law and not to spare anyone and to be under pressure no matter what side they come from, and will certainly be given the authority of the new law to the Agency. Especially those relating to the jurisdiction to impose penalties. In order to prevent this, the Agency must continue to work on the dissemination of the knowledge and culture of competition and to constantly get to know the business community and the general public, mainly with reasons why competition and free competition among market participants is a backbone and a prerequisite for the development of a more efficient and competitive economy. Finally, I will just say that the HDZ Representatives Club will fully support the 2008 Report on the work of the Competition Protection Agency, and I want to wish on behalf of the club and on my own behalf the Presidents of the Council and the members of the Council and all the agency's employees a lot of success in future work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-28-0.u41245	Thank you. Resume session at 3 p.m. with individual discussion. The first in line is Madam Representative Nada Cavlović Smiljanec.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-28-0.u41246	My colleagues and colleagues, we continue our afternoon session. The item of the agenda is the Annual Report on the work of the Competition Protection Agency for 2008. And we start applying for individual debates. The first is a colleague of Nada Čavlović Smiljanec.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-28-0.u41247	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Council presidents with their associates. My colleagues and fellow MPs. By discussing today the Annual Report on the work of the Competition Protection Agency, we need to know that we are talking first and foremost about the interests of all citizens of the Republic of Croatia, but we are also talking about the position of entrepreneurs on the market. The Agency is there to ensure the equal position of all entrepreneurs on the market while at the same time ensuring a better position for citizens in the supply of goods and services. By reading the 2008 work report, we see that during 2008, increased activities were also expressed in the preparation of the Competition Protection Act, which should start with the application of 1.10.2010, which is important for a number of reasons for which I will discuss further my debate. To this end, co-operation with the competent ministries has been continued to give the Agency more power to discover, and then adequate penalties for those who violate the rules on the protection of competition, means those who do not allow their behaviour to access competitors, close the market or share the market between themselves... Yeah, I'm sorry. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Prices and other conditions of sale are agreed, and the ultimate goal is to clear, obtain illegal profits, maintain high prices and bring Croatian citizens into a position that must pay for all of this. What is particularly highlighted in this report and what is a major problem where the ultimate price is paid by Croatian citizens, is certainly the fact that infringements of the Competition Protection Act are considered a violation of the penalties for breach of those rules brought by misdemeanor courts. This is also pointed out in this report, and it is precisely a devastating fact that for the period 2004 to 2008, infringers of courts for that period have imposed fines totalling only one million kuna, regardless of what the law provides for the possibility of imposing a fine of 10% of the total income made by the entrepreneur, means that the offender of those rules was made in the financial year, and we know that the revenues that individual offenders made during those years were extremely high. The sadder the fact that the misdemeanors during 2008, meaning in the reporting period, made a total of 8 decisions, 5 of which made decisions to suspend the proceedings due to antiquity. The question arises as to why, after such bad data, it has been waiting for a number of years to be passed, and then the application of the new Consumer Protection Act, on the protection of competition because the law was passed in 2009, but only since October 2010. It is obvious that someone's interests are protected, obviously there is no political will to put an end to illicit behaviour on the market in the Republic of Croatia. I would just like to remind in the below that during 2008, food prices in stores have increased sharply, and then what we find inadmissible happened, and that is that now the former prime minister has directly negotiated with entrepreneurs a reduction in the price of food products. What was the result of these negotiations? Prices have increased over 30%, and only a few percent have been reduced. I believe that Croatian citizens did not benefit from this, and the state should first of all create a favourable environment, primarily by adopting the Competition Protection Act, so that the agency as a regulatory body would allow such relations on the market where Croatian citizens would have as favourable prices as possible. Since I come from Slavonia, I would like to say one more thing, I should like to point out that farmers have been facing the same problems for many years during the sale or purchase of cereals, and these are the very low prices of these products, or cereals. And why do I mention it and why do I think it falls within the context of this agency report? The reason is that in this year, the association of the milling-pekering industry "The Cereal Community" in certain counties had a monopoly position and thus directly disables competition. The Agency's 2008 report does not show at all that the agency, which can and under official duty, has initiated any procedure at all, and I believe that neither in 2009 was related to the monopoly position of the legal entity, as I said, "Crop Community", which buys out cereals in Slavonia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-28-0.u41248	Thank you very much. The next is a debate between colleagues Ingrid Anticevic-Marinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-28-0.u41249	Thank you very much, Your Honor, Madam Vice President. Dear Presidents of the Council of Associates. My colleagues and colleagues. As Mrs Spevec said in the opening and said, I think it is a motto, and we must agree, that healthy competition brings benefits for consumers such as low prices, high quality products, wide supply of goods and services, and contributes to innovation. However, is that exactly how it is in Croatia? We can't quite agree that we have a healthy competition. Our consumers are not satisfied, they are not satisfied with the quality of the goods, even though the goods are insufficient. It's better to have fewer and their quality guaranteed. But it may be the subject of another debate. So, what have we done so far? A healthy competition? We created a legislative framework, we created an institutional framework, we even gave the Agency greater powers that often hindered it. However, things continued to advance, but not as desirable as we all expected together, especially in the end line and consumers themselves, not to mention those most concerned, the competitors themselves. Namely, what we're missing is that implementation and implementation. Of course, here's a colleague who's already been talking about inadequate judicial protection, we don't have an effective punishment for offenders who would eventually have an effect on others if they didn't act that way or the other way around. And in those cases where they were forced to impose fines, they're always somewhere around minimums. What does that show? This also shows that the state remains strong to the weak and weak to the strong. And then we see that it is not only in full, or only in part, but not to the desired extent that the constitutional principle of the social state is achieved. Namely, I will concentrate my debate a little on this eternal relationship which now, in this time above all, in globalisation at its own time of recession and crisis culminates. The conflict between manufacturers and large merchants. The big merchants here are privileged. They're not as privileged anywhere as we are in our area. When we spoke, and we often look back on the position of workers, then the inevitable topic is the position of workers, particularly the working woman in the trade chains. It's simply chains of great injustice. And those women who primarily work in those chains of slavery are almost the 21st century. But maybe on another occasion a lot more detailed. This is the relationship between manufacturers and merchants. In particular, food producers who are tormented by this recession simply kills, and this general indifference addressed the agency and almost all regulatory authorities to finally end the will of large chains, specifically a particular trade chain. They talked about it very openly and courageously how much money they had to give and money so that their products could be found on the shelves of these trade chains. But there's no end to pain. You don't pay for their products. In fact, then they are still valued and traders are picking up the gross sums both at the expense of citizens and at the expense of the economy, especially those producers that I repeat fold in this general indifference. If the condition of traders to the domestic food industry doesn't change soon we can put the key in the lock, the manufacturers say. So this relationship has been culminating recently in the last year. Partly due to recession, partly due to indifference, part because at least the banks no longer follow the necessary extent by their craftsmen. The demands of traders towards them, according to these producers, have become unreasonable, completely unreasonable and unwarranted. What in this area do you do? I repeat, they've called all the regulators, but this is where the most interesting agency itself is. They have not received adequate response, nor adequate protection. How can we just suppress this production of ours, and on the other hand, merchants raise enormous margins? Nowhere in Europe, she's not that big. And why and why is that? Don't we have the strength or the mechanism to put an end to it? Of course they need to make money. But is it justified, is it fair that they make such extra profit and often on the goods of suspicious origin and even more suspicious qualities? The failure to pay these owners, these companies, these large trade chains are already reaching a worrying scale for producers. No slave is paid for them for months, and in that time they turn the money away from that slave several times. So where's the justice, where's the balance? It's just one skill of good governance, but right now it's not just about agencies being honest, it's basically about ruling policy. The skills of good governance require a balance between the principle of solidarity between people of different economic opportunities and the need for market and other competitors by allowing natural differences in favour of the capable. There is a self-deception as it has now become a new clager in Croatia. When this economic crisis is over, when the world is ripped out of it, then we will automatically get out of that crisis. However, here the governor warns of all delusions, such delusions, of this formation but of still subsisting and putting his head in the sand as it came all by itself, and of how it will all go by itself independent of ourselves. That's not the way it is. We know that the crisis here is well original, that it is a good part of the original Croatian product and a time of self-deception if it was once forgiven it is never, and in particular it can no longer persist in such behaviour. In fact, today, we are struggling today with structural problems. In the long term, therefore, this development which was based on the borrowed capital and on the sale of its own resources must be stopped. This is clearly referred to by the information on competitiveness and debt data. The discussion on the report on the work of the Competition Protection Agency for the past year would be incomplete unless we refer to the progress report on Croatia's progress. This is what they, which is the European Commission on page 35, are talking about exactly what the Competition Protection Agency is talking about. That we lack exactly adequate policies, implementing policies. That we have one legislative framework institutional, but that we miss exactly that implementing policy, especially and in their own context they are stressing against the cartel. It is also said that the agency has not yet made a single decision against what they call hard... cartel. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] They also say that the National Plan for Restructuring and Individual Jobs adopted by the government in the sixth month of last year must be revised, that this has not been done today. And I repeat, here it is, and I conclude that there remains a major problem with implementing large norms, but also strengthening the Agency's strength against cartels. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-28-0.u41250	Thank you very much. We have one replica, Agent Goran Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-28-0.u41251	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Well, I'd like to replicate to my colleague Anticevic in the part where she mentioned that she was in large trade chains, that employees are modern slaves of the 21st century. A slightly too difficult term, but certainly that employees in modern trade chains cannot be boasted of the working conditions. They can't boast of the height of the pay. They can't even brag about overtime. I can't even boast about paid holidays. But I wouldn't put it all under the same roof. The truth is, they even prevail. But for the sake of truth, I must point out that there is one chain of commerce in which employees are truly satisfied. In which when you come shopping in their shops, you see pleasure on their faces, in which their salaries are twice as high as in 90% of other cases, and in which the average salary is 6 thousand kunas net, which is for our terms. I didn't hear right, so I'd like to answer. But next time. But in 90 percent of cases, it's intolerable conditions. Where employees are abused. Where women are particularly abused. Where pregnant women are particularly abused. Where illegal cancellations are given and no one reacts, and first you should react to the union, and the union protects the most. And these examples of positive ones that they can, instead of pointing out, they keep it quiet so that they can cross over and what's wrong with most of them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-28-0.u41252	Replica reply, colleague Antičević Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-28-0.u41253	Well, it's very short. I remain with this claim that these women are slaves of the 21st century, which is why I say the 21st century. And the truth is, what you're saying is that there are such exceptions, there are light examples. But that doesn't mean we can't and can't speak for ourselves over what you said, over 90% of those chains, as they refer to that workforce. Not only is overtime not paid, they can't even dream of it, but they are such conditions, especially for women, we see that these middle-aged women who will be a little bit fired, but young girls, young women who are employed there almost without any of those rights that are paper-based, but they are all, not only are unions often and forbidden, but that labor and especially those workers are so frightened, so willing to work for such a miserable salary and for so little rights. It's something that's worrying. And this isn't just about the agency's soul, maybe at least in this segment. But it goes to the soul of a policy that needs to be strong and stop such many composed barons that with people, with their families, they almost do whatever they want. A lot of people don't even get paid anymore. One part already doesn't get paid. So many times I meet with such individuals, especially women who from the outset see if any overseer is looking to complain about some conditions that are hard to make here in any way and reproduce what they are talking about and testifying about.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-28-0.u41254	Thank you very much. It is time for the debate, MP Davor Bernardic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-28-0.u41255	Dear Vice-Presidents of the Parliament, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, respected representatives of the Competition Protection Agency. So when it comes to this report, then one thing should be kept in mind, which is that in the last year the level of foreign investment in Croatia has fallen by 80%. And the question is, is that your responsibility too? More and more complaints and remarks from the European Union that the Croatian economy has been carteled, that it is impossible to enter it, that there are huge problems not only in protecting competition, but in protecting the elementary regulations of business logic, business processes and all that is necessary, and that today we have had the opportunity to discuss both exporters and the guarantees of the Republic of Croatia from the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, where three main, three key things that Croatian exporters say are definitely problems of non-functioning, i.e. Individuality in state finances and state-owned enterprises and non-compliance with business processes in the manner in which the laws are defined. In the opening section, you said and you were critical of the institutions of the Croatian state according to, I would dare say to the government and sectoral regulators and to the judiciary. Then you also pointed out that the level of the system, i.e. The level of state aid that is already in Croatia, I will remind you at a level of 9 billion, that is 3 and a half percent of gross social product. In 2003 he was at 3 billion, already unsustainable. These state aids are not only targeted at agriculture, but also shipbuilding, which is the best said by Agent Cain when he claimed that the opinions of the agencies coming in the direction of shipbuilding were also relevant to the restructuring plans from 2007 to 2012 and the opinion of your agency is only such that it does not contain sufficient data for any more serious analysis. So we bring plans and strategies without any more serious analysis, and that is why nothing in this country can in any way change. There is, of course, the problem, the problem and other state support that the European Union does not stimulate. In fact, its directives detimise them because no country in the European Union can today be the one to protect losers, even if they are of any importance to the European economy. And that's where Croatia has serious problems and you said yourself that in 2005 it failed to make structural reforms. And I'll agree with you that now it's too late and that she's screwed up. Because if that weren't the case, then today wouldn't be about it that way and critically you would, but neither would I. Problems with... The competition that is burdened with any possible outward entry, the problems with public procurement that are privileged by certain groups, I would call them so, the problems with the judiciary is something you mentioned, but also we in this process, in this period which is behind us, and we should talk about the period back 4, 5 years, we have not seen and we have not seen that you are quite loud in those demands, and that is something I would agree that the basic grudge coming from the SDP Club itself but coming from the Croatian public, but which comes from the wider European public, at the end of the European Commission. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So it can also be seen that in the protection of the biggest players like THT, like Konzum, like INA or MOL, there are many examples that point to, quite a lot, I will not say unfair and unfair but at least slow intervention and that is something to be resented. One example I'll give him, here he's tied right to Croatian Telecom, you remember that you're also what my colleague Gordan Maras said, gave an opinion on the proposal for a law on electronic communications, that's something that's also by the law on your part circle simply so, but what's left is an opinion on the key thing that actually puts this telecommunications operator in an even bigger monopolistic position and that's the right way. And now we're in a situation where we have a schizophrenic situation which, I'll only set one example in fixed telephony, a competitor in the Croatian fixed-line telecom must pay for its services 70% of the retail price. So from what they're charging, from what they charge through HT, they pay 70% of that price, which is not such an example, there's really no example anywhere in Europe, absolutely nowhere in Europe. And now the question is whether it's the protection of competition. It is not a matter of protecting competition in order not to be privileged, but of protecting competition to protect citizens, it is ultimately for citizens, for people living in Croatia, who work here to earn income if equal competition is cheaper, this will be said to you by any more dedicated economist and one who has dealt with classical economic theory. And that's kind of our grudge, the objection is that you haven't been heard especially in the last few years, since the last few years of that picturesquely I would say the most picturesque testimony numbers that are ahead of us and refer to the number of opinions given per year. So in 2004, you gave 94 opinions, in 2005, that number was slightly smaller, in 2006 even smaller, in 2007, that number was 13 opinions, and unfortunately we got into a situation, and I believe that it can't be in your favor that practically for those opinions, perhaps next year no one will even ask. Here's my contribution to the debate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-28-0.u41256	Thank you very much. It is up to the debate that representative Goran Maric is.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-28-0.u41257	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, esteemed members of the Agency's Council, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. When the transition process began in the former Socialist countries, it also happened in the powerful Soviet Union. And then a group of Russian experts, economists, made a plan for 500 days so-called. A 500-day plan entitled "Transition to the Market" and sent it to the presidents, Gorbačov and Jeljeljin. In this Report, the Transitions on the Market wrote these Russian experts that the market economy is something that humanity has so far most effectively invented, that the market economy only brings balance to national economies. This is just an example of how important the market economy is in the economy and for every national economy, but also for humanity and the global order of the economy as a whole. Many countries are making efforts to legally ensure, encourage and maintain competitiveness on the market and there are two extremes, and between these two extremes is an eternal struggle. One is the extreme that says that the best state is the weakest, and that the whole market dominates without the influence of the state. And another where the state is an absoluteist where it introduces a collectiveised economic order and a monopolist economic order. Among these are variations in the market economy and each national economy chooses and determines what level of market competitiveness will be and how it will work. Thus, we too have determined by law what the economy will be like in Croatia. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, 49th, says entrepreneurship and the market economy form the cornerstone of the economic structure of the Republic of Croatia. The Competition Protection Act has also been adopted, and this Law provides for a competent Competition Protection Agency and seems to be an effort to maintain competition on the market, as this competitiveness is ultimately solely because of man, because of the individual due to the end-user. No quality service, no quality goods, no proper price without market competitiveness. The role of the Competition Protection Agency is therefore enormous. It is not only her but it is a huge role in achieving and maintaining competition and competition. I wouldn't have technically talked about the report, it's obvious that the Council met twice a month on average, that it solved 307 items of 330, that it only did with five employees or 48 and 5 council members, and this report was technically excellently done, with one personal objection that the report of any one coming to the Assembly could not be complete without a conclusion. This Report has no conclusion, and certainly due to the events, because of everything the Agency has met in its action concludes and concludes this Report. So the report is acceptable and I will vote for acceptance, but there are several situations on the market in the Republic of Croatia that are not acceptable, and why it may, in part, be influenced by the Agency and prevent such phenomena and behaviour. Entrepreneurs encounter cases of imposing unfair conditions. There is no competitive health if business conditions are imposed, and such cases in Croatia are progressing. Sales or purchase prices shall be imposed, agreements shall be reached which share the market or give different operating conditions. It's a conditioned sale, when you take out a loan for an apartment at a bank, then you have to secure that apartment at their insurance house. Prices in the market economy should be the result of supply and demand and competitiveness in the market. There are several examples, let's say, of basic food products where they certainly value ultimately bought by each citizen of the Republic of Croatia is not the result of competition and market economy. The same price of the same product only in the neighbouring country is a big difference. For example, vegeta is 16 kuna in Croatia, in the neighbouring country 9 kuna, oil 14 kuna, and in the neighbouring country 7.5 kuna, but the same thing is the exact same products, chocolate 5.60 to 4.10, vinegar 10.5 kuna in our 6.30 neighbor. Water is a special example. Half a liter of water costs about a liter of oil. And we know that there is not enough oil in the world, there is a constant oil crisis so the refineries so the tankers then transport and the processing and everything that increases the cost, and the water alone in Croatia has 29 billion cubic metres. Of which 9 billion cc's are waste on underground renewable waters, and 90% of the total consumption in Croatia refers to these very underground renewable waters. And how, then, could it be the result of the offer and the demand that the price of water costs half a liter of 5 kuna and 95 limes, and a liter of oil as much? This cannot possibly be the result of market relations, competition and the market economy. There must be market abuse and I know that the agency is not a market price regulator, but also by law it must react when price increases are the result of market abuse. And what is abuse when an unwarranted price increases? Excise duties are imposed on certain products, profit on this activity is 50.60%, 30%, which they also increase prices because excise duties are introduced. I don't think cigarette prices are the result of the offer and demand and the result of the competitiveness developed on the market in Croatia. This is the result of the monopoly, and when the price of the Rovinj tobacco factory is raised, then the agency has to react because it's abuse of position, but we've also combined two single factories into one and it turns out there's no monopolistic position. What's a fixed phone subscription rather than abuse of position? What is an increase in the price of an HTV subscription rather than an abuse of position? Based on what did she lift? Because they spend a lot, so they have to sort of settle down and raise the price of the subscription. Problems arise in the economy when relations are intertwined, ownership relations of production, trade, banking. Once the owners are involved and connected to each other, then there is a reduced level of competition. This is where problems arise, the moment banks start to become owners of companies, companies become owners of production, etc. So there are no equal terms of management. And the entry into perfect competition is not just affected by the number of entrepreneurs, although the number of entrepreneurs is very important, it also affects the way these entrepreneurs behave on the market. And many entrepreneurs on the Croatian market behave inappropriately to the market economy, and it really is high time to put an end to them because this results in significantly higher prices and significantly lower service, significantly lower quality of goods than would otherwise give a market economy. The market economy should also be kept and kept. It needs to be nurtured because the market economy is the only fair economy and the only efficient economy. We have to fight for her. She's not finished yet. And it's not market freedom for entrepreneurs to do what they want. Entrepreneurial freedom is to... not do what they want but to do what they can do and the agency should act in a way that determines what entrepreneurs should not do. Everywhere in the world of the Competition Protection Agency, so-called The police market, ban certain things, can't do anything, not advise, but you can move 100 meters there and you can buy half of Croatia. This way we will not advance in the competition, so we will have even more competitiveness, and that is not the objective of the market economy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-28-0.u41258	Thank you very much. We even have six replicas. I don't know what caused so many replicas, but we're playing the Rules of Procedure, I think. The first is Davor Bernardic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-28-0.u41259	Dear colleague Maric, you have apostrophe of what I have said, which is that the protection of competition is here because of workers and people, because of their higher standard. And that's exactly why this report is happening this way, so if the level of foreign investment falls by 80%, and we've absorbed from what colleagues at the Competition Agency say is a responsibility in the government, that the responsibility is on the judicial system and that the responsibility is on the regulators, then it's obvious what happens next year, and it's already happened in this one that 50,000 people in the last year are out of work, and in the following year, it's predicted that around 50,000 people are going to be out of work. If the level of foreign investment has fallen by 80% then someone should definitely be responsible because people won't be able to get a job, people won't be able to feed their families. It's not easy when someone's in that situation and it's hard on whoever's in that skin. And you mentioned that, before you said that some chains have the best conditions and that's true and I know it and it's a foreign pot that's not owned by Croatia. Because the Croatian worker completely doesn't care whether his owner is a foreigner or a domestic tycoon, he doesn't care, or maybe he's someone else. Because he's working, he's trying to provide the best possible existence for his family under these conditions. I'll mention something else. If it's a highway, for example. From Zagreb to Sisak, which was not built, at the beginning was supposed to cost 2 and some billion, and the latest costs go up to 5 billion, which means that the works were collected twice. If 500 people were to work on that highway with a price of 5 billion, it would cost 2.5 billion people, and 500 other people could have worked well for these 2.5 billion. However, this will obviously not be the case.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-28-0.u41260	Time.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-28-0.u41261	It comes in some way and a percentage of the penalty. One million kuna in 35 billion kuna in the European Union, 0.03 promila.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-28-0.u41262	Reply to the replica of counterpart Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-28-0.u41263	Thank you very much. A colleague, Bernardic, was said to have dropped investment levels in the Republic of Croatia, it is not disputed. That's right. Investment levels are falling all over the world. The most caused by the global crisis is the general recession. The truth is that Croatian investment is difficult, but it is not only an agency or an institution's fault. The roles of individual entrepreneurs on the Croatian market are predominant. Of course, in this respect, the agency can do much to break up the abuse of the ruling position and not develop competitiveness. That's what I was talking about. But just the opening of the market, which is more competitive in the market and encourages investment. At least the investment is where the market is closed. Freedom of the market is freedom of investment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-28-0.u41264	Second replica, MP Ante Kulušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-28-0.u41265	Your Honor, Madam President. My colleague Marić, I absolutely agree that unfortunately there is chaos on the Croatian market and the absolute Agency for the Protection of Competition must participate in this. But I wouldn't personally want every point to be about apolitanization. I'll say absolutely agree with your full debate. However, you did not mention one detail. Since I work in that branch, then I have to say about mandatory car responsibility insurance. Today on the Croatian market, there is just chaos related to car liability insurance, because certain insurance companies unlawfully give a 50% discount, and then they say come to me to secure, and then 300 kuna cash to pour fuel or at a certain gas station you can pour fuel for 300 kuna or pay 100% insurance, and on the shelf you will write 50%, and it is known that 50% should be gained 10 years, every year 5%. Unfortunately, it's been warned for years. However, no insurance company is therefore closed, and we all know how much tax the state pays less, how much tax is paid to the state less when car liability premiums decrease 50%, and that's to get someone 50% past 10 years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-28-0.u41266	Replica response, MP Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-28-0.u41267	Thank you very much. Kolušić, from practice, is the simplest to see market economy shortages, and you certainly see it well. But when cars are sold, they are also sold very often through the lending companies owned by banks. And these same banks often have their own and insurance companies. And they are now conditioning that these insurance companies of theirs must have these cars provided with them, not in Croatia insurance or other insurance. There is no opportunity for a customer to choose between competition. And the agency needs to act here effectively, efficiently. He can when he abuses his position at a price. Only you can use the Institute to abuse the ruling position at the price. When the price of abuse is of the ruling position, the agency is obliged to react. That's what the law says.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-28-0.u41268	Third replica, Agent Davor Huška.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-28-0.u41269	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Obviously, our colleague Maric inspired us by his exposure. Well, I came up with some new information today that's almost amazing, and it's about importing wine into Croatia. Today in Kutjevo was held the Wine Forum, our winemakers, wine producers in the wine-growing area. Information has been provided that five times more wine is imported into Croatia than is exported. Wine is imported unqualityly mainly from Macedonia, uncontrollably. And our winemakers who have excellent quality wine, which achieve high results, reviews, awards at international exhibitions and competitions, cannot sell their wine. We encourage through the state budget the planting of vineyards, the purchase of equipment, through business loans with the subsidy of interest again from the state and local budget, also the planting of vineyards, the purchase of equipment, more production when Croatia enters the European Union. And today, the wine supply of our winemakers is huge and they are asking the state to intervene with additional millions and millions of kunas, to export these wine supplies and allow normal functioning and further production of wine. There is also the role of the Competition Market Protection Agency to monitor this segment of the market, uncontrolled imports, low wine prices which our winemakers cannot compete to report to the competent and to take certain concrete actions. On the one hand, we encourage, on the other hand because of uncontrolled imports, we destroy wine production. It's just one case. Otherwise, the report is really good, but the agency has a lot of work to do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-28-0.u41270	Thank you very much. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-28-0.u41271	Thank you very much. Comrade Huška, there are examples of the past, but that's an excellent example. However, how to be competitive in conditions where an entrepreneur who produces, say, wine, to come to a retail network policy must pay for the arrangement of shelves of 30, 40, or 50,000 euros in advance. At the same time, they are competing with the imports of these wines you're talking about that are imported by companies owned by the same retail and wholesale. Well, they'd rather sell their wine to someone who imports and on it earns 50% than yours and on it earns 10%. But such a situation is unsustainable and in such situations the agency should react.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-28-0.u41272	Replica, Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-28-0.u41273	Thank you very much, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. My colleague Maric, if I'm gonna make it three things, the first thing we don't agree on, the other two do. You said the weak state in the free market and the market competition is what they call neoliberalism, we taste it and taste it still, and I see that in the Vatican they also study the early works of Marx in criticism of capitalism, and those earlier works of Marx would probably do us good to analyse our neoliberalism in Croatia. Secondly, you presented a number of good examples of where the market situation did not result from the freedom of competition. Was this year's buying-in price of wheat the situation of freedom of the market? Has the grain community in Croatia served because the excess wheat was dictated as low as possible and how this same grain community would behave or how it will behave when there is a shortage of wheat, not only in Croatia but in the surrounding market, which today was an excuse for such a price offer. So they created a monopoly and the peasant has no choice because they have agreed to make the same ransom price in the whole country no matter who has their own cooperative who doesn't have and who buys which classes. And third, where we also agree in 99, Croatia lost its financial independence and sovereignty by selling banks. The Croatian market and freedom of the Croatian market and freedom of competition are not dictated by Croatian entrepreneurs but by foreign banks. It is only invested in what interests the owners of foreign banks and the national interests of the state from which these banks have come to the state. ... the development and freedom of our market is determined outside Croatia, unfortunately, not in the Croatian Chamber of Commerce, not in the Croatian government or in those countries where the customers came from, during that big sale all by 12 99.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-28-0.u41274	Thank you very much. Reply to the replica of counterpart Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-28-0.u41275	I agree with my colleague, Lesar, that the behaviour of the neoliberalist economy and the market, namely the lack of the market, has taken place and that is, in the professional term, the absoluteism of freedom of the market. However, it has shown itself and never returned to the system, it has not repeated itself. Even though some of the great economists today publicly write columns and call upon such times, I guess protecting themselves because they were the main protagonists of such an economy. As regards the comments on the purchase of wheat, I agree with you that the price of wheat is not a market price and is not the result of market competition, but of course when those buying out are even speculating on the market with the products in this case of wheat. Exactly, and also, I agree with you that the 99th, so you know that I was the first to start, to have huge problems with the sale of banks. Not only are they changing owners, but because the state is in considerable debt, and today it is in debt due to the recovery of banks and it has been incometing one insignificant amount from the recovery. However, they selectively credit the project, and there is a problem, they are not interested in competitiveness in the Croatian market, they credit those projects that are close to their owners. Let's just say one bank I know doesn't credit for a long time and middle entrepreneurship, but that's why a company that starts with initials as the name and last name of the president of that bank has as many credits as you want. You'd faint if you saw how much that company got. For some, there's always, for some, there's no. But that's not the result of the competition again. I also apologize, also setting interest rates. Well, there is no doubt that there is a deal between banks on the terms of credit, I have no doubt about it.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-28-0.u41276	Time, buddy. Fifth replica of my colleague, Dear Zgrebec.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-28-0.u41277	Thank you, Vice President. You have opened a very interesting topic, or the essence of the Agency for the Protection of Competition, because its function is to monitor a fair competition, its function is to prevent unfair competition, its function is to prevent too much concentration, for example, one company finds, for example, agriculture, the processing industry, and that industry that is the only one in that company, and beyond that, another trade colleague Vujic also says the media, but we have nothing to say about it. Then, the bargaining that actually disrupts the competition and actually creates an unfair competition and I miss the finals in your presentation. If the Agency should do so, if such cases happen and we describe them, you have described them yourself, then it should be said that the Agency has not done its job. I will say every year again and again that through one association, this says the price of agricultural products, my colleague Lesar talked about wheat, one association, so all the processors of the wheat that are within one association agreed on the same price in the whole country. There is no intervention, but then you have a lot of pressure on the state to increase support for farmers, you have a drop in quality, a drop in production and everything else. This, in fact, should assess the work of the Competition Protection Agency.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-28-0.u41278	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-28-0.u41279	Well, colleague Zgrebec, I think this is an area and a question that really doesn't need to be politicized, so I opened up as you say the essence of the problem at the Agency, and that's why there's not a bit of politicizing in my view of the Agency's work. If you're saying the end of my discussion is missing, I think he's very clear and visible, I'm personally not satisfied with the Agency's results. Therefore, I have said and I repeat this because I think that according to the Competition Protection Act and by its definition, it is not an advisory body but a regulatory body and must act as the strictest police and be afraid of it. No one in the Republic of Croatia fears the entrepreneurs of the Competition Protection Agency.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-28-0.u41280	The latest replica of the representative, Ingrid Antičević-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-28-0.u41281	In your debate, but here and now in response to the replica, you almost might have answered what I'm going to replicate to you now, but since that's what's important, there's no burning and it's going to happen again. You said that market economy doesn't mean that someone behaves as they please. But why is someone acting the way they want to? Because they can behave like this, because apparently the agency is not taking measures that were given to her and the Parliament a few months ago as mechanisms in hand. Why don't they behave like that? You have also quoted how in many countries, as well as in us at the constitutional level, entrepreneurs and the market economy were raised right in many constitutions and written down. But in many constitutions, what is even more important than that is written down and why we have essentially a mess that is the source of all our problems. Many countries have the first article of their constitution to begin "This country rests on the job". You were talking about abnormal things that we're buying our own water as gasoline recently. And what's that for? Is this where the prophecy of the prophet Isaiah came true? "Our strangers moved into our houses, we had to buy our own water, we had to buy our own wood.". And why is that? That's where some people have their fingers in all of it. The state doesn't like competition either, and then through the head of the board of Six, he sanctions a worker who takes half a kilo of Vegeta. The state doesn't run unfair competition either.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-28-0.u41282	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-28-0.u41283	Thank you very much. Most often, Mrs Antičević has a problem when, under the notion of permitted concentration, disturbances and distortions of competition on the market and very often allows for a concentration that will not lead to distortions of competition and in practice, so, let's say, the concentration of telecommunications and indexes is allowed. And then one rule applies when they're different owners, and the other rules apply when they're the same owners. And in fact, they're no longer competitive, no more competition. And that this water thing you were saying, so I'm asking you who's going to produce it if there's nowhere to sell it. And how will he be able to sell successfully if he sells most of the ones he manufactures? I know many drinking water producers who would be satisfied with the sale price and 2.5 kuna for half a liter and not 6 kuna. And they would do good business and make profit both they and traders, but it is impossible because there is no degree of market competition development. And yet I say that these conditions should be secured by the Competition Protection Agency.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-28-0.u41284	Honorable MPs, respected MPs. I see that these two-minute debates have been going great for us, and I personally agree with one of these dynamic discussions, but I still must warn you that, with honorable exceptions, you have violated all of the rules of law. Maybe that's why we're changing the rules of procedure, maybe we can cut the debate short so we can get dynamics, but other than that you've all extended the debate together for one more lot and more, almost two debates, I don't think you've been fair to those who are waiting for their hearing to be properly reported. One of them is MP Antun Vujic next in line.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-28-0.u41285	When a man gets his word like this, then he should tell Mrs. Vice President thank you very much because it seems that these discussions really make more sense. In the end, these few replicas showed that the attitudes of individual clubs could be different, so I'm going to say something a little different, very different. First of all, here is one such apotheosis of the free market of gentlemen who gave it did not follow the literature, and there is no longer one in the countries from which we have taken over. ... the free market is very good when the goods are exported, and when the goods are imported it is not very good. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And whatever state doesn't know how to find an instrument to solve it then it goes the way ours does. So, here's the deal. In the situation where the crisis has just taken place, when we are just talking about how in the West even banks are being rehabilitated, when the entire industry is going for state support we have decided to explore to the end who in Croatia does not finally allow democracy, free market, prosperity and our overall perspective to flourish. Well done. The last discussion, which, with all my praises, was in some way triggered and Mr. Maric showed it. All of a sudden, we have found many examples of what is not in this account. This report is, let him not go to anyone personally, the greatest falsification that has ever appeared in the Parliament so far because he is going over important things and suggesting completely marginal things. So I'm going to try to say one of those things about what it's about, and that's what our agency is about, and then I'm going to ask whose agency is it, whether this country or some other force that has some ambition with this country. So, here's the deal. Mrs. Spevec distinguishes the two types of main problems in the agency's activities, so she says in an interview with the entrepreneurial portal that it is therefore a matter of abuse of the ruling position and that another issue which was very much concerned with the issue of state support. It is interesting that in this report on the issue of a ruling position that would not be related to state support, there is almost no word at all. So, about all these things that Mr Bernardic was talking about, which you were talking about, there's not a word. However, where a country happens to report to protect some shy cloth of some kind of interest there is a question of support for the state's dramatic issue. So there's a question of our opening up to me that I don't know what the gentlemen who perform on behalf of Europe are, so that's what they're asking this agency to do, so they have to react quickly, and the report is mostly dedicated to it. I'm not going to talk about many things, but I'm going to point out a special example that I know very well so that I can say with full responsibility and with considerable knowledge of what it is. It is about the fact that in its strong fight against all forms of state aid, the agency has also declared that a subscription to television is also State aid. Allow me, they're very proud of that effect of theirs. It reads as follows: "The agency has been able to prove that in the event of a subscription it is a state support," although it was not easy at all, said Mrs. Spevec. I do not know, Mrs. Spevec, who has authorized you to give an interpretation of state support in a way that you fight for it, to fight for it against the interests of this country, to fight for it against the law of this country and to fight for it in a way that it is nowhere in Europe nor defined in that way as you have stated it. Of course, I could find an answer, I find it in another row of one of these papers that's in front of us right now. The Agency will say to provide all professional assistance within its competence in order to make it clear to HRT as an entrepreneur performing a service of general economic interest in the broadcasting sector, etc., etc. Mrs. Spevec and the esteemed colleagues and colleagues of the Agency, I don't know where you've been reading and where you've been learning these things, so to speak, you haven't read a lot of things to the end. Your first information is not a slave or at least it's not just a slave. Secondly, public interest is a public interest and you cannot reform it with your views. And third, you are not here to defend private interests against public interest. You are in charge of defending private interests against other private interests, and the state prescribes what is a public interest, not you. This is something inconceivable, and it's especially inconceivable in a context where you don't have any foothold anywhere in Europe for your position like this. First, you have a Amsterdam protocol that tells you and tells you about the priorities of national legislation. Secondly, you have Directive 2007 which tells you that you need to be seen or that you need to consider what the EU is saying, it is a community of these televisions. Third, you have that same... which says this is a good practice in Croatia. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And fourth or fifth, you say after all that, that you actually managed to establish a great discovery that this is about state support. I really think one of the discoveries that should be rewarded, I just don't know from whom, I hope not from the Parliament of this country, although my great surprise are colleagues from HDZ who also write in this party's programme something about public interest and public television, and also about the social sustainable economy, and thoughts will stand for public interests. I don't know where these formulations came from. This is where people have been fighting for years to preserve public television. You, without any motive, without absolutely any motive, do not call on any practice in two random televisions because the whole of European practice is different. You're going to your solemn discovery that the support is, in fact, that the subscription is support. Well done. Otherwise, it tells them that it can be solved in a different way, that if there is already something that could be interpreted as support, that it can simply be run accountingly by what goes on public television in public and what goes on other content. So like this, this is just one example. This is a second example of what colleagues and colleagues used to say. I don't think and I don't have that kind of mean intentions, and if I did, then I'd like to make them feel better because I want to think better about people. I think what you've done is that it's simply a continuation of a completely wrong line of thinking, which is in the interest of this country, where I mean the real perspective of it, how it should be advocated for national interests, that it's simply an idolatry of a model that's disappeared in your models in Western Europe, which you here in the deep province repeat as sacred and which I think we should accept in this way as you suggest. I would actually, even though I know that such results usually do not exist in this House, ask your apologies for what you have said here. Your apology for finding out by this House that he's giving support, not a fee. But since this is probably not going to happen, I leave it to everyone on their conscience, and I am particularly talking to the HDZ College Club where we really shouldn't have different opinions about these things, to think about how they're going to support this kind of understanding of support. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-28-0.u41286	We have one replica. Representative Goran Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-28-0.u41287	Thank you very much. So here's to six once I return, and my colleague Vujic certainly deserves it by his performance in the assessment of the definition of subscription for Croatia's broadcasting. Very often, many are contemplating and are lost in defining what is actually HRT's subscription. No one's defined that yet. And I've heard a lot of definitions that really don't have a foothold in anything, that it's a payer tax, that it's a billing tax, that it's a program tax. No one knows what it is anymore, but I haven't heard a more independent definition than this that it's state support. And at the same time, we have two subscriptions when it comes to such types, one subscription for television and another subscription for fixed telephony. How come state support is not a fixed telephony subscription when it comes to the private capital environment, and where the public interest is there is state support. So it's about about similar categories, same as all citizens of the Republic of Croatia. But my colleague Vujic, I must say that the HDZ Club and HDZ really advocate public welfare and that everything will be done to develop the market economy. And I can personally say that there are no market failures in my debates, not a fraction of the evil intentions as well as yours, but I want to point out market failures, market failures, because this also damages the national economy and every Croatian and citizen of the Republic of Croatia, and all I want is every good and citizen, and I especially want good for my Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-28-0.u41288	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-28-0.u41289	Mr. Maric, we highly appreciate your efforts, and that is why I respond to the replica, otherwise I don't usually respond to replicas, but I would like to tell you one very simple thing that there would be no confusion. It's defined what support is, that's what's in our law. That law has been passed and there can be hundreds of any definition of support, including Mrs. Spevec's definitions, but they are none of our business. We wanted that support to be what it is, to be a fee, and that's why we defined it. And while that's the case, it's the law for all of us, including Mrs. Spevec and her Agency. I don't think we need to ask everything over and over again, and what you may have felt like a problem, I really ask you, and you've been undermining something that I also don't think you should, or that you should underline. We don't have to be the same, we're still going to be different enough in a hundred things, and to think twice about whether this kind of report on the crucial elements of social and economic and political relations we need, whether it's a report that hides real things or it opens up some other perspective. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-28-0.u41290	Thank you very much. The word was requested by the President of the Competition Protection Council, Ms Spevec.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-28-0.u41291	First of all, it's very difficult to say anything like this. But what I want to say to Mr Vujic and all of you here is the implementation of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, the implementation of the provisions of the agreement concluded on 27 October 2001 and started to apply from 1 January 2002, in which it stands, among other things, that the Republic of Croatia is obliged to adopt the Law on State aid and to apply the legal gain of the European Community in part of the support from the bottom of the signing of that contract and in which an independent body is authorised, therefore the body which is independent of one or another government, is either of us or of any political influence which is very much. I could say a lot about this, a lot of things, to assess what state aid is and what is not state support, what is forbidden state support, and what is allowed state support. And therefore, Mr. Vujic, by estimating you very nicely, I ask you not to question the expertise and implementation of those tasks for which we are in charge of the law. Communications from the European Commission, to which Croatia has taken over the bianco obligation in 2001, to apply and task the Competition Protection Agency to apply from 2 July of this year, simply referring to the Amsterdam Protocol, it is irrelevant and we do not want to enter into everything public television must achieve, which is democracy, these are social rights, these are cultural rights. And irrelevant, regardless of the form in which it is in the form of a law which prescribes that a citizen of the Republic of Croatia must pay or is in the form of a subsidy, it is a matter of state support. I am very sorry that on the National Committee, the negotiating position of chapter 8, was without discussion on this subject, I am terribly sorry that there was no debate on this subject and that this topic is politicised needlessly by the agency which has only the task, so you are the legislative authority, you bring a regulation that we will not implement the State Support Act, but we will implement our own regulations that we will either coordinate or adopt. But then we won't, because it says in the progress report, that harmonising the state support system in public television is a key element. Ms Anticevic read the progress report and could also read that this is a key element of further, further negotiations for membership in the European Union. Therefore, the agency neither leads politics nor negotiates but implements the policy and implements the laws that this Parliament has adopted. And this Parliament passed a law on state aid, which said in law that the agency must respect in the application of the law the obligations of the Republic of Croatia by entering, signing the SAA and applying them in the Republic of Croatia. Well, now, so I'm not a politician, I'm not a member of any party. I have been given the task, and this is the task of implementing the Croatian law that points me to an aquis, and in negotiations, what we saw was that there was no vote against the National Committee against such a position. So, I'm accused of betraying national interests, I think it's the wrong address. And that the subscription is defined as support does absolutely not mean anything evil for Croatian radio television, absolutely because it is allowed support. And you said yourself a few times now that it's support. So that's the support allowed. She's not banned. There must therefore be certain rules on how this support can continue to be granted, that is, how these funds can be spent by Croatian citizens. It's up to me to enforce Croatian law and nothing else. And please don't call me for treason of national interests, because I can't and I will. Because it's my job you wrote it here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-28-0.u41292	Correction of the incorrect quote, colleague Vujic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-28-0.u41293	Mrs. Spevec, first of all, I must say that I did not accuse you of betraying national interests. It's a dictionary that's not characteristic of this part of this bench. I just told you that you didn't follow the national interest in this sense and I argued that the way I did. Secondly, I think you have a chance, a hundred possibilities to reverse this thing once it's passed, and I think that chapter 10 is already closed and you're saying this is the same thing that's been said here. So these are the support found. You've got the support you need, the permission, the unauthorized. You do, and those found are enough not to even be troubled. Why do you trouble and boast of the discovery that you have found that the fee is support? Maybe they don't have a dictionary there, so that's how they interpret it. We figured it out that way, we defined it as what it is, so let it be supported but it's found and it can't be discussed. But you're troublesome about it. Your agency puts it as a problem. And that would be sorry I won't say betrayal, please I really wouldn't want it to be attributed to you at all, but it's leaving the concentration in the pursuit of national interests, and in the context of all the private media, everything that really defines our policies, and among other things, many and in this House.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-28-0.u41294	Thank you very much. The word in the debate has a representative, Slavko Linic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-28-0.u41295	Thank you, Madam Vice President, representatives of the agency, colleagues and colleagues. I will give a rough assessment of the situation in the Republic of Croatia in one segment, and this is a broad consumption of Croatian citizens. Croatian citizens are forced in Croatia to buy goods more expensive 20-30% than in our environment. So, food, clothes 20 to 30% more expensive. Then we ask ourselves what citizens do? More and more have been going out of Croatia lately. How do Croatian citizens live? Well, I'd say with the growing tax burdens and onwards, the increasing incomes, the increasing number of unemployed people. So it is very important to them how they will live and how they will shop in the Republic of Croatia. Let's try to briefly state the situation with Croatian producers hiring these same citizens? Croatian producers, increasing production, increasingly uncompetitive and what is the biggest problem is total insolvency – insolvency. So when we look at the citizens of Croatia small purchasing power, when we look at Croatian companies, Croatian producers have huge problems. Problems how to survive next year at all. Then we ask ourselves, "Where do these problems come from?" Why are Croatian food productions uncompetitive? And then this is how we try to compare the relationship between the shop and the manufacturer. And what can we conclude? The total segment of trade is managed in relations with producers, with contracts which cannot be called neither market, nor can be set under any market game criterion. On average, 30 to 37% are used, super-used, and everything else. Therefore, in order to enter the trade of abnormally high obligations for Croatian producers, which of course at that time, however much... with the price of their product begin to lose. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Who forced that? They've got merchants in it. Let's move on, payment deadlines, 120 days, happy those who have, 360 days usual. Talk to them now, though. What will you see? You'll see there's a trade in goods. You can charge for it if you buy it. But the truth, shopping was then raw materials for their production... raw materials for sale. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] This merchant. And under conditions without rebates, without super rebates, without anything I'd say when I... Because it's being paid right now because it's beating the shit out of the goods. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] These are relations in Croatia. We are jeopardizing jobs, endangering Croatian citizens. And we're asking ourselves where's the agency? When you read here, I don't see her. I don't see the agency. And of course, my assessment of this condition that citizens buy 20 to 30% more expensive in Croatian stores is the agency's fault. For this condition of Croatian producers, it is the agency's fault. In the last year, the agency did nothing when a company started importing additional rebates, and additional use on promotional activities. Extra, but there was a little... Of course, the agency will tell you we don't have those powers, we don't deal with it. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So then I'll just tell you what the Slovenian agency is dealing with, means only a few kilometers away from Zagreb. You see, their agency, following Mercator, has established no less than 15 rules of behavior of Mercator. Among them, in point 4. only five fees that Mercator can charge to domestic producers. Just five. She made a commitment to Mercator that she had to make them public, for all to be the same, and the agency has to see them. She also made it very clear that Mercator had to make a deal with everyone. But most importantly, the Mercator commits to... payment period of a maximum of 90 days. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] 90 days tops. So the Slovenian agency prescribed all of this, and ours says he doesn't have that right either. That's not true. Read the law and you will see what competition means, which means criteria and which means rules and regulations that must be made that do not occur. Therefore, the agency has its role to play in protecting Croatian citizens, who must have at least a similar price, not to go outside and that Croatian producers must at the same time have very much their rights in relation to trade societies in the Republic of Croatia. And not to mention that it is always questionable why Croatian margins are very high, why Croatian shopping houses are based all their development on the suspension of producers and why Croatian houses manage to cross certain borders with their investments. Because other Croatian producers are increasingly engaged in production, and thus are limited to other Croatian producers. But obviously from this report, it's not the agency's job. And that is why we need to understand why we are expensive in Croatia, why we are running outside the border and why we have a problem with production in Croatia. Liquidity is the one that's gonna cost us a lot. It's gonna cost us a lot. It is tragic that this indifference in Croatia is indeed a good part caused by traders, and that we are helplessly observing what is happening. And basically we don't have the answers to what to do, because those in charge of it judge it's not their job. If I didn't just stay on the issue of food and relations that the agency didn't regulate, I'd stay on the gas, I'd stay on the autogas that the agency only touched in that part of the discrimination by Progas against individual customers since it applied differently, I'd say both prices and margins and everything else. But where's the problem? The problem is that unauthorized autogas was exported from Croatia and there was no gas in Croatia. So the whole market is out of supplies. We have two agencies, not just the Competition Protection Agency that was supposed to... which is made by INA, because in gas is its position very, very close to the monopoly, but it's business and the Energy Agency. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So two regulators, and Croatia runs out of production. Production is also being exported to Croatia, as someone's interest is irresponsible to the Croatian market. And I'm going to touch another area, and that's the question of selling cars. Why? Well, because I'm about to expect the mass of sales houses dealing with direct sales or retail sales to close, fire the workers, and I'd say in some way the capital invested loses. Why? Because importers who have a monopoly position open their houses, have different business conditions, mostly foreign capital and are limited by Croatian entrepreneurs. And in that part, although all this is known, so many judgments in favour of me would say many who have lost their capital in this way the unfavourable struggle of foreign capital that has entered the importing houses, our agency is not responding. It only means three segments. I haven't mentioned anyone's name or last name, but that's where we can see how many missing agencies are. The report didn't last year any of it, not even this year. That's why a report like this and the work of the agency like this could not be called transient and should not be supported.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-28-0.u41296	Thank you very much. We've exhausted applications for an individual hearing. The word has been requested and given to Mrs. Spevec.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-28-0.u41297	Thank you very much. I would actually ask all of you who are so critical of me if I should even speak because it seems to me that after this, it would actually be better if I were to pick myself up and disappear because then things are probably going to work out and maybe there's some "super Olga" as someone called me or a super agency that could be able to solve all these issues that have been touched here from import conditions to relationships between manufacturers, traders in various markets and everything else. However, of course that such a super agency does not exist and cannot exist and what I highlighted in my opening speech the market and market relations are very complex and therefore all of these discussions, however harsh they are, I actually accept and thank you both Mr. Linic and you, Mr. Vujic and everyone who you are, here is Maric, all thanks to you, respected parliamentary representatives on your discussions and on your actual criticisms that can certainly only contribute to improving the work of the agency, but most of these criticisms on happiness target the wrong target. It is unfortunately so, and I would be much happier if I could, I knew of course this discussion would be because I am very well following the work and statements of Mr Linic and all those interested in both Croatian radio and for certain companies and individual regions and from the shipyard further and that I would probably try to adapt him to such attitudes towards the work of the agency. What I repeat and will always repeat until the last breath, which is that the agency has certain legal powers, that there are rules of conduct set out by Croatian laws and Croatian regulations and that it will not and cannot, as long as I am at the head of the agency, the agency will not enter adventures as one of my predecessors did, Mr Linić knows very well who I mean, to enter adventures and areas for which we are not competent. So when we talk about Mercator, then you forget to mention that Mercator has a ruling position on the Slovenian market and that just as the agency has made a series of decisions against abuse of the ruling position, here is one of those decisions, there is another, we can act when it comes to the ruling position. The chain you speak of is fortunate or unfortunately, I think of the happiness of Croatian citizens and Croatian consumers, not in the ruling position. So, by law, according to the Croatian Law on the Protection of Competition adopted by this Croatian Parliament, the agency cannot act in the way that the Slovenian agency acted because Mercator had 60 to 80 Slovenian markets and can act there. As regards the relationship "ISKON" – "HT" unfortunately, this Croatian Parliament said in law what the total income is when a concentration is assessed, when it is not evaluated. The agency was given jurisdiction to implement the law and could not assess the concentration of HT and ISKON because ISKON was below 100 million kuna. So that's the kind of decision the agency would have made in court. With all due respect for the support or non-support you give and for your discussions, we cannot allow ourselves excursions into illegal business. Rate the concentration where the law says the agency doesn't evaluate. So we need to be clear here. So there could be a lot of talk about different markets here. Various activities could be discussed, but the fact that trade and production relations have changed. They changed in Croatia, they changed around the world whether they wanted to admit it or not. All economic analysis suggests that the trade took over the primate. The store today dictates production. It's all over the world. That doesn't mean that we can't act when it comes to unfair conditions, when it comes to agreements that condition certain things, but let's put one thing through the papers to announce that this will happen to the agency, that when we call the agency by name and last name, when we write to Mr. Linić a letter to inform us of such cases, that we will find out where this is happening, then a meeting is scheduled that doesn't happen. So, I ask you, all of you who have knowledge of the breach of the rules on the protection of competition, who have certain doubts, who have problems in understanding certain regulations because this is, a major transformation in Croatia is happening, the EU rules are being adopted, so the rules for which even this House does not even know, they are being published in "The People's News" are being tasked by the Agency to implement them, and then the Agency is attacking them at the same time why it does not implement them in the way that we would like to do so? So that's the beginning of the discussion. We go one way, end up in another direction. The Agency shall carry out procedures under the rules of the administrative procedure. A foreigner must be given the right to defend himself. The Agency is an investigator, the Agency must obtain evidence, but the Agency must also respect the defence and must make a decision depending on the whole of the legal-economic analysis. So in that part I'm terribly sorry that there are misunderstandings and I believe, here's what I'm going to tell you for example, this matter is relatively new and I understand that there is a discrepancy. Our report has over 100 pages because we wanted to explain in detail, bring you closer to what we're doing. Report from the European Commission on the 30-page competition. It deals only with issues purely which are done by the European General Competition Authority. It's not about explaining what the rules are and what the rules are. It is understood that those to whom such a report is addressed shall at least be partially familiar with the rules and regulations implemented by that body. We know that this is, I say, new matter, we know that the laws are changing, and we tried to in this report to be somehow as acceptable to bring this matter closer. And that's why, Mr. Honorable Representative Vujic, this is not a fake. This report is the original report by the Competition Protection Agency. It's nothing, and it can't be a fake. It is our effort to introduce this House of the High, which is the founder of the agency to our work, to our problems, to our activities and to all the solutions we make. Because of Olga Spevec's professional service, he can leave today. That's what I said today in 2003. I'm the least of the problems, but there's a professional service. Young, educated people who, when they make fun of the number of days they spend on a particular "case" here's one of the agency's solutions, if someone thinks it can be brought in one day, market research, proof proceedings, invite parties to a hearing, oral and written defence, are very wrong. And that's not why it's not about this case that we're just trying to defend ourselves with that number of cases. No, I don't. We're just trying to point out what we're doing and what we think needs to be improved. If there's no conclusion, there's an introduction. The introduction makes it clear. The introduction is the conclusion of the agency's work. What we've been focusing on. We were in trade and production and services and trade in the car industry, and we deal with it all the time. So we're not avoiding our responsibility. But all of them, here's what you've got to know, so you're giving them away. There's 20 of us in professional service. We don't have market inspection powers, we really don't have market inspection powers. I can't just come and read his books and watch under what conditions he sells. So, we're open to cooperation, we're open to what I would suggest to you all that one thematic debate, if trade and production are a problem, there are various possibilities, let's organize there are round tables, parliamentary committees, to organize. If the problem in the media is a subscription, so it's good to just say what the rules we've come up with, what it looks like to apply. I would appreciate such a constructive approach. I understand that someone doesn't have to agree with the agency's report, and I understand that it can be better. You got it. But believe me, the professional service of 35 people working cases like this simply cannot be present anywhere. We even started procedures on the basis of newspaper articles. We did run them. But we can't do what you know, maybe we don't know. So we're open to cooperation and it would be good if not just once a year for this report, but on other occasions, to discuss it. Because neither one of us is satisfied with the level of competition. It's not. And it definitely needs to be improved. But I see a very different approach here. One advocates a larger role for the state, some a smaller one. Some advocate higher producer rights, higher prices in production, while at the same time favouring consumer well-being. It's not working. What's more, if the manufacturers are the ones that the trade chains are paying, trust that the higher price for the producers will come up. There is no possibility that the consumer actually gets a lower price, a better quality if it is allowed to install all its costs into a particular product. I say that economically not as the head of the agency, but simply those are some things that are difficult to bring from beginning to end in such a way. But I say about the agency's work, Mrs. Ingrid, thank you very much for quoting... But here in this Competiton Polisy Agency besides credit monetary policy, it's the only chapter to get a rating... [[The speech room speaks English, no translation.]] means significant progress. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] All the others are good progress, some progress this has gotten... We don't have cartels, hardcord cartels. We know why they're not here. Because we don't have the powers to do that. So we're aware, and we wrote it ourselves in the report. We're aware of the shortcomings we're working on to change, we've been working very closely with the government on amending and passing a new law and with this High House, we hope the situation will be better. But accusing us of everything that's wrong on the market, everything that's wrong. There's absolutely no stasis, there's no statutes in the law. I can stand the criticism that we don't know in this case or that we're wrong, but when we evaluate our work, we're brought by a court, a court that controls them. It's like that, it can't be any different. So if I succumb to this kind of pressure and make decisions that I don't know, Agent Maric or Agent Linic, the Administrative Court is tearing them down. It is not a credible institution that agency if it behaves in such a way. So what I can promise for the future, we will work under the law, we will do better, we will do more, but strictly in accordance with the law and obligations made by the Republic of Croatia by signing an SAA that someone may not have been aware of, but unfortunately, the agency has received them in power to implement them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-28-0.u41298	We have three corrections to an incorrect quote. First representative Slavko Linic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-28-0.u41299	I am correcting Mrs. Spevec's incorrect claim that treatment can only be done to a subject who has a monopoly position like Mercator in Slovenia. The report itself makes it very clear that the Law on the Protection of Market Competition applies to all forms of prevention, restriction or distortion of competition in the territory of the Republic of Croatia. In accordance with the legal provision mentioned above, the Agency is competent to implement rules in the protection of competition in all markets other than the market for financial or banking procedures.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-28-0.u41300	Second correction, MP Goran Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-28-0.u41301	Thank you very much. Mrs. Spevec said that everything on the market is not right if we accused the agency. That's not true. We have indicated that market phenomena are not acceptable to the market economy. And second, she said that everywhere in the world, primate took over the shops. That's not true. Trade is one important link in the economy, without it cannot be done, but most cannot be done without production and most of the countries in the world know it. The store didn't take over the primate in Germany. He can't buy manufacturers in Germany, for example, or buy MAN, or buy Audi, or buy Mercedes, or buy Bayer. Well, not even the kid buys the big ones, and everything that's going on with us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-28-0.u41302	Third correction, MP Ingrid Anticevic-Marinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-28-0.u41303	I have to re-correct this assessment of you, or the claim that the agency does not determine, does not assess the concentration. Well, that should be the agency's core task. You're now saying you don't have the authority under the law. But by accurate interpretation of the whole of the law as a whole and its spirit, it certainly comes out. And if that's what it is, if that's exactly what you're saying right now, then I don't think you'd be looking for, give some initiative to change the law.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-28-0.u41304	Thank you very much. The word is again sought by Mrs. Spevec.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-28-0.u41305	Thank you very much. Here's the answer. You are right, reading the law article by article can come to different conclusions. However, speaking of an article of the law that defines the activities of the agency, do not forget article 16 of the law that says when the agency, or when it can be considered as being in a ruling position. Article 16 states that it is in the ruling position of that entrepreneur who has 40 percent of the market. Therefore, the legal provision in principle of Article 1 and Article 2 of the Law is one, but later Article 16 defines exactly what is the ruling position and when the Agency can consider that someone is in a ruling position. The new law went even further, so it was said to intervention by the European Commission not to assume that someone is in a ruling position when there is 40% market share in a particular market but that it is only one of the potential drivers of the process, therefore it is not even a legitimate presummation of the ruling position. Because in Europe and in America believe or do not at all carry out proceedings against entrepreneurs whose market share is below 60-70% of the market. So, we tried to keep those 40% in the small market, even at times we had 30% but therefore we also had a presummation of the ruling position at 40% must be proven in particular. Therefore, the behaviour of entrepreneurs is not the only market share, in essence, of its market power, but everything below that 40% is actually rarely defined as a ruling position by the European Court of Justice. As for the question of concentration assessment. Yes, this is also about the concentrations assessed by the agency. However, in Article 22 of the current law, I think of a new law that will enter into force on 1 October, says Mrs. Marinovic, an interesting solution by which the agency assesses the concentration. If the total income of entrepreneurs is cumulatively 100 million kuna on the Croatian market and a billion kuna on the world market. So, the essence of competition policy is to control large entrepreneurs, not every entrepreneur. The exemption was made in the field of media, so the Media Act abolished these trashholds. So I'm probably bothering you with that interpretation of the law but that's my job. It is our job to make decisions on the basis of the law, so not only the head of the provisions of the law but also the provisions governing a particular area and again to tell the SAA the instruments for interpreting the European Community, which are European Commission decisions and decisions of European courts, in particular the European Court of Justice. So that's something we can't fight. If the Croatian Parliament considers such solutions to be wrong then it should not have passed such laws, then it should have been dealt with differently. That would be the answer to that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-28-0.u41306	Thank you very much. I think this has been a very useful debate. No more reports. I'm the one who's locking them up. We'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-28-0.u41307	The annual report on the work of the Competition Protection Agency for 2008, is submitted by the Competition Protection Agency. In accordance with the proposal of the home working body, I am voting on the following conclusion: "The Annual Report on the work of the Competition Protection Agency for 2008. A year.". Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? This report was accepted by a majority of 74 votes in favour, two abstentions and one against.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-28-0.u41308	We're moving on to the next item of the agenda. - Report of the 2008 Pension Fund, Carrier: The Central State Office for the Development Strategy and Coordination of the European Union Funds The Central State Office for the Development Strategy and Coordination of the European Union Funds submitted this report on the basis of Article 35. Retirement fund law. You received the proposal by mail. The government has delivered its opinion. The debate was held in the Committee on Labour and Social Partnership. You received the report at the session. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Mr. Hrvoje Dolenec, State Secretary and Chairman of the Management Board. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-28-0.u41309	Thank you very much. Madam Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the House of Representatives and MPs. Here, you have an article 35 in front of you. A report on the management of the pension fund should be made on a regular basis each year. So, this is the 2008 pension fund business report. The pension fund has continued its activities, or all the activities that have already been undertaken by the establishment of the pension fund and has therefore been set up, it remains to be carried out regularly through the normal activity of the fund. Just for a little while. So, the pension fund management company is HPB Invest, which has continued to work with all activities primarily involved in the professional management of property for the payment of compensation to pensioners in accordance with the Pension Fund Act and the pension fund statute using a conservative strategy in these times and... and for members of the pension and founders of the pension fund, so to the Republic of Croatia. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Many other activities have also been adopted, such as resolving the question of the heirs of the fund, such as the question of members of the fund who did not have an heir to the first inheritance order, such as the issue of resolving the complaints of members of the Fund against the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute and, accordingly, the revision of the distribution of the pension fund’s assets, and the resolution of the complaint of members of the pension fund to the amount of compensation to the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute. But the most important activities that were carried out were those concerning the payment of the war on compensation. Contrary to 2006 and 2007, which were years of high payments because most members of the basic register and the register of users of family highest pensions chose a quick payment of their shares in the pension fund and then it was paid 5.75 billion kuna to members of the pension fund. During 2008, a total of billions and 74 million kunas of compensation were paid to members of the basic register and register of users and family highest pensions. Payments went on two occasions, so in June 2008, 122.4 million kunas were paid to members of the basic register of users of the family's highest pensions for the third war according to model A, so-called A. the A-paying model, which means paying 50 percent in four half-year wars. In December, payments were continued, so the fourth war of that model A for members of the register of family and highest pension users. Then, the second war per model B for members of the basic pension fund register amounting to 708.9 million kuna and, of course, the first war per model B for family and highest pension beneficiaries of 118.6 million kuna. For all the wars, the assets were already secured by the 2006 payments, 2007, so by entering the Republic of Croatia into the pension fund and there were enough funds not to intervene and import new assets into the fund in 2008. Payments have passed without a problem, so according to all the activities and all the rules that have been defined long ago in this fund. In 2008, a brief note was also recorded, and only a small change in the members of the Management Board of the Pension Fund, where they replaced the members nominated by the Government of the Republic of Croatia and replaced members and became State Secretary Hrvoje Dolenec, State Secretary Zdravko Marić, State Secretary Jozo Sarac and Mrs Dubravka Dragun on a proposal from the Parliament. There are mainly no other important findings that I should say about the report in this report because I think everything has been done as it has been defined and we are therefore open to other questions and comments if it is necessary to give them. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-28-0.u41310	Thank you to the proposer's representative. Does the committee reporter want to take the floor? He doesn't want to. I'm opening a debate. We have two applications for the club. The word is on behalf of the HNS club representative Danica Hursa.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-28-0.u41311	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Respected reporting officers, colleagues and colleagues. At the very beginning, I will say that representatives of the Croatian People's Party Club will accept this report. We commend the rapporteur for the truly comprehensive and comprehensive information we have received with the report. The data is about a big and demanding job that HPB Invest did in 2008 and all years before that within all legally foreseen deadlines. Despite numerous legal and technical problems, all compensation wars have been paid after the purchase of the share of model A from the Basic Register and the Register of users of family and highest pensions. Two payments of compensation were paid after the purchase of model B and one war of compensation to B users of family and highest pensions. Here's the opening report, and we heard some numerical data, so I'm not going to repeat it, but I'd just maybe give it something. Therefore, the Fund's investment strategy is extremely conservative and focused on security and liquidity. Thus the assets are invested in deposits and domestic debt securities. In doing so, investment in shares accounts for a very small part of the portfolio and amounts to only 0.17% of the assets, and the only shares in the fund's portfolio is the shares of HT. The value of the Pension Fund's assets grew continuously thanks to its structure. Since compensation has already been paid after the purchase of the shares of members of the Pension Fund who have chosen to pay cash according to model A, there are currently 138 thousand 810 members registered in the Register of Family and Highest Pensions Users. Allow a few sentences about the current moment of retirement. We are witnessing how the Government of the Republic of Croatia covered the budget in the 8th month of this year. Many will say that the government in the current situation did not have much room for manoeuvre, so even though we did not agree with it, it had to be expected. It is alarming, however, that the government has made the most of the measures that carry the burden of irrationality, wastefulness and political haughtiness to the backs of the poor parts of society, labour and pensioners. It is parallel to giving up, for example, coffee and juices in the government and here in the Parliament or in certain departments of drop in the sea costs that should have been put under control and cut. Now, of course, the eyes of all the government's next moves. With high expectations of course, but I must say also with anxiety is also expected budget for 2010 because it will show the right direction of anti-recession measures. It is important to increase the revenue side of state finances, but all analyses as we know show that our eternal problem is the expenditure side. Let's just remind ourselves that the 2005 budget was 90.9 billion kuna to increase to 128.9 billion in 2009. So that's 41.8% increase. In the same period, the average salary grew from 4376 to 5295 kuna or 21%. Average pensions increased from 1857 to 2167 kuna, or it was 16.6%. Prices for utility services grew at a much higher rate at the same time, which we can determine on our own monthly payments. The interest on loans for the apartment rose from an average of 4.95 to 6.55%, or it was a growth in interest of 32.3%. The flat square jumped from an average of 9228 to 13379 kuna or 44.9%. The minimum cost of a four-member family has risen to 6612 kuna. A review of the Croatian budget since 2000 shows that the most funds have gone to pension insurance, education and health care. For pension insurance, the increase amounts to 20.2 billion in 2000, over 29.3 billion in 2005, to 34.7 billion in the 2009 budget. If we now analyse that the average pensions for this segment have grown 16.6%, the question is rightly asked what the remaining funds have been spent on. If this is due to an increase in the number of pensioners, again a legitimate question arises as to who sent them into retirement status, who has allowed the average age of the current pensioners not to reach 60 years. The answer is a poor and missed economic policy that has been stubbornly spent for many years, and the price is paid by workers and pensioners. I'd like to mention something else. One of the requirements on which the Retired Mother specifically insisted is that pensions should be adjusted in the second half of this year and in both half-years next year. However, it will not be the same situation as before due to the freezing of wage growth. But why doesn't the government show its consistency right now? In fact, while the queen has been asking for years for pensions to be coordinated only with salary growth, not combined with consumer prices growth, we are now in a position to verify the credibility of those who have repeatedly rejected such a proposal. Salary growth has been hitched, but consumer prices will go up not only for VAT growth but also for other market and non-market reasons. It is an opportunity for pensions to be coordinated precisely with the existing formula for which the Government has strictly advocated, which means in this case also the rise in consumer prices. In negotiations, however, the government refused to bring pensions into line by the end of 2010, but accepted that only if consumer prices at an annual level could be more than 3%, forgive the harmonisation. The question, however, is how will this be interpreted next year, as experiences show that after only a few hours, certain ministers assured the pensioners that they had not said what they had said. Otherwise, for pensioners it is not acceptable to freeze and coordinate pensions as this would, of course, mean further significant reduction and such insufficient means for a decent life of a man who has invested 20, 30 or 40 years of work in them. This contributes to the fact that pensions in the Republic of Croatia are only 40% of the average net wage, which is the lowest in Europe, where the minimum standard for pensions is about 60% of the salary. As a result of the current adjustment of pensions per imposed formula, pensions have lagged 10.25% over the past 10 years. This information best tells how many pensioners have already contributed to the state and society. So any anti-recession taking of pensioners should be summed up with this in order to get a more realistic picture of how much burdens pensioners carry than other groups in society. That should add two more information. The average pension for about 51% of pensioners in Croatia is less than 1300 kuna. It sounds terrible that 80% of the pensioners receive a pension on average below 1700 kuna. This is below the poverty line and below the social security standards set by the Convention of International Labour Organisations signed by the Republic of Croatia. And go back to the report in question with a few sentences. In particular, it may be necessary to point out the part of the report by which the next repayment rates according to model B, which are the beneficiaries that have been defined to repay the debt in full for an 8-year period in the last quarter of 2009, are the funds needed by the founder of the fund, so the Government of the Republic of Croatia, is to be entered into the fund on 31 December 2008. That amount is 99 million 442 thousand 741 points 92 kuna. I would like to ask the Government who, of course, is interested in all pensioners whether the funds provided for in the payment of the compensation war to beneficiaries of pensions are due by the end of this year. And finally let me read a piece of e-mail that I received this morning from a pensioner in Sibenik. He says, following a famous decision by the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia since 12 May '98. pensioners should have been compensated. But it was done in a way that only some damaged users were only slightly compensated. The damage was made through the Pension Fund. The damaged pensioners received information from the HPB Invest undermining compensation notices. In both the first and second stages of the administrative procedure, the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute rejected the demands of damaged pensioners, to be decided by the administrative act, so as to decide on the amount of compensation. Such a position was adopted by the Administrative Court and unfortunately by the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia. And now I'm not going to bother you with a very concrete procedure that has been conducted, but I'm just going to read the end of this letter. The fact that the damaged pensioners received only a notification of compensation, and not a solution to it, was denied the elemental rights established by the Constitution and the Pension Insurance Act that their rights were exercised both in the appeal procedure and in the administrative dispute. In the end, the writer of this letter, the Constitutional Court, in his own way, contributed to the great deception and deception of a large number of damaged pensioners. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-28-0.u41312	Thank you very much. On behalf of the HDZ Club, Representative Boris Kunst.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-28-0.u41313	Dear Vice President, representatives of the Pension Fund. I will try exclusively to look back on the report which is also the subject of this debate. First of all, I must say that the Croatian Democratic Community Club will support this report. Otherwise, as you yourself have said, the Retirement Fund Act has been arranged to compensate the beneficiaries of pensions under the Law implementing the decision of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia since 12 May '98. the year with which the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia is fully implemented. It is the compensation of pension beneficiaries which took place due to the partial harmonisation of pensions for the period from 1 September '93. until 31 December '98. A year. The right to compensation shall be granted to beneficiaries of the age-old age-old disability and family pensions achieved under the provisions of the Law on Fundamental Rights of Pension and Disability Insurance and the Law on Pension and Disability Insurance, and on the basis of the harmonisation of those pensions with the movement of the average net salaries of all employees in the territory of the Republic of Croatia. Under the law, HPB Invest d.o.o. the investment fund management company and the management operations of the Pension Fund. The HPB Invest organised and enabled the implementation of this large technical and complex project within the law of the envisaged deadlines. HPB Invest, in cooperation with the Management Board of the Pension Fund and the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute and with the assistance of the other institutions, made payments to all wars, compensations after buying out the share of model A, the basic register and register of users of family and highest pensions, two payments after buying out the share of the B share, and one war of compensation to B users of family and highest pensions. HPB Invest, with the help of the Croatian Post Bank, processed all the settlement solutions and until 31 December 2008, was processed in total, carried out somewhere around 50 thousand 880 ordered inheritance solutions. Only last year were nine thousand and eighty-six. For those members of the fund found to have no successors of the first order, the shares were transferred to the Republic of Croatia as a member of the fund. The assets of the HPB fund are invested by professional management of the funds of the fund members and in the desire to maximise the contributions of the fund members, with attention to the risk of investment of the fund's assets are invested on financial markets in the Republic of Croatia. For the payment of the next compensation rate according to model B of the basic register in the last quarter of 2009 the necessary funds to be entered into the fund by the founder of the Government of the Republic of Croatia on 31 December 2008 amounted to 99 million 422 thousand 741,92 kuna. The next payments are expected to pass within the envisaged legal deadlines, and with significantly less problems given the fact that most of the data on fund members is known for now. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-28-0.u41314	Thank you very much. No more logs for this agenda item. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-28-0.u41315	Report from the Pension Fund for 2008, submitted by the Central State Office for the Development Strategy and Coordination of the European Union Funds. The debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal from the National Assembly Working Body, I am voting on the following conclusion: "A report on the operations of the Pension Fund for 2008. a year." Let's please get involved and vote and control what we voted for. ... I didn't say anything, I'm just saying control. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Score. This report was accepted by most votes, 76 votes for and 2 abstentions.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-28-0.u41316	We move to the next item of the agenda - Final proposal of the Law on Areas and Headquarterss of Violent Courts, Third Reading, P.Z. No. 238 Proposer: The Government of the Republic of Croatia You received the proposal by mail. This law will be discussed in accordance with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to third reading. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Justice, the Committee on Local and Regional Self-Government. You received the reports at the session. The amendments were submitted jointly by representatives Nada Čavlović Smiljanec and Vlatko Podnar, representative Danica Hursa, joint representatives Biserka Vranić and Kruno Kurelić, representative Marin Jurjević, representative Marin Brkarić, representative Damir Kain and representative Zvonimir Mršić. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? He does. Mr. Drazen Bosnjakovic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Justice.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-28-0.u41317	Thank you very much. Madam Vice President, ladies and gentlemen. You have before you the Law on Areas and Seats of Violent Courts, in the third reading. This law continues the process of rationalising the network of courts in the Republic of Croatia. As is known, the Government of the Republic of Croatia has adopted a strategy, it has adopted a plan to streamline the network of courts in the Republic of Croatia in such a way that smaller courts are joined together, united in larger parts so that we can achieve all the advantages that such a way of organisation of courts offers. This is what we have already said in the process of rationalising municipal courts, the possibility of better burdening the judges and officials themselves in such courts, and simply this year, 2009, as we have about the municipal courts that we had by 1.1 108 in the Republic of Croatia, we have 67 of them today. For the past year, I can say that feedback from the field is very positive, because all the judges who are actually now connected to a larger court are possible and achieve specialization. Simple objects are easier, faster solved, because a judge who specializes can certainly be more quality in the case and judge. We also carried out the process of streamlining the network of state attorneys, and that is, we can say from the field that the information is very positive. And as much as I can announce here that the state's attorney has proposed what we're working on in the ministry is another step of rationalization. It means that this already rationalized network, let's round it even more, because according to the provisions of the new Criminal Procedure Act, in fact, a much better organisational form will be our stronger, larger state attorneyship in the Republic of Croatia. Here we are in the third reading of the rationalisation of a network of misdemeanor courts that is quite dense in the Republic of Croatia, so we have a law established by 114 criminal courts, of which found 108, and by this proposal of the law we want this number of consciences to 63 criminal courts in the Republic of Croatia. Most of these courts, therefore 33 out of 114, have one judge, and 33 others have two judges. And indeed, these are the courts that are truly like these, very hard to do in them, and the whole burden falls upon one single judge. And like this, with this new network, we're going to round up, we're going to get bigger courts, we're going to get courts where we can also specialise these judges and cases, of course, that they're going to be dealt with more quickly and that they're going to be better. In the very segment of the criminal trial, we know that we have a relative and new Law on Infringements, and that law has passed a certain newspaper, from an extension of old age, out of the possibility of solving the infringements and before the very act of coming to a criminal court, and this is already seen in statistics and related to 2008 we have a certain drop in the case and the new law actually gives results. Here we are in the third reading much of the remarks and suggestions that you made through the amendments in the second reading, we have accepted here. I see that another part of the amendment has been tabled and on this proposal that we have now made. We'll analyze them before the vote, so we'll see if there's anything more acceptable or not. But the basic criteria were that the meaning of the creatures were, however, the much larger the courts where the judges would be much better exploited and their potential, and where citizens could actually get much better legal protection. Of course, wherever there's a need for us to leave permanent services outside the court's headquarters, if the number of cases requires it, so that people don't travel from a smaller place to this new center, and where there's no room for permanent headquarters and for a permanent external service, that's where we're going to introduce the judgment days. It is a slightly different form, but it also allows citizens to do everything they have regarding the Criminal Court to do very close to their place of residence. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-28-0.u41318	Thank you very much to the proposing representative, my colleague Bošnjakovic. We're starting discussions on behalf of the club. The first is Ingrid Anticevic-Marinovic on behalf of the SDP club.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-28-0.u41319	Thank you, Madam Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State with an associate, colleague and colleague. In principle, the SDP supported and supported the rationalisation of the work of courts and, in this respect, the redefinition and reduction of the number of judicial authorities, municipal courts and criminal courts. It was a long time ago in the '90s when simply by one act, therefore by decision, first on a proposal from the government, the Parliament voted that almost every place had slightly larger courts. Both courts of regular jurisdiction and criminal courts. Many courts to this day have not worked and better not because we now have fewer problems. Of course, we had problems where they were founded, and they did not start working because work conditions were not created. I particularly point out this again because, with the current crisis that has affected the judiciary, the escape and cleaning of the most qualitative people in the judiciary itself, there has been additional burden on individual laws that have further disgraced the judiciary. I mean, there's no bigger or worse things, and that's why I'm repeating this so that the same thing never happens again. So, a judicial body was founded, citizens knew it was founded, but it didn't work. Nor did it occur to the rulings at all to win the judicial body, but in all the interviews, the performances were told that the judiciary was now closer to the citizens because there was every small and larger place, and even small places had their own court. In some courts... To this extent, it was advanced that these courts, nonexistent, phantom courts had even the presidents of the courts. Of course, the anger of the citizens was further dispersed by that. So it's something that, not to be so or something like that, should not be repeated, but in no case should laws be passed that cannot be implemented. They also embarrass politics and all other branches of government and strengthen citizens' mistrust with institutions. That is why this proposal, which has and has certain even financial resources, encourages that more, just in the opposite direction now, now in the reduction of judicial bodies, will not happen. But this is also an occasion when we talk about rationalization, that we are talking about rationalising the work of judicial authorities at all. Our judicial bodies, our courts are still, in all jurisdiction, and in particular municipal courts, still burdened so-called. the judgment of the Council of Ministers and the Council of Ministers' recommendation to make use of and apply, as much as possible in practice, that conclusion and recommendation to the so-called Council of Ministers. non-judicial cases simply move to other bodies, institutions to avoid burdening the judiciary. Because basically, if we get a little more naked, we see that there are as many litigation as there are, too many, given the number of inhabitants, there aren't that many of them. Therefore, there is a need to support every intention, something that we have already started in 2002 and 2003, to relieve the judiciary and engage in other services. Let's say as a public record, but others who can solve these items that are not essentially a party dispute. And this is also an opportunity to apostrophe to use and calmly resolve disputes as much as possible. The funds will be substantial and large in this engagement at first, but later on it will simply be one big, big charge for the judiciary. At the SDP club, it seems to us that it has gone too soon with the rationalization of the network of courts and that it was one of the last steps that was to be done when we just don't have any more problems with the backlogs of so many, and even with a large number, still an inaccessible number of judicial inflows. Probably when the administration is reformed, which is the cancer of our society's wounds, then the number of cases in the courts will be much smaller. That's where we expect a bigger engagement from the state. In the end, here is the recent report, i.e. the Progress Report of Croatia, which shows how much we are essentially lagging behind in the reform of the administration which is crucial then and which is reflected because all these objects are ultimately poured into the courts. Let me say something very specific now about the reduction of the number of courts, including the infringements themselves, which is the subject of our consideration. But let me just draw attention to how that project and the programme that started in 2004 was absolutely unacceptable. Fortunately, the government gave up. The Constitutional Court has not yet found the order to take our request for an assessment of the constitutionality where the misdemeanor courts have merged with the municipal courts. What happens when he solves that, when the Constitutional Court solves that request, what happens to those cases, and what they're going to have, no one knows it alive, is likely that it's a hot potato and for the Constitutional Court itself. Fortunately, of that so much praised program modeled by the Finns and so, fortunately, it gave up. But this was shown in Croatia as one project that will almost save the Croatian judiciary. That's what we've been warning, here's what we've been looking for and protection and the word of the Constitutional Court. What about the reduction of municipal courts? In some courts, and I have to point out this too, somewhere it works well in a way that the record has changed, so people are now not going to the center, or if they recommend their lawsuit or any other written instructions to the court, but in any case statistics remain only a court but in any case statistics are still just being carried out at the court's headquarters, while these courts that serve as an outpost are essentially working as they have so far. There's still no such thing as an expected specialization. That's what I'm saying on the case of the Municipal Court in Biograd. On the other hand, we have another example. The municipal court in Tisno, which is attached to the new law of the Municipal Court in Sibenik, works by two judges, completes the cases that were received by the end of 2008 but do not receive new cases. I understand the problem, it probably doesn't have enough inflows of cases, it's just for the Municipal Court in Sibenik. However, what people and the surrounding areas have learned, which should be encouraged by the state, as land books will not be resolved by themselves unless there are no imputions and engagements and demands from the parties themselves. That's not the official court's way of dealing with. They don't know who he sold it to if someone's holding that sale contract in a drawer and still hasn't certified it, so the IRS doesn't even deliver it to the Land and Book Department. So people started getting used to it. And there's a habit to be nursed, not to be cut down. He's about to serve court as a land and book court. And especially the biggest problems with an unsettled landowner and a disaster we have in the coast. And therefore, this would be an example of one, that if the litigatory objects were to be found, it is understandable that if there are not enough to stay in Sibenik. And in no case should land-book items be prevented from being transmitted to the Municipal Court in Tisno. It is a court in the end, which is not to forget that it is the only island court, a court on the island that lost its own unit as a court. And it was said that no courts would be lifted on the islands. As far as the final proposal of the Law on Areas and Headquarterss of Violent Courts is concerned, it is good that this went into third reading. Neither the courts came in overnight nor were they spying on each other, and they should not be cut down like that. It is here that we really should thank the Proposer for taking a large part of the amendment into account. First of all, these amendments came from different parties. They did not come in terms of often some of the amendments to the budget coming, that more affirmations of applicants, but in those whose benefits they stood for, but indeed those amendments were for the benefit of the citizens. And this is how the promoter adopted and retained the Criminal Court both in Križevci and in Pag and Nasice and in many Split-Dalmatia County and in Dubrovnik-Neretva County. However, here we at the SDP club point out that as much as the promoter has sought to create unique criteria for some of the courts to remain in violation, some of them to join in. virtually disappeared, that in all these cases as far as we understand it is not simple, because life can not always be contained in solid criteria and certain, especially those that are determined by the number of objects and by the number of inhabitants and by the number of kilometers, as there are exact indicators and one solid criteria. However, here it should be pointed out that in Koprivnica and Križevci County it would be necessary to remain an infringement court in Đurđevec, and in Koprivnica, and in Križevci, because, above all, it is not only the tradition of the judiciary and the criminal trial in those places, but also the density of the population in Koprivnica-Kristevci County and the distance between the existing criminal courts in the area of this county, it is precisely witnessing such a single need. After all, not to mention the other two counties now, but in any case in some other counties that have lower population density, at least three misdemeanor courts have preserved. So here's another way to think about what's going on with these three. At least for now. We'll see about that later. Because this is not a single network of courts that will forever be determined. However, we need to see and wait for the final reform, and we will be able to say that the reform eventually succeeded when we no longer have leftovers and when the cases are resolved within the appropriate time limit. For example, it can be stated that the Križevci-Koprivnica County, which has 124,000 467 inhabitants, that the town of Koprivnica itself has almost 31,000 inhabitants. The town of Križevci has more than 22 thousand inhabitants, and the town of Đurđevac has 9,000 inhabitants. On the other hand, in some other districts, we have towns that have almost double and triple the population, and retain a misdemeanor court. We also plead that the motionor specifically consider the preservation of the court in Karlovac County until the Ogulin Criminal Court. Namely, the Oguline Criminal Court would continue to judge the municipalities of Josipdol, Plaški, Saborsko, Tounj and the city of Ogulin. So why do I mention Ogulin in particular? Namely, as you know, there is also a petition signed over 3,000, 3,000 and 327 residents have asked the Oguline Criminal Court to continue its work. You see such petitions and that infamous system has not dared go against. So that's something the residents themselves are looking for. This is not what one representative in a particular area is looking for, so before a certain circle he could later say that he was fighting to preserve a particular judicial body. So that's what the residents are looking for. After all, Ogulin and Karlovac are over 50 kilometers away from each other, and we see that there is a 50km criterion here. So here I will pay particular attention to what the Proposer has been told in the already joined courts in municipal courts that we must also be very careful when removing certain infringements, especially those which I have now pointed out, that, until the vote, the Proposer once again consider what is acceptable. And I see here not only have I now pointed out here but also to exist written amendments that are very detailedly explained by the legal basis, with the historical background that are ultimately our legal historical culture and the present justification of the present moment and the need of their inhabitants. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-28-0.u41320	Thank you very much. On behalf of the HNS Club, the word has a respected representative of Danica Hursa.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-28-0.u41321	Thank you. Madam Vice President, the respected legislators of this law, colleagues and colleagues. According to the proposal of this law, a total of 63 criminal courts in the Republic of Croatia have been abolished and their area and headquarters determined. In my Krapina-Zagorje County, as proposed by this law, misdemeanor courts are established in Krapina, Zabok and Zlatar and are abolished in Klanjac, Pregrada and Donja Stubica in a way that connects Klanjca to Zagoda, Donja Stubice's Criminal Court to Zlatar and Pregrada's Pregrada to Krapina. That's what the Proposal for a Law on Areas and Seats of Violent Courts has come to us on our assembly benches. I stand at the point that the proposed reorganisation will not result in faster and efficient sharing of justice at least not on all destinations, one of them is certainly Donja Stubica. That's why I'm going to state the facts that oppose the announced suspension of the Criminal Court in Lower Stubica and the accession of the same Criminal Court in Zlatar. Infringement court in Lower Stubica achieves extremely good results in the work. Two judges perform judicial duties and a thousand 584 cases have been resolved in 2008 and another thousand 371 cases are under way. As a result of the payment of fines, a million 121 thousand 427 kuna was made, almost entirely covering the plan, or the funds obtained from the ministry, which was awarded in 2008 in the amount of millions and 200 thousand 806 kuna. It is easy to conclude, in the light of the ongoing procedures, that the court's revenues could be higher than the expenditure. The infringement court in Lower Stubica was located several years ago in a building of 220 square meters, which was arranged by the Ministry of Justice. By moving the court to Zlatar space in Stubica remains empty and the court space in Zlatar is overcrowded as we now have the latest information. The number of residents under the jurisdiction of the Criminal Court in Lower Stubica is 27 thousand 590 and is almost equal to the number of 27 thousand 720 which is under the jurisdiction of the court in Zlatar. The Criminal Court in Lower Stubica covers a much more traffic area than the Criminal Court in Zlatar because it has tourist destinations in its jurisdiction such as Stubic Spas, Marija Bistrica, Gornja Stubica, which implies a expressed traffic area related to the roads of local county and state importance. According to unofficial knowledge, the Criminal Court in Lower Stubica has a number of cases in the processing of the same in Zlatar as possible in the Ministry of Justice and the consequence is in the jurisdiction of the court which covers as I have told the tourist destinations that receive a multiple number of tourists in the season from the number of domestics. And what is really most important in the whole story, residents of the town of Oroslavlja, Stubic spas, Lower and Upper Stubice do not have any direct public transport to Zlatar. To arrive at the newly proposed seat of the Criminal Court in Zlatar it is necessary to use the train and bus in several combinations for which it is necessary to separate time from four hours. And of course, it also represents additional financial expenditure for each user of that court. As far as I know now, the ticket to that destination is 80 kuna. For the above reasons, I expected the applicant to respect and accept the amendment I submitted, but unfortunately for me today I learned that the amendment submitted would not be accepted. So here I express my personal bitterness. I must say that the dissatisfaction of all 27 thousand 500 citizens in the area which now covered the seat of the Criminal Court in Lower Stubica is also expressed and present. I must say, I have a feeling that the citizens who were in the jurisdiction of the Criminal Court in Lower Stubica have been transferred to Zlatar as a package. Why do I say that? Because the terrain is saying something completely different. Zabok and Oroslavlje are two neighboring cities. So, according to that logic, according to everything I said in advance, the problem was to be attached to Oroslavlje, Stubici Spa, Lower and Upper Stubic to the Criminal Court in Zabok. So I will say at this time that I will withdraw the amendment that I asked to leave the Criminal Court in Lower Stubica but I hope that my professional service will succeed in making an amendment that will require that the move from Oroslavlja to Gornja Stubica be attached to the Criminal Court in Zabok. This will be supported by all the mayors and mayors I have been in contact with today because in this way we are actually taking care of the court’s users. I said, for Zlatar at this time there is no direct link in public transport and in Zabok there is this public transport both in the form of a train and in the form of a bus. So I ask you nicely to consider this new amendment that will arrive before you and to respect it because in this way you are doing a great service to the users, in fact to those for whom criminal courts exist. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-28-0.u41322	Thank you very much. On behalf of the club representative of the HSS, respected representative Stanko Grčić.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-28-0.u41323	Dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Honorable representatives of the promoter, Mr. Secretary of State, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. By joining the courts of the same kind, the rationalisation of the network of courts begins, and thus the implementation of the conclusion of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, i.e. is supported by the project "The Support for the Reform of the Judicial System". We have reduced the number of municipal courts from 108 to 67 municipal courts, and this today's proposal proposes a reduction from 114 criminal courts to 63. I, as in my first reading, will point to the criteria most often mentioned as a fundamental element when making decisions on the rationalisation of the network of courts. The criteria mention the number of cases, the number of judges, the annual inflow of cases, the number of judges as well as the distance of courts that should normally be less than 50 kilometers to the first infraction court. The above criteria are good elements when making rationalisation decisions, but not according to us in the HSS club and the only criteria that might have been applied. I'm going to repeat some of the first-reading debates that are not considered, and above all these are some historical facts and details. The historical facts that have taken place in the practice of trial in some of our cities, and I particularly point out in the area of our Bjelovar-Bilogor County. These are Chazma, Gareshnica and Grubisno polje where perhaps by joining infringement courts in the area of the Bjelovar-Bilogian County there could be a third infraction court, which I think would be in the great interest of our citizens. In addition to the tradition of the existence of the Municipal Court and the Criminal Court in the City of Chazmi, this tradition is far longer than in the surrounding places where the courts remain and today act. I point out that the Chazma Violation Court covers over 50 settlements whose citizens should travel more than 80 kilometers to a misdemeanor court in the current, or proposed network of criminal courts. However, we must thank the promoter for taking into account the arguments and accepting the proposals of the Croatian Peasant Party Club regarding the court's accession to the Križevci. In our proposal, we pointed out that the court in Koprivnica would be 60 kilometers away for residents of the county’s border municipalities and that of Gornja Rijeka and Kalnik, which are also or by some statistical standards, are the poorest municipalities in the county, and their residents would have a safe journey to Koprivnica, i.e. a major problem. As for the number of cases in court, i.e. their annual inflow, and on the basis of that number of necessary judges, the Criminal Court in the Križevci agrees on both criteria to be included in this proposal for a new law. And here we thank you for showing understanding and including the Criminal Court in the Križevci in this proposal. However, citizens from the area mentioned three previous cities in the area of the Bjelovar-Bilogor County and belonging municipalities are also statistically included in the poorer settlements and municipalities in our county, and thus, we are creating additional costs for the poorer citizens, i.e. the richer citizens, and we believe that this is a kind of failure or injustice towards these citizens. This centralisation with the centralisation of other state institutions and services, with the county's headquarters, increases the costs of the citizens. We believe that we need to rationalise in the interests of the citizens, not just in the interest of certain guidance they have received. We must ask ourselves whether we are reducing or increasing the costs of our citizens by rationalising them. However, we believe that the proposed rationalisation of the infringement court network will bring about some financial effects based on a small number of court presidents, and we hope that such an organisation will solve and lag behind in unsolved cases, and thus allow for a clear specialisation of judges who will contribute, in our conviction, to the more successful work of all newly-organised misdemeanors. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-28-0.u41324	Thank you very much. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, Honored Representative Ana Lovrin.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-28-0.u41325	Thank you very much, Your Honor, Madam Vice President. Mr. Secretary of State with an associate. The proposal for a law on areas and seats of infringement courts, which we are discussing today, is a logical sequence of legislative activity in a project to streamline the network of courts, since the Law on Areas and Seats of Courts, Municipal Courts, as well as the Law on Areas and Headquarterss of State Lawyers, was adopted in the second half of 2008. I recall here that at the end of 2005, the Government of the Republic of Croatia adopted the Strategy for Justice Reform as only one of the measures to achieve the ultimate objective of an effective, professional, impartial and independent judiciary foresaw and rationalise the network of courts in the Republic of Croatia. The evaluation of the initial project proposal in cooperation with the Finns to implement a pilot of the merger of smaller infringement courts with smaller municipal courts in the same place showed after the implementation of the pilot project that this method of rationalisation had not produced results, since parallel legislation on jurisdiction and procedures had not been harmonised at the same time, so that material savings at common services and costs did not give the desired results in terms of improving the efficiency and quality of the trial. And it wasn't then shown as we could hear here, as some kind of rescue of the Croatian judiciary. It was one of the proposals of the project at the time that was being implemented and always and exclusively as a limited pilot project. Thus, and in view of its results, it gave up and fully accepted the proposal for merger that rationalisation would go in the direction of bringing the courts together of the same species. In this respect, the March 2007 conclusion of the Government of the Republic of Croatia launched the process of rationalising the network of courts. The Ministry of Justice has been tasked with supporting judicial system reform under the CARDS 2003 project to develop a proposal to streamline the network of courts. The rationalisation of the network of municipal courts was carried out by the adoption of the Law on Areas and Seats of Courts 2008. There are a lot of complaints sometimes heard here that in the implementation of this law only plates were changed on the courts' buildings, and that there was no actual merger except in a very small number of courts. But here I want to stress again, and anyone who understands the judiciary must understand that, by changing the board, that is, by administrative merger, the possibility of real, fundamental rationalization, i.e. the distribution of judges within the new same court, their specialisation, the possibility of additional education, the balance of the number of judges and cases within the larger court, etc. From the field comes positive feedback, comes up, so specialization of judges inside the court is started. What is most important is that the courts remain available to the citizens for the reason that all the administrative services remain in their places in terms of submission, and as we have heard from the landowners like those parts of the courts where citizens are most directly interested in being in their place that part of the court. By proposing this law, while respecting the criteria which objectively regulate the number of infringement courts in view of the number of cases, the annual inflow, the number of judges, the distance between courts and the specificities of courts in the islands. Instead of the laws provided for so far, 114 misdemeanor courts established and operated by 106, a total of 63 misdemeanor courts are established and their area and headquarters determined. I must say that before the final bill was passed, which is now in the third reading, he suffered through these proposals and certain amendments, extensive consultations were carried out on the ground, consultations with the presidents of the courts, judges, citizens, representatives of local self-government, and in this regard were accepted and suggestions as well as amendments to the parliamentary committees. In view of the necessary means and time to ensure the necessary conditions, working space, technical equipment, misdemeanor courts at joint courts, this proposal provides for a longer period of time for the implementation of the process of rationalisation and physical merger, and will establish the dynamics of this physical merger by the Minister of Justice. Similarly, this draft law has been authorised by the Minister to set up permanent services outside the seat of the criminal court until the decision is made that the conditions for the court's work in its seat have been ensured, and that is exactly how the continuity of the work of the courts and their availability to the citizens will not be compromised at any time. Of course, I would agree with the finding that apart from this rationalization measure, and that is not at all unless it is the only measure. Therefore, the Justice Reform Strategy with the ultimate objective of an effective and impartial judiciary has a set of measures, and one of them is the rationalisation of the network of courts. Of course, it also needs to be achieved that projects and laws of other species have been implemented through the Ministry of Justice that would drive away the courts, that is, the cases that have come to court, have made their resolution faster and more efficient. Well, let me just point out. So, that a new Criminal Code has been passed, that we have heard about the effects, that uncontested deserts, the executions are passed on to the resolution of public notaries, that many projects have been implemented and the strengths and reinforcements of procedures are still being carried out in a peaceful manner, court and out of court. And so it might not be good to listen to the suggestion that rationalising the network of courts should be the last step after all the backdrops are resolved and after the inflow of the case is no longer increased and there are no more lags, then going into rationalisation for the simple reason why, if we had such a judiciary, we would no longer have to resort to such measures. Therefore, the measure of rationalising the network of courts is and must be one of a series of measures drawn up by the Justice Reform Strategy, aimed at a final solution, which is an effective, effective, impartial and professional judiciary. In accordance with this statement, and keeping in mind all positive indicators and in assessing the application of the new Criminal Code, which says that by applying the inflow of the case to first-degree criminal courts, it has been reduced by 25 to 30%, and the High Court of Justice by 30%, which gives hope that we will never again face the fact that more than 50% of the infringement cases have been suspended due to antiquity, coming across a cap in the High Court of Justice. If there were almost a recipe to be said in a misdemeanor, you will find yourself in the High Violent, and there you will fall into obsolescence. So, because of all this and because we believe that this rationalization of the network of criminal courts is one in a series of good measures to achieve the ultimate goal, which is the effective and professional work of the criminal courts. The Croatian Democratic Community club supports and will support the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-28-0.u41326	Thank you very much. On behalf of the IDS Representatives Club, Honored Representative Marin Brkarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-28-0.u41327	Madam Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Here I'll say it's good that this Final Bill on Areas and Headquarterss of Violent Courts is in the third reading. It is less good that the amendments of the IDS MPs were not accepted that we gave to the second reading, but we will repeat them again. And the third is what he would say about the bill itself, and I think as IDS, we support judicial reform and the strategy itself. We also think it was necessary to approach the process of rationalising the network of courts, but certainly it is good to review to what extent it is necessary to streamline the network so that it is not harmful, that it does not expose our citizens to any additional costs, that in some way, perhaps somewhere where the tradition of trial is and historically where these courts have been founded for many years do not happen to remove such courts. The fact is that 114 misdemeanor courts have been established in the Republic of Croatia. We know that a part of them was established after this territorial structure of the Republic of Croatia. The fact is it also works at 106 courts, but it's also the fact that we're now proposing that we cancel, namely, a total of 63 misdemeanor courts remain. I think this approach may be too radical, not perhaps, but certain. Many before me, in the name of clubs, said that perhaps the criteria that were given were not fully respected, or not objectively, was not an objectively determined number of misdemeanors. I'll mention exactly the example of the Labin Criminal Court, where I've proposed, or the government or the Ministry of Justice, that the network of criminal courts has been tracking a network of municipal courts. The situation has just arisen that a motion is to abolish the Labin Criminal Court even though it exists or the network provides for a municipal court in Labin. So one inconsistency, or exactly what I said before, means one subjective interpretation of the criteria where the promoter has just said that they will be monitored or that the misdemeanor courts have de facto followed the network of municipal courts. Furthermore, I'll mention the matter of the Labin Criminal Court itself. So it's not taken into account that there's a District Court of Labin, so there's no respect for that network. So that's one of the basic criteria. But it was also not taken into account that the Criminal Court is on the East Coast, the only Infringement Court on the eastern coast of the Istrian peninsula. It is also not a respected criterion that the number of cases is increased especially during the tourist season. Furthermore, the Criminal Court has a space owned by the Republic of Croatia, which will definitely require additional costs if it is about abolishing and creating new space in the new headquarters. Nor is the criteria of personnel teaming respected, since the court is staffed. Here's an amendment. And the second amendment refers to the Violent Court in Buzet. I would say for a short time that it is the area, covering the area of the municipality of Lanisce and the town of Buzet, and it is areas at the border with the neighbouring Republic of Slovenia, with an increased number of cases. For the municipality of Lanisce, I must say that it is a municipality of special state concern, and Buzet, a mountainous and mountainous area, and we estimate that this Infringement Court should remain as such, meaning that the Criminal Court in Buzet is not abolished, and I mentioned the court in Labin before. Here are the proposals for our amendments that we will or which we have already made in the procedure. With certainly our vote on the support of the bill itself, it will depend on the reasoned acceptance of the amendments that we have made to the municipal court, the Labin Criminal Court, or the Buzet Criminal Court. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-28-0.u41328	Thank you very much. We're having an individual discussion. Individually registered representatives are first in line to Nada Cavlović Smiljanec.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-28-0.u41329	Thank you very much. Madam Vice President, State Secretary with an associate, co-workers and colleagues. According to the final proposal of the Law on the Areas and Seats of Violent Courts, the rationalisation of the Network of Violent Courts in the Republic of Croatia is envisaged, and related to the strategy of judicial reform and is specifically proposed, i.e. the establishment of a network of 63 first-degree infringement courts. The rationalisation proposal states that the current network of criminal courts is ineffective and expensive for the state. The proposal further sets out the criteria which are objective criteria for the decision which the courts will abolish and attach to another court. I must say that the number of cases is relatively unreliable and unsuitable, i.e. inapplicable to infringement courts for several reasons. Namely, the number of objects and... the cases are totally unusable criteria for criminal trial, since there is no unique, or special rules of procedure which would in an unequivocally establish a unique way of recording the file during one year. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And for these very reasons, it has happened that each court has its own ways of recording the file and inflowing the case, completely different from showing it in the annual reports, and that ultimately resulted in the production and production of the inadequate systematisation of the number of judges in certain courts. So today we have a situation where a small number of misdemeanor courts have a very difficult situation with regard to the number of cases in work, and some courts simply cannot solve half of the cases received. And that's why the number of judges' criteria in the sense that those courts that have three and more judges are being held are completely unreliable, because the systematization of jobs stemmed from incorrect data on the number and inflow of cases. It is also not true that all newly established courts, 63 of them, will be courted with at least 3 judges. Except the courts on the islands, because, for example, Opatija and Rovinj are not as well known as islands, and they have less than 3 judges, but in these places there remains a misdemeanor court. Inconsistencies shall also be apparent within a distance of less than 50 km as a condition that courts at a lower distance are abolished. It is also an incorrect claim that the final draft law is in line with the network of municipal courts, according to the Law on Areas and Courts, because 67 municipal courts have been established under the law, and the number of infringement courts is reduced to 63 and it is a broader procedure and rationalisation that does not have a very strong stand-off in reality. Namely, by all objective criteria of criminal courts should be more than municipal, for the reasons of a completely different type of trial, where the dynamics of conduct in a criminal trial are significantly higher in the sense that the presence of participants in the proceedings of defendants, convicts, prosecutors, court experts, etc. In the following, I want to say something about a new network of misdemeanor courts compared to Virovitica-Podravska County. We see that the proposer did not accept an amendment that proposed that the Virovitica-Podravska County be established in Virovitica, with the exception of the Virovitica Criminal Court, and the Criminal Court in..., i.e. that this court is not actually attached to the Criminal Court... but remains as a court, and as a reason, it is said that the establishment of that court is not subject to the criteria for the establishment of criminal courts. That's just not true. As regards the Virovitica-Podravska County, the proposer has deviated from some criteria that should have been taken into account when establishing a new network of criminal courts, and for these very reasons, there has been the abolition of 3 criminal courts that all re-apply to the Virovitica Criminal Court. The inconsistency above all is obvious in the fact that there was no respect for the criterion that the distance between courts was less than 50 km away. Because the distance from a significant number of settlements and cities in Virovitica-Podravska County is more than 50 km away. For Virovitica-Podravska County where it is proposed to establish only one infringement court in Virovitica, this very distance of towns and municipalities as well as settlements will make it very difficult for citizens to be available to the court, i.e. in most cases it will be practically impossible. Furthermore, the proposal states that the proposal for this law is reached with a network of municipal courts which is not true again. It's known that in the city with... There is no municipal court, and we can see that a misdemeanor court is being abolished while the same bill suggests that criminal courts remain in some places although they did not remain in those places and municipal courts. As much as this offered network of courts is harmful and bad for the citizens of our county, I will give an example of the Slatini Criminal Court. The annual inflow of cases in that court is about 2,000 and 400 cases, which is about a thousand executive cases in which the presence of the convicts is mostly necessary. As a result of such a large number of cases, the networks of infringement courts should be as dense as possible to enable citizens to access the court at less cost. And in the present conditions, most citizens in the criminal proceedings are extremely difficult to get to court from far more distant places because such criminal acts of conduct, whose perpetrators can indeed be anyone, are being dealt with. For example, it can be stated.... Infractions and... with road safety, not belting, overspeed etc. It is precisely such a violation that the biggest problem according to the rules of the infringement procedure is the presence of parties in the conduct of the proceedings. And you know that... the reason why the final proposal of the Law on Areas and Headquarterss of Violent Courts has been tabled again is the amendment, we expect and I plead to the Secretary of State to consider this situation a little bit, and I would just like to say that the Osijek-Baranja County is twice as much as the Virovitica-Podrava County and there are 5 infringement courts left in that county, and in Virovitica-Podrava County there is only one infraction court. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-28-0.u41330	Thank you very much. It is up to the debate, the respected representative Bruno Kurelic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-28-0.u41331	I would like to thank the Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, State Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. Looking at the clock shows that this is the time when listeners' attention is dropping, and while respecting the fact that part of my debate is already the principles of my colleague, Ingrid Anticevic, in the context of the SDP club debate, I will maximumly shorten my debate. As is known, the final proposal for a Law on Criminal Court Headquarterss was referred by the Government in July of the month to the parliamentary procedure. Based on the content of this act, and in the event that its content is fully accepted on Friday, I hope that the vote in the Croatian Parliament should be held in the field of the Karlovac County only one infringement court based in Karlovac. In particular, the local public reaction to the abolition of the Oguline Criminal Court has launched a whole series of actions aimed at seeking the survival of this criminal court. 3 thousand 327 inhabitants of the area of the city of Ogulin and the municipalities of Josipdol, Plaski, Saborsko and Tounj are the areas covered by this infringement court, signed a petition here for the survival of this criminal court, and Mrs Anticevic spoke about the importance of the petition. This petition accounts for a total of 14.9% of the 23,000 445 inhabitants of the area covered by this infringement court. The mayor of the town of Ogulin, the mayors before these municipalities asked us, the parliamentary representatives, from the region of Karlovo County, to launch activities based on our opportunities and in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, which would result in the survival of this court after the debate here in this House. Since we have not realised the possibility that all MPs, by their signature from this area, will support this initiative, of course the amendment to the debate, we have decided, my littleness and Mrs... to refer the amendment to the final proposal, taking into account its arguments in response to the criteria of the proposer of the final proposal for this law. First criterion, if the criteria are distance, then she doesn't have a foothold in this case. Distance to the 50km Crime Court is already at the beginning because the town of Ogulin is 55 km away from Karlovac and individual municipalities, without talking about places within them up to 90 and over 90 km away. And the court was primarily supposed to be at the service of the citizens. The second parameter, the performance parameter also has no foothold, and during 2008, this court resolved over 2,000 800 cases. During 2007, the number of cases is at the level of the number of cases of misdemeanor courts in Delnice and Pazin. Only by the basis of these arguments that we directly faced with the arguments of the promoters without spreading arguments to an area that may have subjective connotations such as the historical "background" development of the system in the area concerned, we wanted to point out that the survival of the Criminal Court in Ogulin is not only justified but necessary. Based on what is said, I hope you will take into account the reasoning of these amendments, and in line with that, we will see how the final solution will be. Thank you all for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-28-0.u41332	Last reported for individual debate, respected representative Ivo Grbić.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-28-0.u41333	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, honourable state secretary, respected colleagues and fellow MPs. The final proposal of the Law on the Areas and Seats of Violent Courts, I would say, is a logical sequence of legislative activities of the Government of the Republic of Croatia since the Law on Areas and Seats of Courts was adopted in the second half of 2008. I would like to remind you that the Government of the Republic of Croatia has adopted a strategy for reform of the judiciary, and has set for one of the objectives a rationalisation of the network of courts in the Republic of Croatia by joining courts of the same kind in order to achieve greater efficiency and economicity. In this respect, the conclusion of the Government of the Republic of Croatia is that the Ministry of Justice, in the framework of the CARDS 2003 project, is responsible for supporting the reform of the judicial system to draft a proposal for a reduction of courts. These final draft laws, respecting the criteria which objectively determine the number of infringements, given the number of cases, the annual inflow, the number of judges, the distance of each other, as certainly the specificity of the courts on the islands instead of the current 114 courts, of which 106 infringement courts have been established, a total of 63 criminal courts are established and their territory and headquarters is determined. I believe that it is good that the applicant has determined that the implementation of the rationalisation procedure takes longer than the necessary conditions of work space, as well as the technical equipment of the infringement courts in the mergers, and which the dynamics of ensuring these conditions are passed by the Minister of Justice. Similarly, this final draft of the law empowers the Minister of Justice to designate the establishment of permanent services outside the court's seat by a special decision, until a decision is taken to ensure the conditions for working in its seat. Given the importance and importance of judicial reform in the process of joining the Republic of Croatia to the European Union, I support the adoption of the Law on Areas and Headquarterss of Violent Courts as well as any amendments adopted by the proposings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-28-0.u41334	Thank you very much. And the final word is Secretary of State Drazen Bosnjakovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-28-0.u41335	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen. There is no doubt that there is support for the process of rationalising the network of courts and that is, of course, what makes us happy. We've really accepted the good part of the amendment that we've received but we know somewhere we have to say the underpants and say those are some standards that we're not going under. All those who have pleaded today and asked us to leave some courts, I must say, we will really be very observant with permanent services outside the courthouse seat. Because really some proposals don't satisfy those minimum requirements to suggest that a court that would have 400 cases in the paper will stay a year, it doesn't make sense to have a court just for 400 cases. We can get these citizens out and we'll meet them in a way that either we'll bring in the days of judgment or we'll leave a permanent service out of court, so the citizens won't have to travel over what you've been talking about for 80 or 90 kilometers. And that principle simply works well with the network of municipal courts and there is no reason to change that and not to apply that principle to the network of criminal courts. We believe that this is a good and decent proposal and here we are going to vote on these amendments once again and see if we can change anything else. But I think we're really close to what's coming to us. But, you know, in the future, it's a question of what's been said that the rationalization of municipal courts doesn't work. I would say that all our information and of course to contact our presidents of these newly formed, I would say newly joined courts. That works very well. Because all these presidents of newly established municipal courts use those tools that we've actually given them by law. So if in the seat of the court, and it was, there was an overload in the number of cases, and it was quite a use of those judges who worked in these smaller courts, to transfer to them a certain part of the case, and it certainly goes faster. There was talk here that it wasn't the only measure that could raise our judiciary. Of course it's not the only measure. As you can see, we and the other laws and the whole package on the election and appointment of judges, about the education of judges, have significantly changed the procedural laws. Absolutely stands what counterpart Anticevic said about the fact that there is a lot of work in front of our courts that shouldn't be. And I can tell you that we're really thinking beyond all these measures Mrs. Lovrin has been saying that it's been transferred to the work and the notebooks around the mission, about the legacy. The government has adopted a strategy on the acceptance of a brand-new model of enforcement, where we also want to remove the exercise from municipal courts and jurisdiction and transfer it to private perpetrators, public perpetrators, and the court is actually in a position to actually be the one to oversee the legality of that system. So it's going to be another measure where we're going to relieve the courts, and make the system of execution more efficient. Thank you very much for the discussion and for all the suggestions.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-28-0.u41336	Thank you very much, Secretary of State. With these words, I conclude the debate on the final proposal for a Law on the Areas of Criminal Courts. At the same time, I'm finishing work for today. Tomorrow morning, I continue my work with the report on the work of the National Council for Higher Education in 2008, to then with the Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Rights of Croatian lawyers from the Homeland War and members of their families. Thank you for your work today, and I'll see you tomorrow.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-28-0.u41337	We move to the Final Proposal for Laws on Areas and Headquarterss of Violent Courts, this was the third reading, P.Z. No. 238, Proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. The review of the amendment is divided into benches. I would ask the applicant's representative to be shown about the amendments submitted. State Secretary Drazen Bosnjakovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-28-0.u41338	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-28-0.u41339	First is Danica Hursa, First Amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-28-0.u41340	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen. The government doesn't accept. Namely, the law proposed the merger of the Criminal Court in Lower Stubica with the Criminal Court in Zlatar. We already have such a solution in the rationalisation of municipal courts, such a solution works well for us, and access to citizens so that we do not have problems for a trip to the court seat will be solved with a permanent service outside the seat or possibly by judicial days.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-28-0.u41341	Ms. Danica Hursa. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-28-0.u41342	Well, I thank you for giving me your word. Here I will express my huge dissatisfaction on behalf of all citizens of Oroslavje, Stubic spas, Lower and Upper Stubica. Once again, we are not convinced when you have made... /Conversation off./... when you have joined the mentioned areas to the Criminal Court in Zlatar we are confident that you do not know the terrain. I also said in the amendment and on the committee that citizens of this area would arrive in Zlatar under these conditions, using public transport, they need to spend four hours. Can you imagine what it means to spend four hours on a man? This man must take his annual vacation, the day of his vacation, so that he can perform his case at the Criminal Court in Zlatar. In addition, you have created a new financial cost for each of us through the schedule and removal of the Criminal Court from Lower Stubice to Zlatar. At this point, it's 80 kuna. Did you have the right to do that? This solution I have offered in the amendment would be a solution for all those citizens, because Oroslavje is the neighbouring city of Zaboku, and the move from Zabok to Gornja Stubica is 20 kilometers. Therefore, it is not necessary to use a public transport that is well organized, it could even be on foot. Here again, I express my enormous dissatisfaction with the fact that you had no ear for the needs of the citizens.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-28-0.u41343	Thank you. Who is for this amendment that the Government does not accept? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment 2, MPs Biserka Vranic and Mr Bruno Kurelic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-28-0.u41344	The government does not accept this amendment. The law proposed the merger of the Oguline Criminal Court to a mistrial in Karlovac. The Oguline Criminal Court does not meet the criteria for the establishment of criminal courts for the reason that there are no inflows of cases for three judges, but has one judge. We will also, that citizens do not travel, solve the problem as in this previous one, with a permanent service outside the court seat or the judicial days so that people will not actually travel. And I think this problem works pretty well with municipal courts.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-28-0.u41345	Mr Bruno Kurelić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-28-0.u41346	Thank you, Secretary of State. As you stated in your explanation, the purpose of this submission of my amendment and the amendment of my colleague was to keep the Criminal Court in Ogulin. We based our proposal for an amendment on the following criteria. The criterion of distance, Ogulin is 55 kilometers away from Karlovec... /The speaker excluded./... and up to 90 kilometers from the only criminal court that will be based on this redistribution in Karlovac. Secondly, as regards the efficiency you were talking about, that court of law had cases at the level of 2007 as well as the Criminal Court in Delnice and Pazin, and also in 2008, that court solved about 2800 cases. What gives the foundation even stronger to our amendment proposal is this. Citizens of the Ogulin area and neighbouring municipalities, 3327 of them, which accounts for 15% of the population in the region, signed a petition for the survival of the Oguline Criminal Court. The petition as an act of opposing citizens of the promised problem was respected even in those ancient times we talked about and I hope we will also have reason in these brighter times. I call on all of you MPs to vote on this amendment, and in particular I call on representatives from the Karlovic area. Please vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-28-0.u41347	Thank you. Who is for this amendment that the Government does not accept? He didn't get the necessary majority. Please amendment 3 of Mršić's representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-28-0.u41348	The government doesn't accept. It's the same argument. There are not enough cases to have an independent organised court, and the problems of citizens' travel will be solved through judicial days or possibly permanent service outside the seat.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-28-0.u41349	Mr. Zvonimir Mršić. He's gone. Who is for this amendment that the Government does not accept? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. Fourth Amendment of Representatives Nada Čavlović Smiljanec and Vlatko Podnar to Article 2 of Chapter X.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-28-0.u41350	It's the same explanation as the last one.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-28-0.u41351	Is Mr. Cavlović, Mr. Podnar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-28-0.u41352	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, you all said that your colleagues before me had just said the distance of the court seat from the new court seat. From the municipality of Crnac to Virovitica needs at least, there are over 50 km that's the first reason, and about the traffic connection that I'm not talking about. Also, the number of cases in the infringing current Orahovica and Slatina is also sufficient for the establishment of a court in Slatina, and the Municipal Court is also in Slatina. So I don't see why you wouldn't be in Slatina's Criminal Court. Thank you. I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-28-0.u41353	Thank you. Who is this amendment that the government does not accept? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. Fifth amendment of Mr Marin Jurjevic's representative to Chapter XVII of Article 2.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-28-0.u41354	The government doesn't accept. It's the same explanation as before.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-28-0.u41355	Mr. Jurevic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-28-0.u41356	Thank you. The city of Kaštela, the city of Kaštela, is also about the government proposing that a mistrial court be abolished there. So, the town of Kaštela if you didn't know it was a city of 45,000 inhabitants. The second largest in Split-Dalmatia County is behind Split. The arguments you've made are hard to accept. The infringement court, located in Kaštel Sucurac, covers the territory of the town of Kaštel, the municipality of Lečevica, Prgomet and the coastal valley. There are four judges and one court counselor. During 2007, the court held 6145 cases and 5989 cases. The distance between courts is less than 50 km. Therefore, the arguments for the existence of the court were quite fulfilled. If this is a small number of objects, then I don't know what your large number of objects are. I mean, it's a really weird decision, and I'm sure there's not a lot of arguments for this court to be abolished. If you are going to fill everything in Split, then overload Split at the expense of citizens of other cities, you will not help Split and even less citizens of these cities.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-28-0.u41357	Who is for this amendment that the Government does not accept? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. The sixth amendment of Agent Damir Cain to Chapter XVIII of Article 2.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-28-0.u41358	The government does not accept this proposal either because it is not based on the government's criteria. I'll just say that in 2008, there were 520 cases at the Buzet Criminal Court. The norm for one judge is 1200 items. So, indeed, for 520 cases, we can't leave the court as an independent institution, but we can think about the days or the permanent service outside the court's seat, and that way we'll regulate things as we do with all these previous amendments. We're going to be in people's disposition, but in one better way, we're going to arrange for the organisation of the courts.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-28-0.u41359	Thank you. Mr. Damir Cain is gone. Who is for this amendment that the Government does not accept Mr. Damir Cain? There's no one here. He didn't make it. Mr. Representative Marin Brkaric, also in the second article, the seventh amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-28-0.u41360	He doesn't accept the government. There aren't enough objects either. Here in last year 2008, there were 1100 cases, no judges.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-10-28-0.u41361	Okay. Mr. Representative's gone. Who's in favour of this amendment? No one. He didn't get the necessary majority. Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary of State. I am voting on the final draft law on the areas and seats of the criminal courts. Let's get involved and vote please. The result? This law was passed unanimously with 79 votes. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs and counsellors. We're going back to work. We move to the agenda point - Report on the work of the National Council for Higher Education in 2008, Carrier: National Council for Higher Education The National Council submitted this report on the basis of Article 13. Law on scientific activity and higher education. You received the proposal by mail. The government delivered an opinion. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Education, Science and Culture. Does the Proposer want a representative? Yeah. Professor Vedran Navar, president of the National Council for Higher Education. Here you go.
