ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-26-0.u30432	Ladies and gentlemen, we continue with the session and debate on - Final bill on amendments and additions to the Law on the Protection of the public against infectious diseases, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 305 The debate was conducted by the Committees on Legislative, Health and Social Care. You received the reports at the session. The amendments were submitted by the Legislative Committee. State Secretary at the Ministry of Health and Social Care Drazen Jurkovic will further explain the proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-26-0.u30433	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor. Therefore, in September 2008, the Croatian Parliament adopted the Law on Sanitary Inspection, which came into force from 1.1 this year, so these amendments and amendments to the law are about harmonising the provisions on the excavation, transfer and transport of deceased persons and the implementation of inspection supervision that are in line with the provisions of the Law on Sanitary Inspection. These amendments shall then be subject to the notification of the occurrence of infectious diseases, epidemics or other health hazards of international significance which, according to international regulations, the Croatian Institute of Public Health shall refer to the IHR system of early alerting of the World Health Organisation, with the same reference to the early notification network of the European Union and shall be governed by the way in accordance with the European Commission documents or specific official requirements. And also, in these amendments and additions to the law, this legislative proposal introduces an instrument of microbiological cleanliness control in facilities under sanitary supervision. Here, that'll be all. I thank and accept the amendment of the Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-26-0.u30434	Thank you very much. The Committee on Health and Social Care, the chairman of the board, Mr. Representative Andri Hebrang. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-26-0.u30435	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. At its 21st session, the Committee on Health and Social Care discussed the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Protection of the public against Infectious Diseases as a home working body pursuant to Article 76a of the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. In the opening statement, the applicant's representative introduced the committee members to the reasons for amending and supplementing the existing law. In the first place, this is the further harmonisation of domestic legislation with the acquis of the European Union, the new establishment of a sanitary inspection at the Ministry of Health and Social Care shows and requires compliance with the provisions of the Law on the Protection of the public against infectious diseases. In accordance with the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Regional and Regional Self-Government, provisions of the Law on the Protection of the public against Contagious Diseases are also harmonised. In the debate, committee members supported amendments and additions to the law. The proposed instruments for the control of microbiological purity, plant surfaces, equipment, devices, accessories, means of transport and hands of persons assessed as an extremely important epidemiological mechanism in the prevention and control of infectious diseases. This mode of control and supervision of hygiene conditions in facilities under sanitary supervision is the only objective way to determine the hygiene of an object. After an extensive debate, the committee members unanimously decided to propose to the Croatian Assembly for the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Protection of the public against infectious diseases in the text as proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-26-0.u30436	Thank you. Legislative Committee, chairman of the board, Mr. Representative Emil Tomljanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-26-0.u30437	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable Secretary of State with an associate, colleague and colleague. At the 53rd session held on 24 March 2009, the Croatian Parliament Legislative Committee discussed the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Protection of the public against Infectious Diseases with the Final Proposal for the Law, which was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia by the Act of 18 March 2009. The Legislative Committee supports the adoption and does not object to the proposal from the Proposer to adopt this law by an urgent procedure. On the text of the final proposal, the Committee shall submit the following amendment to Article 11. So in Article 11, "this Law enters into force on the 8th day of its publication in "The People's Newspaper", except for the provision of Article 1 of this Law which is replaced by the words "this Law will be published in "The People's Journals". With an explanation. Namely, the day of publication of this law in the "National Journals" is neither determined nor determined, nor is the day of entry into force of the decision to call the first subsequent general and regular elections of members of municipal and city councils, county assemblies and the City of Zagreb City Assembly, as well as municipal mayors, mayors, mayors and mayors of the City of Zagreb. In order to remove a possible situation for an article, or part of an article, to enter into force before the law itself, the amendment shall draw up a report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-26-0.u30438	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. HDZ representative's club, Mrs. Carmela Caparin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-26-0.u30439	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, State Secretary with an associate, colleagues and fellow MPs. The Croatian Democratic Community Club discussed the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Public Protection Act against Contagious Diseases with the Final Bill. Infectious diseases and the surveillance of infectious diseases are today one of the health priorities of the Republic of Croatia, which is highlighted in the Law on the Protection of the public against infectious diseases. Many health system factors, as well as many out of health care, are involved in supervision, and all with the aim of preventing, monitoring, diagnosis and correct treatment and management. The situation of infectious diseases in the Republic of Croatia is relatively favourable. However, the epidemiological situation, epidemiologists say, must also be considered potentially insecure and directly dependent on further continuous anti-epileptic and preventive work. It is known that there are certain risk factors, among them still the consequences of various destruction, war and post-war migration of people, sometimes unsatisfactory hygiene-sanitary levels, especially with regard to waste disposal and others. Today, the state of infectious diseases is equating the Republic of Croatia with developed countries of Europe and the world. The situation of infectious diseases in the Republic of Croatia is regularly monitored through individual reports of infectious diseases, reports of epidemics, reports of the implementation of a mass immunisation programme and based on these data, the Institute for Epidemiology of Infectious Diseases of the Croatian Institute for Public Health estimates the epidemiological situation. This proposal for a law is complemented by a new article in accordance with international health regulations with which the Croatian Institute of Public Health informs of the occurrence of infectious diseases, epidemics and other health hazards of international importance is sending to the early alerting system of the World Health Organisation with the same reference and to the early notification network of the European Union in accordance with our information conditions in accordance with European Commission documents or specific official requirements. In accordance with the provisions of the Law on Local and Regional Regional Self-Government, it is also regulated by this law that now the municipal chief, mayor, mayor or mayor of the city of Zagreb adopts an annual programme to protect the public from infectious diseases. Today we witness infection example of norva viruses,... Toro viruses requiring a very small, infectious dose, which can contaminating the working surfaces, equipment, devices, hands, staff, etc. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The supervision of hygiene conditions in facilities is therefore extremely important and this law provides for the health minister to draw closer to the facilities, the frequency of control and the normal microbiological purity of the facility so far in the Food Act. In 2008 this House adopted the Law on Sanitary Inspection in accordance with the new establishment of the Sanitary Inspection at the Ministry of Health and Social Care is also governed by this law, the transfer and transfer of the dead on the basis of a mortuary issued by a sanitary inspector with special reference to the consent of the Ministry if the person died from infectious diseases and is transferred from abroad to the Republic of Croatia. The Croatian Democratic Community Club believes that these amendments to the Law on the Protection of the public against infectious diseases will contribute to maintaining a favourable epidemiological situation in the Republic of Croatia as well as so far. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-26-0.u30440	Thank you. Club of representatives of the CNS Mr. Representative Miljenko Doric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-26-0.u30441	Mr. Vice President, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. The HNS Club discussed this bill and we will support it with the fact that we want to underline some things and say what is not said in the reasoning of the law itself. Namely, this law that we have on benches today is not just harmonising with the Sanitary Inspection Act as well as with the Law on Local and Regional Self-Government. There are more novels in this law that we should have done, let's be fair, in September of last year when we had the Law on the Protection of the public against infectious diseases in the form of P.Z.E. The stories. So that's what you should have told us. Obviously, a gap was made then and now, along the way, and we're correcting these shortcomings that we should have made at the time. Here's exactly what this is about. The way in which the Croatian Institute of Public Health will send data and send them is quite logical for us to be networked to the World Health Organization as well as to the European institutions or services of the European Commission. We're regulating it now, and only four, five months ago, we dropped it and we didn't do it. That's definitely good, that should do it but then let's say what's what. In fact, if Europe wants to work properly, that means organising joint preventive measures to prevent certain infectious diseases, or when they occur, then jointly organise quality anti-epidemic measures, then we must do so as is now finally and proposed. About microbiological purity, too, a few words. It's good to include it now in this law because it's the only way to objectively value itself essentially purity in an object, on the hands, on the staff, etc., so that's okay. What perhaps, at least I cannot read from this bill, so we will hear and ask the Secretary of State to explain exactly what this is about, or how it will be realised in practice. Here I read in Article 39a "The control of microbiological cleanliness can be carried out in other objects if there is an epidemiological indication.". Namely, who will be the one to decide if there is an epidemiological indication. We need to know, we're not completely clear here. It's probably an easy administrative organisational solution, but we're not told how. Furthermore, in that same Article 39a, there is a regulation that will determine the facilities closer, the frequency of control and the standards of microbiological cleanliness brought by the minister. Again, the minister doesn't have to be an expert on the area, he doesn't have to know the area. We are also interested in who these will be, what are the bodies, organisations, institutions, institutions, which will suggest a proposal for a solution related to these initiatives that he will have to take here. Furthermore, the sanitary inspection itself. We welcomed the Sanitary Inspection Act, I think it is a big step forward, that it is simply approaching European standards. This profession is very important, we see how important the European Union is, and we also mention that inspection in Articles 3, 4, 5, 8, 9, which raises our question whether sanitary inspectors are part of the health system of the Republic of Croatia. We believe that this process of harmonisation with the legal acts and acquisitions of the European Union has removed any doubt that they are. For this reason, we are clearly asking again the question why can't we find a place under the roof of health care with sanitary engineers? We think that would be correct, we think that in this way we would have one system, a single system that could better organise and coordinate the work that is ahead of us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-26-0.u30442	Thank you. SDP representative club Mr. Miranda Mrsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-26-0.u30443	Dear Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. We have before us a revision of the law that we have passed and I agree that this should have been done already when we discussed the law in the fall because it is nothing new why the European Union wants infectious diseases to be referred to in one place and that is something that is waiting for us in life and that is waiting for us in the future because infectious diseases are not so rare. It seems to us that they are and they continue to pose a great threat to humanity and in such a long time ago past and plague, and cholera, and the Spanish flu and the great goddesses have taken a great number of lives and it is still in collective memory in humanity. Here in these 10 minutes or less my discussion in the world is going to be about 330 people dying of some infectious disease. They were always a great threat, and they cut down a great number of lives. What we have done in vaccination medicine and inoculation that infectious diseases are no longer such a bauk, but there is still one example in collective memory of life that people leave their sleeve open after vaccination to dry the vaccine. They're still in our memory of the great goddess and that way of vaccination from the great goddesses. It's also still in collective memory and fear of tetanus vaccination. Although human, hyperimmune human antitetanus serum is being used today, the people still think that tetanus vaccination can cause death, that anaphylactic shock may occur. It just says how deep - rooted infectious diseases are and how important they are in the conduct of modern - day humans. It's also enough to hear that someone has a cold, and we're afraid of bird flu, so it also happened that a plane landed at the airport in Zagreb, there was a Chinese man who had a cold and we then as no one knew his language, automatically spent it with the police at the Infectious Diseases Clinic. Here's how fear of bird flu and fear of infectious diseases in the people is rooted. You also remember that affair with the Anthrax and those letters that contained these slow anthrax, so here's another example of how the people behave, some citizens carried their personal letters in mail in rubber gloves so they wouldn't accidentally get slow anthrax. All this says that infectious diseases are still fear and trembling and that the Law on the Protection of the public against infectious diseases should be approached very seriously. And I think that at this point, it needs to be tempered and adapted in some way to modern aspirations, especially in Europe and us. And what exactly is the state of infectious diseases in Croatia? Well, here's the last case of the great goddesses was in Croatia back in 1926, we haven't had diphtheria since 1974, we haven't had polio since 1989, and so has malaria, long since 1954. We haven't had rabies since 1964, trachea redrition, leprosy. All this says that the Institute of Public Health, i.e. the epidemiological service in Croatia, was doing extremely well. We also have a low frequency of classical sexual diseases, such as syphilis and gonorrhea, and the ADIS is maintained by systematic measures on a very low scale. And we hope there won't be an epidemic like it was in the countries of America and Europe. This is why a long tradition of public health and systematic work on prevention and control of infectious diseases is deserved. And what should be considered in the future is how the epidemiological service adapts to modern challenges, especially challenges such as SARS or pandemic flu, or other diseases that await us like prion diseases. And what I believe in alone, it is Mr. Secretary of State who is otherwise from the Institute of Public Health, should consider whether Croatia needs a disease control centre at this time. Public Health Services and Public Health Institutes are one relic of the past and they were organized at the time when we had the types of diseases that had been extended in Croatia, and today we meet with some other diseases that are more dangerous, and it is harder to prevent them, and especially to treat them. Anyway, first of all, we're talking about a possible pandemic flu. Europe is preparing for this, Croatia is also preparing for the issue, how many crisis headquarters are organised enough. However, I lack a roof organization, and Europe has a roof organisation, it has America, and it is a Center for Disease Control that could also be more effective and easy to control possible pandemics of diseases in Croatia. Also when we talk about vaccination, vaccination in Croatia has been extended. However, that is not enough to be heard. Let's last call the affair, but the last question is vaccination against the HPV virus where our cities are going to vaccinate girls against the HPV virus, as Europe did and Spain. However, the epidemiological service, i.e. the Public Health Service, was not sufficiently involved in clarifying and providing specific guidelines when, at what time and which groups should be launched. What the Institute of Public Health has issued is a guideline in which the number of options to be vaccinated, when vaccinated, but in any case because of uncoordinated action, the fact that cities have gone into vaccination and that there is no central or state-level policy, such as for other diseases such as vaccinations, such as hepatitis, etc. For HPV, we remain at this point in place that the cities are going into vaccination, and that we do not have doctrine and that we do not have a central, or we do not have a position of the Public Health Office on whether or not to be vaccinated, should not be vaccinated, who, when and at what time. In any case, it is said that we need one centralized, or one service that would unite epidemiology at the level of all cities, or all counties in Croatia. And I suggest that, in any case, consider setting up a disease control centre in Croatia that would in any case allow better control of the diseases that are waiting for us and that are inevitable will come to Croatia no matter how much we want it or not. In any case, the SDP will support the bill's proposal, because we think it's an improvement, but we think more shifts can be made in that area. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-26-0.u30444	Thank you. One correction from Mrs. Carmela Caparin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-26-0.u30445	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Vice President. I would correct a colleague who said that the Croatian Institute of Public Health did not participate in this HPV campaign, a virus, against the HPV vaccination virus. Which is incorrect because I think in every city the Croatian Institute of Public Health is involved. In fact, he's even, and he's opening a tender for the purchase of HPV. However, what I must tell you is that there is no experience of the vaccine itself in the world. And since you have no experience in the functioning of the HPV vaccine, you cannot set specific guidelines but parents must be informed of the findings so far. And that is exactly what the Croatian Institute of Public Health is involved in, which, together with the Clinical for Infectious Diseases, organizes through the cities of lectures by schools. So, parents are informed. Each parent depends on whether or not he will inject his child after that information.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-26-0.u30446	Thank you. One notice, I would ask MPs and MPs to be in the assembly at 12 o'clock because at 12 o'clock, I would suggest an addition to the agenda with the amendment and addition of the State Budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2009 with accompanying laws and proposals. Proposals for a decision to elect judges of the Constitutional Court and some other legal proposals. So I ask that MPs and MPs be at the assembly at 12 o'clock so that they can complete their agenda. We will most likely discuss the Change and Completion of the State Budget on Monday. I ask that if the committees haven't scheduled the sessions yet, I know that the Committee on Finance and the State Budget has scheduled a meeting of the Committee by 9:00 tomorrow, that other interested committees are also scheduled to hold a meeting in connection with the budget, so that everything could be ready for discussion Monday. ... Because since the debate, it's got to be a full three days. ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Oh, yeah. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] It has to pass, Monday doesn't count, so, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday, it has to take three days and therefore Friday is voting day. [[Intruder: What do you object to when you have to do.]] Mr. Representative Stjepan Kundić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-26-0.u30447	Dear Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, Secretary of State. We have here a very important topic, an extremely important law under P.Z. 305. But first of all, I would just say one thing, regardless of the fact that this corner of the debate or the system is complex by talking about an epidemiological legal situation, this moment highlights a clinic for infectious diseases that proves one high professionality and a high quality of Croatian medicine that extremely diagnostically solves all the situations that are in her mind. As regards chronology, the events of the law, July 13, 2007, the Croatian Parliament passed the Law on the Protection of the public against infectious diseases, National No. 79/07. That Law was adopted for the purpose of harmonising domestic legislation with European Union regulations in Chapter 28. Health protection and consumer protection. And in September 2008, the Croatian Parliament adopted a new law in order to further comply with legislation with the acquis of the European Union in Chapter 28. Health protection and consumer protection. Therefore, taking into account the obligations laid down by international health regulations, the legislative proposal complements the new article which regulates the transmission of information on the occurrence of infectious diseases, epidemics or other health hazards of international significance which, according to international health regulations, the Croatian Institute of Public Health directs to the IHR early alert system of the World Health Organisation, together with a reference to the early notification network of the European Union and the way in which the notice is sent in accordance with the European Commission documents or specific official requirements. And now I'm going to analyze some articles that are very important. Article 60 is amended as follows: "The transfer of dead persons who have not been buried and who have not died from the infectious disease referred to in Article 59(1) of this Act shall be carried out in the territory of the Republic of Croatia or from the Republic of Croatia to abroad on the basis of a mortuary issued by the sanitary inspector responsible for the place of death of those persons. The transfer authority referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article shall be issued abroad with the prior consent of the competent authority for internal affairs.". Article 61 is amended as follows: "The deceased person can be transferred from abroad to the Republic of Croatia on the basis of a funeral certificate issued by the diplomatic mission or consular office of the Republic of Croatia. The diplomatic mission, or consular office, is required to request prior to the publication of the mortuary the consent of the ministry if the person has died of an infectious disease, the person is exhumed or the nationality of the deceased is unknown or cannot be established. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. And I will also mention the article, which means the 39th is the title of article 39, which reads, "The control of the microbiological purity of the object." So the facilities under sanitary supervision have microbiological cleanness control, plant surface, equipment, devices, accessories, means of transport and the hand of persons. As regards microbiological cleanliness control, other objects may also be carried out if there is an epidemiological indication. The supervision of the implementation of the measures referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article shall be carried out by the sanitary inspection in cooperation with the County Public Health Offices and the Croatian Public Health Office. A regulation that will identify objects, frequency of control and microbiological purity by the minister closer. And what needs to be highlighted and the implementation of this law will not require additional funding from the state budget, the Croatian Democratic Community will support this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-26-0.u30448	Thank you. Mr. Representative Stjepan Milinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-26-0.u30449	Mr. Vice President and Mr. Secretary of State. So here's the last time cardiovascular and malignant diseases are taking theirs today, I mentioned that over 50% of the deaths of cardiovascular, public attention and not so focused on infectious diseases, and as counterpart Capara said, the situation regarding infectious diseases is relatively favourable. Surely there we should thank all those enthusiasts who have been vaccinated for years, from the campaign method of vaccination to today all of these options in vaccines and many vaccinations in newspapers time. But also the sanitary-hygienic improvement of sanitary-hygienic conditions, especially the water-stricken. In that part, too, it is especially necessary to highlight the water supply that actually contributes to this. So here's my County of Koprivnica-Crysing in recent years has been working intensively on water supply and the number of water supply connections has increased and continues in this direction that each household is connected to the water supply system. But even in these circumstances, ten days ago, we had one thematic session about hepatitis, and indeed when it is mentioned that in the world over 500 million people are infected with hepatitis B and C, it speaks for itself enough. Well, even a few years ago, you remember when H5N1 was mentioned, then all the hair on our heads grew, and it was really circumstances that enjoyed the public's extraordinary attention, and some of them earned in this situation exceptional funds. So under these circumstances it is necessary to keep infectious diseases under control and in our country this is the case. There is the 2007 Law on the Protection of the public against infectious diseases, which therefore states what diseases we must prevent and combat, which are of interest to our country and implementing measures. Then a novel was adopted in 2008, the same way that all this harmonisation with European Union legislation, chapter 28, is now not to repeat it since it has already been said. In 2008, the Sanitary Inspection Act was passed, while amendments and additions were made to local regional self-government. So now it's up to us to change that and align it. This Law on Sanitary Inspection entered in 1.1.2009, and in that part there are four things I would like to point out which are necessary for changes, and this is what Mr. Secretary of State has mentioned in respect of inspection supervision, as regards excavation, transfer, transport of deceased persons and the exercise of inspection supervision in that part. Second, as regards the amendment of the Law on Regional Regional Self-Government, that is, in Article 5, where we had this last week, where the headship is therefore being replaced with the municipal chief, mayor who are mayors or mayors of the City of Zagreb, the Annual Plan for the Prevention of Infectious Diseases. The third thing that is important to mention is that so far we have been mandatory in the event of an epidemic and the occurrence of infectious diseases in the alarming system, so to inform the World Health Organization, it remains, but now we are also obliged to forward it simultaneously to the European Union's early notification network and how to send notice... the European Commission documents or specific official requests. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And fourthly, so what's already said about the facilities that are under sanitary supervision so they're taking microbiological cleanliness. Surely all these measures will further improve this important area and should actually be supported. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-26-0.u30450	Thank you. Mr. Representative Dragutin Bodakosh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-26-0.u30451	Thank you very much, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. State Secretary, esteemed colleagues and fellow MPs. This Law on the protection of the public against infectious diseases, which determines infectious diseases whose prevention and prevention is in the interest of the Republic of Croatia, as well as the measures implemented to protect the household are in line with European legislation as early as 2007. However, the novels we had in 2008 were not fully executed, so here is the part with this part around the mayor also agreed. However, the adoption of changes to date, and in particular the new Law on Sanitary Inspection, which has fallen under the Ministry of Health since 1.1.2009, also brings about the need for changes in that law because the sanitary inspection is one of the services which has been defended by phenomena, but also by the spread of these infectious diseases. The implementation of hygiene and work in hygienic conditions is a basis for maintaining health and preventing public illness. We will also remove microorganisms with accessories and surfaces in facilities where its presence would be a danger to spread infectious diseases due to possible contamination of these surfaces, accessories, hands of people working in such places, etc. Article 18a, we see which notification of the existence of an infection that was diagnosed in time, should also be sent in time, all measuring institutions should be informed, as this is one of the basic preconditions for localising and suppressing the infection in time. I think that's exactly why it's important that this article be adopted as well. However, it is even more important than that that part of the implementation of sanitary surveillance and control of microbiological cleanness of surfaces, plants, equipment, devices, accessories, means of transport and the hand of persons working in those facilities. It's a simple question, why it's important. Well, because the number of microorganisms on those objects and hands depends on maintaining hygiene conditions. It is precisely these hygienic conditions, in particular that it applies to the purity of the hands because we know that there is a lot of talk about the diseases of dirty hands, because these very hands have both permanent or resistant micro-organisms or transient transit micro-organisms, which can, in contact with the largest number of objects on which these micro-organisms, such as toilet handles, tram handles and many other objects that touch hands, can carry millions of pathogens to objects or foods, cause communicable diseases and enlargement to most people. Some research, say from America, says that 1/3 of Americans don't wash their hands after using the toilets. What's the situation with us I don't know, I don't have any data, but we need to know that the basics of the personal hygiene of people are regular handwashing. Then, microbiological cleanliness control starts from the control of personal hygiene of people who work at places and facilities where an outbreak of infection can occur, if inadequately hygienicly prepared for work. Also, the wipe taken from the surface of the plant on which the food is produced must be within the limits allowed, especially if we want to place that production in Europe or the world. This is why industrial production must be under the control system in certain key processes and therefore the HaSAP system or the Hazard Analysis Critical Control Point becomes indistinguishable in the safety of production, monitoring and control during the production of all factors, and in particular possible contamination of micro-organisms. That is why the services that work on these jobs must also have adequate resources and be prepared enough for such jobs. The issue of sanitary inspection is very important in this case, because we have cases that these sanitary inspectors do not have the opportunity to fully carry out their tasks they need because of lack of knowledge of the means of transport, the instruments or some of the reagents they need. That's why in that part of the same part we should think about doing a lot more in that part. The issue of the microbiological failures of the same food by sanitary inspectors suggests that, say, 5% of food in Croatia is microbiologically invalid. Let's say that 3664 people were treated from salmonella in 2008, because it's bad if the number of people who are infected appears in a hotel or in a catering facility especially at the moment when we talk about tourism, when we expect a great opportunity from tourism and not to say the rescue of our economy, then any occurrence of such diseases would be critical of the work and development of this tourism. The dangers of infection are much greater, however. Let's just say, specifically, salmonella today, according to the epidemiological data in the families, means they're not that wide, and that good work shows the same thing in the last 10 years when I don't know 10 years ago 5,000 people treated with salmonella, that today there are 3 and a half thousand of what I said last year. Thus, it is evident that these services work well and that they need to be further stimulated. Other articles in this law of the proposed amendments certainly contribute to better public protection. It's about these deaths, transportation, etc. However, I think it is bad if all these changes come as a result of the need to amend Article 5(2) where the names of the perpetrators are changed in the implementation of these legal provisions, and are related to the direct selection of the mayors, mayors and mayors. If that's a trigger, it's not good because we need the law to be as good as possible, as good as possible, to protect the public from the breach of infectious diseases as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-26-0.u30452	Thank you. Mr. Representative Goran Heffer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-26-0.u30453	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, dear colleagues and fellow MPs. The theme of this law is, of course, infectious diseases. When we talk about infectious diseases, and here I am getting a little attached to the discussion of my predecessor, respected colleague Bodakosh, everyday hygiene is certainly the most important preventive measure of all infectious diseases. We approach this everyday hygiene as anyone does. We ourselves Assembly representatives, as well as all the people in our daily lives at home, at work, at school, in various situations in contact with other people, are often unaware of whether or not an infectious disease can be received or transmitted. However, everyday hygiene has been entered from small legs in any case, and it is this element of prevention that all members of the family who have children, in which children grow up. But also a very large role is played by institutions involving children from small legs. First of all, I'm talking about kindergartens. Afterwards, of course, it is the primary school, but kindergartens are the ones who lay the foundation for the hygiene of a child who will most likely carry on through his life. On several occasions, we could see in the media, on television, cases of various infectious diseases occurring in kindergarten, some of which unfortunately ended up in the most tragic way. So, the death of a child. We have seen on several occasions in various cities of Croatia cases of meningocococcal sepsis, the appearance of hepatitis of different forms, the appearance of salmonella etc. Which I also said fatalities. Some infectious respiratory diseases that every day really bring from kindergarten to kindergarten, from various colds, virosis to flu, all forms and species can be witnessed daily. Of course, in all of this, kindergartens themselves have a certain duty, they have a certain responsibility, which is to teach children what my predecessor said from a small age to protect themselves in the first row by washing their hands. Then, with clothing hygiene, behavioral hygiene, so to play, in performing all those activities that children in kindergarten do. I believe that in all kindergartens, people who deal with children behave in the best possible way. But often the very conditions in which kindergartens work are simply at such a level that despite the pawning of people who work in kindergarten, who with children have the task of saying that they build some of the initial elements of their lives they fail to protect or protect, or as healthy children to say send home every day after being in kindergarten. We talked about these things last year when we had government standards on the agenda for preschool education that were already on the terms in which kindergartens work. I believe that this law will also point to a particular problem that exists in infectious diseases and precisely the role of kindergarten in that sense. Of course, there are kindergartens that work according to the principle of “how much money, so much music, ” so if there is not enough resources, part of the burden is passed on to parents. Sometimes parents are not simply able to satisfy all the things that should be satisfied that children should be equipped in terms of these kind of hygiene conditions. I believe, I repeat that this law will point to all these additional elements, so I welcome it and I believe that it will improve our protection against these infectious diseases in these small people, therefore in children, which would later allow these children to develop into healthy people and be even healthier as a nation, or as a state. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-26-0.u30454	Thank you. Final review, State Secretary Drazen Jurkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-26-0.u30455	I thank you, Mr. Vice President, thank you for your honor. Namely, here I am pleased first of all that in some discussions, here are some of my previous discussions, which is that the public health system in the Republic of Croatia is well organized, that it has a long tradition, that there are good institutions, that it has a good profession and in its own, here is the presentation of its indicators on the occurrence of infectious diseases and the prevention of infectious diseases and epidemiological images, so the representative Mrsic certainly confirmed it. Therefore, the public health system in the Republic of Croatia works properly, but certainly certain improvements according to the new challenges of the profession are certainly necessary. As for the establishment of a new institution at the Center for Disease Control, so that would be some sort of pandan... If I understand you correctly in Atlanta. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I think it's just the Croatian Institute of Public Health that would be... in Atlanta, but whether he's organisational right now, structurally, professionally ready to take that decision, that's another question. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So, I'm not and I don't think it would be good to set up new or parallel public health institutions, but certainly to think about these new professional challenges which the new time, therefore, is producing, is certainly so and I agree with this, that in the public health system, namely, as well as epidemiology as professions should also consider these new moments that arise as regards not only infectious diseases, but as far as the pathology structure of the disease is concerned in the Republic of Croatia. As far as epidemiological indications are concerned, I think that thing is quite clear. Therefore, epidemiological indications set out the profession, or doctors specialists of epidemiologists in public health institutions and doctors of public health specialists. Therefore, after an epidemiological test in the Law on the Protection of the public against infectious diseases, there are anti- epidemiemic measures that are defined as general and special anti- epidemic measures and, accordingly, microbiological cleanness checks also fall under special anti- epidemiological measures, and are initiated by the physician of the epidemiologist specialist. As regards the procedure for the adoption of the rules, the rules are therefore adopted on the initiative, it is an established procedure, at the initiative of the Croatian Institute of Public Health, so the rules are adopted by the Minister and the Regulations initiating and producing the profession. Here, I think it is, I thank you and I suggest you accept this law, or amendments and additions to this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-26-0.u30456	Thank you. I'm closing the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-26-0.u30457	Final draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the Protection of the public against infectious diseases. The amendments were submitted by the Legislative Committee, which was adopted and not voted on because they are an integral part of the law. I am voting on the final proposal of this law. Please, who's in? Thank you. Against? Restraint? Unanimity with 112 votes to pass the Law on the Protection of the public against infectious diseases.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-26-0.u30458	We move to the next point - Proposal for a law amending the Law on the Rights and responsibilities of MPs in the Croatian Parliament, first reading, P.Z. No. 308 The Proposer is Government. The debate was conducted by the Committees on Legislatives, the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system and the choice and appointment. You received the reports at the session. State Secretary of the Central State Administration Office Antun Palaric will further explain the proposal. Here you go, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-26-0.u30459	Dear Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. As one of the constitutionally authorised legislators of the law, the Government of the Republic of Croatia proposes to the Croatian Assembly the adoption of the Law on Amendments to the Law on the Rights and responsibilities of MPs in the Croatian Parliament, which was sent to the first reading with the intention of having a thorough discussion and that the rights of MPs, as regards pensions after their duties, should be further laid down. Namely, this bill suggests that the MP has the right to resign after four years in office, so instead of two years and 1 day so far, I suggest that it be a full four-year term in acting as a representative. Furthermore, the age limit increases if a representative could use this right from the age of 55 to the age of 60, and for women from 50 to 55, provided they have at least 25 years of retirement. The current rule of the Law on Rights and the responsibilities of MPs allowed the election to be based on a single post, theoretically in certain cases two persons to exercise the right to retire, so that the agent has the right to retire even though he has put his mandate on a standstill, and we propose, in this law, not to do so in the future, but only to achieve the right to retire as an effective representative of the full term of office, for the full 4 years of the term of office. Since the mandate is under way and some of the elected MPs have already decided to perform an incompatible duty, it would not be in the spirit of the law, in the spirit of legal certainty, and also correctly that they should be abolished in those rights, so we propose that these new rules apply to the new assembly of the Croatian Parliament that will be after the next, I believe regular parliamentary elections, but if they are exceptional, then after the establishment of the parliament after the next elections. It is a very important law, a law concerning elected national representatives in the Supreme Legislative Body of the Republic of Croatia, so we do not want this law to be discussed at a rapid pace by emergency procedure, but rather we want to have a thorough discussion, in particular to consider objections to transitional provisions so that the law in each part of the law is clear, unequivocal and there are no wrong interpretations. We will listen carefully to today's debate and all the proposals that have been made, and I believe that after that, we will prepare a final bill that will be passed in the House with a large majority not to say a consensus. I am convinced that most MPs will support these legal solutions as it was eventually during the debate in the parliamentary working bodies. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-26-0.u30460	Thank you. The Committee on Legislatives, chairman of the board, Mr. Representative Emil Tomljanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-26-0.u30461	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. At the 53rd session held on 24 March 2009, the Croatian Parliament Legislative Committee discussed the Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the Rights and responsibilities of MPs in the Croatian Parliament. The Legislative Committee supports the adoption of this law and the text of the proposal indicates that the text of the final proposal should indicate that this law will be published in the "National Journal". At the same time, it is proposed to identify in a transparent manner the scope of the persons to whom this law applies and the start of its application in view of the time of retirement, given that the conditions for its acquisition are changed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-26-0.u30462	The selection and appointment committee? The Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system? I'm opening a debate. Mr. Andrija Hebrang's club of representatives. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-26-0.u30463	Dear Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. There is another one in a series of laws that speaks of the rights of parliamentary representatives. First of all, on behalf of the club, we need to say that we support the bill as it was laid out by the Secretary of State and proposed by the Government. We support, of course, that there is no right to a preferential pension for less than one term of office. I suggest, of course, and we support that all these irregularities should be removed because it is wrong for someone who has not consumed a parliamentary mandate at all to have a parliamentary pension. We also support the proposal in the transitional and final provisions that the law applies from the next election mandate simply because in a regulated rule of law we do not have an example of the rights acquired by some law being abolished. That's our explanation. But I would say, as part of this, that it is another law that regulates the status of representatives in the Croatian state, a status which has often been attacked by something because of misinformation of those who attack, misinformation about what the representative is doing and how he lives and because of politics, so I would therefore look back here to say that we just gave up 10% of our salaries, that we gave up thousands of kunas to pay for parking in a nearby garage, that as the only representatives as the only parliament in the world, we gave up the right to go to our car and to our jobs, etc. Some of it should've, something shouldn't've happened, something's been caused by us succumbing to a general heifer's term of office. As far as our salaries are concerned, which have also been met these days with all the fires for me, the only rule of comparison is the salary ratio in parliament towards a country's gross social product. We are, unfortunately, the last in Europe. So let me just tell you a percentage of the pay of the MPs in relation to the gross domestic product of some countries in Europe. I'll compare them, we won't go to the rich ones. For example, Serbia's salary is 52% of gross social product, BiH's pay is 53% of their gross social product, 39%, Slovenia 45%, Slovakia 20%, Croatia 15%. I agree, especially in times like this, that we participate in the fate of our people, so that we have the smallest ratio, the smallest percentage of the salary of GDP in Europe. However, when we talk about this, we should say that these differences between the rights of representatives in Croatia and greater than these percentages because, for example, in most countries, a representative has the right to his office, he has the right to staff in that office. For example, in Slovenia, Slovakia, Romania, Hungary, etc. For example, in Slovakia, a representative has the right to drive a car. Our representative who once a week comes 200-300 kilometers from his town he spends a car in a parliamentary mandate that gives out of his salary. All other parliaments have paid phones that we don't have, etc. So much for the debate on the salaries of MPs. I have a right to talk about it. This is my fourth term and also the fourth term in which my salary is less than at my place of work where I come from, or where I work in parallel volunteering. Therefore, I have the right to speak such a truth. The second attack was on empty benches. Now do a survey where colleagues whose chairs are empty here. I say everyone's in their place of work. Why? Because the job of a representative isn't just this chair. In addition to this chair, he has a job at his desk where he studies hundreds and thousands of pages of material, writes or sketches his speeches. He's got a third job. Its third post is its electoral unit in which it must receive at least once a week parties. He's got a fourth job, it's his constituency board, and at least we're on two to three constituency committees. And last year, we held 300 sessions of the Assembly Committees. At each session, there were 12 to 13 parliamentary deputies on average. Multiply it by two to three hours of session and at least so many hours of preparation, it's a job that requires several hundred to several thousand hours a year. The fifth job of MPs is his job in the European Union, in negotiations for NATO, his work in different delegations representing the Croatian state because there are also representatives of other parliaments and we must be present there, that is the Croatian state interest. Then there are various committees in which we must participate as representatives. Well, then, the next job is our second profession. A large number of representatives volunteering for free conducts a whole number of other duties from the mayors of municipalities, mayors, teachers and university professors, doctors, craftsmen, business entrepreneurs, etc. That job does absolutely free work. Therefore, I claim the empty bench here does not mean that the representative is not working but that he is in one of his seven jobs and receives one salary for all together. If it's too big, I accept it's still shrinking in these difficult times. What should still be said here about the status of MPs, it is also a few so not the information and misinformation that we have heard and read about our pensions. Why is it that even a representative's pension and why many countries have it? Because a representative who, as a well-established expert in his field, has broken off his career, has come to this House and spent four years here, will hardly return to his profession if not all four years have acted together. That is why many countries have introduced a shorter term than 4 years, some and longer. For example, in Ireland after 2 years of the parliamentary term, you have the right to a parliamentary pension, in Romania after 2 years, in Estonia after 3 years, in Moldova after 2 years. So many countries are poorer than us, so they want to attract people who mean something in their profession, and in this way tell them, you can come to your parliament, so you won't be lost in time and space when your mandate expires. In our four years, a representative who has not, for example, acted professionally for four years, has no chance in his 50s, 60s, to return to his post. It's quite clear to everyone I hope. Therefore, I think that the status of representatives in the Croatian Parliament is unwarranted either because of the lack of information of those who attack us or because of politics reduces the darkest colors in our media. In several countries, my colleagues have told me that it is honorable to be a representative in their countries' parliament and to see it at every step of the street. Unfortunately, it's been happening to me lately to hear very unpleasant cries behind my back, because I'm a parliamentary representative. What does a parliamentary representative mean? I can also testify, perhaps I am the only or one of the few who resigned in 1998 because I did not agree with the policy at the time according to what was happening in the MRLs. I returned to my professional duty and then my salary increased by 15%, returning to my professional duty from these parliamentary benches. Of course, there are countless examples like this, and we are not sitting here, at least the vast majority not, because of these calls of privilege, but because we had the need and urge to contribute momentarily to the development of our country. Some say in the media, now they'll call me, but I won't name them, let their conscience call them alone, anyone can be a parliamentary representative. It's a great truth only in part. Anyone can be a parliamentary representative, because every adult citizen of this country has the right to go into battle for a representative position. And we're really exactly the same here, but it works one out of 20 grand, just one out of 20 grand, because that road is filled with thorns. And now I'm going to tell you as a doctor a few details. The other day, after the speech at this pay phone, they measured our pressure, so we had 180/100, that's stress. This is a stressful profession. The Vice President of the Parliament has, say, 160th, that's because he doesn't have to talk much, he just criticizes us. But when he comes back for the pay phone, his blood pressure will rise. But look at this, we've had systematic checks now. I won't give out names and diagnosis. But in our recent systematic examinations, we are among the people who sit here, and have responded unfortunately less than half, discovered three cancers of people in adulthood, forty to fifty years when the incidence of cancer is not like that. We've also discovered two diabetes. So, this isn't just about privileges, this profession and the loss of a part of your health. Well, when that is the situation, then I think that in our discussions today, we should clearly and openly tell me what a representative's duty is. Some of our colleagues should be aware that with their statements that they want to score damage to the representative's reputation, as the Croatian Parliament is the crown of Croatian independence and Croatian democracy. Well, here's my request, let's not give the cause today in our debates to those who want to take that crown off. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-26-0.u30464	Thank you. One correction to the quote, Mr. Representative Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-26-0.u30465	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Hebrang, a colleague, said that today we are discussing a law that applies to parliamentary deputies. That assumption is incomplete, so it is incorrect, for I must remind him that in accordance with Article 34. The Government Act, the same law in the set, applies to members of the Government. So, not only the parliamentary representatives, but also the members of the government.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-26-0.u30466	The HSS Club, Ms. Mariana Petir. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-26-0.u30467	Dear Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Secretary of State, MPs and MPs. The club of representatives of the Croatian Peasant Party will support the adoption of amendments to the Law on the Rights and responsibilities of MPs in the Croatian Parliament. We consider this law to be real and we also welcome it. Of course, this Law on the Rights and responsibilities of Representatives in the Croatian Parliament in Article 8 provides for what conditions for the exercise of the right to resign must be met by a representative. We support the proposed amendments because they redefine the conditions for obtaining the right of representation in such a way as to ensure that the representative is entitled to a full retirement pension in the future after the termination of the term of office, if he has acted as a representative for at least 4 years, and has at least 25 years of retirement and completed 60 years of life, a man, or 55 years of women. In addition, the amendments stipulate that the representative is not included in the period of the term of office, since he has been elected or appointed to act incompatible with the conduct of the agent's duties in accordance with the law. It is more than clear that today we are discussing a law aimed at tightening the conditions for obtaining the right to a parliamentary pension. And we at the HSS Club think it's a good move that meets the principles of solidarity. In fact, it is precisely that pension that is often pointed to as a symbol of the existing social difference in Croatia. We have witnessed that the parliamentary deputies who have been elected to represent them are often attacked by insufficient work, due to their salaries, as well as their benefits, which are far less than the economic sector, for example. In addition, the greed of managers, foreign banks and corporations is seen as a major cause of this global financial and economic crisis that is affecting Croatia today. Its consequences will of course be most felt by citizens but also by politicians who are expected to solve everything by magic stick in a way that "the wolf is full of goat". So you have to be honest and say, someone's earned it and someone else has to pull the chestnuts out of the fire. On the other hand, without wanting to justify anyone's unhappiness because let us be as honest as in any business and politics are those who are more capable of avoiding obligations than taking concrete actions. However, I must point out that there are those who are sacrificially and honorably at the expense of free time and unfortunately often also their families serve the Croatian people. Because politics is what people are like to spend it. And we at HSS think that with more good people in politics and politics can be better. Of course, there are good and bad examples, but it would be sad to see them engaged and honorable people separated from the work that is very important for the entire Croatian people because of the hickey that is being conducted on politics and politicians. Politics is a responsible call, and it's not a job that only lasts eight hours a day, it's a constant engagement. It is not easy to make decisions that are known to be necessary for greater good, knowing that their consequences will affect the lives of many people. It's not easy to have your attitude and take responsibility, and I can say on a personal example that I've experienced various attacks and haranga because I've been expressing my position, and the people have even dared to call me because of my worldview as well as my colleagues at the HSS club, and some have even wanted to take my cross off my neck. The following is certain, however, many Croatian citizens who have spent their whole lives working fairly and today when pensions barely end, because their pension does not cover their basic life expenses, as a kind of injustice they experience the fact that some parliamentary representatives had the right to retire even when their mandate was still. At the HSS Club, we support the proposed provision of the law that a representative is not included at the time of the term of office in which the term of office has rested because until now this right has allowed two persons to ensure at the same time certain rights arising from the parliamentary duty, which absolutely does not correspond to the principles of justice. We also have a proposal in the HSS regarding the provision that the right to resign is acquired after someone has acted for at least four years as a representative. The intention of these provisions is positive, unreservedly supported, however, it may be possible for someone to be a full-fledged representative but to be somewhat shorter than four years. The elections can take place within a short period of four years compared to the previous ones, and according to this, a representative who has completed the entire regular term would not have a full four-year parliamentary standing. It should also be borne in mind that a number of MPs come to the bench after part of the MPs are appointed as a member of the government, so because of their incompatible duties, they put the mandate of MPs on hold. We also have an example of some of our representatives that their mandate began on 12 January 2008 after the constitution of the Government of the Republic of Croatia and almost 2 months after the elections were held, so it could happen that the representative will be able to hold a full regular term until the next regular elections are called in December 2011, but he will not have a full four-year term. Of course, we are aware that this law does not apply to current MPs but only to those who will become so after the next parliamentary elections. But the example shows that in the next term, it will also be very difficult to achieve this four-year internship. It would be better to prescribe that the representative must be on the post for a period corresponding to the regular term of office, therefore, for more than three years. Because a regular mandate is when elections are prescribed in the fourth year of office. So, if the next election is in 2011 all the elections in 2015 are regular elections. Here we hope that this proposal that we think in the HSS Club will be constructive, realistic and enforceable and the legislator will consider and accept it. And the club of representatives of the HSS will support the adoption of amendments to the law on the rights and duties of MPs in the Croatian Parliament. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-26-0.u30468	Thank you. IDS representative club, Mr. Representative Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-26-0.u30469	Dear Mr. Vice President, yes, and I wish a few more of you had spoken before me, so that then I could speak, and maybe I'd be wisest to keep my mouth shut, because when I defended the Parliament from one heifer, no, a month ago, then I was imputed to defend my wages, and only one thing I said was that we were often attacked by those who were in a far more privileged position than the MPs. That's when I mentioned columnists and editors, and that's my great sin. And on national television alone, hundreds of people get more pay than the minister. And that's what you should say. But let me go back to this law now. When I say it would be the most honest silence, yes, but then simply someone can say, if you have the courage to talk about other topics, then you should also talk about these pensions. At this point in this country, 179 thousand people, or to be more precise, 179 thousand 733 get some kind of privileged pension. So from the president of the Republic of Croatia, well or he's also in that position, all the way to the generals, from police officers to MPs, from ministers to coal miners, who I'm particularly proud of because, under quotes, I've fought for that status, from the National Liberation War fighters to the Homeland War fighters, from so-called. Homeland armies to academics, from former federal officials to JNA officers, from Croatian army officers to political prisoners, to participants of the Croatian Defence Council, etc., etc. In total, I said 179 thousand 733 people. Understandably, they do not have all the pensions under quotes "average representation pension", 10 thousand kunas, NORA participants have 2600 kunas, workers on certain jobs, internal affairs 3847 kunas, members of the Croatian Homeland Army 2164 kuna, former political prisoners 3748 kuna, members of the Academy 8312 kuna and that I do not count further, federal when 3700 kunas, Croatian defenders 5845 kuna, Croatian Army 3428 kuna, etc., etc. So 179 thousand people receive so-called. Preferred pension. Of which today 463 and there is right Lesar, which ministers, which representatives, which former prime ministers, which is what the former vice-presidents of the government, but also the judges of the Constitutional Court receive so-called. A representative's pension. It is true and it should be acknowledged that what is now in force that two in one term can use this "privileged" which is something that should be done as soon as possible. It is also true that for some time, if I am not mistaken, the deputy ministers and assistant ministers, and perhaps even the under-judgments could use such a single solution along with the mayors, so that the number of 463 is certainly significantly smaller. The fundamental question arises whether MPs share the fate of citizens. Someone's gonna say yes, some don't. Some will say no categorically, and I say some yes, some don't. We can also ask whether some union leaders share their position with their membership, editors, directors of public enterprises, president's advisers and not to list any further. If it wasn't slow, I'd say which positions I'm in, I haven't said that yet. Many countries know these principles that the Republic of Croatia knows about. They are probably in those countries mentioned by Mr Hebrang, Hungary, Ireland, Italy, as well as in Croatia. But what do I personally stand for? I advocate the evaluation of the past internship in this House and the number of mandates. If such a proposal will one day be adopted, I don't know. But my proposal would be, and I will say it quite openly, that one term in this House is worth 45% of the average salary of the MPs, two terms of office 55%, three terms 65%, four mandates 75%, five and more mandates 85% of the average salary, with anyone who spent 12 or 15 years in these benches going straight home, going to retirement, not to be dragged from soap to unprecious. A representative who isn't going to say I'm going to release some party discipline, a representative who's autonomous, an agent who's not at this point a capital issue, he's resented both God and the devil. I, not a capital representative, am very much sharing fate with my citizens. Whether someone will admit it, whether or not it is another thing, but I want to convince the Croatian public that it is simply so that the position of this house would radically change for the better, and I want to believe the opportunities in the Republic of Croatia. If we had changed our electoral system and the MPs were directly elected, then they would have really, in the right sense, become tribunals and become no one's pawns. Only then would Parliament, that's the Parliament, be able to say that there is no one above it but God. At that time, the government would also be in a position if it could not do what it wants past and vice versa, I would say, the moods in this House and then Parliament would not allow anyone in this country to play with the integrity of this House, because, in some way, the integrity of Parliament is being questioned and the credibility of every policy and the country as a whole. Although I disagree with Sanader's statement yesterday, whether the government is falling, the state is falling. No, I don't. The government can fall, new elections will come, the state will stay with the new government. Maybe everyone will be far better off, which I'm convinced of. I also agree that with the Government, Parliament's service is one of the reasons for the crisis, but I cannot amnesty any other institutions from the media all the way there to trade unions that unfortunately only work through social enterprises in this turbulent time, only through public services. In private companies, they're almost gone, so we'll see the government playing with them as she wants them to, instead of them saying it out loud and saying what they're thinking. I think this is the moment when all of us are also about their salaries we have to fight for the dignity of the union movement in the Republic of Croatia, because if it is put into question then the countries as a whole will be far worse. However, I agree with my predecessor when she said that the most responsible for this situation in which the country is in my opinion are clear governments and that those who participated in the conversion and those who sold out the national wealth, from the rescheduled banks to the monopoly, and as we went "on good luck" there are no customers today, we may soon deprive ourselves of some remaining monopolies, from HEP, Croatian forests, highways, Croatia insurance, etc. So I'm going to say one more time, 2009 was going to have to be normally solidarity with union demands. As far as this law is concerned, I don't know what positions the Constitutional Court would be in today so he can treat the rights acquired. I'm also asking myself if there's a better position for a representative who has 16 thousand kunas or one who has six or seven thousand kunas and in '91. has been given the opportunity for 6 or 7 thousand marks to buy an apartment of 80 or 100 square meters in one Pula, Opatija, Buzet, Dubrovnik, Sibenik or another city. The problem of the Croatian Parliament, the Croatian representative, is also a obedience that can often become a service, and this is being treated as being treated only by direct elections. But in Croatia we clearly want everything, but this movie of these direct elections that we had in the '90s, '92, '95, that's how I got into Parliament, we're certainly not going to see it so soon, and I think it would be the most honest thing to do is to pick half the list from the election units, and then directly. What's certainly good is that this law goes to another reading. And what it means is, we let it go because we don't have a car, we don't have a phone, we don't have an office, we don't have a diary, we don't have a secretary, unless someone takes care of it, it looks like you're leaving home on Monday, you come back on Friday, and my Istrians know that on Saturday and Sunday you're getting parties and so 4+4+4+4+4 years, and at the end when you draw the line, you say nothing. I understand one Chacic or Jamba who says no, I'm against those pensions. But I am also against how they acquired property from the Croatian state. And I agree, if there's a tough competition for one job, then it's for a place in this House, and who put the poor girl in a position to fight for naked survival and that she has to live with 2100 kunas about it some other time. But IDS is certainly not responsible for that.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-26-0.u30470	Thank you. One correction to an incorrect quote, Mr. Representative Andri Hebrang.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-26-0.u30471	Dear Mr. Vice President, I'm correcting Mr. Cain's incorrect quote that he may have read so in some media, that President Sanader said if the government fell, the state had fallen. That's not what he said. He said, if these government measures fall, the state is questionable because then the IMF comes to us, and the IMF means capturing part of economic and financial sovereignty. That was the meaning of his statement.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-26-0.u30472	HNS Club, Mr. Representative Goran Beus Richembergh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-26-0.u30473	Dear Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. We have a very short law ahead of us, but it raises the question of motives for its adoption, its content, its extreme effects, but above all our responsibilities, and it is about us. This is actually a cosmetic and demagogue change, if the issue of parliamentary pensions is not seen in the context of the question of all so-called. Preferred pensions. Few people in Croatia know and it should be repeated, that nearly 180 000 people in Croatia are entitled to retire under special conditions that are not equal to the conditions that make citizens out of work. Of course, in all countries, and in Croatia, it is also necessary to identify the reasons why certain people in the conduct of certain jobs should be benefits. In addition, there are a whole range of activities and professions that are benefiting from difficult working conditions. That's how it was, it was, and it should stay. However, in every system, and also in Parliament, it is an extremely important question of what effect and what value everyone who works products is and what correlation it is with the money they receive, or the benefits they are provided for it. In every business system, the rule is that you do not regret money, or bonuses, or benefits if the one concerned produces a new value so much greater than the existing one, that it creates benefits for both its system and its community. And here we come to the question of how well we actually work, but how much all the other state officials work and whether they are adequately rewarded for their work, or whether they are granted the specificity of the conditions in which they work. We come to the question of the reputation of this House. Of course, we are always inclined to say that this is a question of what the media is dealing with superficially, sensationally. But how much do we actually contribute to it ourselves? How much we give the staff for such comments, our work, our behavior, our attitudes and the final effect of our work. What kind of laws do we make? So is that a good effect if some law comes back to work five times? Is this a good effect if the public is alerted to the shortcomings in certain solutions, but then it comes from the executive government, and then the parliamentary majority is ignored and we get bad solutions that have to go to work. Imagine a factory worker who must produce a particular product, and then his controller returns it three, four or five times to work. What is the product that we get and at what price can it go to market? That's the way it is with us. We need to be aware of that. By the nature of things to the executive authority, regardless of who was sitting in it responds that parliament is a weak institution. The weaker parliament is to the government, i.e. the executive authority, the greater the space of action and the lower the level of control. So it is in the nature of the executive government to see, so if possible, it encourages such a thing that parliament is weaker. But is that a people's interest? The way we choose in this High House is certainly one of the topics that can be discussed. Is the issue of direct choice something that will definitely solve all the problems, whether it is a matter of preferential lists because we must be aware of the Croatian Parliament is seen in a large part of the public as a transfer of partothocracy and we are perceived as people who have sat here and arrived thanks to the will of our political parties. And as long as that is the case, and as long as our political parties that succeed in parliament are not until the end of the democratic question is how democratic Croatia is. Someone said representation work is a stressful job. It is, especially if you take it seriously and if you try to do it in the best of faith and with the highest of your capacities. It seems to me that a little bit of work is so stressful. But there are many other professions where work is more than stressful. Hand to heart, is our job more stressful than a cop's job? Is our job more stressful than the job of a foster parent who keeps his life in his hand every day? Is our job more stressful than the other doctors who have to assess in a very short time, make a diagnosis and prescribe a way to combat a particular disease or prevent human life? Such cases are countless. Then do we have the right to say that our job is more stressful than others? Besides, who makes us do politics? And that's where the question arises who should be involved in politics? Politics is hard work, responsible work, one of the most responsible jobs because in few other professions you should put in front of each other. General and common in front of private and personal. The fact is that politics must be handled by everyone because it is the original idea of national sovereignty. But it is one thing to have the same chances, and the other to gain the trust of people to represent them in every representative home, in every executive government, and so on in the Croatian Parliament. How do we behave our duty? Are we dedicated enough in that sense? There are some colleagues we only see on Fridays and you can tell by them what day of the week is. Some colleagues who come on Fridays are actually a voter. The fact is that our work isn't just here in the assembly, that much of our work is going on in committees, in clubs, in the field, in conversations with people, in consultations with those who know more than we do so that we can participate here in the most qualitative way possible in the decision-making process. It's impossible to do this job by thinking that we know everything ourselves and don't ask anyone anything and consult anyone. But in what process do we make laws? So we don't know what's gonna be on the agenda tomorrow. The law that enters the procedure under emergency procedure is so much that they cannot be read or read, let alone consult on their content and their laws. It's our job, it's the reality of our work. So who can be a national representative at all? What kind of man, what kind of woman does that have to be? Honorable, honest, committed to his work, aware of responsibility, one who leaves at the door those interests that can be tied to him as a person, and here he actually seeks to think about common interests. He who proudly in his best will, faith and intent seeks to enable every regulation or decision we make in this House to be as righteous as possible, to reduce damage and to increase the benefit for all people in the community. And the law ahead of us has one trap that says it will apply from the next parliamentary elections. That means we're in a very comfortable situation right now thinking that it doesn't apply to us. It is not just about those who will retire after this term. Why wouldn't that regulation apply to everyone sitting in this house right now? The position of our Parliament is very different from other parliaments because of the electoral system, and also because of the tradition that Parliament is practically listening to the government, and that is not good. That's not good. Recently, I was able to see how legislation works at all levels of government in a large Western country. From the local level to the federal parliament. And what astounded me was that there are earthly parliaments in that country where MPs have no financial compensation at all. In some, there is a level of annual income tax at the border of income that we usually call the poverty line. Why? Their will and their approach is to defend practically coming into politics for those who don't have their own money earned in their own careers. That's not good, of course. If money is a policy criterion, then there will be only tycoons among us, only people who have earned a lot of money in their lifetime, and for people who will actually reflect the authentic interests of the people, then there will be no place. But why don't we talk about bonuses and penals of people sitting in this house and not doing their job? The question is, how long does it take to get to work-body sessions at a plenary session? How many are coming to clubs? How much time do you spend in this building at all? Of course, and the fact that 30% of the time is the least to be spent on the field in the constituency, at the election base. Let's open that question and see how many of us will sit in the assembly during the session, how many of us will sit on committees and how we behave, and how much will we discuss? There are some colleagues who haven't spoken a single word in this house since this term began. Do they represent the interests of their bases? I'm not sure their constituency, their constituency is happy with their representatives having nothing to say in this House. If we talk about it openly, more people will appreciate us. If we don't talk about it, then we'll contribute to the one that says politics is a dishonest activity. And if anyone in this country is tasked and is paid to change that perception in people and to ensure a new one that will say that politics is an honorable activity and that it deals with honorable people, even when there are many exceptions. So that's our job. When we do our homework, no one will ask us what our wages are and what our benefits are. But until that's the case, we're obliged to be solid with those who create a new value so that we can receive our salary here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-26-0.u30474	Thank you. It was probably a slip when you said every man or woman so it turned out like women didn't belong. ... Yeah, a slip for sure. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Correction of an incorrect quote by Mr. Representative Andrija Hebrang.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-26-0.u30475	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I'm correcting the inaccuracies of my colleagues, which is whether we have the right to say that our work is more stressful than others. As he quoted me, I have to say that's not true because I didn't say that our job is more stressful than other jobs. I said this job was stressful. I think it's the most stressful thing for those who don't have anything to do. And as for the comparisons of medical and this job, since I've been doing a very stressful medical job in intervention radiology for 20 years and I can tell you this job here is ten times more stressful than a doctor's job.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-26-0.u30476	HDSSB representative club, Mr. Representative Boro Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-26-0.u30477	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, fellow MPs, fellow MPs. Here, I don't have to argue with Mr. Hebrang. I've been a surgeon for 32 years and if you look at this stress and stress size and measured it's hard to measure it but I think surgical work is more stressful, more responsible even directly for human life even though according to my predecessor's policy is difficult, responsible, but also to say probably honest work which is work for the general and common good when it should be put so well ahead of private interests. That's what we have in that prince's court in Dubrovnik, that's what you quoted, so if we were to be guided by it then in this House, in our government and in all the government officials, it would be very good if everyone thought so together and if we kept in mind. When I returned to Slavonski Brod after the 1st session of the Assembly in January 2008 and when I spoke to the Deputy Director of the Ship's Hospital, then we had little discussion about the terms of work or pay, and it turned out that his salary was far higher than his parliamentary salary, but there he said that he would change with me even though I said he paid a deputy director of the hospital, not a director far greater than the pay of a parliamentary representative. Last year it was indeed marked to say the disqualifications of parliamentary representatives, their rights, their work, participation in what Mr. Hebrang listed in all those seven points, which is the obligation of a parliamentary representative from a field tour, conversations with people and between people to participate in the work of the parliamentary boards, other contacts and the great mileage passed by a representative like me from Slavonski Brod. About 200 kilometers there, 200 back every almost week. And here is the proposal for a law amending the Law on the Rights and Obligations of Representatives in the Croatian Parliament, which proposes that it be written after four years of the Assembly's term and that I prefer the idea that Mrs Petir gave it to be a single parliamentary mandate because it may take maybe 3 years and 11 months. This has been decoded for 4 years which is wrong if one term of office is 3 years 11 months. So it can still be defined by another reading and can be fixed. However, there were speeches here and why we came to the criticism, which is why we came to the coup and the press, starting with that unfortunate parking lot and that garage and to our congregation restaurant, so a plate of what everyone has right because today the public of work and the public of action should be available to everyone. It's true that as Mr. Beus said, if money was measured by the weight of someone in this country, then there would really be only tycoons here. It was also true that there were also said that there were those who were on the list for the Croatian Parliament and greased the money for the appearance on the list. It is also true that some parliamentary representatives with the place of residence in Zagreb or elsewhere performed on behalf of party oligarchs, applied to election units that were so-called. the border constituency or, say, us at 4 or 5. Election unit, first of all, I speak at 5:00. So that's why citizens recognize it, that's why citizens have the right to make certain remarks about it and because here I see these transmissions very often I get an observation when I come to the field, so there's no more than half of you there, etc. Did we introduce some standards of work in the Croatian Parliament? Every day when we come to the assembly session, we have a book to sign up for, every day we have the opportunity and the right to discuss. How much of these discussions, amendments and therefore written proposals to the government and the ministries affect the work of the government, so the work of the executive government is already another matter. Here is the book of the Information and Documentation Service of the Croatian Parliament, which contains complete documentation, complete documentation of the work of the Parliament in the past term, and with interest I looked at those statistics in the previous meeting of the Assembly, and there is indeed a lot of things to be seen there and when we talk about labour standards, so if the work criteria that are mentioned here are somewhat and these are the proposed amendments, discussions and everything else, then it is clear that our salaries should not be equal for all. Because we didn't share equally in the work of this Parliament, we didn't contribute equally to the work of this Parliament, that's what it is. And secondly, I've been a doctor for 32 years and on the basis of my salary and duty, which is about a year or so, it doesn't matter whose job it is, but in the Treasury, and then we wonder if I should say justly, honestly, that all of us are equally in the way of "Uravnilovka" we say that we have preferential pensions or pensions under special conditions, all of them regardless of payments, contributions and jobs that they did before they came to the Assembly. How much money has each of us paid so far in retirement, for health, for tax purposes, by tax? In any case, I agree with this amendment to the law that is before us, and the HDSSB club will support such an amendment of the law, but I am here to say I have suggested many things that should be considered in connection with the evaluation of those rights which are now equal to all parliamentary representatives. As one of my friends in the HDSSB said, we need to separate the workers from the unemployed. So there are criteria and opportunities to make and build scales, scales of efficiency and work in the Croatian Parliament. And that's not impossible. What would you say in industry, norm? I'm not saying that this is industry, this is the House where I say we think, in which it is proposed, in which we think of the general good, as Mr Beus said, for the general and common good that should be put before the private and personal and honorary exercise of this mandate as I understand my own hope for a four-year term. That is why I say the HDSSB Croatian Democratic Union of Slavonia and Baranja supports the bill and we will vote in favour. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-26-0.u30478	Thank you. Individual debate, Mr. Representative Dragutin Lesar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-26-0.u30479	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. I'm going to start my discussion with a quote from a book that talks about new ideas. And there's a claim in that book that ideas are always daughters of the past, mothers of the future, but also always slaves of time. A time when they show up. So in September 2005 my idea of reviewing this law was a slave of the time, and until two months ago, demagogy. What happened two months ago that it wasn't a demagogy anymore? I don't know, but the fact is that because of the government's very proposal for law and Prime Minister Sanader's promise that the law will change, at once, and I find it a little strange, one of the few laws that didn't come by emergency procedure, we are discussing today. I think that just offering this law before the first reading local elections with a delayed application of 2.5 years is actually a demagogue approach. To better understand what we are discussing, I ask the question do we know when an institute of these pensions has been introduced into Croatian legislation? It was 1995, and the law was not then proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the law was not proposed by any club of representatives, but by a group of 42 MPs, and on behalf of them the formal applicant of the proposal was then Zdenko Matisic. What argument explained the need to introduce an institute of this kind of pension? I quote from the explanation. "Besides that MPs in the Croatian National Assembly do not have all the rights as representatives of other countries, one of these rights is the right to early retirement." Since our law does not provide for this right of MPs, there is one number of MPs from the First Assembly of the Republic of Croatia, and they are likely to be from this other, who are not materially taken care of because they have no business, nor have they yet obtained the conditions for retirement. These were arguments for the introduction of a preferential pension in 1995 which of these arguments stands or survives today? Which of these arguments today is socially justified? And special conditions have been introduced for the acquisition of pension rights and heights, in such a way that this right is achieved at 55 years of age for MPs and 50 for MPs, 20 years of employment, then one day in office, so that it will be changed to 2 years and 1 day later. The pension rate depended on the last salary, depending on today, 65% of the pension, plus 2% of the allowance per year, and the pension is maximumed to 85% of the salary. The Institute has been introduced that two persons at one term can exercise the right to a parliamentary pension. It's so-called. Rest or as I last called it, the hypnotization of the MPs. for the calculation of rights and heights, therefore not only rights but also pension rates are recognised abroad, thus allowing for the adoption of 2 pensions. One privileged in Croatia and the other abroad. I'm telling you that according to these four items I've now presented, we're unique in the world. In no other country there are these four conditions prescribed by law, neither for parliamentarians nor for government members. There are 179,000 Croatian citizens who exercise pension rights under the last regulations. Their pensions range from 2164 to 10 171 kuna of the average pension of 463 users. But it's not just the parliamentary deputies who exercise those rights. The same rights are prescribed for members of the government but also for delegates in the Federal Council and the Council of the Republic and the province of the former SFRY in the period from 30 May 1990 to 8 October '91. And that figure 463 is likely to be part of those who, from that mandate, have, therefore, acquired the right to these preferential pensions in Belgrade. I've led this to know the fact that all the law applies to. What does the government propose now? Strengthen the conditions for the acquisition of rights. To raise the age limit to 60 years, to work from 20 to 25 and four years in parliament. I am not sure whether the promoter meant one term or just for four years because it can indeed happen with a strict interpretation of four years and in the event of a disbandment of the Assembly a month earlier, the Constitutional Court will also have to deal with the interpretation of this provision. I am therefore surprised by the four-year provision, not the mandate or two or three, and I believe there should be three mandates, as a minimum of decency for introducing that condition. However, some colleagues who earn you, I do not have three mandates or will have them. So I'm not talking about myself. However, the government proposes that this law should only apply from 2012 on the day of the constitution of the new assembly of parliament after the next parliamentary elections. They could propose to apply from 2020, not 2012. Why wouldn't this law apply to the current assembly of the Parliament? Why should he not apply from the first day of the constitution of this convocation of the Parliament? Someone's gonna jump and say we can't lift our rights. But colleagues and colleagues, '95. The year the law was passed he had a retroactive application and gave it the right to all MPs since 1991. So when we ran the institute of certain rights, then there was justification and constitutional grounds for retroactive application. If we could just change the conditions for obtaining that right, we call for the inability to retroactively apply. And one more thing. In '95, the pension achieved under the provisions of that law compared to the average pension in the country was 1:2. Today, the average preferential pension of government and parliament members from the average pension in Croatia is 1:4.6. The problem is in the formula of its calculation, and it would be extremely good and useful for the Government of the Republic of Croatia to do what the Government did in 2002, or 2001, with the application of 1. From 1st of 2002, it once reduced the amount of these pensions from 8 to 20%, thereby stopping the enormous spread or cutting of scissors in relation to that pension, compared to the average pension. If this is not done within two years of that pension, the average pension in Croatia will be 1:6. And I'll finish the next one. The dignity and reputation of parliament will not protect incorrect data, false arguments and delayed application of such laws. On the contrary, I am convinced that by public questioning of both this kind of privilege and the position of state officials, therefore, not only of parliamentary representatives but also of state officials, we are actually maintaining the dignity of this home. And to those who cannot bear public criticism when it comes to this subject, I strongly recommend that they do not engage in politics if they are sensitive to what the public writes or says about them. And because of this delayed application and because of the self-construction of the institutes of these pensions, I will not support the law even in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-26-0.u30480	Thank you. At 11,29, it was time to report a ten-minute debate. One notice, the thematic session of the Committee on Education, Science and Culture of the Croatian Assembly will be held at 12.15 pm in the Small Council with the agenda of the Croatian language position. Mr. Representative Boris Kunst, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-26-0.u30481	Dear Vice President, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. So from the discussions so far, it has been seen that representatives of the Croatian Parliament have accepted more or less the proposal to redefine the conditions for obtaining an age pension of MPs. The Government's proposal to amend and supplement the law on the rights and responsibilities of the Croatian Parliament's representatives is on the trail of the very public polemics that have been guided by the existing conditions for obtaining an old age pension of MPs, and by that change, more social justice was wanted to be achieved. Of course, we can always ask whether representatives of the Croatian Parliament need any status or privilege. I believe that if we opened that question, then most likely in various demagogues, we would encourage the imagination to make as much of the public as possible and be different polemics. If we were to ask again whether representatives in the Croatian Parliament should share the fate of the people they represent and represent in this High House, I believe that each of us would answer that they should. Reality is different, MPs or parliamentarians of all countries in Europe, or at least 99% have special regulations governed by status rights. Not so long ago, an analysis of the status rights of representatives in the Croatian Parliament with a view to the status rights of representatives of other European officials has shown that MPs in the Croatian Parliament can be classified in the last third or in the last third according to privileges or status rules compared to other fellow representatives in Europe. The fact is that MPs would have to protect the integrity of the Croatian Parliament as the Croatian Parliament has just given rise to every MP and every degradation of MPs is demoted by this High House, the Croatian Parliament. It's according to the law of the combined vessels hydrostatic paradox, but that's the case. Therefore, it is not questionable whether we should discuss the status rights of us here, representatives of the Croatian Parliament on the benefits that we have, let's say, but the same thing is that we should also discuss status rights, the privileges of all those other in this country, whether they are officials, whether they are entrepreneurs, whether they are managers, various Magnates, tycoons and all of them should actually share the fate of this country, of this nation in which they live. While the Croatian Parliament is where they are and where the most important state-law issues are being addressed, I believe that all of us here together should ensure that both MPs and parliamentarians do so in other countries when protecting their Parliament. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-26-0.u30482	Thank you. Mr. Representative Miljenko Doric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-26-0.u30483	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. I'll try to be brief so we don't repeat ourselves too much. I'd pick up where my colleague Lesar left off, and I'd like to try to answer some of the questions that Hebrang and his colleague Beus opened up. In fact, it is not controversial, we all know why in the world parliaments, parliamentarians have great privileges, because if they do their job well, they resent a huge number of people during the term of office and surely it is not easy for them to return to work, that they will permanently have the consequences of their quality work in which they have called certain people for irregularities, have pointed to ignorance, intricacies, crime, corruption, etc., etc. However, we have raised a few questions here today. I'd try to answer some of them. First of all, I think we don't have to treat ourselves as victims, we don't have to cry over our fate, and we, colleagues and colleagues, are not significantly damaged even though there have been such attempts. I even think it's completely irrelevant whether we're going to retire after two, four or eight years, whether we're going to retire after 55, 60 or 65 years. I'll explain why. I think we should start with one sentence that we heard this morning, I hear a lot of ugly screams behind my back. Let's turn it into plural, we hear often ugly screams behind our backs. The question is, colleagues and colleagues, why? We need to start to discuss and try to answer that question so that we can analyse the individual's activity and the effectiveness of this legislative body. I've been sitting here for two terms, and I have to tell you that in the last term, there have been individuals who have come forward for four years once or not. Who were they representing, whose opinion were they speaking here? Do you have your constituents or something? What were they sitting here for? To make decisions by the power of numbers or by the power of arguments? On the other hand, when we take the effectiveness of this legislative body, then we have to ask ourselves what citizens expect from the Croatian Parliament. They expect us to pass laws that will boost economic growth and development, which will boost employment, which will boost production and exports, which will reduce imports, which will clearly address the issue of corruption, crime, etc., etc., etc. It's the effectiveness of this body. And believe me, colleagues and colleagues, we were also to discuss this today and see if we had achieved everything that was expected by Croatian citizens in the last 5, 10, 15 years when they voted for us and allowed us to sit in this honorable home. I must say that I will refrain for principled reasons, because the explanation of this proposal does not stand. We should have gone in a different way, we should have more objectively, more realistically approached this story, and we should have clearly talked about it, colleagues and colleagues, because I think that only then will we be able to avoid the clear and judgment of the media that are completely justified in those shortcomings in our work, the dissatisfaction of citizens, because we are the ones who need to solve the many problems that weigh them down, and in this we have not always been successful. So, please let's be realistic in the future, let's not throw sand in our eyes. Croatian citizens, Croatian media, all of them well know why shouting behind our backs is heard. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-26-0.u30484	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect allegation. Mr. Representative Andrew Hebrang.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-26-0.u30485	Thank you very much. It's an incorrect allegation that a colleague said, the media knows very well why bad screams are heard behind our backs. These media outlets have recently called our speakers and told us that silence is gold. I don't trust media like that, and it's not true what you said.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-26-0.u30486	Mr. Representative Krunoslav Markovnović.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-26-0.u30487	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Secretary of State. In fact, if we observe a little about what's been going on lately with calls to Parliament, I think it's strange for an ordinary man. Although many have accepted, but the fact is that this Parliament, the Croatian Parliament is neither better nor worse than all Parliaments not only in Europe but also in the world. Clearly, I speak where democracy is in the countries. Because yet Parliament is the foundation. The Croatian Parliament, or parliament, is the foundation of democracy, and I think that what happens is not only about individuals, those who talk or who are silent or those who are here more often or less, but actually one systematic attack besides other and democracy. Because if we humiliate the MPs, then such a Parliament is not to be trusted. And this Parliament is working and it does a lot of work. He's a regular lawmaker. So the committees are held regularly, so the representatives regularly perform a whole series of, seven, eight, nine functions. I have to say, there are a lot of doctors here, professors who work still in college. We have a doctor, a surgeon. So we have everything we've heard before. We've got a lot of mayors, Chief. So, I don't forget the others, but most of them here are the presidents of the city council, the president of the county council. So most people really do something else and participate here and here is the moment they need to, and here is to make their contribution clearly from the experience of the work that it does there. I know, because here I have had the opportunity to talk to colleagues from many parliaments in Europe that many places find it very difficult to get the quorum even to vote. After a few weeks, they're making a vote. That parliaments are even more empty than ours, but in those countries people don't exactly talk against parliament, because they know if they bring down parliament they have brought down democracy. So you should think about what's going on here and why it's happening. Interestingly, we are the most attacked by the media in private ownership, which is very convenient, that we are attacked by numerous, because of wages, because of this, and the same editors and not only the editors but numerous columnists, commentators, hundreds of people on television and the like have salaries that are significantly, significantly higher than the MPs. And I can tell you that a lot of small managers also have far greater wages, that I don't speak of people who are in local self-government, who are not known by mayors, mayors or anything like that. The attack is that way, read the comments below. Like there on the portals, you can see it. They're talking about uneducated people. The other day there was one very good fact that there was a huge number here and a doctor of science and highly educated. So, I wish that were the case in the other parliaments of Europe, but I think we're even above that. It's not about changing something here. The MPs will make their contribution, but the question is whether they will contribute to the others. We see trade unionists fighting hard. Not just the leaders of some of the smaller parties are going down. And I know a foreigner who, every time in Jelačić's square, talks against the MPs and runs it by one of the richest people in Zagreb. But, dear God, that's it. So, the contribution, I'm sorry to be here at the Committee on Conflict of Interest, which is not given by unionists especially by those who are the loudest, because they'd be very surprised to see where they're all getting money from from which boards of directors, supervisors and so on. And then it's easy to yell in the name of the people, and I'm fighting for you and stuff. Yeah? Now the question is, are the MPs too expensive? A clear state pays as much as it can. Interestingly, in some poorer countries they are also paid better, in some rich countries they are paid multiplely. The data may not have been the happiest we could get, but a lot of it could still be seen. What's the other option? The second option is to say every big firm installs several representatives in the Croatian Parliament, but then they will not defend the interests of their own base, their own inhabitants. So he's going to defend his voters' interests. I think it's easy to get rid of. The companies would love to accept that, but then they don't need an election. Then we'll see who succeeds more MPs will push his interests to defend them. If we mention the new proposed conditions, I think most MPs agree that conditions should be changed, that they should be strengthened. But we should think very closely about this, and we talked on the board yesterday about what happened to all those who have met the conditions so far. Which will happen to them in some future time. I think this is, for now it's too general and it's good that this is the first reading because there are countless cases of whether to talk about four years or to talk about the whole term. Some mandates were shorter, some longer. Whether it's the year or the year. I think it's a good thing we're still discussing this. I'm sorry that a number of colleagues who haven't really called, and maybe they should have given. Here's a colleague, Lesar, he's fighting to eliminate all the benefits, and it only started when he met those two years. And we all know that. So, when he collected the conditions for a preferential pension, he became the biggest anti-retirement fighter. In addition, he tends to be false because in a televised conversation, he said, let's say that independent representatives don't get any money. Then he said the vice presidents of the clubs have an increased coefficient. So a whole series of lies. And now I should believe, and I think we know ourselves that it's a pre-election campaign, and I guess every mayor running for office in Međimurje mayor would have to talk like that, because otherwise it wouldn't have gone away. I must also say that representatives of the Croatian Parliament, unlike many assemblies, do not have these editors in silence when they report to them on morning shows listeners have no cards, no cell phones, no Christmas cards, no regress, no travel expenses, no severance fees. So they don't have a parking lot, they don't have an office. They don't have more than they have. Here thanks to the great pawnage of the Croatian Parliament, many have received a bar chair and table which is certainly good, because we know that our office has been a trunk for years, is that where we kept things, there we have brought similar things. We know I say parking space we don't have, because I think it's funny in Europe, they all have insurance. But, well, here we go every day neatly to the cashier's garage, pay up, and it's good. It's working on. So one more time. In this situation, MPs will surely agree to the terms and conditions of the wage reduction as well as the others, because we must make a contribution. But I am afraid that many others have not understood the situation in this country and do not want to make their contribution at the moment when it is most important. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-26-0.u30488	Thank you. Replica, Mr. Representative Goran Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-26-0.u30489	Thank you very much. I agree with my colleague Markovanovic that MPs should share the fate of their people. I also agree with the conclusion that everyone should do so, because it is not good and it is socially unacceptable that this difficult economic situation and the financial crisis of one is looking forward to it, and others are saddened. They should bear both part of the burden and those who use this time to make more profits than ever, to achieve extra profits and extra profits and it is high time to participate and bear the burden and those who publicly order for example that they can be telephoned for free or that they have long recognized and merged, because this recognition and their merger was at the expense of the Republic of Croatia 34 and a half million euros.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-26-0.u30490	Thank you. Final review, State Secretary Antun Palaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-26-0.u30491	Dear Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. Today's debate supported the legal solution proposed by the government in the form of a bill, so the law proposed in the first reading to the Croatian Parliament. Never at any time has anyone from the government said the MPs were overpaid. The parliamentary duty is one of the most honorable duties, if not the most honorable in the Republic of Croatia. They here, on behalf of the people, regulate the legal order of the Republic of Croatia, and it is normal that elected national representatives must also have certain certainty that they should not, after their duties have been carried out, find themselves in an awkward material position in the years when it is difficult to find a job, especially when many of the parliamentary representatives have interrupted their successful professional scientific and business careers in order to commit themselves to the conduct of the duties of the MP. With this law, we wanted to bring some illogicality into line, but also preserve the dignity of the parliamentary deputies, and for the second reading, we will determine in the transitional provisions exactly to which the law applies in the future and what is with those people who have acquired the right to early applicable regulations with the aim of not taking away the rights acquired because it is the spirit of the main order. Thank you, everyone who supported the law. Of course, there are always people who think differently of everything from their known reasons and that is right, right with disagreement and right to a different opinion. The law is likely to be passed with the Constitution prescribed by the majority and will be regulated in a better way in the Croatian legal system by representatives' rights in the Croatian Parliament. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-26-0.u30492	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-26-0.u30493	Proposal for a law amending the Law on the Rights and responsibilities of MPs in the Croatian Parliament, first reading, is proposed by the Government. I am voting on the following conclusion: "The proposal for a law amending the Law on the Rights and responsibilities of MPs in the Croatian Parliament is hereby adopted. Any comments, proposals and opinions raised in the debate will be addressed to the applicant in order to prepare a final draft law.". Who's in? Thank you. Against? Thank you. Restraint? With 85 votes to, 23 against, four abstentions. I won't retire.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-26-0.u30494	We're going to discuss the next item of the agenda. - Final draft law amending the Law on the Payments of Judges and other Judicial Officers, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 307 The Proposer is Government. The debate was conducted by committees on legislation, the judiciary, the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system. State Secretary at the Ministry of Justice Drazen Bosnjak will further explain the proposal. Here you go, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-26-0.u30495	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen. You have before you a bill on the salaries of judges and other judicial officials. ... So before you there is the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Payments of Judges and Other Judicial Officers, with the final proposal of the Law. [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]] As we know, this law regulates the salaries of all judicial officials in the Republic of Croatia, and this procedure has been conducted in various ways throughout all these years, even at the beginning it was in a certain percentage of the salaries of parliamentarians. Today's situation is such that we have the pay set in a way that a certain coefficient is multiplied by a base, which is the basis used in the salaries of civil servants and tenants. The proposal that lies ahead of you is about the next one. The salaries would be determined in a way that the basis determines by a special decision of the Government, means that there is no automation, that the basis is the one for officials and subsistences rather than that the pay is determined in a way that the government says the basis for judicial officials is such, is multiplied by the coefficient, the corresponding year 0.5 is added to the working internship that we also established in this Assembly in 2004. And that's a brief proposal of this law. Of course, the moment is such that all both officials and employees of public service with salaries at this social moment are really going down, and in this way the government will keep an eye on and will also have to lower their salaries to a certain lower level, because we all know the situation in the economy and I deeply believe that it will be only for a shorter period. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-26-0.u30496	Thank you. The Legislative Committee? The Justice Committee? The Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system? I'm opening a debate. IDS representative club Mr. Representative Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-26-0.u30497	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, gentlemen of the Parliament, the esteemed Secretary of State. Here, just one sentence higher than the one before the debate. They are certainly not victims of the system, they are not overpaid, they are not underpaid, they are not privileged, they are not even discriminated against. However, this is the Law on the Payments of Judges and other Judicial Officers with a final proposal for the Law. In Saturday's Vjesnik, I read Mr. Branko Hrvatin's interview with the president of the Supreme Court who said about it, I literally quote him, "Suchi will share both good and bad with society.". Now I don't know if, let's call them that, the most judicial authority in this country has passed this law, but that statement I could understand in such a way. But the point is something else. Who brought the country into this situation so that they no longer have to pay or that better said wages are late and that they must be reduced? I claim government. Others will say the world's crisis. True, she is here, we are aware that some branches of the Croatian economy have been compromised. For example, Mr. Bajs says that tourism will suffer a sacrifice of minus 3%, it may be in the north of Istria and the coast, but as far as I can see, it will be much more in the entire Republic of Croatia, for as long as it remains to be seen. Exports too. He'll certainly be smaller in the year ahead of us 20 and maybe 40%. That's about 2 to 4 billion euros. How much less VAT we can discuss today. On the world money market, amounts are higher for loans, etc. But I claim that for this Croatian economic reality right now, the most responsible is this government. And I think that these things should be interpreted as well. Could it have been assumed a year ago when we wrote, or six months ago when we wrote the budget, what will be marked in 2009? I'm saying it is. And what was the prime minister's answer to, say, 40 days in this assembly, I give everything, but I don't give any wages and pensions. And today we are discussing the salaries of judges, and yesterday in the government, de facto, it was sealed and the fate of everyone else who is employed in the public administration. And that's why personally when it comes to management, I think that hot chestnut would make me think that we should get back from Parliament to the government again. What is our biggest problem right now, and what contributes to the fact that wages will be what they will be? That's because this year, 12.3 billion euros is on the charge, which was imports of 30 billion dollars last year, exports of only 14, but I say Croatian politics too, so if we want to paraphrase Tudjman, I don't know when I did it, that we won't do anything, that we're against everything, and then we simply drove out of this country every relevant investment and lost 4.5 billion euros, and that's why 50 thousand jobs can go to our heads today which new jobs don't have. And to be clear, not only that, but in 2009, there is no one left to invest in Croatia, and unfortunately no one will show up in 2010. I'm asking myself a question, what if, and I don't think that's going to happen, the Russians cancel the purchase of six ships. "The Oilman" who is Pula, "The Oilman" equals Istria. And that's why we're thinking head-to-head, and we're probably gonna fight head-to-head because we don't know, some Brijuni Riviera or, as some in Vodnjan are fighting today, that two years ago they couldn't sell agricultural land, because there's no one left to buy it. It is clear that this is a law on judicial wages, but it should also be said, where Croatia will be, for example, in 6 months. You see, gentlemen, the decline in gross social product in America will be 2.6%, in the euro area 3.2%, the decline in economic activity in Japan is 5.6%, and how much will it be in Croatia at the moment God knows, but far more than these minus 2% are certain. If there was a rebalancing of minus 4% in Slovenia yesterday, in Croatia it will be minus 5, 6, 7% and every 3 months, and that is the essence, we will write a new rebalancing, and every 3 months we will go with wages down 5, 6% and it is waiting for us in the time ahead. And that's why we're de facto transferring this law to the government, under the authority of the government, so that she can do it autonomously in the future. And so it will probably be not only here, but elsewhere in Europe and in the world if Obama doesn't start something. Dear gentlemen, let's let it go whether we're in a banana or not, it's important who brought us into it, but I'm saying it's been admitted there somewhere in 2008 that today could have been very different. What's the biggest problem, which simply for some changes is whether there's time or whether there's solutions. I personally think that one of the solutions may be that early elections, when and perhaps together with local elections, but I also know that this is probably not going to happen, because at this point no one wants power. But who put us in a position? I claim the government brought us here. Who can do something and help this country? Only those who have money are bankers. And we see for ourselves that they can only get something out of this country, not leave something to the ground. The government with a budget of 116 billion kuna or minus 5, some billion kuna, as proposed by this rebalancing de facto in 2009 won't be able to do anything. A Bandic will be more able to do more, the mayors of large cities will be able to do more when it comes to these capital investments than the government itself. And who's gonna pay for the crisis? The crisis will be clearly paid by the poor, small craftsmen, a small economy, no government, no union leaders, no MPs, no judges. This law we see tang judges, tang judicial officials. There's about 2,000 500 people in the game. Otherwise, in the judiciary, about 10,000 people don't count the health system in these public services, let's do 80 grand in education, 10 grand in science, in social sciences 10 grand, 5 grand in culture, in health care 65 thousand, in public services on the other hand 27 thousand in the MUP, 3 grand in customs, 4 grand in the tax administration, 2 thousand in the prison services, 900 in the inspectorates, 10 grand in the judiciary, 17 in the ministries, offices, etc. I personally think that this law that we're discussing, which was passed years ago, was a good law. I don't mean the one that's going to change now, but the one that's in effect and that we should have done everything we can to leave that standard to the judicial employees and this one. I'm kind of under the impression that this House is being demoted. The judiciary in Croatia, I don't know about global legislation, so let's say this is an appropriate status. They're literally untouchable, which is good. On the other hand, the question is how independent they are, they are immeasurable until retirement, which is just as good. This election of the State Judicial Council, meaning the Parliament's choice of judges, is certainly a step backwards, as is a step backwards, and this law. There are judges, we all know that here, who don't live on their salary, there are MPs who don't live on their salaries, ministers, state attorneys, etc., I won't tell the mob, but the vast majority of judges live on their salary, which will say they do their job with honor and that they can and must be proud of the whole community. It is also certain that the salary ratio of the judge and the most exposed attorneys in this country, such that it is done in this House, should not even be commented. The fact is that this law will probably lead to the collapse of the structure of judges, and that is then, which is not good expensive to cost this country, so if we want to trust that true structure. And it is not good that we ourselves are disabling the position of judges, which is likely to continue first by electing judges of the Constitutional Court. Clearly, they cannot be selected without either agreement or two of the strongest parties or by voting, understandablely. Which is bad both, but also this new way of choosing judges, I also don't think we're doing a good credibility or trust in these institutions. To be honest, the majority in this House will judge, perhaps it's best, the responsibility of those who brought the country into a banana. All in all, if I knew this situation was going to change in a year, that it would not last more than a year, I would be overjoyed but I'm afraid that 2010 for Croatia will be a difficult year and we almost have no one to trust at this point. I doubt it can, in a country or, the European Union will not help us, perhaps, only in the IMF. It's bad and God forbid it takes as long as possible in this country. The IDS won't vote for this.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-26-0.u30498	Thank you. SDP counseling club. Mr. Representative Joseph Leco. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-26-0.u30499	Dear Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Secretary of State, colleagues and fellow MPs. First of all, something about the metrics of things. Proposal for a law amending the law on the salaries of judges and other judicial officials is matter from the part of the Croatian Parliament. Therefore, the Law on the Payments of Judges and Other Judicial Officers was passed by the Croatian Parliament. Out of his jurisdiction and out of his detour. What's the catch? What's the deal? The government's asking us to give up our jurisdiction and our district and allow the government to regulate it by a regulation. That's the essence of this law. Even the Government writes that the law is passed on the basis of Article 84. A constitution authorising the government to propose legislation and amendments and amendments to the law. However, Article 2 of the Constitution states that regulations are adopted on the basis of legal powers under Article 87 if I am not mistaken, is the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and that they have limited duration. That they only last as long as they're given the authority. The government is asking us here in general to arrange salaries for judges and other judicial officials on the basis of legal authority but not to call for a constitutional provision that allows it. And what it means for the Croatian Parliament. By strengthening practices, by strengthening practices and by doing so and by using the Government without saying grace, we transfer or allow the Government of the Republic of Croatia to defend ourselves with efficiency and efficiency and speed, etc., that it determines what the citizens of the Constitution have entrusted us with. My colleagues and colleagues and we are subject to the rule of law, the rule of law, the rule of law. And if we don't treat things day to day, we have to respect the rule of law. It is indisputable that this is the jurisdiction of the Constitution, of Parliament, because the law has been resolved, otherwise we change the law, but we give up our right to do so based on something we have no right to do. Because even the government doesn't call on the provision of a constitution that gives it from, temporarily, to settle some things. This is exactly where the government is excluded from it. The government's been shut down right now. There's another problem. The constitution found that Croatia was set up according to the principle of division of the authorities. So, legislative, representative, Croatian Parliament, executive government and others, executive bodies and judicial ones. What are we changing with this law now? We're changing the power of these authorities. We give up in favour of an executive authority that doesn't have the role of representative authority, it's not even put together like that. And we're strengthening her position in relation to the Parliament, and so we have to admit a bad reitation amongst the citizens. So, we give up our delirious powers and our powers, strengthen the position of the government and that towards whom? According to the judicial authority. According to the judicial authority. And it is important to know that the Constitution also found that judges, judges and judicial duties are independent and that this is the basis for law, rule of law and the rule of law. That is the only way we can expect the judiciary to decide, independently of the law and in accordance with the Constitution, on the basis of the facts, on the things that are in its work. That's the only way. About us, about us. This is the rule of law, therefore, of the Parliament, and of the MPs of the Parliament. Now, something that might happen, and we know it's gonna happen. A reduction of the basis under the law proposed by the government will be done by the government. And of course, even the SDP club doesn't think or think that justice should share the fate of society. We don't argue with that need or the circumstances. But neither should I nor should it be given to the Government under the Constitution. Why? Because again, the Constitution provides for parliament, the Croatian Parliament to decide on spending public money, money from citizens of the Republic of Croatia, tax money, money from citizens of the Republic of Croatia, tax money. These things are principled and only if they are viewed as such will the position of the Croatian Parliament be strengthened compared to all those who must respect and apply the law. Now, from the point of view of who is important and who is responsible for why the country is in this situation economically, politically, socially, financially, that the government is asking for this to be passed on to it. Who's the most responsible for this situation? Well, the government. The government has the levers of executive power. We're not talking about which government, we're talking about government as a body executive. And that is one reason that it is almost unacceptable for the government to determine according to its needs the basis for the salary of judicial officials. The government will create its economic policy needs according to its needs, not according to what the Parliament is thinking as a body that decides on spending money to work. If you'd bring this. If you'd accept this. I think that today's situation in the Republic of Croatia is responsible for the concept, I will say this, created in the conversion and privatisation, and from it the favoring of similar and good and on this basis formed a maze of corruption. If we also introduce this in a certain way as a element in determining the spending of public money, then we must certainly retain our authority and our part-round that the Croatian Parliament decides to spend public money and pay basics for judicial officials. Anyway, I'll be back to square one. The SDP club is for judicial officials to have the fate of society, circumstances, needs and not to be singled out in this sense from the social set, from the social reality, but we ask that this be decided in the Croatian Parliament. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-26-0.u30500	Thank you. One rectification of an incorrect allegation. Mr. Representative Emil Tomljanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-26-0.u30501	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. A respected colleague said an incorrect allegation, I will quote it, so "this law directly disrupts the attitude of the legislative and executive authorities, to disrupt the government's trio system as defined by our Constitution." No, that's an incorrect quote. The law is before us and this law will be passed by the Croatian Parliament. This law determines, therefore, the law determines how the salaries of judicial officials are calculated by the fact that the basis and the system of calculation of the basis are not changed at all in relation to how it has been so far, except that the system of basics which has been determined for both civil servants and tenants is now particularly defined for judicial officials. That's one thing. And secondly, I think it's absolutely incorrect, and it's also an unacceptable principle of independence of the judiciary or the judge as an individual to connect in any way to the height of his salary.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-26-0.u30502	It's a HNS rep club. Mr. Representative Zlatko Horvat. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-26-0.u30503	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State. My colleagues and colleagues. The law is short. I'll try to be brief too. In fact, we've been having a lot of discussion at our club about the passing of this law, and I have to tell you that we haven't found any reason for it to be passed, so then we tried to find that reason in the light of the law, which, of course, should be. But you see, in the explanation, it says literally that I quote: "The government of the Republic of Croatia assesses the necessary and necessary clearly that the basis for the calculation of the salaries of judges and other judicial officials is determined by a special decision of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, not as has been prescribed so far, by equating the basis for calculating the salaries of civil servants and subsistence." Therefore, there is no reason for this, except for the government’s assessment of the necessary and necessary. It's like someone's asking you why you're doing it, and that's why you're saying it. And that's how we solved it. So, I think in an explanation you should say a lot more clearly why it's all done together. This way, if someone is a little naive, it can be concluded that because of the general situation in the judiciary that they may even want to separate that basis of judges and judicial officials, from the basis of civil servants, that they want to increase the salaries of judges and officials, given the situation in the judiciary. In order for such material stimulation to improve such a condition. Of course, no one's naive and we all know that's not the reason. The reason is that the law is changed with the aim of changing the basis of the salaries of judges and judicial officials in fact is to reduce. I'm really not going to talk about the situation in the judiciary right now. We all know what the situation is, we know what the citizens are talking about through the polls and it actually turns out that the least citizens trust in our judiciary. We also have a lot of warnings from the European Union when it comes to the situation in the judiciary, and now the proposal to reduce the salaries of judges and judicial officials is coming together, which is, of course, the question of what it means in practice again. And the answer is very simple. Of course, the adoption of such a law means further selection, negative selection of professional and staff, means even greater dissatisfaction of judges, and then, of course, the dissatisfaction of citizens, even more waiting for the judgments of power, etc. So it's one chain of such negative consequences. The reasons for the pay cut, of course, are very simple to find and explain, although in this case it was not. So, crisis, recession, generality of the state budget. However, we at the HNS club think the reduction in judges' salaries is not good, and others in their essence. There's been a lot of talk today about stressful work. Then, of course, we can't avoid the fact that the job of judges is quite stressful, because, of course, no matter what events are being tried, it's not easy to send a man to prison for 40 years. Often it is not easy to separate, to make judgments that separate families, etc. etc. So it's a stressful job. Of course, it is not doubtful that the work of judges is also stressful and very stressful. Of course, saving and rationalising in all segments of our society is necessary and even necessary. But it's a big question whether it's exactly on the payroll like in this case of judges and judicial officials. The reduction in wages in my opinion only has one short-term effect. Thus, not only will this achieve certain savings from about 50 million kunas, which is of course not negligible, but it is not even difficult to secure in the state budget. But I think there are far more and more negative consequences than the dissatisfaction and pace of work that judges can do. Of course they're falling their basic standard, of course less purchasing power. So this applies practically to all wage cuts. And now it's clear that this smaller purchasing power again people start spending less of course, so it has a direct impact on production, on the economy and on everything we know about it. So now is not the time to talk or get into the economic sphere of it all. But I don't think that, of course, is the subject of this law, or these points of the agenda. But I think that's something to say because it's one of the direct consequences of passing a law like this. Of course, I'm not going to be a lawyer here, not judges, not judicial officials. But I don't think by passing this law, we're not going to achieve the purpose we want and that we're going to further complicate relations in the judiciary. Well, I think that the proposer should reassess the need to pass a law like this, and especially not to adopt an emergency procedure. It would be absolutely smarter if such a law were passed in two readings, that if it were to go, so in that second reading on changing the basis for judges' salaries for reasons that should be much better explained, then it must certainly be the Parliament rather than the Government. So that's where I agree with my colleague Lek and the others who in that sense made their remarks. And with the rest of course, the team would once again point out that the judiciary is moving away from politics and that it is finally leaving judges, so that if the law goes on to reduce the base, it leaves the possibility that once the conditions are improved, when GDP begins to grow in some reasonable period, then it is automatically going again and on the basis that it was before that. So to provide judges with such a single hope that in better times they will be thought about, not just to be reduced now, so we do not know what will happen next. So I agree once again to say that judges and judicial officials should share the fate of all citizens and all employees. But I think the adoption of this law will still have more negative consequences than these positive consequences and therefore the HNS club will not vote for this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-26-0.u30504	Thank you. HDZ representative club, Mr. Representative Goran Maric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-26-0.u30505	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, dear Secretary of State, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. It has almost become a banal conversation about the global economic and financial crisis and the scale and consequences of the crisis. But nowadays, it's almost impossible to talk about any social problem without being watched through the prism of the global crisis. There is no area of social life that in any way does not feel these consequences. Many changes are also being introduced, even legally, to amortise any potential negatives brought about by the global economic crisis. To the extent of the global crisis, it is most credible to suggest the move of the United States Central Bank of the United States of America, which released two days ago from the primary mission into circulation a thousand two hundred billion dollars and dropped the reference interest rate to an incredible 0.5%. And many segments of society and social economic factors are aware of the existing difficult circumstances and have shown a willingness to share fate with the majority. This bill provides for an amendment to the existing law in order to regulate the basis for calculating the salaries of judges and judicial officials by a special decision of the Government, i.e. to regulate the government's special decision, rather than by equating that basis with the basis for calculating the salaries of civil servants and substitutes as so far as it has been and as so far has been prescribed. It is indisputable that judges and other judicial officials are of exceptional importance for the development of society and that their professional work is not only complex and professional but above all responsible. It is also doubtless necessary and complete independence in the work for the quality of the work of judges and judicial officials other than expertise and accountability. Of course, the appropriate salary is a presumption and consistent application of expertise and high level of responsibility, but also a high degree of independence. And, of course, judges and judicial officials as well as many public service professionals have not been properly paid. But the economic environment and economic situation in the world and the Republic of Croatia are also not common. On the contrary, not now that the situation is not common but global economic indicators suggest that this is the period of one of the greatest crises in history and that this crisis is stronger and more devastating and than the one known in 1930. Therefore, this difficult time also requires unpopular measures. But the announcement of this bill and the announcement of salary cuts to judges and judicial officials by 10%, the elite profession accepted with dignity. Judges and other judicial officials at this truly challenging moment show exceptional social sensitivity and social responsibility. Their reaction, or not to the announcement of wage cuts, points to a high level of consciousness and has given us the knowledge that they are not an isolated part of society, but that they are responsible and willing to bear part of the burden it has brought and imposed the global economic crisis. It is indisputable that mankind has constantly walked in great steps forward through its history. The 10% wage reduction proposal is indeed one step backwards, but financial institutions around the world have made the world a few steps backwards, not a few miles back, but a few miles back. Many countries in the world are in an even worse situation and more ungrateful and uncertain than the Republic of Croatia. Here, yesterday, the Central Bank of Great Britain from the primary mission, probably encouraged by what they did in the United States, let it go into circulation 70 billion pounds. We can be sure that as soon as the Government of the Republic of Croatia changes the circumstances and as soon as the economic financial situation allows, it will probably also change the base of pay for more. A colleague of Cain mentioned earlier some other segments of society he expects and has not responded to so far and indeed justified is expected to respond to the Chamber of Lawyers’ reaction to adapt to the existing situation and to lower the one-off fees, i.e. the legal tariffs that differ from today's times and are not in line with today's time. Here, the judiciary has indeed preferred most of the segments of society, those who sympathise with difficult times, those who are willing to bear part of the burden, and not only to bear that burden, but bearing that burden will contribute to a faster exit from this crisis that has affected the Republic of Croatia. For all of this, the HDZ Club will support the proposal for a law on judges and judicial officials. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-26-0.u30506	Thank you. One correction to the incorrect allegations, Ms. Representative Ingrid Anticevic-Marinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-26-0.u30507	Here's what I really need to react to is one inaccuracies that my colleague Maric made. Namely, counterpart Maric said that the judges, as their reaction, or not, were incorrect, were talking about their awareness of contributing to the burden and talking about the dignity of the judicial profession. First of all, it's not true that they didn't answer. They answered, though with a very weak voice, but what does he testify about? It does not bear witness to the burden, that is, the awareness and contribution of the burden, the relief of the crisis, but also to the fact that this government treats them as a maid and once again drives them to fear in the bones as in the 1990s that they do not dare speak out loud about this. What do they think about all this, and they didn't, by the way, ask them anything.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-26-0.u30508	Is that a correction to an incorrect quote? It's a correction of an incorrect opinion. This is the difference between the fact that it assumes a correction of an incorrect claim. I hear thoughts in that low-wipe flight coming up. HDSSB representative club, Mr. Representative Boro Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-26-0.u30509	Dear Mr. Vice President, fellow MPs and MPs, State Secretary at the ministry. Here, I am not of the domain, to say the judiciary, but since it is actually a matter of certain, to say the financial effects of the Croatian government's intention, as it is literally written here in Article 1 of the basics, it is a matter of determining the basis for calculating the salaries of judges and other judicial officials to determine the Government of the Republic of Croatia by a special decision. Mr. Leko has already spoken about whether these are the rights of the Croatian government or the Croatian Parliament to deal with this matter. Therefore, clearly there is a tridivision of government in the Republic of Croatia, at least that's how it stands on paper, so there is executive authority of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, a legislative parliament, i.e. representative and judicial authority. Now, by the decision as it says here, the Government of the Republic of Croatia, which is here, was put before a representative body or a legislative authority by emergency procedure, so by an urgent procedure in some way, the rights and one, therefore both the judicial authorities and these representative authorities, in favour of the executive authority are usurped. These rights are consummated, and if someone has and takes such a right to determine the basis, then there is, in some ways, the dependence of the one to whom the determination of that basis applies to who determines it. Whether or not it is an incursion of government or not, each of us has its own opinion on it, but 2,500 judges and about 7,500 officials in Croatian courts, so a total of 10,000 employees covered by this proposal for a Law amending the Law on the Payments of Judges and other judicial officials is clear that it is for the purpose and is to be saved. The savings the Croatian government is carrying out in all segments. So, first, we started what we did with 10% of parliamentary deputies, and then negotiations with trade unions where the union of civil servants gave up further negotiations, i.e. agreed to government measures, and I think he agreed first of all because of the fact that there are almost 30% of surplus officials in state services and fear or fear of layoffs, made them actually agree to government measures and cut wages of about 10%, not around 10% of Croatian Government means saving about 50 million kuna. However, all these pay-cutting measures at all levels at which the Government of the Republic of Croatia can influence or will actually influence and that money saved is questionable about its deployment, its consumption. Personally, given the inconsistencies expressed in the statements and actions of our executive authority, the prime minister and others, I am not convinced of the good management and the good distribution of that money. I know that we are in crisis and are not just international factors and everything that led to the crisis is the only reason. There are mistakes in the Government of the Republic of Croatia, so there are things that we have brought to some extent to waste and that the good work of the crisis in the Republic of Croatia has contributed to this government or the ruling structure or political elite. It's true that I stand up and fight here all the time as I'm in the Parliament for fiscal or financial decentralisation. It's true that I'm in favor of defocusing power. It is true that I am a regionalist for demotropolisation, as a representative of Slavonia, Baranja and Srijema here in the Croatian Parliament, but these days we hear statements that the Croatian government and prime minister cannot act on local and regional self-government in the context of savings and reduction of the salaries of local officials on the municipal, city or county level. So what state are we? It's an appeal. So appeal to the local sheriffs that they're also cutting their wages. The appeal to the banks not to increase interest on the loans. Swiss francs have fallen and increased wars continue, loan meals for citizens of the Republic of Croatia. Appeal to lawyers to cut tariffs. And here's an appeal, not an appeal, but to give the order in the form of a law to judges that they'll be cut in wages. Now, is the only way to save something from cutting judges' wages? So one administrative measure to cut off and say, here's where we're going to save 50 million kuna. Yesterday, my friend Ante told me that he was at the Municipal Court in Zagreb about half past two when there was a total breakup, when there were no more lawyers or half of the judges there but he was welcomed by seven security guards at the entrance. One of them went through his ID card, the other one wrote a pen his name and last name and ID number, the third one looked at him like we did here on his way into Parliament, the fourth one was sitting there watching everything. Anyway, seven of them say a hundred kilos each and then they talk a little bit about these security guys' salaries, so he said a good payer is a payer like that, it's not a big one, but he told them it's a shame that seven of them are there. In addition to all the surveillance cameras, besides all the modern technical devices they control, they monitor our courts even though we know there have been incidents in the courts and thank God it's also an institution of some kind of risk at the time of entry but it would be good for them to be few, if there were four or five of them to go to work, sow their own garden, sow a little carrot, parsley, it's spring, and they'd do something not just sit there. So I'm not just talking about courts right now, I'm talking about all the other institutions and institutions that have such developed surveillance services when they enter them. Well, at least you wouldn't have to go to the market to buy a grincake and stuff. It is the observation of a "little" to say to a man who thus experienced a meeting with our municipal or Zagreb Municipal Court. Speaking of which, I would like to ask the Minister of Justice and the Secretary of State, which is why judges, for example, of municipal courts in Slavonia, are arriving in Slavonski Brod. They have been redistributed from the Municipal Court in Zagreb to the Slavonski Brod Municipal Court, which is so overloaded that 50 cases a day and the parties go the way of Đakova and Požega because cases from Brod have been distributed to Đakovo and Požeg, then every day a bus of parties and lawyers, judicial officers and I don't know who doesn't travel all the way to Đakovo and Požeg by spending his day, his fuel, some kind of consumption of the person who will be made in Požega or Đakov. What's the cost? Why wouldn't a judge from Požega come to Slavonski Brod or from Djakov to help the court in Slavonski Brod? Have you thought about such savings, Mr. Secretary of State? It's a thing set upside down. We send 50 parties every day from Slavonski Brod, I make an example of one in the country and there are other examples. So we send them from Slavonski Brod to Požeg or Djakovo 100 people. Well, isn't it better that two or three judges come from those less-loaded courts in Slavonski Brod, that's less cost and all that pays the state of Croatia and taxpayers. The travel expenses, the living room and everything. So where are the savings? Has anyone thought about that? Because the simplest thing is, cut the wages with judges and settle the matter. By administrative measure, by law you pass it by emergency procedure and here's 50 million kuna. In my previous discussions, I spoke of the system of values being reversed in this society. It's true that when our doctors finish, they pass the doctor's so-called doctor. The state examination against the judges of the municipal court who are also just passing the judicial exam has a coefficient almost twice as much. What is this system of values in this Croatian society? What is this system of values when our mobsters and those who robbed Croatia through privatisation and conversion, first these conversions, and now the acceptances have suddenly become business people, at zero cut off, business people who are respected in society, followed by the media, who are big, now suddenly become the jet set of Croatian society. If I compare doctors and judges, then I have to say this category, because both doctors and judges are cat's cough, because it's those who have money, it's those who drive in two, three kinds of jeeps around Croatian cities, it's those who shake and executive power starting from local communities to executive authorities in the state. So one distorted system of values and values of work and efficiency throughout the system. Here is now one segment of it, so the work of the judges is stuck and has come to order at this time on the agenda of the Croatian Parliament. And here, when someone says there's no reaction from the judges, what they say is, "Bosna's paw falls," so the judges' salaries fell. I know that judges are also part of our Croatian society, that they also sympathise me to say with this crisis, the lack of property and the full-based standard of citizens, but should we do the bear service ourselves? Will part of the judges go the way of private law, the path of public notebooks, etc.? Are we going to have a shift in our courts like we had for some other reasons in '92? A year? It is now essential to discuss these reasons when a large number of experienced judges have left judicial duty. It's too late to talk about now. So it's hard to be for a bill like this, given all these reasons I've said. Although I'm saying that I was talking about the disproportionation of that doctor-judge beginner, but the judiciary is a special segment, very sensitive and I personally think that in connection with this kind of law I can be in. I can be abstention or against. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-26-0.u30510	Thank you. Individual debate, Mr. Representative Emil Tomljanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-26-0.u30511	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. So here's what I'd like to say, first of all, that I absolutely support this bill. This short law, which is indeed short and clear and precise and regulates the matter of determining the salaries of judges, judicial officials with one of their own articles. In a way that the basis for calculating the salaries of judges and other judicial officials is determined by the Government of the Republic of Croatia by a special decision. So, not by regulation, but by decision. And now, of course, the question is, what in this sense has the legislation changed in relation to the state we have now? It has changed that the very basis and way of calculating this base, how to say highlighted in that work that applied to both civil servants and subsistences and that this basis will, of course, be determined specifically for judicial officials. What I would particularly like to stress is that, therefore, we have before us the law and that this law lays down the system of salaries of judicial officials and that just by amending this law, it will allow the basis to be determined specifically for judicial officials and, of course, we can say that by multiplying these bases and coefficients precisely for a particular judicial official, among other things comes the height of the salary. Of course, it is very difficult to argue affirmably on some of the bill's proposals, when it is quite certain that these draft laws will allow or that there will be a very quick reduction in any form of material income or remuneration in this case, or a reduction in the basis for calculating the salaries of judicial officials. I'd be more happy to be in such a position as a society to go up, but enough of this has been the case so far. We must all be together, including respected fellow judges, judicial officials, to accept the fact that we are in one inconclusive about the economic situation and that the burden in this regard will be shared both by them and by all other and parliamentary representatives, and by ministers, and by judges, or by reducing their salary in view of the overall economic situation in the country. And there is a well-respected colleague, Maric, in the name of the Croatian Democratic Community club, stressed that here are the judges, and the judicial officials would say that, first of all, I would like to accept it with dignity, realizing our role in Croatian society which is very important, very important, and realizing absolutely that there will be a reduction in their salaries, that in fact, let's say one answer to the fact that we all need to give up something in a certain sense, given the economic situation that is ahead of us, which is now in Croatia and in Croatian society. However, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, allow me to look back and here are several remarks made in relation to the character of the law itself, the character of the law itself in terms of thinking that it affects the trio of the authorities, that the reduction of the salaries of the judicial officials will almost affect the independence of the Croatian judiciary or the independence of the decision-making of each individual judge. I couldn't agree with those thoughts or thoughts. And for two reasons. The first reason, today we are passing the law, so the Croatian Parliament, the Croatian Parliament is passing a law that will regulate these issues, it is not even being dealt with by a regulation under legal authority, so not by some kind of constitutionally regulated legislative delegation, but by law. So, we'll discuss it. Each one of them will say what he thinks of him, and only after he is accepted in this House of Highs will he be able to apply himself in that sense. And certainly in that sense there is no disturbance in the relationship between the executive and the legislative authority. In my opinion, there are no violations of any constitutional categories defined as such by the Croatian Constitution. They also cannot accept that thinking, that any wage reduction in this regard will affect the quality of the work of judges or judicial officials. That's absolutely not what I think it is. If we go with such logic, then what that means is that the height of the salary will depend on the quality of the work of judges or his honesty and attitude to work. Absolutely not, I can't accept that. I think judges who do their job are doing their job with responsibility professionally, that they are aware of the roles they play in Croatian society, and of course they are aware of the economic situation they are in. Only a reduction in wages or an increase in wages cannot therefore, in my opinion, be identified with the quality of their work or quality in terms of judicial decisions. I simply cannot accept it and certainly cannot accept it either by fellow judges because they know best that the result of their work or the quality of their work is, in fact, the result of their constant learning, their work and in making decisions that they make almost daily, and in sometimes very sensitive issues and of course, in the society in which we all live sometimes or very often, it is except that it is very responsible, of course, sometimes requires, with knowledge, with knowledge of these professional qualifications, professionalism and great elements and personal courage in order to conduct a judicial duty in the right way. And finally, I absolutely support this bill. I think that all these sharp criticisms that go to this bill are preparing for discussion, I have tried to give myself an answer to the question and where is the difference in the system so far. The difference is only in one, therefore, and that is, in my view, a improvement, that the basis that is the element of the salary calculation will no longer be within another category of civil servants, therefore, statesman of staff and subsistence. It will be determined only for judicial officials and, of course, by a special law, by the law that will bring this House of Commons. Once again support and here's so much for this short bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-26-0.u30512	Thank you. From 13 hours and 9 minutes, the time has elapsed for the ten-minute hearing to be called. Ms. Representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-26-0.u30513	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Neither do I, nor anyone at the SDP Club, support the adoption of this law. First of all, it's not just a reduction in wages, an increase or a reduction in hard times, it's not even the most important issue that came from this bill. This bill by which the Government takes the right without asking the third equal branch of the government about anything takes the right to cut her fate. Instead of being in all the orderly countries to be different. Therefore, we are all together with Italy, and that is the only thing Berlusconi does in Europe to that judiciary. Namely, this bill led the government with Prime Minister Sanader to show the judiciary who the boss is. She visited them on the famous '90s, '90s, and what is the position and place of judges in this society, under this authority and the judiciary as a whole. They're getting scared again. Here today we heard from colleagues from HDZ who spoke on behalf of the judicial authority, so they literally spoke like this. We've heard they're responsible, not by reaction, support this. So please tell me who signed the power of attorney today to HDZ here in front of this House, or publicly speaking for them. You haven't asked them anything. But they figured out the message. They came by a few days ago and then they shut up, even announced a constitutional suit. Now it's a pain in the Let's hear what the Fatal Authority has to say about this. And generally in front of the public about their position. Because this isn't about judges in the end line, this is about every citizen in person, because attacking the independence of the judiciary means attacking citizens' interests, undermining the economy and completely reducing the possibility of prosperity. All possible conventions protect the position and status, material status considering it as one of the essential elements of judicial independence. The truth is, there are also clauses in the Montreal Convention that speak, when the state of the economy is so difficult then their wages can be reduced. But the elemental decency requires that whoever you're trying to cut your salary to talk to. Talk to your social partners here and there, which is commendable. It's not to praise those who are under pressure and blackmail that they're alive at all, but that's, that's not the subject of conversation here, nor our very special attention to it. But please, don't consult to say, let's at least hear the opinion of the third branch of government under the Constitution. It's yours, but what does it say? He's talking about this policy, the role and place of the judicial authority under its authority. In fact, we've heard it on committees and from our associates, outsiders, how there were regimes that dared to stand trial against the authorities and end their decisions. And the government and such governments had, when they had this opportunity for the government to determine their wages, that after such a decision that was unfavorable for the government, they had denied the pay of judges. This happened in one country when the constitutional court ruled against the government. The next month these judges didn't get paid. But I'm not afraid for that, our judges are good at the Constitutional Court, they will regularly receive salaries. However, I say here you should stand up for this kind of way and protest this kind of relationship with the judicial authority. We have on several occasions increased the salaries of judges, over 530 judicial officials are employed. In the late '90s, we found empty justice, terrified, too weak to fight for his status at all, let alone share justice with others. So how can a frightened judge share justice with others and you do all that you can to show them who is the boss and to frighten them? What the consequences are, is that a contribution to judicial reform. But anyway, when the door to Europe is blocked, it's more of a sleek reform, and the least of the judicial reform that's no longer being played. Is this a contribution to the action plan against corruption and organised crime? Where is Minister Shimonovic today? About 10 days ago, he was slanting over how he was increasing his salary to jump judges and putting them at the same level as the appropriate jurisdiction of jump state attorneys. He didn't answer. Well, that's outrageous. This is the kind of important thing the minister has to keep quiet about. Is that why he came to the government? Now, Mr. Secretary of State, he sent you. When it was to be figured out in front of the public to raise wages, it is considered a major contribution to the fight against corruption and organised crime. Now he's gone, he hasn't been in public since then, and he's sent you here to defend this bill. So, ten days ago, pay increases, now they're shrinking. So does the government even know what he's doing? Here only calling to God will not help, but should do something very concrete, but not in this way and wrongly. So again we have a demonstration of force, a demonstration of power. He wants to scare the authorities, he wants to turn once again into a maid of the current policy. It's the ruling jelly.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-26-0.u30514	Thank you. Two corrections. First Mr. Representative Ivo Grbić.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-26-0.u30515	I'm correcting an incorrect quote from my colleague. First, the government does not apply force or Prime Minister Sanader. So far, it's practically the same thing. The government has established a foundation before and is now proposing. How was the base established before? On the basis of a collective agreement or arrangements with the competent trade unions, there was a basis. Therefore, only two basics are separated here and the government determines one and the other basis, especially for officials, subsistences, and especially for judges. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-26-0.u30516	Second correction, Mr. Representative Emil Tomljanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-26-0.u30517	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, a respected colleague said among other things: "this law is an attack on the independence of the judiciary." That's not true. This law does not constitute an attack on the independence of the judiciary, this law is not an expression of force, coercion or fear to anyone. This law reflects the economic situation in which we are and the policies of this government in terms of determining the mass of salaries in this regard for judicial officials. And colleagues, one question. You mentioned power of attorney, who has power of attorney...
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-26-0.u30518	No questions asked. No questions asked.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-26-0.u30519	That's a comment, then. Do you have the power of attorney...
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-26-0.u30520	Question... Okay. That's what you'll do in the current class.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-26-0.u30521	Now on the committee at half past two.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-26-0.u30522	Truth is, it's gonna be hard being on the...
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-26-0.u30523	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-26-0.u30524	The current hour can't be asked by MPs and MPs, but by the minister, it could have been in some past tense, but what are we going to do now. State Secretary Drazen Bosnjakovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-26-0.u30525	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear ladies and gentlemen. I really have to react at this point because this law is not that the government wants to show someone who's boss, this law has no intention of making anyone fear, especially not the judicial authority. You know, with the power of justice, we have great cooperation and great communication, and just every legal project that goes by is clearly involved in it by our judges and giving their expert remarks and having the opportunity to participate. So on this side you know this law changes, as some fellow MPs here have already said, it only changes the way the pay base is determined, and the main leverage means the coefficient that determines and determines the mass of the basis is determined by the Assembly. A mass of funds for salaries shall be determined and delivered by the Parliament within the framework of the budget of the Republic of Croatia. You know, there's a little too heavy a word that the government wants to put this into someone's bones because just four years ago, the government, this is the one that has proposed, and this House has brought amendments to this law that after years we've confessed 0.5% to judges for... That's right. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] And that's exactly what the government's intention is to improve the material position of judges at the time it could. Today the situation is like this, but this law doesn't say tomorrow will very definitely that basis go down, but very quickly we believe the basis will go up when the situation changes a bit. Therefore, the legislator's intention is only to ensure that the basis is not the automation of those bases for civil servants and deputies, but to be a separate basis to be established by the Assembly. So neither did Minister Shimonovic send me here, but simply the government decided that either the minister or I would come here and defend the law. Here.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-26-0.u30526	Correction of an incorrect allegation. Mr. Representative Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-26-0.u30527	It is incorrect, Secretary of State, that this law does not bring fear among judicial officials. He puts it into the system, regardless of the government's good or bad intentions. In fact, the government is now taking over from itself the right to determine wages. We're starting jumper vessels. They know they have to judge in corrupt things. Corruption can also occur in government ranks, though. Well, we need to fight this high-level corruption. And now the judges will be in a position to lead and judge such disputes. At the same time, the government determines their salary depending on how they manage these disputes, depending on how they judge, and that will be their wages. If the government doesn't like it, the government has now taken power over it that it's never had before. By his own free will, it shows. Well, my judges, if you are persecuting government employees for corruption, and we are going to cut your salary nicely. So when you come to your senses, then we'll raise your wages. You've installed that in the system of the law. That's the problem.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-26-0.u30528	Mr. Representative Ivo Grbić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-26-0.u30529	Dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Your Honor, Secretary of State. Dear colleagues and fellow MPs. Given the current economic crisis that has affected the whole world, the Republic of Croatia is also indicated by the need to take anti-recession measures in all areas to alleviate the current situation and overcome the crisis. Thus, in the specific case of the existing Law on the Payments of Judges and other Judicial Officers, it is prescribed that the salaries of judges and other judicial officials shall be determined by multiplying the basis which is the same as the basis for calculating the salaries of civil servants and substitutes with the coefficient established for certain officials. The proposed amendments to the laws, and in order to adapt the salaries of judges and other judicial officials to the current financial opportunities of the State and thereby achieve savings in the budget, or reduce consumption, separates the basis for the calculation of the salaries of judges and other judicial officials from the basis for the calculation of the salaries of civil servants and the substitute established in accordance with the proposed government of the Republic of Croatia. In this way, the separation of the basics allows the Government of the Republic of Croatia to establish a basis for calculating the salaries of judges and other judicial officials other than the basis for calculating the salaries of civil servants and subsistence who, as a rule, is the product of a collective contract, i.e. the negotiation of the Government of the Republic of Croatia and of the relevant trade unions. For this reason, I support the Final Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the Payments of Judges and other Judicial Officers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-26-0.u30530	Thank you. Mr. Representative Ivo Josipovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-26-0.u30531	Mr. Vice President of the Parliament, colleagues and colleagues, dear Secretary of State. It is clear to all of us that, even if the judges are to bear the burden of economic crisis and risk, they will also be aware of that. We saw Mr. President of the Supreme Court's interview. What's the big deal? It is important that the way it is done is such that it does not cause doubt that the executive power in one way or another will directly or indirectly affect the judicial authority. I wouldn't go so far as to claim that this was meant to affect the rule of law. But the potential of this law is such and it is a pity that the same goal is not achieved in another way. Now that the salaries of judicial officers have been singled out into a special system, it would be appropriate for this Parliament to decide on the basis. That would achieve two things. First, it would avoid suspicions that the executive power either by lifting up, either by lowering wages, wants in a manner conditionally speaking to corrupt judicial power. Secondly, the reduction of salaries especially when it comes to reduction is a very sensitive decision that must be transparent to both the public and the judiciary. And the debate in Parliament is the place and way that transparency is achieved. It's not too late. Still, the government can change its proposal. It can place parliament as a place of decision instead, and I think both the judiciary and the public, and politics will be much more satisfying with such a solution than with this solution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-26-0.u30532	Thank you. Mr. Representative Nenad Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-26-0.u30533	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. We're in a small paradox, a little paradoxical situation. With a whole series of laws, among other things and this law, the Government is taking on something that is actually the original function of Parliament, not in Croatia, everywhere in the world. The American president has to go to Congress to get the money when he needs money. Congress approves of money, and it's a tradition of parliamentary democracy. We are now stepping out of this tradition with this series of draft laws and we see that the parliamentary majority is very happy to agree to it, does not object to it, does not defend Parliament's interest, Parliament's interest, Parliament's integrity, but does not defend the government's trinity either. Because of its obligation, obedience to the party agrees that the balance that so far existed and in Croatian parliamentaryism is corrupt. It is a shame that it is corrupting, and the consequences will be significantly more harmful in the long run than they benefit from these proposed laws. Why do I say it's a paradox, not just a deviation from democratic practice, but a paradox. The government is in every country, not only in Croatia, it is responsible for macroeconomic policy, it is responsible for the state of the country. If the state of affairs is well, if citizens live better and better we have a successful government. Not us, anywhere in the world. If citizens, however, live worse and worse, then we have a failed government. It is an example now in Croatia. Citizens from year to year live worse and worse, and then the government that is to blame is that they are living worse and worse takes power from Parliament and even punishes citizens by cutting wages. It is a paradox that is very difficult to explain and even more difficult to accept for anyone who wants a democratic perception of reality. Of course, it should also be unacceptable for citizens, as this government stems from their will. The citizens' will here has established a parliamentary majority, the parliamentary majority has drawn up the government and citizens have done so in good faith, hoping that the government will fulfill its promise that they will live better. Now that she has not fulfilled her promise, the government does not punish itself, so that, for example, resignation as is happening left and right in Europe. As we can see, the government falls, each day at a time. They have not fulfilled the promise, but the politicians responsible, resign, new elections, let the citizens choose. This government doesn't do that. She doesn't punish herself, she punishes the citizens by taking their wages. And we've suggested you know a whole series of laws here as valuable, as in vain to, for example, tax capital gains. Maybe you wouldn't cut your salary if Luka Rajic took the money when he sold Laura. And that money would stay in the budget, but he took it to Switzerland, the money he made here. Now that Rajic has been allowed to go to Switzerland with his money, the money is now missing, of course. And who will it be taken from? So of the citizens of which, state officials, civil servants, now judges, state officials. It's taken from them. And all that government does, and all that government does, of course, to save itself, its position. Well, that's understandable that the government is saving its position. What is incomprehensible is that Parliament makes it possible. In this particular law, so be careful there really is one danger. What Professor Josipovic says, let's be gentle, let's believe that the government does not do so with the very intention of exerting direct pressure and blackmailing judges. But that mechanism is built into the law, it's built in. If we now leave to the Government a provision of this kind to the Government to determine the salaries of the judicial officials, that instrument, now we give it to her, can use it to put pressure on those judges, that they judge as it is in the interest of the Government. Especially when her cases come for consideration in court. So look, Maestro brought very high-ranking people to the Croatian Privatisation Fund. But there at the Governing Council of the Croatian Privatisation Fund were 3 ministers and 1 vice-president of the government. So how will the judiciary dare go against three ministers and one Deputy Prime Minister when they know that the government will cut their salary by half tomorrow if they do? That's what we're installing into this mechanism. So who says tomorrow, so who can guarantee it, that tomorrow some other ministers won't get involved in corruption affairs? Who can vouch for us? But who can guarantee that the judiciary will react to them as it should when these same ministers determine their wages? We're yelling that guarantee today. We cry out the opportunity for this country to be just, to be fair to everyone, even to the highest officials. That's why this is outrageous. So says the professor... So change that. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Put that bar in Parliament's power. At least they'll be able to discuss it, make arguments for and against. Today to come before this Parliament and to seek a reduction of the basis for judicial wages would get you plebiscite support because we all feel that equally all the factors in this society must bear the burden of the crisis, but that is one thing because it is a special moment. So are we discussing whether the moment is difficult, less difficult? If that's really necessary, it's not necessary, but we're having a debate about it in the Parliament and then we make a decision. But this way they won't discuss it anymore. The government will decide, today a little more, tomorrow a little lower, as it pleases us. It's how judges behave, it's how they judge, and especially how they judge those who decide their wages. Therefore, this law is not a law that saves or helps society in recession, it is not because this same purpose could be achieved to leave that power in Parliament. Same purpose. He is using the crisis situation so that the government can take on powers that do not belong to parliamentism in any way, there is no such democratic country in which the cash is held by the government. That's not the country. Mild is always in Parliament and the government must always come to Parliament for money. That's why the budget is being adopted in Parliament. I expect the government to come with a proposal not to adopt the budget in Parliament anymore. Why? If they're going to determine the salaries of everything, if they're going to spend the money the way they want it, without Parliament, so what are we going to discuss? The government normally behaves like that. She takes advantage of the opportunity when Parliament does not sit down to then change the items in the budget as it will, so we say something, it has nothing to do with what is happening in the implementation of the budget. The government's already been working on the farce, but by now, at least she's been doing it in secret. And this is a request from Parliament, let us do it openly. This is because of a systemic error embedded in this law, this is an attack on the independence of the judiciary regardless of the intensity, regardless of the intensity. In itself, this legal proposal offers what kind of solution is an attack. Will the government use that possibility to actually attack the judiciary? I don't know. But they'll be able to attack him because we're giving her that possibility by this law. That's why I'm calling you State Secretary, calling the government, thinking about this. We will achieve our purpose in a different way. The salaries of judicial officials, judicial officials, will be reduced, but let Parliament decide on that. Come on, let's be, let's cherish democracy parliamentary. Well, she's not just being used by this government. Well, it's a constitutional value, so we have to save it for both future governments and future generations. Well, we must be so responsible for our own country, for democracy. It's too much of a democracy to be invested in today's, like this, run her over in the Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-26-0.u30534	Thank you. Three corrections. Mrs. Representative Anna Lovrin.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-26-0.u30535	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, MP Stazic made an incorrect finding that this law corrupts the balance between Parliament and the government in this area of determining judicial salaries. I do not know by which time this Parliament should repeat that, not until now, nor under the current law, it has never discussed the basis for judicial wages, but has so far been the same as the foundations of civil servants and subsistence appointed by the Government in the trade union negotiations, so it could be said in the ults of the lines that the government and trade unions together have determined judicial wages. What Parliament and MPs discussed, which they will continue to discuss, are the coefficients of judicial wages, their relationship with other professions and their relationship between individual judges. And this is exactly what the government has proposed, and this Parliament has passed a law that rewards more and better paid by coefficients than those judges who will judge in organised crime cases and corrupt criminal acts. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-26-0.u30536	Second correction, Mr. Representative Emil Tomljanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-26-0.u30537	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. So the honourable representative said among other things, I quote, incorrectly, I quote: "The government is taking the power of Parliament by this law. "This law is about trampling democracy." That's absolutely not true. The very fact that it is being debated, before us is the law, the very fact that these institutes are being debated, that this House will decide how to determine the salaries of the judicial officials will deny you. But here's to not wasting my word anymore, it's hard to argue in a way that you don't believe that regulations with legal power are actually a violation of democracy. I obviously can't convince you of some things. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-26-0.u30538	And Mr. Representative Krunoslav Markovnović.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-26-0.u30539	Well, fellow Stazic incorrectly and tends to claim that the government actually wants to blackmail judges, so now if they judge in our favor, then it's okay, if not then they're against it. I mean, he knows that it's impossible and it's not true, but the idea that in the possible rule of fellow Stazic, it scares me too. I think this government asked and begged to keep the foundation from last year, so none of it. So, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-26-0.u30540	Final review, State Secretary.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-26-0.u30541	Thank you very much. Just two sentences final. Thank you all for the discussion. I repeat again, we really do not want to spread any fear by this law and I do not think that any judge in Croatia is in any fear for the government's decisions or for the sake of such a law. We have a great respect for the constitutional principle of the government's trinity, the independence of judges, and of course it started where every legal state rests and so does ours. This law does indeed, unlike the present situation, only determines that a special decision will regulate the basis for judicial officials. So far, that base has been the one for civil servants and tenants. It will now be a special decision for judicial officials. It's the only thing that regulates this law and the main levers in determining wages are still in this House. By law, the Parliament has determined the coefficients and through the budget, determines the total amount of funds for salaries, and the decision on the basis is the only thing that comes to life.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-26-0.u30542	Correction of an incorrect quote, Mr. Representative Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-26-0.u30543	Secretary of State, it's incorrect that the main levers are in the Parliament. The Parliament will determine the coefficient. So the coefficient can be whatever you want if the government reduces the base. So you can have a 100 coefficient and you're going to decrease the base 300 times. And then what's the coefficient of 100 worth? It will not be paid by the Parliament but will ultimately determine how much money some judicial official will receive from the government, and that is not good, and we are telling you that it is not good. And that's pressure on the judiciary because the government can't, but it can use it as a lever to punish the entire judicial system if he starts making judgment decisions against that government that the government doesn't like.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-26-0.u30544	I'm closing the debate. I'm interrupting the session. The follow-up is at 3 p.m. The final draft law amending the Law on Food Activity, and then the report on the use of pre-accession assistance programmes of the European Union for the period from 1 July to 31 December, and the report on the implementation of the Law on the right to access information for 2008 and beyond as already follows. We will not discuss points 9 and 10 today, so the proposal for a decision to participate members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia in the European Union Peace Operation "EU NAVFOR SOMALIA-ATALANTA", there is no condition for this and for the final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Medicinal Products yet to be agreed with the experts of the European Commission. So we'll start now at 15 o'clock with point 8 and then point 11, 12, 13 and beyond.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-26-0.u30545	Final draft law amending the Law on the Payments of Judges and other Judicial Officers. I am voting on the final draft law amending the Law on the salaries of judges and other judicial officials. Please, who's in? Thank you. Against? Restraint? Thank you. The result? With 78 votes in favour, 30 against and 5 abstentions, passed the proposed law.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-26-0.u30546	We're continuing the session. 8th item of the agenda - Final proposal for a law amending the Law on catering activity, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 306 The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. On the occasion of the agenda, we accepted the proposal from the Proposer to discuss this legislative proposal in an urgent procedure. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the The Registrar's emergency procedure combines the first and second readings. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate, Article 164. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Tourism and the Committee on Local and Regional (regional) Self-Government. You received the reports at the session. The amendments were submitted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Tourism and the Committee on Local and Regional Self-Government. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? No, I don't. Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? Yeah. Committee on Tourism, distinguished representative Marin Brkarić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-26-0.u30547	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State. At the 14th session held on 25 March 2009, the Tourism Committee of the Croatian Parliament discussed the Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Attending Activity with the Final Proposal for a Law submitted to the President of the Croatian Parliament by the Government of the Republic of Croatia by an act of 18 March 2009, with a proposal to pass the proposed law by an urgent procedure. The tourism committee has discussed the proposed law pursuant to Article 69. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament as a parent working body. The applicant's representative explained in his presentation the reasons why the laws in question were proposed gave clarifications to certain proposed solutions. In the general discussion, the Committee unanimously stated the need to adopt the proposed law, and the debate on the text expressed different opinions regarding the possible consequences of the application of the provisions of Article 2 which provide for measures in the event of camping on private land outside the organised camp. Some members of the board believe that measures to curb the appearance of camping outside the organised camp are necessary and justified, but that their implementation should not begin during this year's tourist season. Namely, possible treatment, fishing for trailers, camping homes and appropriate camping equipment could cause adverse media effects on foreign markets in the season that will take place under adverse circumstances. On the basis of the debate, the Committee decided, by a majority of votes, 6 for and 1 against, to propose to the Croatian Parliament to adopt a Law amending the Law on Attending Activity with an amendment requiring the application of Article 2 to postpone its application from 1 January 2010. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-26-0.u30548	Thank you. I'll read you a note before we go to the hearing. I would like to inform you that the meeting of the Committee on Environmental Protection of the Croatian Parliament will be held today, on 26 March 2009 at 16:00 in the Chamber of Ivan Kukuljevic. On the agenda of the session and not to read to you right now, you have three laws, so members should be there. I'm opening a debate. First it's the clubs. On behalf of the Croatian Democratic Community club, distinguished representative Branko Kuti. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-26-0.u30549	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. This law is one of the laws that needs to be passed in order to comply with its provisions with the Law on Local and Regional Self-Government, which abolished municipal, city, or county heads. The following word is added: "headship" is replaced by the words "executive body". Thus, catering facilities and groups of restaurants and bars, as well as facilities located outside the populated areas, will continue to be in the jurisdiction of the executive body of local self-government units, but this time the mayor or mayor of the municipality, or their deputies. And the other thing that's regulated by the amendments to this law is the problem of camping control. In practice, Article 43 of the current law called for difficulties due to the ineffectiveness of the control of the anti-invasion camp outside the organised camp, persons camping on private property. Therefore, in addition to the oral solution to remove tents, campsites or trailers, these amendments to the law are prescribed and the right to establish such illegal camping in writing. In order to protect potentially corrupt foods, a person who has been given an oral solution to the removal of campsites or tents or trailers may take security and other measures to prevent possible damage. This bill gives the party the right to appeal about a solution imposed on the campery ban. Such a new Article 43 is protected by the right of the party, but also better quality inspection is established, which should ultimately result in a reduction in the grey economy in the field of camping, which is not negligible. The entry into force of this law required that the day of entry into force of the decision to call the first subsequent municipal regular elections of members of municipal and city councils, the county congregations and the City of Zagreb City Assembly and the municipal mayor and mayor, the mayor and mayor of the City of Zagreb, because after the local elections the executive authority will be exercised by mayors, mayors and their deputies. In view of the above, the Croatian Democratic Community Club supports the adoption of the Law on Amendments to the Household Activity Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-26-0.u30550	Thank you. On behalf of the SDP club, the distinguished representative of Luke Denon. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-26-0.u30551	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. Of course, although there are few of us, but also of course this law is quite thin and we bring it in to bring it in line with the future elections that are now taking place, it will happen in the units of local self-government and administration and it would be nothing controversial to just replace the headship with the mayor or the mayor as the executive authority that will be from now on. But here is another example about these local elections and how, according to the local elections ahead of us, with which we are serious about such a big event, one big event that happens four times, every 4 years in Croatia. Because it's just a harmonisation if you remember we had 17 such laws before the other day, and now there's another one that we obviously forgot, so it might be good to set up a prize game in this House, how many more of those laws that are waiting for harmony for the elections that are here for which a month ahead, we wait and why we didn't find them in time. The reward would be to read the Law on Local Self-Government and try to see those who bring such laws and alignment to see where and what local self-government should do and then to get those laws out in time. I'm sure those laws will still come before this House, which is not good, because in those 17 we should have or 27 if we had to solve everything. This leaves a bitter taste in the mouth, that we have come rather inconsistencies and that in any case the seriousness of the election is questioned, because such a relationship with the units of local self-government and people who will be elected there, but also to those who will be chosen is not a good message and is not a good relationship. That would be about that harmonisation. Now that he has already had the opportunity to coordinate something with the Law on Local and Regional Self-Government, then in this explanation that we have received in writing here, he asks to amend Article 43 for a simple reason, because implementation, I will read it, because it is important, "implementation of inspection controls as Article 43 of the previous law has been established, it is difficult because it is private land, regardless of the purpose of agricultural or construction". It is therefore very clear in the current law of Article 43 that if an economic inspector finds that camping equipment set outside camps and groups of campsites and other accommodation and accommodation facilities designated for camping outside the camp, in accordance with Article 27(2) and (3) of this law for the purpose of camping, I will order the removal of tents, campsites, etc. I believe that this provision may have made it difficult for the work of the inspector, but I wonder if now this new provision that we are discussing, is it even a constitutional category, a constitutional provision, which it brings to us. This way quickly if you read it, then it says that on the private land that I own, so if I have a camphouse, I put a camphouse there, a private camp house, the inspector will come and punish me. This doesn't seem to be the purpose of this law, because if I remember it well in the '90s when we brought in another constitution of our country, then we determined that private property is the foundation of something, and here it is in this way immersed in this private property in one way that is not good in a way that there is an inspector or inspector's hard work, so they should because their work is difficult, have some other powers. These powers are particularly questionable when it is said that according to the previous law which has not been changed, for the entry into such land itself, one of the difficult circumstances of the inspection was, for the entry into such land, and especially for entering camp equipment, trailer, tent, homemobile or the like, a court order should be issued. And so it turns out that by changing that without a court order, it is possible to enter private land, it is possible to enter private property. Does that mean that it's possible then for a municipal inspector to enter a private apartment, because I don't know if the drain in my bathroom isn't in my office, so to get into my apartment as well? It seems to me that with private property as it is written here it's in conflict. And in any case, I'm up for it even for what we said on the board, so let's not upset strangers who are also private landowners, so when we come to seal that camphouse or that tent, then it'll probably be in all the foreign newspapers how we treat private property and the guests who come here, I'm primarily to stay in article 43 the way it was, not to change it, because the inspection and so it has but the difficulty has it. some other model to make sure you end up with someone camping out of these allowed places like camps and other lands. I don't think there's a solution here specifically highlighted on private, on mine, to say on other land, maybe I'd kind of appreciate it, so come on, it's kind of a benefit, someone out of it has a benefit so campers in a place that's not allowed to camp, not on my own, I don't have any use for it, but then somehow you might appreciate it. But first of all, I don't like the formulation that so far the applicable law would change in a way that entering such land, private land, entering the camp equipment by fishing private camp equipment, so far it took or was necessary to pass court orders that if we change this, there would be some taste of bitterness that we had ignored something based on the Constitution, that private property by my understanding of the sanctuary and that it should be particularly treated when we bring legal proposals. This violates the private ownership fund and the integrity of private ownership. There's a simple way to make it easier for our inspectors. I am to make it easier for the inspectors, but I am also to protect the private property as much as possible in the way that the Constitution and the laws of the Republic of Croatia are prescribed, and not to in this small way, try to try this private property in a small way against one reason that does not hold water. Now, I think that although the legislator is going through an emergency procedure, we should think about it a little bit, so let's see with the right experts how much it goes with the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia that private property is uncut and that it must not be disturbed if nothing else is at least without a court order or reasonable doubt that something different is done there. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-26-0.u30552	Thank you. And now it's on behalf of the IDS Club, the esteemed representative of Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-26-0.u30553	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor, Secretary of State, Your Honor, Mr. Representatives. A man who does not believe in this Article 2, paragraph 1, we are talking about a person camping outside the camp on private land, whose economic inspector will currently prohibit the activity, etc., seal the tent, that trailer, or whatever it is called. Although, come on, I have to admit, this provision is logical, that's probably how it should be, but it's kind of absurd. Why is she absurd? Okay, the state is short on money, and this way it's trying to get clear to the church of the poor. But this norm is absurd. Why? You know very well that on purpose, to be conscious, to be calculated, to be targeted and so on. in this country does not want to resolve the status of tourist land. For years, this issue has not been resolved and it does not want to be resolved and will not be resolved until these and after these local elections. Why? Because it obviously fits every one or every government so far. Our tycoons you know very well, they use hundreds of acres of so-called tycoons. tourist land. They don't pay anyone anything, they don't even pay swear fees for those camps they own. The same camps are normally trying to book, using the infrastructure that was built in the '60s, '70s, '80s, harvesting tens of millions of kunas a year, and all of which are tolerated. And the poor one came on the other side, and set up the tent, and paid the fine normally, and the tent was sealed for them. And to raise that same tent, then normally they have to pay for this administrative procedure that will follow. These are our tycoons who use... Well, that camp, it doesn't matter, every year they pick up, 50, 60, 70 million kunas of pure money, they try to book on the same thing all the time, and the state yellows, it seems to tolerate it, and I just can't understand why it's like that. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] They bribe people in power, bribe people in the Croatian Privatisation Fund, judges, so that they will not be excluded here and nothing. When judges, say, were assigned to Dubrovnik by the so-called tourism land to some Dubrovnik tycoon judges end up in detention or prison. When judges in the river, i.e. Extort such land from the Istrian tycoons to no one, nothing at all. Judges are making progress and tycoons aren't enough hundreds of millions of kunas to collect on that basis. They want more and more now and no less than they go to the elections. And that's Croatian for real. You can do anything in this country. I can buy the media, once again I will say even the media and the authorities and justice that is then turned into injustice can be bought and votes but I also want to believe that it will not last indefinitely, it is tragic but it is Croatia. The land in a banana with some manners of the banana state. I don't understand how to be honest, we don't understand all those individuals, we gave them to our tycoons, we gave them better words, we gave them hotels, we gave them hotels, we gave them factories, we gave them banks, we gave them media, and they never gave them enough, they wanted more, more, more. Here, we see now is not enough for them just yet and the tourist land that does not pay is now normal will and power, from Istria so understandablely further. And this country, to put it that way, is giving it to them, instead of asking them where did you gentlemen get that first million marks, the euro, the dollars, or I don't know how you gentlemen got all that property. On this page 5 shall be spoken among other things in Article 8... the text of the provisions to be amended... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] that catering facilities from a group of hotels, campsites and other types of campsites, etc., catering facilities are required to work from 00 to 24 hours each day and other catering facilities can also work groups of restaurants and bars from 6 to 24 hours and groups of bars that meet working conditions at night, according to special regulations, only closed spaces from 21 to 6 in the morning and groups of restaurants and bars located outside populated areas, settlements from 00 to 24 hours and do not list the whole of this article, etc., etc., which are also changed and slightly adjusted. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Now, gentlemen, what we all know is going on in the season. We know that this season will unfortunately be much worse than she did last year. Not less than three percent, as Minister Bice says, but it's going to be minus 10, God forbid, maybe minus 15%. In Istria, in Opatija that season will be minus 5%, Dalmatia maybe minus 10, on islands minus 20. Here's the mayor of Dubrovnik. God forbid it's worse than minus 25%. Out of the boarding house, I'm afraid it'll get worse. It is good that catering facilities can work here are restaurants bars from 6 to 24, bars that fill work at night from 21 to 6 hours, restaurants bars from 00 to 24 hours etc., etc. But what I'm trying to say is, take the opportunity to send a message. Give the gentlemen of the Parliament, although it is exceptional for you to say this because you agree with me as well as probably a large majority of the public, this message should be sent to the Croatian Government, let the trade work on Sundays. What's it cost this Parliament, this government to trade, this little store, etc., doing Sundays? Traffic in the store in January fell by minus 13.7%, sales revenues fell, VAT, contributions, people go home, relax, kiosks turn into department stores, gas stations, INA, etc., Tiffon into supermarkets and you people or we don't give people on Sundays and in seasons when they can make money. I'm asking myself what this Constitutional Court is waiting for, to finally talk about it. Last year, we had this absurd law that stores in the season could have worked until 9:00. The people got up on their feet and fortunately, then it's a working time...
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-26-0.u30554	Dear Representative Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-26-0.u30555	And what pains you, Mr. Vice President?
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-26-0.u30556	Whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa,
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-26-0.u30557	Well, I'm not yelling, I'm talking, it's my business, because that's what tens of thousands of people live on.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-26-0.u30558	Representative Caine, Agent Caine, Agent Caine. Agent Cain, you can't talk outside the subject but you have to stick to the subject because this is a meeting that we're working on in the Rules of Procedure that we brought ourselves, which you voted for and choose to stick to this Rules of Procedure, or I will be forced to take some of the firm measures that I really have no intention of taking.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-26-0.u30559	... I'm not running away from this subject. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I'd just like to say here and I'll slowly finish this season, gentlemen, God forbid it lasts three months from 15.6 to 15.9. In fact, this year's peak season will always be from 1.7 or 15.7 to 15.8. After that, it's all over. But let's say it lasts three months. In three months we have three times four, how many, 12 weeks, ca so many holidays, since the day of the anti-fascist struggle that should be clearly celebrated, over Thanksgiving, Holy Mary Vela, two days that are not working and we are de facto not working in the season of a month. You can see that when there are two other guests on the Adriatic. Let's not just play games and give people a chance to work. And let's send a message to the church, if they're doing stores in the Vatican on Sundays, let them work, because when they make money than they did then let the people here in this country work. But you know what Bishop Barisic, the Split-Makaric, says? I'll quote him, "work ennobles a man except on Sundays," as he says. However, in this rebalancing de facto the funds for the church are not touched. She'll make her cca 300 million kuna, and the other question is, what's it gonna be? For the end of the day, gentlemen, I'm done with this Sunday work. The IDS will vote clearly for this Household Activity Act. This law once again concerns inspection controls in private land camps, etc., but it would also be convenient for someone to finally realize that before this tourist season, the status of tourist land should be regulated, not for our tycoons and this season after 10, 15, 20 seasons to be donated as another 10, not 10, but 10, 20 or 25 million euros. Let's not do that. It's better that money goes into the budget and goes after those who need it far more because they've stolen enough so far.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-26-0.u30560	Thank you. And I once again appeal to all MPs. Please, that's why there's a agenda, so there's a Rules of Procedure, and let's choose to stick to what we brought ourselves, what we voted for. We want people to respect us, and we don't respect what we voted and brought here. We have one correction to the incorrect allegations, and this is the esteemed representative Boro Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-26-0.u30561	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. The correction of the incorrect quote refers to the information Mr. Cain said was a decline in traffic in the store 13.7% and that's because there is an unworkable Sunday. No research has shown that this is solely the result of Mr. Cain's saying, but is working with a decline in the purchasing power of the population. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-26-0.u30562	Thank you. Here you are correcting, he agrees. Very good. Now we're moving on to an individual debate. The first is the distinguished representative Nevenka Marinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-26-0.u30563	Thank you very much, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. The proposal for these changes refers to two things. The first is the harmonisation of the Household Activity Act with the Law on Local and Regional Self-Government, and the second is the inability to implement Article 43 of the applicable law. I'm going to take a quick look at these changes, here's to this first one. We know that the working time of the catering facilities is normally regulated by law, and only a small part is transferred to the jurisdiction of the representative body of local self-government units and the headships of local self-government units. For catering facilities and groups of restaurants and bars that can work from 6 to 24 hours, to shortening or extending working hours for a maximum of two hours and for facilities outside populated areas that work longer. This is precisely this jurisdiction, but, as an exception, this proposal is transmitted from the head offices to the executive body, or mayor and mayor of the municipality. I believe that this is good, unlike the colleagues here who used to say it, because the decisions to shorten or extend the working hours of those catering facilities are easier to make in due time, so just when they need them and their effects are greater. Attendance is a significant segment for each unit of local self-government, thus also for the head of the body of units of local self-government and as a source of income and as a total offer. According to Eurobarometer studies, here are the latest surveys that suggest that Croatian caterers should not fear the arrival of guests, as the Republic of Croatia is at the top of the most desirable destinations from the European Union. For example, the city of Zadar has a new one, the latest measures that have also been included as anti-recession but also as measures that will help prepare the tourist season and hosts, I will only list some, which is a reduction in the tax on the company and crafts, a reduction in the consumption tax on catering, a reduction in the memorial rent, and a reduction in the municipal fee in order to make tourist seasons better. So headship, in this case the city of Zadar, protects jobs in tourism, but also opens up the possibility of increasing quality and services. Regarding this second change, we know that the importance of campsites in the total tourist offer is important, but also that there is a grey economy in this segment, the one Mr. Cain and Mr. Denon spoke of by disdain, among other things, for the reason that some legal provisions cannot be implemented, in particular Article 43. The Household Act. Due to the ineffectiveness of the inspector in the implementation of this particular article, the State Inspectorate is initiating this change for a reason. I believe that the proposed changes will affect both efficiency and the reduction of the grey economy. To have good camps, this is confirmed by the results of business, as well as the prizes that our camps have received for years. According to the selection of Italian camping magazine readers, Il campeggo Italiano and the evaluation of Croatian and Italian camps in two categories, means sympathy and ecology, and sympathy and quality, many of our campsites are the winners. In the second category of sympathy and quality, the first camp is Park from Umag, and the second is Park Soline from Biograd and Camp Simun from Pag. So two camps from Zadar County. A special award was given to Camp Zaton, which has been in line for many years not only by respecting European standards of ecological progress and quality, but also by one of the best camps in Europe, and will host those recognitions in June in Zadar County. The recognitions come from Italian tourists who, as guests in Croatian camps, made more than 1.3 million overnight stays last year and with 9.7% staked 4th place behind the Germans, Slovenians and Dutch. And because of this quality according to current booking for this tourist season, camps stand well. And in order to protect this particular quality, it is necessary to contain what is called the so-called "supervisory quality". the grey economy which is noticeable in this segment, and by amending Article 43, that is exactly what this proposal does and that is why I support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-26-0.u30564	Thank you. We have one replica, the esteemed representative of Luke Denon. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-26-0.u30565	Dear colleagues, if you have realized that my debate is in one part of this law that is changing, this article of the 43rd demeanor, and if you have realized that I have said something that is not in favor of your assessment and assessment, that good camps and Strasko and some of the other camps that you have now stated is obvious that we have not understood each other. Since this law and this amendment of Article 43 do not talk about camps, or words, it might be convenient for the vice president to warn you about the subject as well as Caina. Oh, no? Because it's not the subject of this. It's only here on private land where you can set up a tent or a camphouse. Private land, not camp. It clearly says it's somewhere private land regardless of purpose. Not the camps, so I'm not sure I've demeaned anyone. However, I claim that good camps are good for Croatia and that in this booking season that is ahead of us camps are good and of course because they have raised their quality. I repeat, Article 43, which has been in force so far in the current law, may have made it difficult for inspectors to do their job. I agree, but the bad solution that is now proposed, which raises the issue of private property and how it will reflect on some foreign citizens who have private land and private tent, do not let me tell you what it will mean in the middle of the season when the inspection seals the camp house of a German who has private land and a private camp house on that property. So we'll come to all the world's media that we respect private property and how we protect the tourist season.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-26-0.u30566	Thank you. The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative Nevenka Marinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-26-0.u30567	Thank you, Vice President. So I don't think this article questions absolutely private land, but it only regulates the way tents and other equipment are placed on private property. It doesn't question private property for a moment. But the way it is done to prevent the grey economy, and we know that this happens most often in Istria, so that law enforcement is as the legislator predicted, so this change is proposed.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-26-0.u30568	Thank you. Let's move on with individual debate, distinguished representative Neda Klaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-26-0.u30569	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable State Secretary, colleagues and fellow MPs. In particular, the proposed amendments to the Household Activity Act in the section which regulates the supervision of camping are actually justified for acceptance, and as part of the law adopted in the emergency procedure. In fact, the bill promoter rightly proposed these amendments to enable economic inspectors to carry out inspection controls on the setting up of camping equipment, and for the purpose of camping outside the camps, as already said on private land. We've all actually been here for many years now facing situations, and mostly in Istria as we've heard. But also in other coastal tourist areas, landowners often place camping equipment on such land, that it is used, primarily during the summer months as well as their guests or their friends. In this way there is actually a violation of the provisions of the Law on Hostage Activity, which, in fact, is prescribed that camping is only allowed in camps and areas designated for camping outside the camps in accordance with the provisions of that law in the function of maintaining sports, cultural and similar events. And the measures that economic inspectors could take when it came to setting up camp equipment on private land were difficult to implement and ineffective. Removing camp equipment from public surfaces is not in itself a problem, because, as so far, I can do the same. In accordance with other regulations, municipal directors in units of local self-government and official staff of the Ministry of the Interior. But this law proposed measures that economic inspectors on the ground can take, i.e. I would like to put a solution to the record of the owner of the camphouse, trailers or other equipment camp or its representative for the purpose of camping, setting up a private-owned campery camp for 60 days, and sealing the camp for equipment at the same time will enable the further stay of persons so found, i.e. to prevent the further stay of persons so found in the private-owned equipment, and this is precisely the purpose of which one very important segment of economic activity called tourism, and particularly the grey zone of the economy, is wanted to protect itself. So that's why I'm going to support this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-26-0.u30570	Thank you. And we still have one individual debate, distinguished representative Dragan Vukic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-26-0.u30571	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, respected representatives of the government, colleagues and fellow MPs. It is on the agenda of the Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Food Activity with the Final Proposal of the Law. We pass this bill by emergency procedure as well as the laws we adopted last week for the same reasons, because the Law on Local and Regional Self-Government abolished municipal and city heads, and their powers are passed on to the mayors or mayors. For this reason, in Article 8(3), the word “headship” is replaced by the words “executive body” in the light of the new rules on local self-government when the authority of the headship is taken over by the mayor, the obligation to determine working time in special cases is passed on to them, which gives them responsibility for the functioning of part of the catering activity. Special responsibility stems from the following responsibilities. The fragmentation and depravity of local self-government units with different working hours of individual catering facilities, which causes most often by means of transportation to other environments in which these facilities work longer, especially for the younger population, especially during the nights of the weekend. There is an increased risk of public order and peace that happens most often in front of catering facilities such as motor vehicle noise, noises, parking on public surfaces and so forth. Conflicted interest between the owners of catering facilities and their guests with the interest of citizens, especially in residential neighborhoods. The citizens' request for enhanced police controls, requiring additional efforts and police officers. These are all the responsibilities that the mayors in the future need to take care of when prescribing working hours. In these amendments, the laws and Article 43 are also amended for the sake of greater clarity in the business of the economic inspector. In order to make the work of the inspector himself more effective on the ground, since the current definition of Article 43 has not proved effective and the amendment of this Article will introduce more order in the field of camping. And this way, the gray economy will be contained. The Household Activity Act is very clear and it regulates the way and conditions under which legal and physical persons can carry out catering activities, and thus camping. That's why I think the amendment to this article in 43 is good because it can't be camped where anyone thinks it's because other than breaking the law, it's a security threat to whoever camps in a place that isn't legally designed for it. These campers, besides jeopardizing themselves, also endanger the environment in a number of ways, and they often cause fires, which has unspeakable consequences. Therefore, I support the proposal and the amendments to this law, and here on many occasions there have been words of private ownership and that someone touches on the private property of that owner who owns agricultural land. Private property is not touched, but here it is talked about the way this agricultural land is used. If someone who has private land on it campes, and has no camp permit, then is in conflict with this Household Activities Act that we will, or amendments and additions that we will bring. I will support the adoption of this law and vote for it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-26-0.u30572	Thank you. And on behalf of the SDP club for five minutes, the esteemed representative of Luke Denon. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-26-0.u30573	A harmless law that should have been agreed obviously that, according to the Law on Local and Regional Self-Government and the administration before the elections that I said was very simple, very simple where the headship should be placed by the mayor or mayor. We had 17 such laws, there was no wisdom. We then warned that the seriousness of the elections in the local self-government, in the local community, was questioned by the way these laws adapt and change because it is quite serious, I would say, I would not say that I am not going to be reminded of it, but it is not a serious approach, it is not serious for these new mayors and mayors and it is not serious for voters in local self-government units who are going to go to elections because it is obvious that now and behind this one, and I have said perhaps a reward game to establish in the House how many more of these laws will come before us, how many more of them are standing somewhere, so the last day will come to only those two things change. Okay, that's what it is, there will be more of them, we won't look back much more on it, but please nice. In Article 43 of the existing law which treats this activity on catering activity, the existing article of that law is very clear and very precise to say that if camping equipment is found to be placed outside the camps, there is an oral solution that is listed in this new proposal to order the removal of campsites, tents without delay, or immediately. I agree. It's going now because it's difficult, especially when it's being removed right now. Now to remove it and immediately implement it, we bring in a new article that explicitly contradicts something called the uncut right of private property. You say whatever you want, but that's because I'm the legislator who so proposed said that under this existing law the removal of such equipment through another person, so I won't, not the legislator, but we'll find the third one to pay, would require additional costs and the issue of removing itself from the land that is privately owned, or owned. You can't go into private property just like that. You can't go in without a court ruling. It says, so far, no court solution. You can't go into my private apartment without a court order, without a court ruling. Private land is a private apartment. It doesn't matter if it's agricultural, whether it's construction, whether it's stone. It's my private property. I don't understand why now, from the inability to conduct the law properly in Article 43, because it is difficult and even more difficult, we make it even more difficult, we complicate, because make sure that when you enter my private property, one inspector in this way, who do you think will let him in and say I have the power of law? You have no constitutional authority on my land on my private property to enter as you will, if I'm not a criminal, not a tent. And then you'll seal it for me, seal it, and, look, seal it, and you'll be so kind as to seal it right away, but if I ask, I'll exclude it from the security measures to prevent the damage to the groceries that can be broken. Well, look, if it were possible to remove that camphouse without wheels, if it were possible the inspection would have removed them. It's not possible. Well, you can't send a wrong message in the pre-season and strangers now when the inspection starts to stamp and when it starts in the media it spreads to welcome our guests in this way and that in this way we appreciate and respect something that is private property. I'm asking you to ask the legal experts, I'm not but logic tells me it's not good, so try this article in some way or leave it as old as it is for this year, so let's think of something for another year. Leave it to the old man. No one's going to fall hair off their heads, as it has been until now. Let the inspector do his job. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-26-0.u30574	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met. Thank you. We continue, the distinguished representative of Nevenka Mrinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-26-0.u30576	Thank you, Vice President. Respected secretary of state, respected head of staff and colleagues. Here I will join in the commendation of this report, because it is truly comprehensively transparent, it is more and more quality and there are more and more projects that this report is talking about. The report therefore provides a review of the implementation of the programme with a specific reference to the resources identified, the state of implementation of individual projects, and possible fraud and irregularities in the very process of using the funds. I'm not going to talk about the resources I've been given in detail, it's already been said here. I will only mention the CARDS programme that went through it is community assistance in rebuilding, developing and stabilising, it was a European Union technical financial assistance programme adopted at the end of 2000, whose importance we now see is extremely large, except that the use of funds is measured by the percentage of agreed projects, by their implementation, and by the payments made within the deadlines provided for, and for this programme, this utilisation is 94 to 96%. The objective of this programme was precisely to prepare at local level means technical assistance prepared locally by all those who wanted to join this programme and prepared the meanings of both local and regional self-government units. In particular, the Zadar County I come from, along with Sibenik from the CARDS programme in 2002, took advantage of 14m euros. An extremely valuable program after the CARDS is the PHARE program. Of course we were so trained through the CARDS program we were prepared to pull everything else. I will only list the programmes in my further discussion used by Zadar County. In turn, the PHARE programme, whose aim was to prepare future members for the use of the European Union Structural Funds after accession. It was intended to build state institutions, and users are state administration bodies and public enterprises. The results are visible precisely in this report. From the PHARE 2005 programme, which contains 21 projects, it means national components, which were also used by regional and local self-government units. The programme used to build the city of Benkovec business infrastructure. It is the construction of infrastructure in the business zone of Shopot whose value is 640,000 euros. From the PHARE programme in 2006 is the user of Zadar County. This is a joint programme of Croatian and Italian partners also financed by the European Commission, means the PHARE INTERREG and CARDS together and whose results are a set of scientific statistics that provide a picture of the health of citizens from the Adriatic region and points to the need for the establishment of an epidemiological observatory in the Adriatic region. Many projects have yet to be run, but because of the lack of funds in this fund they could not be used. So not because of the quality of the project, but because of the limited resources. So already at that stage, some units were so prepared that the funds were missing. The ISPA has already been spoken of, and from the SAPARD programme I will only mention projects financed in the Zadar County area through completed tenders so far. So the first project is where the equipment for cooling, processing and packing of fish and fish products is financed. The project is worth 12.4 million kuna, the support is 6.2 million kuna. Pag cheese, equipment total value of project 24.6 million, 10 million from the SAPARD programme. ... Fish processing, the total value is 45.5 million kuna, the SAPARD component is 10 million kuna. I will mention here that this company is buying up as much as 60% of the total incun catches, and in cooperation it buys out of 50 owners of fishing boats that it started its own brand, exports to 36 countries, and at this time recession employs new 200 workers, opening a new factory in the Stankovica business zone whose total value of the investment is 50 million kuna. and the next project is "Mataš" Jasenice where the introduction of European standards in the meat and meat processing sector is financed. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] All these projects here are specifically from SAPARD alone, will make the agricultural sector of Zadar more competitive and efficient, new jobs, improve the quality of life of the rural population and Pag, Benkovac and Stankovci and Jasenice. Here's an IPA program that's going pretty well. During the first 6 months, it was intensively worked to meet the accreditation criteria prescribed by IPA with implementing legislation, and in the second half of 2008 the work permit was granted to institutions involved for operational structures for 4 IPA components and the fifth component accreditation is rural development. It is also important here to point out that the system of management of irregularities, which this report does not even hide, is functioning as a whole and is prepared for timely disclosure of reports of irregularities and fraud, which I believe is one added value to these programmes. And I support this report anyway. And I commend the work of a real employee at the Ministry of Finance of this new unit, the former funding and bargaining unit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-26-0.u30577	Thank you. And we continue, the distinguished representative of Shima Djurdjevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-26-0.u30578	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Madam Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. The introduction would commend this report, which was comprehensively, in my opinion extremely well, conceptually done, and as counterpart Huška said, I was pleased to read it every word in that report. It is good that in 6 months it has been withdrawn from the 5 programmes 115m euros and of course it is one financial injection for local administration and self-government units, for our municipalities, cities and counties. I would rely here just like I talked to the board about something like that. The experiences of the Brod-Posavina County in this business and, of course, it may help my debate that other counties who have not or have very little participated in the funds from the pre-accession funds of the European Union in order to withdraw as much as possible, and if we do not do so in this period, my successors will not forgive us, because the funds are there only to include the smartness, knowledge and resources from the funds, where they are, in most cases, irrevocable. We in Brod-Posavia County have created a new management department for development and European integration, where we have included a profession together with our development agency, the Technological Development Centro, meaning we have joined both smart and professional and were at the disposal of the economy that worked on the programmes and ran for these programmes, but under the supervision and supervision of Ekos, one Dutchman, was a Greek, and of course after the persistent work and running today as I was informed in Brod-Posavina County the latest information that the Ship-Posavina County County County County is a county that at the bottom of the scale of Croatia's economy has withdrawn 117 million kuna. And the latest information regarding the IPA programme for water supply, water management and water protection of 22m euros. I believe that our municipalities and cities, those they lead and represent that they do not need at all and do not always have to be opposed to the county budget, according to the budget of the Republic of Croatia, that we must take this chance, these chances that are ahead of us and of course use the experiences of those countries that have joined the European Union. Says pre-accession funds. Of course, by entering Croatia into the European Union, which we are all seeking and the vast majority of Croatian citizens not to close the funds. So on the ground, the people who work on it should, I would say, train and prepare from month to month for new funds that come to be ready with the programmes to apply and run. Something I've experienced in my experience, which is that the Commission's strict criteria, the very strict criteria, that some documentation has been put back so simply because of the point or the decimal back to fix and then send the documentation back. My experience, our experience is such that those funds that have not been spent or have remained by calling certain tenders by purchasing certain equipment have been used in such a way as to demining the Ship-Posavina County. There you go, ladies and gentlemen, I'll support this report. These are field experiences, the experience of Brod-Posavia County, and I think they're good and, of course, recommending others to do this job a little more and better to roll up their sleeves. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-26-0.u30579	Thank you. Dear representative Neda Klaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-26-0.u30580	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Madam Secretary of State, Madam Director, colleagues and colleagues. I must really say not only at first that I will be happy to accept this report, but I do have the need to definitely thank all those people who participated primarily, here is the Ministry of Finance, the agency that also with their actual share of personality and skills actually led to a high level of use of pre-accession funds that were offered, and Mrs. Secretary of State itself has initially informed us that it was actually the first generation of pre-accession funds made up of CARDS, PHARE, ISPA and SAPHAARD programmes, so the new instrument of pre-accession assistance is the IPA, and it replaces the previous programmes in the financial perspective of 2007, 2013. During the PHARE 2006 programme, which is intended to finance projects of the Ministry and other bodies of the state administration, a little less than 85% has not been agreed on by only 6.6%, and a little less than 9% of the total share refers to savings achieved at lower prices than planned under our legislation, i.e. public procurement. I think it's also an important dimension that we should highlight. The ISPA concluded 6 individual funding memos totalling 123.05m euros, 59m euros from the ISPA programme and the remaining amounts are from the financing of the Republic of Croatia. But what I am certainly happy about is the action plan, which the State Secretary said in the opening statement, in which we will also be able to manage very reasonably, very nearly alone, without therefore the presence of people from the European Commission delegation, which means another new contribution not only in the management of our resources, but also in the management of what ultimately raises the quality of our lives. Not wanting to repeat what we already heard during the debate under this report, I must really refer to high participation and my county of Sibenik-Kninska, as well as the headquarters of the city of Sibenik in the project, in the programme, ISPA program when building a regional community waste management centre. Dear colleagues and colleagues, this is the best project in the Republic of Croatia, a project that totals 8.82m euros, of which, in fact, pre-accession funds participate with 68%, i.e. 6m euros, and 2.82m euros come from national funds, from the Republic of Croatia's funds, i.e. from the Republic of Croatia's Environment and Energy Efficiency Fund and from the resources of local self-government units. But the fact that it carries great value and quality is that it is the first project in the Republic of Croatia that completely takes care of the environment from the entire county, which is definitely the building of it we have a complete area of the county cleaned from illegal waste dumps on the one hand and on the other hand contributes to the economy in the tourist branch, or in a branch called, an economy called tourism and its is actually, its construction satisfies as much as 3 expected effects for the local population and for the area of the county and for the area of the city. What is actually now, what is now under way in the construction of the entire project is the tender procedure for building a regional centre, and the tender documentation for the purchase of equipment is also being produced, and very soon, so we can say on the fingers of the hands we can count the days when the tender for the recovery contract in Pirovac will be announced, which is a significant segment of the whole project. Here, this is one example that leaves me, in fact, next to where, together with the state bodies, we have managed to withdraw significant funds in the Podi business zone, the only zone in Croatia that has used pre-accession funds and in other segments that represent culture. Thank you very much, very much, and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-26-0.u30581	Thank you. And finally, the distinguished representative Goran Heffer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-26-0.u30582	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleagues and fellow MPs and MPs. The other day on the Committee on Development and Reconstruction, I was also discussing this part a little bit. In fact, about a month ago, I had the opportunity to talk to the Bulgarian ambassador when he expressed his surprise and satisfaction that the Republic of Croatia, for example, implemented the PHARE programme in an extremely high percentage of the appropriations. He said it was for them at a time when they went with it was science fiction so a tall, effective part. I can say that I was pleased to hear such words. On the other hand, in a little more familiarity, we touched the area from which I, in which I live, is Slavonia, and of course we touched the SAPARD programme. I would talk more about the SAPARD programme because it is what I, as a person from Vukovar-Srijem County where agriculture is, I would say the most important thing, and in some sense, I and the Republic of Croatia feel like a country where agriculture is one of the strategic branches, so whenever we get some documents first I look at is something that is related to agriculture. So when we look at this particular SAPARD programme and the 25 million euros that were available to us, that is, since the 4th round of the competition is still under way, but from this so far realised when we see that out of the 120 projects reported, only 36 have passed the part so that we can negotiate what some 30% is, it shows one state of ability of people who are even in competition for the SAPARD programme. When we see this part of the realization, so speaking of finance, then we see that it's something better, so something over 45% is realized in money. But I think it is also in a certain way unacceptable given, I repeat, that we are still a country in which agriculture should have a much more serious place in thinking, and I would say in the Strategy for the Development of the Republic of Croatia, because, in fact, of the strategy, everything is moving, especially in competitions for Eurofonds. It is even more disappointing for me to say as a man from Vinkovac or Vukovar-Srijem County that only one project from my county has passed that part of the application. I asked Mrs. Secretary of State here, since it says the obligation was annulled here, but then I was interested in what it really meant to be, and there's nothing of it now, because one part of the preparation that was supposed to be done with the location of the facility, and I have to say this isn't an object in the area of agriculture, is therefore related to the disposal of animal waste, with the construction of an institution that would do so. So that part of the preparation didn't go well in the area of the city of Vukovar because it was a veterinary station in Vukovar, because obviously the location was not well chosen, or those in the area that live, who have some interest in that area did not agree to be where it was planned to be. I repeat, this is obviously a matter of ability not only to people, but institutions that need to be dealt with in this business. Because when we look at these 36 projects by some locations where they are achieved then we see that, let's say one Međimurje County is a quarter of these projects, so 8 projects were implemented, Zagreb County and the City of Zagreb 7 projects, and let's say 4 Osijek-Baranja projects, but these three some locations took more than 50% of these projects. It remained scattered across other counties, one, two projects, etc. In most cases, we have companies that have managed to run and receive international funds even two or three times. In his previous debate, counterpart Huška pointed to the case of Požega County, there is nothing to be done. It's probably work in my county. I'm saying probably because we have a local development agency, and we have so-called. Ink or as they say it in an American way, TNTL, so five offices for international co-operation located in municipalities. This ink means by names, so Tovarnik, Ilock, Germans, Tompujevci, Lovas who also have something to do with these projects and I believe they do, but all of this has failed to be realized in terms of the SAPARD programme although this is exclusively a agricultural area. Why? The answer may also be hidden in a statement that is real, which is that it is easier to obtain funds from domestic sources, from the ministry, from good contacts with the Ministry of Agriculture, with another ministry, with the Environment Fund, with some other fund, etc., than from international sources. It is also less controlled when realisation is carried out, when spending funds and directing these funds precisely in the purposes for which projects are being worked. But of course, if we bring it down to a fundamental level, then I could say that it is obviously easier to spend funds and burden the domestic budget than to make an effort to find funds from abroad, thus strengthening both my county and the Republic of Croatia. So here's the comparison, I'm sorry there's no colleagues in Huška, so somewhere it's not working, the result is 0:0 because if there's none of these projects in Požega, there's nothing in Vukovar-Srijem speaking about Sapard. I repeat, I'm talking about Sapard, even if it's something. But here I'm going to mention one more thing. Last year was the presentation of the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development in Vukovar, which highlighted in one element the connection in some way between HBOR and SAPARD because in some 30% of the projects financed by the SAPARD HBOR was the one that provided the domestic part of the funds because in order to even run for international funds, we have to give part of our funds. We are now coming at this moment when the recession of this ominous slamming on our door and entering, it entered the Republic of Croatia, here's what would be said on February 26th this year, and the Government of the Republic of Croatia has acknowledged by its anti-recession measures that the recession is there. And we're coming back to one problem, we're expecting a fourth round. On the other hand, some foundation that we needed here to help us secure HBOR's domestic assets has a huge asset problem. We could also get in trouble so we can run because we won't have the participation we need. I hope we can still do something in the SAPARD in this fourth round, I don't know what the situation is, but it's known whether or not any projects are coming, that we're going to be able to do it. But we definitely have to go back to what we said on the board, and that's the question of education and training people. And ultimately and where there are institutions that need to deal with this on the ground, they should bear a certain responsibility if they are dealing with something that they fail to implement in the end in such a way as to achieve some kind of projects. So, if someone gets paid for it, then you should still get something out of that job of yours and make it happen. As a report, the report as a document that we have received, of course, will support and I think this is an important report, because we see really how these things financial from Europe are moving in Croatia and it is good that we get it as often as possible. So, let's get involved, let's know how this is done. So, I support him. Unfortunately, I'm saying, this part that's not a matter of reporting, but it's a matter of real realization, I'm sorry that it's like that, and I hope it's going to be something better. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-26-0.u30583	Thank you. Does the proposaler's representative want to take the floor? Yeah. Dear Ivana Maletic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-26-0.u30584	Thank you very much. Here we go again, good afternoon, everyone. I would first of all like to thank you very much for these words, and with joy I will convey your messages to all people who work very hard with a lot of enthusiasm and will to work on new modern procedures and rules, and they will put a lot of work into it, and they will really be happy to hear that you MPs are actually seeing the efforts that have been made and the progress that has been made and that you support us in this. So thank you very much. And I also have to tell you that we are very, very proud, in fact, of our Parliament and that you are always in contact with the European Commission, and also with other colleagues from other countries who are dealing with this job, pointing out that you have asked for these reports and how very competently you are in fact discussing the data that is in these reports and pre-accession programmes, and the subject is not at all simple for those who are in it and let alone for the public and in general when you follow it twice a year, let's say more intensively. So the same is one, this is one of the instruments that we are giving and showing the European Commission that in the Republic of Croatia very seriously and at the highest levels, we are monitoring what is done in pre-accession programmes, and I hope that this will actually continue in the European funds when we are actually going to talk about very, very significant funds. I'd like to ask you a few more questions, actually, that you asked during the debate. In fact, I would like to point out that the report, that I am glad that the report has actually been supported in terms of the quality of the data and that we have really tried to make all of your proposals and remarks the greatest respect and I think that a large part of the quality of this report is actually thanks to the comments you have made and given the debate you have had and you have often mentioned this particular data by individual units of local and regional, regional self-government. In the next report, we will try to additionally lay down tables by units of local and regional (regional) self-government so that you can correctly and so regionally monitor the movement of projects and which are, in fact, the most representative local units, and in fact together we can in some way try to motivate and activate those who are not so represented. Now, as far as the Sapard program is concerned. In the SAPARD programme is a really important education and continuous work with potential end-users, so with farmers who in this case have to learn about these new relatively complicated working methods and we will try the same in the next report to give a review of the education that the Ministry of Agriculture actually carried out throughout this period to see that it is a large number of actually continuous workshops that take place on the ground in order to somehow farmers, that this sector we learn to use these funds in SAPARD. So that's where we're really trying to do as much as possible, to motivate them, to get as many quality applications as possible. And what's important then is that these quality applications end up having a good time. Because if a step-by-step error is made, then unfortunately we have to break the contract and I can't get a refund of the funds they invested in their project and that's exactly what you noticed and asked. In the report you can see that in two cases we actually had to break the contract, and then there's that part of the 7th in irregularities actually these two cases were described. Therefore, in one case, the user took activities related to the implementation of the project before the grant agreement of the SAPARD programme entered into force. You can actually see, it's actually not a big mistake. The man simply probably overlooked that he should not start work before the contract is signed. However, strict rules are extremely, extremely strict. And any behavior that has passed and the slightest rule leads to the fact that the funds cannot be paid off. So in this case the same request for payment was rejected and the contract was terminated. In other cases, the user did not provide complete and credible documentation of the activities carried out, and so the contract was rejected and terminated. So, because every step must be well documented. These controls are actually done at the end when the user submits a request and then irregularities are detected. It is important that our institutions are able to detect irregularities because it would be much worse if they were to be seen only after the arrival of the auditors from the European Commission, because then it would show not only that the end-users do not know in some cases the good in which the funds can be used, but also the institutions, and then it would be another additional big minus, so that we must really do it by the rules completely and never depart from them at any time. That is why what you mentioned in the debate and the establishment of this one system Ahkos, therefore a system which, with the encouragement and cooperation with OLAF, the Office for the Prevention of Irregularity and fraud in the European Union, is therefore being built and developed with us, and we have invested a lot and hired a lot of people there, so that it is indeed to agree in the right way according to the rules that OLAF requires. I would just like to look back on co-financing issues because these are very, very common issues and are particularly relevant in the context of the IPA when the funds are increasing, so it's about an annual allocation of around 150 million euros when IPA is concerned and it really needs to ensure co-financing for these money, and especially when we start to think and talk about future structural and cohesion funds when these funds are greatly increasing, so they triple 5 times, we're going to talk about significantly higher amounts, but then also the need for co-financing. And in this case, the European Union has therefore asked us in this pre-accession period to have a clear strategic orientation. Therefore, it must be clear what strategic priorities are, which are one country's objectives so that they can be financed and co-financed in the final part of pre-accession programmes, in the future from the funds. So, in 2006, we have yet to create a strategic framework for the period 2006 to 2013. It was also an important document that the Commission observed, and every year the budget required one consistency in the budget, so one consistency in the budget was sought and that strategic priorities such as even regional development, the promotion of entrepreneurship were clearly seen. We're also concerned about employment policy, human education, and we're on to it. Further for the years of entry into the European Union, we are now preparing in cooperation with the European Commission the National Strategic Reference Framework. But in order for this national strategic reference framework, which defines the priorities for the use of funds, so that it actually makes sense and that it could really be financed, or co-financed from our budget, will be adopted this year in accordance with the new Budget Law and the Government's three-year strategy, strategic plans at the level of all ministries, and then this national strategic reference framework will be killed in the function of our domestic objectives and strategies and will be able to really negotiate quality with the Commission because we will be able to prove through this that these are really our strategic priorities, our objectives for which we provide in the multiannual co-financing period. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-26-0.u30585	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-26-0.u30586	Final proposal for a law amending the Household Activity Act. The amendments were made by the Committee on Law and Tourism. State Secretary Branko Grgic. Please note the amendments to the Legislative Committee. You have an article 3.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-26-0.u30587	Yeah. Thank you very much, Vice President. The esteemed parliamentary representatives. The amendment is accepted in the amended form, saying: "in addition to the provisions of Article 2 of this Act, which take effect on the eighth day of publication in the "National Journal" are replaced by the words "and so far the heads of the local self-government units continue to work until the entry into office of the municipal chief and mayor elected in the direct elections". This is to be accepted and amended by the Committee on Regional and Local Self-Government, the amendment is adopted in a proposed manner.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-26-0.u30588	President of the Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-26-0.u30589	This formulation shall be adopted unanimously as regards the Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-26-0.u30590	In this modified form. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Here you go. Is that identical to this? It's good. The board president's gone. We have to vote pro-form. Who's up for that amendment then? He didn't get the necessary majority.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-26-0.u30591	This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-26-0.u30592	The Tourism Committee?
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-26-0.u30593	The amendment of the Tourism Committee is not accepted. The reason is that, given that the current Household Activity Act is currently in force, camping outside the camps is prohibited, i.e. the areas designated for camping under that law, as well as the administrative measures and infringement measures provided for for for in respect of that prohibition, and that this proposal would only allow for more effective management of the competent state authority in the implementation of inspection supervision, compliance with the provisions of the applicable law on catering activity and, primarily, in order to combat the grey economy, we do not see any reason to prolong the entry into force of that provision. The reasons for the postponement of the amendments to the articles set out in the reasons for the amendment cannot be assessed as justified, given that the situation they point out may exist even after 1 January 2010. It is expected that the proposed provisions of Article 3 of the Law may, after 1 January 2010, cause adverse media effects on foreign markets and circumstances in which tourism in the Republic of Croatia will take place may remain, unfortunately, unchanged even after 1 January 2010.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-26-0.u30594	The chairman of the board, Mr. Brkaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-26-0.u30595	On behalf of the Committee on Tourism, I am asking for a vote on this amendment for one reason, which is not good for such amendments to the law to take effect I would say before the tourist season in the tourist year in half. That is exactly what the Committee's intensities meant to take effect from 1 January 2010. We are absolutely against the gray economy, but we think that laws are passed by emergency procedure, and as far as hospitality and tourism are concerned during the season is not good. Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-26-0.u30596	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. I am voting on the final draft law amending the Household Activity Act. Please, who's in? Thank you. Against? Restraint? With 107 for, 4 against, one abstentioned law amending the Household Activity Act together with the amendments adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-26-0.u30597	Points 9 and 10, we skip. Moving to point 11. - Report on the use of pre-accession assistance programmes of the European Union for the period from 1 July to 31 December 2008 is submitted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The government submitted a report in line with the Croatian Parliament's conclusion on 16 October 2005. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Finance and the State Budget, the Committee on Regional Development, Forestry and Water Economy, the Committee on European Integration and the Committee on Development and Reconstruction. You received the reports at the session. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Dear Ivana Maletic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-26-0.u30598	Honorable Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. This Report from 1 July to 30 December 2008 actually covers important activities and events that have developed and occurred in the use of pre-accession aid programmes. Before I point out these several important activities and the important ones in terms of and further process of accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union, I would like to give some information in general on the use of pre-accession aid programmes. Therefore, this first generation of pre-accession aid programmes, which are CARDS, PHARE, ISPA and SAPARD, which was current and is still current in the sense that projects are still in practice but are essentially in terms of financing and defining projects to be financed in 2007. As part of this first phase, the first generation of pre-accession assistance programmes was awarded to the Republic of Croatia 297m euros and by 31.12.2008 237,49m euros and 80% respectively were agreed. There is still an ongoing negotiation for large infrastructure projects in ISPA, and you also know that there is a 4th competition in the SAPARD programme, so we are expecting a larger percentage of the negotiations, so over 80%, which is really a very good result for the first, initial pre-accession assistance programmes in the Republic of Croatia. The new pre-accession assistance programme is IPA and it is a new generation of actually the programme that the European Union introduced in its regulatory framework in 2007 and our institutions are preparing to use the new programme immediately. Why is he really important? It is important because it introduces a lot of new institutions into the system of implementing pre-accession assistance programmes. Therefore, implementation only ends within the framework of the Ministry of Finance and the Central Agency for the financing and negotiation of projects and programmes of the European Union and it extends to a much larger number of state administration bodies and this is actually important because it is strengthening our administrative capacities for the future, for future structural funds and cohesion funds. That's what we want and when we talked about these reports on the use of pre-accession aid programmes in the previous year, then we talked about it in the future, so somehow in the future and now it's become the present. So, we already have good institutions that are actually, as we know they are good, accredited and are given permission to work and use and implement these funds in IPA. As for the allocations we received in the IPA, it is about the annual amount of about 150 million euros, so they are significant and all institutions are already working very intensively on the project process and the start of the bargaining process. We have continued meetings with the European Commission delegation monthly, we follow each of the projects together and there are many in IPA, and we are preparing for future funds. In the context of these preparations for future European funds, we have handed over an action plan to the European Commission for the construction of fully independent management institutions for pre-accession assistance programmes, which means management of funds without this ex-ante control by the Commission, because so far these pre-accession aid programmes are implemented means with ex-ante control of the Commission and we will also seek a new allocation by the end of 2010, a new accreditation for this advanced system which is fully self-managed by European means. One more thing that is important to emphasise about this report is the agreement in the PHARE 2006 programme, so you have it all on the table in the report. The PHARE 2006 was actually very current in the 11th month of 2008, the deadline for the agreement was 30 November 2008 and in PHARE in 2006 we achieved very good results of the contract. So, a total of 85.56% of the allocated funds were agreed but what is still important is 8.59% are actually savings. So, in total, we can say that almost all projects are except for three contracts and savings have been achieved because of public procurement procedures under EU rules, lower prices have been achieved, and total savings of 4.54m euros have been achieved. So we can really talk about the overall agreement of PHARE 2006 about extremely high percentages. Here I am thanking you, and I hope that in answer to the questions I will also further explain everything that you are interested in. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-26-0.u30599	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? Not that I can see. Then I'm opening a debate. And we're going to a club debate. He is the first respected representative of Daniel Mondekar on behalf of the SDP club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-26-0.u30600	Dear Vice President, distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs, respected secretary of state. The SDP will support this report immediately for the start. We have to admit that it's different from the previous, more detailed than the previous ones, it tells us before about the CARDS, the PHARE, ISPA, the SAPARD as a new program. Unlike that report we discussed a year ago, it speaks very well of irregularities in the system. I guess it's in everyone's interest to have all the irregularities corrected and that's one of the important reasons why the SDP and supports this report. He's telling us about the establishment... the system and any 13 cases of irregularities in CARDS, PHARE, ISPA and SAPARD. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Contributions to such ones are more than welcome. We, as well as the SDP, asked when a report was discussed for the second half of 2007, to see grandchemes related to SBS projects means with the proposed co-operation for cities and municipalities. And here, when we see this now, we have to say that there are certain differences visible. If we look at Italy-Republic of Croatia then it is clear that this cross-border cooperation is not only from Istria to Dubrovnik, but that it is also going to the continent of the Carlova County, etc. but it is evident that Istria and the Primorje-Gorski County are just ahead of them. When you look at others through... means cross-border cooperation between Croatia and Slovenia, etc. You'll see one thing that needs to be seriously considered and the government to change there, and that's the front of those municipalities and cities, and I'm going to tell you that this isn't a competition, or a competition, we need to be in the interest of making as much money as possible to bring those municipalities or cities that don't have a direct link with the Government. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] They don't have a secretary of state or I don't know who to ask for financial help, so they turn to the funds. The second thing when you look at cities and municipalities you will also see counties, a county that has its own development agency, a city that has its own development agency and good results but you will see certain counties like the carlovakia county that simply doesn't have it and it needs to be changed urgently. Local self-government units for us in the SDP are crucial, they are probably key for all parties, and that is why it is important in these years this year, 2010, especially as crisis years, good education. That's what we talked about yesterday and on the Committee on European Integration, top education. Some cities and municipalities are doing this for themselves, some are turning to the state for help and we absolutely support the state to allocate funds and to do these projects largely, to bring as much knowledge from the centrally diverse to the lowest level, because I will repeat. There are cities and municipalities that know how to do this job, have good agencies, have some that simply don't understand it yet. What's more important than good education in this crisis year is what we talked about yesterday is co-financing projects and what's important funds for support. Probably here some people know, maybe some people don't, they're gonna need city halls and community borrowing permits. It is simply because of the EU's need for projects that some will have to be in debt because they need to have their own resources. And we need a clear guarantee, Government, that such borrowing will be possible, that cities and municipalities will be able to borrow, because of course they get 10, to be in charge of the project's worth of 10 to 15% still means 90 or 85 of the grant. So you need permission to be in charge, but also in my personal opinion, but also in many of the funds here, the State Fund from which the state supports such projects, especially pre-accession projects, but community programmes. I think it's in the interest of the state when you look at the IPA community program and you'll see that IPA's going to round up a billion kuna a year, 150 million euros. Community programmes of seven-year-olds across Europe if we see those who may be key for Croatia, such as the 7th Research Framework, Competitiveness and Innovation Fund, lifelong learning that will now come to us on the agenda, young people in action or culture or Europe for construction. We are talking about 70 billion euros here, of course not all of Croatia will withdraw. But one part of it can also be taken in European competition. But there's 15, 20, 30% more where that money's supposed to be. So if we have an institute of science that has a project, has a good idea, has good partners and goes on a project of a million euros and needs 300 thousand euros of its own to turn to the state and get that money. So we consider this key, education, education, co-financing education and the right to borrow when EU projects are in play. I told you the last time we talked about operational programmes, that in 2009 it would be one of those sentences that the European Commission put on its website, the year of the crisis. It will go 75 billion euros from EU funds. Of course, when Europe speaks it also talks about structural funds, etc. but one part of it Croatia can apply. I think that in the year of the crisis, receiving grants is extremely welcome for the city, for the municipality, for the academic community or for entrepreneurs. For example, for one small municipality, it can mean saving in the budget, because something is happening and funding from another source, and almost always shows you practice, projects create jobs. There he is, so short. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-26-0.u30601	Thank you. We have two corrections to an incorrect quote. The first is Honorable Representative Davor Huška. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-26-0.u30602	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, in large part, I agree with the presentation of my colleagues, but I still have to correct two incorrect allegations. The first was when he said that better results are achieved... which do not have a good link with the government and the ministries. That's not true. The link with the government and ministries is not crucial, it is crucial that units of local self-government take part in pre-accession funds and a good link with the government and ministries can only improve and strengthen the programme that is being run into the pre-accession programme. The second is co-financing of projects where he calls on the government to set up a fund for co-financing of projects to facilitate the obligations of cities and municipalities in a certain percentage. Today, cities and municipalities need not exclusively invest their resources in co-financing of pre-accession programmes. Here's an example of PHARE 2005 where my town of Pakrac received 75% of the grants for business infrastructure from PHARE, and 20% we secured from the Ministry of Economy for the Economic Zone Programme. So we only have 5% of the original co-financing funds left.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-26-0.u30603	Thank you. And a second correction to an incorrect quote. Dear Representative Boris Matkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-26-0.u30604	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. A colleague incorrectly said: "most achieved by the county, cities and municipalities that do not have a link with the government." I think that, I say that's not true. It is true that the Government of the Republic of Croatia is leading a policy of even development, and this shows figures about which a respected colleague Mondekar today spoke nothing behind this pay phone.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-26-0.u30605	Thank you. Let's move on to the club debate. Dear Representative Miljenko Doric on behalf of the HNS club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-26-0.u30606	Dear Mr. Vice President, State Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. Here I will be very brief because a few minutes ago it began with the work of the Committee to prevent conflicts of interest, and I have to be there and just a few words. The HNS Club will support this report. After the pangs of childbirth, it seems to me that even by interpelling the first report, we have to be correct, every report is getting more complete, getting better and giving us a clear one very, very good insight into what is going on about the use of pre-accession funds. So congratulations on that. This is an example of how in a very short time it can really improve that work and work to be really good. We regret of course that these funds are not fully used, but I also agree with you that this is getting better and better from year to year and therefore that is something to be commended for. But I wouldn't agree with my colleagues here trying to say that there's some kind of even development, etc. That's not the point here. I don't want to talk to anyone who's got more, who's less resources. My colleagues and colleagues, it's a problem of capacity, the ability of people on the ground to clearly design projects, to put them on paper and to realize them. That's the problem. I asked the Polish delegation who was recently in the Croatian Parliament and they told me how we dealt with it, we educated 300 young people of different profiles and made them bound to go to the field, to be with people on the ground every day, to help them write projects and to be clearly available for 24 hours. 3,000 people in Poland, we're ten times smaller countries, that would be about 300 people, which would be about 15 young, capable, trained people per county. It's their model. If we're able to do that, I don't know. But anyway, I've also asked the board and discussed in this direction to suggest that we find ways to help those counties that haven't really used those funds in the way they could use it, and they need it. Therefore, it is not a matter of being interested. Everyone I believe has an interest. The question is how much they are really able to do in the way the European Union is looking for it, and therefore we need to do something to help them. Look, colleagues and colleagues, the way we're acting right now and what we're accomplishing by withdrawing pre-accession funds, tomorrow the same story will be with structural funds. As soon as we are trained, the sooner we can do this job well, the more successful we will be, the more successful we will be tomorrow when we clearly go towards the structural funds that will be available to us, and they will need very good arguments and make clear these quality projects. It's also commendable that this time we have another addition, that's chapter seven on irregularities. We see that the Republic of Croatia has set up a system that includes a system for reporting irregularities, then a network of bodies dealing with the prevention of fraud, corruption and other forms of irregularities, and at the Ministry of Finance there is now a Department for the control of irregularities and fraud. What we'd be interested in is maybe... It's all about the frames again. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] That you might explain to us just what kind of personnel potential these departments are, the networks, etc., that these people are profiled, whether there are difficulties and whether there is a need for us as a Parliament to support you to make some human movements there. On the list, when we read clearly these irregularities that you have listed, I do not want to criticize or cite any of these examples at all, but I am generally asking. What about those who consciously committed certain failures? What are the sanctions? Does the European Union set any conditions? Whether they are allowed to re-enter the circle so that the events occur or are blacklisted and that you clearly as Government or government representatives seem to really try to eliminate these irregularities, because if someone is going to keep repeating this, it is not correct and I think we need these people to warn us that they are trying to help us do this job in an objective and correct way. Here I am thanking you very much, and I apologize for having to go to the committee now.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-26-0.u30607	Thank you. As far as I can tell, the chairman of the commission is here, isn't he? ... I'm sorry, everything's fine. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] We have one correction to an incorrect quote. Honorable representative Davor Huška. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-26-0.u30608	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I would like to correct the incorrect allegations of Mr. Doric, who said that the capacity of people on the ground should be strengthened and aided in human resources counties. It's impossible to help the county like this. Požeško-Slavonia County, which has a Regional Development Agency but has no activity towards pre-accession funds because of the tromacy and lack of interest of the current county authority in Požega-Slavon County, both according to pre-accession funds and according to the resolution ministries, according to public institutions, because the government deals with and manages that foreign exchange as best as possible. No project from pre-accession funds has been implemented through our Development Agency in Požega-Slavon County. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-26-0.u30609	Thank you. Also on behalf of the HDZ club, distinguished representative Marija Pejcinović Buric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-26-0.u30610	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Madam Secretary of State, Ms. Agency, I must admit that I personally have been very pleased to listen to these two exhibitions on behalf of the SDP and HNS clubs in which truly great commendations go to the Croatian institutions working on this job. I am not only satisfied with this because I also think that they are doing very well, but really that we have one material from which you can see what you would probably try to go in similar periods in other countries of transition that have joined the European Union, and probably in Poland as well. There is no colleague, Doric, who spoke of Polish experience. I think that they came to this when they were really at very low levels of absorption capacity and that it was simply a fire measure that at times when they entered the European Union and when large funds from cohesion and structural funds had to be opened for them as a great country. According to what we heard on the committees, the secretary of state spoke very closely about this report on the Committee on European Integration. All listeners could understand how precise and very detailed they approach all issues concerning the use of funds today, but also what is extremely important about how Croatia will use funds in the future. As someone who worked on funds part of his career when we started it in person here, I have the pleasure of seeing how this system develops perfectly, how our institutions actually mature in this business, and how these percentages that we can read about in this thorough report are actually high and we can see that our institutions are doing extremely well. I would just like to mention the fact that some projects have made significant savings, which is certainly to be commended to those who have worked on it, and hopefully we have also discussed this on the Committee on European Integration, that these funds that we have saved primarily with our own knowledge, that we will be able to use and that on relevant committees on which to decide with the European Commission, these funds will be realised for other projects in the Republic of Croatia. My colleague Mondekar was talking about how in our counties and cities it comes to, so some use more, some less. He mentioned counties that didn't actually have that accident that were hit by war, first of all I mean the Istrian County that has been preparing slowly for these jobs since the beginning and all along the 1990s. In part, this applies to the Primorje-Gorski County and it is not strange from that aspect, seeing that indeed after a long series of years of preparation, these counties are certainly ahead of these projects which they have proposed to see from the contributions we have received with these materials. However, I must say that when it comes to Karlovac, although they do not still have their own development agency as a city, I think I am in my opinion that it is the largest ISPO project, and the largest project in Croatia that exists has gone right to the city of Karlovac. So the town of Karlovac has received a project that works on a water and waste water programme worth 36m euros. So that the town of Karlovac for the next few years and does not get other projects is already the fact that it has received this large project which is extremely significant since the city is on four rivers, and it is known what it means for pollution, i.e. clean water, how much the city and the county will get by having such a large and significant project and it is actually the first project of such a kind that is being done in Croatia. I am personally, given that next week the City Committee of HDZ is preparing a tribune just tied to the funds. So, in the city of Karlovac, there's an interest in working on this very well. Among other things, I'm invited to talk about it. I went to read these materials just to watch where the town of Karlovac used the funds or the carlovack County and despite not having them there, so the agency I believe will soon form they have funds. So they also have projects that can be found in these attachments. What we've actually heard, I don't think we should go into detail. I was prepared for a little more general debate about how, what challenges we faced in Croatia in this business, and now I'm going to skip it because I don't think there's any need to talk about it. But I would like to say that the fact remains that Croatia is the only country that is at the same time managing five different projects, with different rules, that the first country that in this wave has to carry out system accreditation, which may not mean much when you say so. But colleagues who are here know very well what it means to how many papers and papers, the procedure means to do, how many procedures to talk with relevant institutions, auditors of one level, auditors of another level, etc. And how much time and effort it takes to get that accreditation national. We got it first for these earlier projects, so for ISPA and PHARE. This did not go to any country when it entered the European Union, and only then should they have done so, so new countries. I think it's in itself saying how many of these institutions that have been working on it and how seriously the government has been approaching since the start of this business. So we got credentials right away. We are now as far as we can see from this report, and I would like to congratulate my colleague to the State Secretary and Director, but also to everyone who has worked on it, because they are in fact coordinating but others have to do a good part of their work in that, therefore, we have passed another accreditation for the IPA in four components and that for the SAPARD, given that the programme is a little more complicated and there are some things that need to be brought into line with the negotiations. And you know for a fact that our negotiations are in chapter, and the SAPARD refers to a chapter of agriculture. So, part of the IPARD accreditation lies exactly where we're going to talk about it in the negotiations. So maybe if we'd done it before, we could be talking about all the IPA accreditations being passed. So, big congratulations, big business done, and as far as I can see, the agency that deals with payments and deals today is actually going to turn into an agency that and maybe it's a message that's important from here to most of us in the local environments. So, the agency will be the one who's going to be involved in education. The agency will be the one to help local communities use funds, and I think it's an important message that needs to be conveyed, and how much education people can be taught. In fact, sometimes education can be done on a higher level. The first level is to make people aware of what funds they are. The second level is to generally tell them about how approximately and in which segments some projects can go. However, it is the hardest and most demanding, but also the most expensive, perhaps it can be spoken of either by the secretary of state or by the director when it comes to writing projects. So, it takes big money and there's some money in the PHARE 2006 projects, I think there's one 5m-euro project within which consultants are working to do this job for which counterpart Doric asked. So it will go to those environments that now have projects, which are mature enough to pass in IPA and help complete these documents that are needed to complete the procedure. Therefore, it should be kept in mind that it is a big business, every environment certainly, every city, every municipality in Croatia is interested in this, but there should be no illusions that anyone can immediately have competent experts who can work on these three levels. So it is important to know that there is no need for everything, and not even funding, there are and we have discussed this on the Committee on European Integration. Therefore, domestic co-financing will always be needed in the pre-accession, especially in the Structural and Cohesion Funds. Sometimes, and you know better than I do, that we have some local communities that won't have any money, they won't even have the opportunity to be in debt because the government has just come into force by the Budget Act that has come into force since the beginning of this year to exempt themselves from the rules on borrowings that are precisely the ones that have the projects, which co-financed for the European Union. So it's already in effect. However, and that is not enough, so for some small units that do not have and cannot be in debt, so I can't even pay back the finance ministry has a solution for that. So there are some resources already foreseen in the budget to help. As you can see, at all levels you are thinking, you are already thinking well about this regional and local environment, but you really need to take care that the real funds for this level will be available to Croatia only when we enter the European Union, which does not mean, of course, that this should not be done right now, but that it should be prepared. But I'm saying, given all the restrictions that exist, it might be good to know that in the next wave, they will have the opportunity to get consultants to prepare projects that actually already have quite well-defined projects that enter priorities that can be financed. Here, in the end, of course the Croatian Democratic Community club will support this report. We really think that we're doing an extremely good program and a good job and here, I hope that this good result as we see it is, we see that the bargaining, which is the only measurable result so far above 85%, which is really very high, given both the savings and all the other data that you've given us. We hope that the information that will come at the end of this year when payment deadlines start to come up will also be good, and here I personally hope that Croatia will indeed remain what it is now, which is that in this business I actually know is one of the best countries using funds. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-26-0.u30611	Thank you. We're moving on to an individual debate. And the first is in an individual debate, the distinguished representative Boris Matkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-26-0.u30612	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Madam Secretary of State. Here it is, at the very beginning I would like to join the participants so far in the debate first in a way that I would be pleased with what is visible and what is shown to us from this report, which is that each half-yearly report actually gives us, or shows us an ever better result. That is, the increasing success in pre-accession funds, or work, so I join those who will clearly praise those who work on it most. If that were true, here I will not, as my colleague Pejcinović said earlier, talk a lot about some numerical data, which would certainly be desirable, primarily from the position of the debate today and evidence that in this direction through all four of these programs so far, clearly CARDS and PHARE and ISPA and SAPARD have done a lot, especially through some where Croatia, as counterpart Pejcinovic said, the first one who has actually managed to achieve some results in the first wave, which some have not, and today here is also through this that through the IPA that replaces all of them will actually replace all of them tomorrow. So we already have five components that we're dealing with, and the results will certainly be better when we all talk about the education that we're all talking about today, we all get involved. And that education will also come from people who will go through the ministries, all the way down to the agency, and all the way down to the local administration actually have to do their best because it's definitely the hardest thing to do for those going to the finals, which is to create the project itself or what counterpart Pejcinović said, actually writing. I know very well because I come from the local self-government unit as mayor in two terms and I know very well how much it means, even though we are doing more of this cross-border cooperation down there, something now in the county with Bosnia and Herzegovina, and that part will definitely go so that we all need to work together. What I'd also like to say, no matter what we say we have the numbers here, I think they're visible to us. However, what is important and what proves that signs of results have been achieved is an analysis from which the use of these grants is visible, and it is primarily measured by contracted projects, which is as we could have heard so far in the debate, so somewhere it misses 85%, which is a phenomenal result, regardless of how anyone considered it. It is then the implementation of contracts themselves and payments made within the scheduled deadlines. And if they were also exceptional, here we can only look at the data that can be presented briefly to the CARDS by 31.12.2008 for the agreed projects from 2003 paid 91.2% and 2004. 74.57 agreed amounts. Well, that is, is the result that we have to respect and that certainly speaks about someone's work, but also about trying to make the most of everything that units of local self-government can't actually use from their own resources. It is similar with the national component of the PHARE programme for 2005 and 2006, which is also visible here through these 23 and 19 projects, depending on the year 71.50 and 61m euros respectively. I think it speaks especially in these indicators below that speak about the cross-border cooperation between Croatia, Slovenia, Hungary, or the Adriatic cross-border cooperation between Croatia and Italy. It is evident, then, that these percentages, in fact, by themselves, speak for themselves more than some would want to accept or admit. In all this again, all these funds have actually helped our sustainable development and units of local self-government, so both municipalities and cities, and counties, areas of special state care, improved vocational education, improved let's say democracy for which we all want to achieve one step more, human rights in the Republic of Croatia, etc., that we are not also talking about the demining areas that some will probably talk about in the next points. They're all actually indicators that speak for themselves. Here's to making a modest contribution that all the counties are actually involved and I'm going to mention the two counties from which I come as a parliamentary representative belonging to Election Unit 10. So here, I'm just going to list some that are actually going to deny the previous and they're related here I'm going to go unbound in order. Let's just say, the Ouzen High School, agricultural and technical, is a school while we have a center for excellence. Next we have to say the association in Split "Healthy Split, Healthy City" programme of social and health prevention, so we have in Dubrovnik-Neretva County as well... cross-border cooperation. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Then you have in Split an association for the inclusion of the owners, it is the employment of people with special needs, so you have the same in Split-Dalmatia County Adriatic ecological development, and in Dubrovnik Adriatic national parks, so you have on the Municipality of Solta related to the development of tourism, so in Vela Luka we have an integrated approach to waste management on the island of Korčula. So you have companies some texting to improve entrepreneurship and marketing, so you have... Also getting cooling equipment, so fish equipment and so I think it can be counted. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So, it's not just about some county, but it's definitely all the counties that have been involved in it, and they're all for sure, we're going to hear probably the others and the Sibenik and the Zadar for which I'm not bound, I don't know the data all but it could be taken out. And the point is, in fact, earlier on, what I couldn't say in correcting the incorrect assumption is now I'm going to take advantage of the opportunity. My colleague Mondekar wasn't in that direction, he was in his direction she was quite different and that, he wanted, he didn't speak. I know it's not about the topic we're talking about, but it's gone beyond content and theme, so it's not about this data, it's about the government giving help to those cities and municipalities that are therefore party close and that's not true. That's why I said it because I know that even development in total is not tied to this, but his point was in the other direction. That's why I want to take advantage of the occasion and say it's not in the right direction again. One last thing I'd like to say is that and I think the secretary of state and the ministry will accept it, in order to be even better, they're actually going to show up until the end because it's not all over yet. It is necessary to work on the education that I spoke about in a vertical from the ministry across the county to the units of local self-government, etc. Then we'll all be able to achieve more in that one vertical.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-26-0.u30613	Thank you. Honorable representative Davor Huška. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-26-0.u30614	Thank you. Mr. Vice President, Madam Secretary of State, Madam Director, colleagues and colleagues. I was pleased to read the report on the use of pre-accession EU assistance programmes for the period from 1 July to 31 December of the last year. I'll give you a few basic reasons to please this report. In the first place, this is the conclusion that the Republic of Croatia has not been before and has not missed any of the pre-accession pre-accession programmes offered by the European Union, so during the second half of 2008, we use CARDS' resources in 2003, 2004, PHARE 2005, 2006, ISPA and SAPARD. The report shows what the funds are used for and how many projects are monitored in each programme. The second reason for satisfaction is a high percentage of the withdrawal of funds, i.e. allocated, contracted and paid or used funds for each project. Here, it should be said that the final data on the funds used for each programme is known or will be known after the end of each programme, or by the end of 2011. The third and especially important reason for the satisfaction is the strengthening of our Croatian institutions involved in the operational structures for the implementation of the previous pre-accession programmes and since last year included in the implementation of four IPA components, which are components 1 - strengthening of institutions, component 2 - cross-border cooperation, component 3 divided into regional development, operational transport programme, 2b regional development and operational environmental protection programme, respectively 3b and 3c regional development of components-regional competitiveness, and ultimately components 4 - human resources development. These are firstly central agencies for the financing and negotiation of European Union programmes and projects, then the Central State Office for the Development Strategy and Coordination of European Funds, as well as a whole series of ministries, agencies and funds of the Republic of Croatia involved in the operational structures for the implementation of pre-accession assistance programmes of the European Union. I would like to congratulate all of them on their work so far and to bring pleasure from the field from units of local self-government, cities, municipalities, institutions, economic operators participating in the implementation of these projects and programmes and the funds that come for all of them, i.e. us in the highest percentage and most of us as grants with so far minimal co-financing. Of course, the cooperative relationship we face as well as the availability of all participants from the Central Agency, the Central State Office and the RES. This should mention certainly other international sources of funding for local self-government units. Here, on the basis of knowledge and learning on these pre-accession funds, successful units of local self-government also participate in the Regional Development Ministry programmes they implement through the European Investment Bank, through CEB programmes and, of course, through the Socio-economic Recovery Programme, the World Bank Programme. Education and assistance for small municipalities and cities was expected by the county and in our Požega-Slavon County as I have told the foundations is the Regional Development Agency. Unfortunately, it does not have too much use for it because I will repeat the current county authority in Požega-Slavon County boycotts participation in pre-accession programmes, in the programmes of resolution ministries and cities and municipalities themselves. We have this fortune with the entrepreneurship centre that covers Pakrac and Lipik and through them and city administrations we run directly into pre-accession programmes. It is, of course, necessary to say that I accept this report, to congratulate all participants in the implementation of the pre-accession programmes because it is extremely important for the units of local self-government and for the Republic of Croatia as a whole, especially in these difficult economic and financial conditions when each kuna, every euro coming from pre-accession funds means a lot to further develop the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-26-0.u30615	Report on the use of pre-accession aid programmes of the European Union for the period from 1 July to 31 December 2008. I am giving the vote the conclusion in accordance with the proposal of the parliamentary bodies. That report shall be accepted. Who's in? Thank you. Against? Restraint? Unanimity with 112 votes for the proposed conclusion.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-26-0.u30616	And we move to point 12, which is - Report on the implementation of the Law on the right to access information for 2008 is submitted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The government submitted a report on the basis of Article 25. Law on the right to access information for 2008. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Information, Information and Media, the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system. You received the reports at the session. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Dear Antun Palaric, State Secretary at the Central State Administration Office. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-26-0.u30617	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. I will explain very briefly the proposal for a report that the government has set for 2008. It is already the 5th year that the Government submits a report to the Croatian Parliament on the implementation of the Law on the right to access information. The technology is such that all bodies which are required to apply the law, and those bodies are established in the list of bodies of public authorities, which the Government shall establish and publish each January. During the year until the end of January, they shall be obliged to submit to the Central State Administration Office a report on the application of the law under their jurisdiction. And the Central State Office then combines received reports and delivers them to the Government who also forwards the report to the Croatian Parliament. So, the law when it was passed, it was a newspaper, it certainly contributed to the transparency of the work of the public authority body and the democratisation of society as a whole and caused great interest when assumptions were created for the exercise of the right that provides the Law on the right to access information. However, every law is probably an expression, a need for a moment, and the law that was passed in 2003 was probably then demanded, stemmed from the public's great interest in the work of the public authority. Things are different today. Today, the relationship with the media has changed, the relationship to information has changed. Information technology, Internet, web sites have spread so much that actually public authorities are competing that as much information as possible about themselves, about their work, daily activities, monthly activities, as well as what has been done so far is being put on the website. Furthermore, according to the Government's orders, official forms have been placed on the websites of all bodies which can then be downloaded and completed and sent to public authorities where they wish to exercise their right. And the number of applications received best says that the interest in exercising the right to access information is getting smaller in this way in the application of this law. In 2004, public authorities received 19 thousand and 600 requests, 2005. 4000 499, 2006. 4 thousand 376, 2007 received 3 thousand 670 applications and 2008. Two thousand 731 requests. According to the information provided by the public authorities of those 2,000 731 requests, the majority of 2,000 500 has been resolved, some requests have been rejected by gentlemen because people are asking the public authorities to do something that is not information, which is not within the law itself information. And these days we've been witnessing the halls of an association or a few organizations that are really talking to each other and they've been talking to the Central State Office and they've been looking for something that's not information, which I think I'm going to do is not information that the public authorities have in mind that information should then be given to the catalogue. There are 55 remaining outstanding requests during the reporting period. They haven't been solved yet. They are probably already resolved, but at the time of the end of the year, they were not resolved because the deadlines had not passed, so 15 days to comply with the request. Ladies and gentlemen, but the government will continue to make efforts to improve the application of this law. Therefore, in the Central State Office of the Centre for Professional Training, the training of civil servants and in 2008, we held three seminars where prominent experts from the field of access to information were involved, but as participants in the seminar were persons in charge of public authorities to exercise access to information and I believe that this is also the reason why the law is better achieved and so strong administrative capacity is in such a way that information officers are further educated. We have relative problems in local self-government, academy, local democracy has held consultations on the subject. Two lectures were held by experts from the Central State Office and on the other hand we discussed on these consultations and on a very attached right and this is the right to the protection of personal data. So the representatives of the Personal Data Protection Agency also participated, and even I was there personally because I wanted to stress the importance of these consultations. I didn't make it anywhere but I was in Ilock for the Eastern Slavonia area, I was in Zadar for the Central Dalmatia area and one consultation was held in Pula to highlight the need for law enforcement as much as possible, in order to educate officials working in local units to implement this law. So, before you there is a report drawn up on the 73 pages. I believe that it is detailed by both the bodies and the requirements that have been rejected, of course, by protecting the persons who submitted the request so that only the initials are listed. Ladies and gentlemen, I think the report is correct as requested by the Parliament last year's debate on this matter. We suggest that the Croatian Parliament adopt it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-26-0.u30618	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? Yeah. On behalf of the Committee on Information, Information and Media, Honorable Representative Nenad Stazic, Chairman of the Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-26-0.u30619	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President. The report on the implementation of the Law on the right to access information has been examined by the Committee in the capacity of the home working body. The following opinions, comments and proposals were presented in the debate in relation to the report. The basic observation was that the content did not show how many public authorities submitted a report on the implementation of the Law on the right to access information and how many did not. As a result, some members of the Committee considered that the report which was in line with Article 25 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union was in line with Article 25 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The law on the right to access information does not reflect the right state of affairs because it does not show how much public authorities have respected their legal obligation at all. In view of this, as well as the fact that, at the time of the debate, the Committee held the views and analysis of the GONG in this report, it is stated that there are more than 20 false or abandoned data, including two rulings of the Administrative Court of the Republic of Croatia delivered to an external member of the Committee. Part of the board suggested that the report be returned to the government of the Republic of Croatia for further work but did not pass the proposal. As an amendment to the Law on Access to Information was announced for this year, the proposal for a draft bill to be put on the website of the Central State Administration Office in order to have a public debate on it. After the discussion, the committee decided to propose to the Croatian Parliament most of the votes to accept the report on the implementation of the Law on the right to access information. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-26-0.u30620	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. First it's the clubs. On behalf of the HDZ Club, distinguished representative Boris Kunst. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-26-0.u30621	Honorable Vice President, Secretary of State, fellow MPs. The aim of this law is to ensure the right to access information to natural and legal persons in order to provide citizens with accurate and complete information available to public authorities. The restrictions on access to information are only used in rare and legal situations explicitly prescribed. Modern information technologies such as the Internet or e-mail have opened new communication channels, so information available to public authorities today is more accessible and transparent than it was in past times. Almost all public authorities, visible from the report, regularly publish information via media websites, official texts, free business info phones, and information catalogues. Since the use of the Internet is on the rise in us as well as raising standards in the work of services and public relations departments, as well as the engagement of speakers in institutions that have not yet had. Therefore, it is not surprising that, compared to the year before 2007, the decline is required for the exercise of the right to access information. Statistics suggest that the Central State Administration Office, which was responsible for overseeing law enforcement in the last year, received information in 2 000 731 received, to exercise the right to access information sent to public authorities. Of these, 2 thousand 731 received requires 2 thousand 520 applications were accepted, 103 rejected, 55 pending, and 84 requests were granted to the competent authorities. I will not list the individual cases mentioned in the report that everyone can also find at the official pages of the Croatian Assembly in publicly published materials for the current session, as well as the pages of the Central State Administration Office, but I will refer to the reasons for the rejected and suspended requests. Looking at the statistics and the naked numbers, including the results of the recent praises of the NGO "Gong", I mean at the conference "We have the right to know" it turns out that in a high percentage of the public authority did not answer the questions in accordance with the procedure. According to the conclusion of this civil society, it is easier to get answers to questions that are not sensitive to nature and do not interfere with the financial operations of the public authorities. The complaint also referred to closed meetings of the Government, as well as closed meetings of other public authorities, although such practices are neither foreign nor Western countries whose standards we strive for. I think it should be pointed out that it's not about the number, it's about the content of the eating of the rejected enquiries. For example, individuals have abused the Law on the right to access information in order to resolve personal administrative proceedings by asking for information that is not according to the definition of that law. Similarly, by calling for access to information in certain cases, it was the demand for expert opinions from the work of a particular public authority. I must stress that financial information in a large number of cases is a secret, not because public authorities are hiding something, but because it is sensitive data, whose use or putting into another context could cause damage. Therefore, such information is also regularly sought for the consistency of all parties for their publication. Such information is defined as a tax secret, a banking secret, or as a secret regulated by specific rules on business secrecy, for example. case in documents of the Croatian Privatisation Fund only available to parties participating in a legal procedure. Looking at the analysis of the work of the public authority body, I am particularly pleased that the Croatian Parliament is one of the most open institutions that solved all 46 questions in time. It's visible from a report ahead of us, and the Parliament passed a strict Gong test. Obviously, we and the citizens are perceived in one of the most open institutions, because MPs, as you yourself had the opportunity to see the lenses in the session, and some have realized that we have already introduced the "Drive in" approach, and that we are available to citizens to the extent that they are trying to get into the Croatian Parliament by car. What country does it still have? Both the President's office and the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia responded to all requests received within the deadline. The Government of the Republic of Croatia shall manage its websites on an up-to-date basis, and the observation of the inaccessibility of certain information is not sustainable, as it is mainly about data, or exemptions from the right to access information described in Article 8 of the Law. The ministry is largely struggling with requests that are not in their jurisdiction. However, progress in the exercise of the right to access information is unfortunately not so visible at local level. Both local and regional self-government units and cities. This is understandable, since it has largely been about data that may, in whole or in part, bear the markings of secrecy, yet I believe that these issues should be elaborated in a more transparent manner. In order to include regulations and sanctions for all those who are deaf or not supplying information which they are obliged to provide under the Information Access Rights Act. The more this is seen through the prism of the latest anti-corruption campaign, the more it should be stressed that transparent information is published directly at the source of one of the strongest branches by spreading corrupt acts and any form of manipulation towards end-users. The Croatian Democratic Community Club will support this report on the implementation of the right to access information for the past year, meaning 2008, and we believe that this year's report will include even more positive shifts in communication channels. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-26-0.u30622	Thank you. On behalf of the SDP club, the esteemed representative of the Nenad trail. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-26-0.u30623	Dear Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. So the government sent this report to Parliament on the implementation of the Law on the right to access information. I know there's a lot to be expected from the government, but we're used to it, but someone's going to think of this kind of falsification of reality presenting it to the public, we didn't expect it. It is extremely offensive to the Parliament as well as to the public. This law exists for the public, not for the Parliament. First, here in this report, it doesn't even say how many public authorities have even delivered data to the Central Office. And how many of them didn't act according to the law. Next, it doesn't say what's been delivered to the Central Office in the first place, and it's not true. In this respect, this report represents nothing. No one needs it, no one needs it, no one needs what it can represent. Furthermore, it is totally unacceptable and inadmissible to resolve the requirements under this Law on the right to access information only in those legal and natural persons who explicitly call for laws in their demands. So whoever sends a request for information to be delivered to him and is called to the law will eventually respond to him, and he who does not obey the law will not. And if he hasn't responded, he won't get into this report. It's absurd. Imagine if a man gets hurt on the road and an ambulance comes, he needs medical attention, and if he doesn't call on the Health Insurance Act, then he won't be helped. If he says sorry, you have to help me by the Health Insurance Act or by some other law, the ambulance goes away and nothing. Leave him on the road. That's roughly comparable. So it's an absurdity of absurdities and it's an extremely offensive practice for citizens. Citizens of course do not have to know that there is a Law on the right to access information, and they have the right to exercise their right to access information within 15 days. The methodology of drawing up this report is unusually interesting. The bodies of the public authorities who are obliged to implement this law, send their reports to the Central State Administration and then write in them what they want. They write how they respect the law, how they respond within the time limit, how none of the citizens have ever complained to them, and how everything is fine. And the Central State Office then draws up this report and sends it to the Parliament. So this is, you could possibly say it's the exact sum of incorrect data. It's nothing. Journalist Jelena Berkovic, in a known case, is now also an external member of the Committee on Information, Information and Media. She asked the government to provide her with agendas and decisions from their closed sessions where members of the government, because it is known to everyone hidden from the public, which is why they closed up at that session, shared the budget money of the citizens to whom they wanted and how they wanted. The journalist was interested in the public interest to have the government deliver her agendas of closed sessions, see points and see conclusions from these sessions. That citizens can know that she informs them when the government has already hid in a closed session, that she informs them that the government is sharing their budget money. Well, I don't have to tell you that the government didn't give her an answer to such an inquiry. You know that. But it's not the end. Journalist Berkovic sued the Government of the Administrative Court and won the dispute. The administrative court has ordered Prime Minister Sanader to choose to submit that information. None of what I've told you is in this report. That case isn't mentioned. He's for the state office, for the administration marginal. Irrelevant. He's gone. He didn't happen here according to this report where everything is beautiful and beautiful, and reality is completely different. That's why we say this report is a falsification of reality. The report does not mention either the lawsuit, nor the solution to the suit of volunteer GONG against the Croatian queen of emigrants, because of the lack of the requested data. Like any other suit by any other GONG volunteer against the Croatian Telecommunications Agency. The finance ministry claims, according to this report, that they have not filed any complaints about the silence of the administration, and only GONG sent them three. Three such complaints. The foreign ministry also says it has resolved all the requirements within the legally prescribed deadline, and only GONG has sent four requests, three of which came only after an appeal for the silence of the administration, off-limits. An example of how much you love it. It would take a long time to list them all. Here's the most interesting. It is said of the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports that there have been no complaints filed, no complaints filed by the Administrative Court of the Republic of Croatia. GONG's records have, they know people, they filed four complaints about non-compliance with deadlines. Keep going. Central State Office, this is unusually interesting. It is not stated that the Central State Administration Office, which is responsible for the control of this law, the control of the implementation of this law, has been sent two complaints about the silence of the administration, and one reply has arrived outside the legal deadline. That's what it All right, come on. The State Office, the Central State Administration Office, conveys what others have falsely passed on to him. Come on. Let's understand them. But how they don't write about themselves that what I guess you should know happened in their office. They didn't count obviously to hear from GONG with the exact data. We have an interesting case in Dubrovnik. We find out about him from the papers. The city of Dubrovnik, mayor of Shuica, our colleague, according to a newspaper report, has introduced a fee for 20 kuna information. According to the law, the public authority has the right to compensation for actual costs, like a copy of a document. And that's what the city of Dubrovnik charges two kunas, I guess that's how much it costs. But the request itself is charged 20 kuna. Like this. They have drawn up a rulebook and it states: "The rightholder of information which requires access to information is obliged to pay a fee of 20 kuna at the request for access to information, a request for information, and a correction of information." Every time, 20 kunas. That's how the city of Dubrovnik and the mayor thought about peeling the citizens of Dubrovnik under this law instead of providing them with information free of charge as required by the law. Interesting entrepreneurial activity. NGOs, we could see it yesterday in information shows, analyzed this report. Not only GONG, but other Transparency International, and I don't know which one else. Tax analysis, defeating analysis. We had, yesterday the Media Committee discussed this report as a parent working body. We've been discussing this report for two hours. We also had GONG analysis and GONG data. When we tried to level it down a little bit so let's see what the NGOs think about it, then HDZ members, I won't name them now, one member, here's colleague Markovanovic intervened, who's GONG, what's GONG, so I don't think GONG's going to tell us how the law on information is respected here. This is the attitude towards the NGO sector, which is tasked with controlling the government. I also told my colleagues Markovanovic that I would send a phonogram from that session to the government's Office for Co-operation with the civil sector to see what the government's relationship with the civil sector is. Today we will see, or Friday, when we vote on this, what is the attitude of the parliamentary majority not only of the colleagues of Markovanovic, according to the civil sector which has declared this report a falsifier, unacceptable and inadmissible. He is, the analysis shows that he is. This has nothing to do with politics, this is just an analysis. Compare the data. You can see that the findings in the report are incorrect, that they falsify the public. Therefore, this report only logically must be rejected, for what else, what else to do with it. Why is this report even important? Because it's an important law. The right to access information is an integral part of the fight against corruption and the action plan. And that action plan was proposed by this very government, Sanader's government. It's not the other one. She suggested it, and now she's implementing it so as to deceive the public. If there is no firm, clear, unequivocal right to access information, there is no fight against corruption. Do you need changes in the law? Maybe they are. It's a relatively new law. Maybe we should fix it. Maybe we should put political parties in there as pledges to the right to information, to give information to citizens. Maybe we should, because as the citizens will now find out, how they, they don't have the instruments to ask the president of HDZ today, is it true that he bought a blinded BMW by 4 million and 200 thousand kuna, when citizens, these same citizens, are getting paid. He cuts his salary to teachers and buys himself a party car for $4 million. If the parties were obliged to supply information, then Prime Minister Sanader would have to, the HDZ president must answer the citizen yes, HDZ bought the car, HDZ has money. That you don't have, that we're cutting your salary, that's your concern. We bought and we'll buy bigger and more expensive. Why? Well, we cut your salary, there'll be money. If things were to start from a dead end in this country, but in order to start, it is necessary to reject this report, to refuse with the detestation of this counterfeit, urgently go into the changes of the law, urgently and do something, to clearly show that we all here in Parliament care when the Government is already not. To allow citizens to exercise their right to information. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-26-0.u30624	That's not what you meant by government, is it?
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-26-0.u30625	And to you, and to you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-26-0.u30626	What's my fault now? ... It's my fault, then, for objective responsibility or collective responsibility. [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]] That smells a little like collectiveization. Thank you very much. We have 7 corrections of incorrect allegations. The first Josip Djakic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-26-0.u30627	Thank you very much, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament So here's all that's actually been said is a falsification of reality and the person who said it and she's a falsification of reality. But I'm going to refer to the correction of an incorrect assumption relating to the court's verdicts. ... [[Speaks out loud, doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-26-0.u30628	Peace, please!
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-26-0.u30629	The court's rulings make it clear that Miss Berkovic's request was rejected on December 18th and the plea was rejected. That another verdict that says it is necessary only for the president to respond to the appeal and there are no phenomena that are derived from not responding to the lawsuits, that it is not responding to the demands, but there are meetings of the Government that were, decisions that were made by 608 and which were marked by the term "secretion". I therefore believe that these judgments mentioned here can be seen and read, to explain that it would not be to present something that is not true. So really, forging the truth I don't think it's nice...
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-26-0.u30630	One thing is, fellow Djakic, a large part is the correction of the incorrect allegations, but it is inappropriate to call a representative as you have called Agent Stazic that he is a falsifier of reality. That's not appropriate. Despite all the ghastly struggles and debates, despite the challenge of the MPs' opinions, it is not, please stay away from that. Here you go, Madam Representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-26-0.u30631	Yes, Mr. President, when you only saw that I raised this plate for the breach of the Rules of Procedure, then you reacted.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-26-0.u30632	No, I was reacting when I needed to react, not when you graded that. You just can't impute me right now when you lift a tile I'm not obliged to give you my word at the moment.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-26-0.u30633	Now you've given me your word, and yet you speak again. I don't know if you gave yourself a word to me or me.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-26-0.u30634	I'm just teaching you about the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-26-0.u30635	A colleague violated the provision of Article 214 because he insulted his colleague, Stazic, by his conduct. However, he does not deviate from the general rules of conduct in HDZ, so maybe here...
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-26-0.u30636	And what if I was warning you the same thing now?
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-26-0.u30637	What are you warning me about?
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-26-0.u30638	So to warn you that you are now collectively insulting the entire HDZ.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-26-0.u30639	I'm not insulting you, but even when you warned him before me, the whole club there is laughing. That's funny to them.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-26-0.u30640	He's laughing?
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-26-0.u30641	Yeah.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-26-0.u30642	How he laughs. My colleagues and colleagues, please. Regardless of how we stick to that Voltair thing, even though I should love my opponent and his freedom of word and the right to freedom of speech, no matter how kind his words seemed. Mr. Representative Joseph Kunst, correction of an incorrect quote.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-26-0.u30643	Your Honor, Vice President, I would like to correct all the allegations of Agent Stazic because they are incorrect. He didn't speak at all, and he didn't speak at all on purpose about the subject that we are talking about today at the Parliament because he basically took over the role of spokesman Gong and spoke about the Gong report. So everything he said was incorrect, and in particular he said that the report was forgeries, and that he did not support it with any fact other than some of his anecdotes. So everything he said is incorrect and I totally agree that he's not a fake of reality, he's a product of reality.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-26-0.u30644	Ms. Representative Ljubica Lukačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-26-0.u30645	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-26-0.u30646	Stay away from the outpouring of love.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-26-0.u30647	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Here's what I'd do to correct an incorrect quote from my fellow Stazic. Namely, it is not true, or there is no case of Berkovic. Well, he's not here because the Berkovic case, a fellow Stazic case from 2007, is not true that the government did not explain him. The government explained it in detail both in the 2007 report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-26-0.u30648	Thank you. Ms. Representative Susana Bilić Vardić, correction of the incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-26-0.u30649	Thank you, Vice President. I give up on behalf of love.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-26-0.u30650	Madam Representative Dubravka Shuica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-26-0.u30651	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Stazic said one great inaccuracies and a lie about the City of Dubrovnik. I can explain. The law on the right to access information said to establish a catalogue of information. We did so and the Law on the right to access information is prescribed that the public authority has the right to compensate for the actual material costs that we have also made. The Law on Administrative Taxes requires that all requests, applications, proposals and other submissions be paid 20 kuna, and the City of Dubrovnik, when we are asked for information, have a legal and moral obligation to write the written enquiries which generally come by e-mail to answer on an up-to-date basis and do not charge a administrative fee. But when an authority asks for information in writing, then we apply this law with 20 kn. Anyway, it's not a fee for information, it's a administrative fee and one lesson. In order to avoid the possibility of charging charges under the Law on Administrative Taxes, an exception should be made in this law and it should be stated that no administrative fees on submissions relating to the Law on the right to access to information are payable. And then you'd be right. But this is how you were wrong.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-26-0.u30652	Mr. Representative Krunoslav Markovnović.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-26-0.u30653	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, here's my colleague Stazic speaking incorrectly. I said I'd send it, if so. clear my exposure there from the board. My colleague Stazic said exactly that I would sue you. And the other day he said the same thing, we'll sue you. So I don't know what role a colleague is in here in the Parliament. That's one thing. Secondly, I also incorrectly said what I told GONG, because I said it was possible that two representatives of the Croatian Parliament could be so humiliated, licking it to GONG only if it is not for the next election. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-26-0.u30654	Mr. Representative Frano Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-26-0.u30655	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. A colleague, Stazic, incorrectly claimed that the government had secret sessions where she kept something secret. The government had meetings closed to the public just as your government had when Ivica Racan was chaired. Equally, closed to the public. But all decisions made by this government at closed sessions are published on the government's website. Therefore, all decisions are available. All what the Government decides at that closed session is available to the public and this can be obtained by clicking on these data. And fellow Stazic, speaking of this country, this country is called the Republic of Croatia unless you think of something else.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-26-0.u30656	Okay. I think you silent fellow Stazic dropped that charge against me that I'm responsible for something. I accept this as a sign of approval. HNS representative club, Mr. Representative Goran Beus Richembergh.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-26-0.u30657	Dear Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Secretary of State Palaric, I'm particularly glad you're here. Namely, this report sees the paradox at the same time is both the original and the forgeries. It's the original because there hasn't been a bad report like this yet and this is an excerpt that really deserves special attention in the history of this House. In order to avoid confusion, we had a discussion a year ago about a similar report for 2007 and everything we were saying in good faith about this poor approach that the Central State Office has in drawing up this report went to the wind. There was absolutely no effect on compiling this year's reports, and then from that report, we find ephemeral things, not what's really relevant. In that sense, I am amazed at the perseverance of Secretary of State Palaric because I will say one more piece of information. Immediately after discussing this report in the Croatian Parliament last year, GONG organised a large round table on which he presented his research in public and on this round table, State Secretary Palaric swore to wood and stone that the government would hold amendments and amendments to the law by the end of the year, which will fully acquit all the reasons for which there is bad practice in respect of this law. In front of everyone, there were 60 or 70 of them there. Here, today a year after that, we don't have any of that. Yesterday, we learned that there was no draft amendments or additions to the law in the state office, but we learned that there was nothing to do about it. This is a fake. Those who know what these auxiliary historical sciences are know that there is a science called diplomacy that defines three types of counterfeits. This document is at least two types of pure forgeries. A fake in that category when you transfer from an incorrect source, i.e. from a specific source of incorrect information, so you repeat them and create an illusion of truth. That's how our school textbooks are filled with false information because they quote bad sources. They quote unreliable sources and quote falsified data, but they call for sources. And that's how you repeat information in public. What is most important in this matter and in this report we do not have written, and this is how many out of the 4 thousand bodies with public authority in the Republic of Croatia do they truly fulfil their legal obligation to submit to the Central Office of the State Administration a report on the compliance of this law, i.e. the number of complaints, the structure of complaints, the fate of complaints? We have no idea how many municipalities, cities, counties, and other bodies really responded to that legal obligation. So this report is actually a presentation of an informal survey, an informal one so much that whoever did not report it, and it was bound by law, nothing will happen to him, and those who reported actually are building a fake picture of the real situation, so we've been convinced from the Central State Office for a year after year that the number of complaints is dropping, or the number of citizens' demands for the delivery of information. So how is that possible? When the number of bodies is growing, when the number of cases is growing, and what will we do when the Central Office itself will not report that in all five cases where GONG volunteers have spoken to them by referring to this law in all five cases there have been problems. In three cases, they were sent complaints, and in two rushes. It's not here. And we know that GONG is traditionally doing whatever rehearsals every year to see if the reports that we receive officially on the benches are correct or not. Last year, Secretary of State Palaric had absolutely no objections to GONG's findings. Now, all of a sudden this year, HDZ circles are coming up with the worst possible attacks. You bow to GONG, my colleague told me yesterday. Whoever worships GONG for God's sake, it's the basic duty of a civil society that deals with overseeing the public processes in which we have their resources. And now we worship GONG, worship NGOs. Among them is the Croatian Journalist Society. There are several other organizations that are very interested in seeing the structure of this report. Why? Because as counterpart Stazic said and as it says in the national documents, respect for this law is one of the forms of countering corruption in the Republic of Croatia. On my five questions yesterday, the representative of the Central State Administration's office didn't know how many real answers came in as far as they didn't. So, only the body doesn't know and doesn't have the data. But I can fail today. I guarantee them that tomorrow they will receive a written parliamentary question within 30 days, by law they will have to answer with the exact structure how many they answered, how many they did not, or how many they reported, how many they did not. If they keep that information hidden, he'll be public soon enough. Of course, there are many municipalities and cities that don't even get any complaints, performances, demands, submissions within the meaning of this law. The fact is, but it's their duty to report it. When you look at the structure of these submissions, or demands, you actually come up with fragrant situations. A man who is an ideal co-owner of one-third of the property that was rented asks the district office of the Ministry of Finance's tax administration here in Zagreb do two other co-owners regularly pay taxes? Because a man is afraid that maybe the two of them don't pay taxes on their total rental income and that tomorrow they'll be left without it if someone sits down for the occasion. If the state says you're taxpayers. And what do they match him for? I'm sorry, it's a tax secret. Well, that's amazing. The tax secret may be a procedure, amount and solution because whoever pays the tax is cut into a tax procedure to determine the amount of the tax on the value of the assets or the value of the income, or transactions in a given procedure. So, in that solution, it says all of this, and that's not what people are interested in. He just wants to know whether or not the tax is paid. And while there are democratically formed states where they talk about whether or not they pay, tax is a division between bandits and honest people, with us it's a secret. So in countries developed democracy whether you pay taxes or not is your democratic legitimacy for participation in public business. It's a secret with us. Or another case. The journalist asks the City Headship of Bjelovar how many social dwellings are owned by the City of Bjelovar and who is using them. It can't be more public interest than someone who represents the public to find out how public funds are used. Well, it's not even the mayor of the city of Belovar or the president of the City Council. Social character apartments are part of the property of the City of Bjelovar, which actually represents the citizens. These are apartments, so public funds regardless of whether they are real estate or money for which every citizen has the right to access the information they use and who has the right to use those funds because they are using it on some basis. If they are social housing, then they probably won't have the credited citizens of Bjelovar living in them because they will be formed a special housing fund if it is the city's need. But he says, "No, we can't get you that data. Namely, you know your data is protected because it's about protection of privacy.". To protect privacy when someone has to expose himself to the public and has to report to the competition, they must give all their information to prove that they have the right to do so, they must be listed in some public visible place that citizens have an insight into who they are and how they get to that apartment and they say to him now, "No, we can't give you the information because it's a secret.". What secret? How can the property of the city be a secret? The property may be the president of the City Council or the mayor is and may be a personal matter but the city's property is not and must not be a secret, as well as a state property. In that sense, this is a very bad report. And we have been warned, law enforcement reports regulating the right to access information are part of our documentation in the process of negotiations with the European Union and the opening of a particular chapter defining democratic standards and standards against corruption. It has already been publicly found that the data in this report are incorrect and we are stuck sending this kind of paper to Brussels. Well, you know, I'm not. The HNS does not want to send such papers to Brussels but rather to the truth. Only the truth can pave the way for clearing up the problems that this law deals with. Therefore, if we adopt this report now and deliberately allow this report to become part of a dossier that goes to Brussels on our behalf and the European Commission has realized that this is a forged document because it does not contain complete data because more than twenty falsified information and incomplete information from page to page is only in the GONG report, and this is information that concerns their volunteers who send questionnaires every year because it is an internationally known project to simulate the success of this law. And these are projects funded by international donors so that you do not accidentally forget and from the European Union, Mr Markovanovic. So why are we bringing our negotiators into such an awkward situation, why are we going to embarrass ourselves in Brussels with such documents? Once again, I repeat the question in the end, how many bodies with public authority responded to the requirement primarily of a legal obligation in time to report compliance with this law? I'm looking for an answer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-26-0.u30658	Thank you. A few corrections of incorrect allegations. Ms. Representative Susana Bilić Vardić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-26-0.u30659	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. A colleague said that, quote "last year's debate on the 2007 report did not have any effect on this report". Well, here's a colleague, if nothing else in the last year's report had 52 pages and this 2008 report has 73 pages. I leave you to consider how this has been done since 3 thousand 670 requests for access to information were submitted in 2007 and in 2008. Two thousand 731.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-26-0.u30660	Second correction, Mr. Representative Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-26-0.u30661	Thank you very much, Vice President. Well, here's what I'm going to do is I'm going to correct the incorrect quote of a colleague who said that falsify this report completely and that GONG has condemned it through his analysis. Namely, I will quote and deny it because the analysis of the official report conducted by GONG with the signature of Mr. Vice President Dragan Zelic says this way: "But despite all this, the report assures us that the law is respected and applied. We also add that a full report should have a particular chapter on examples of good practice, on examples that become precedents, on holes in law or difficulties in law enforcement, as well as recommendations for further improvement of the law.". I don't know why and why you're bypassing the truth and in the GONG report that's clearly written, which is unequivocally confirmed and signed. I don't know what right or why. Who are you representing? Why do you want to speak lies in front of this Croatian home when they are defined in an analysis that clearly speaks about it.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-26-0.u30662	Third Amendment Mr. Representative Jerko Roshin.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-26-0.u30663	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'm correcting the incorrect allegations of falsification of the report. At the same time, a fellow representative and others are asked, given the importance of expression, the importance of language in use in this House at least. This report may be incorrect, this report may be unacceptable, this report may be bad, but it's not a fake. The fake always refers to the original. So if there was something before and this isn't what it is now, like a painting, like a master's degree, like a book, like notes, and this can't be a fake. It can be colloktially used. That's why I'm surprised to hear a fellow writer, and what language he knows well. Colloquial can be spoken outside the assembly but in the assembly, I don't think such a termology can be used but it should be said that this report in these and these details is completely incorrect, it's unclear and unacceptable but it's not a falsification because it's not a falsification, it's the original report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-26-0.u30664	Mr. Representative Frano Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-26-0.u30665	So I'm also correcting this quote about counterfeiting. Of course it's not a falsification, not in the sense of a termological statement by a colleague, but it's true because you're not a colleague of any arguments whether anything is incorrect or false in this report, not one argument. To refer to the report of the Gong we heard, we heard that the vice president of Gong signed a sentence saying that this report assures us, in fact, the law respects itself. He clearly says the law is respected. Therefore, do not deceive your colleague by making such statements about counterfeits.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-26-0.u30666	We're going to an individual debate. Mr. Representative Dragutin Lesar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-26-0.u30667	Thank you very much for your honor, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues. On behalf of the Government, it is said that the state of availability of information to citizens is good. I consider reading this report that the situation is not satisfactory, and I will illustrate that by quoting several allegations from the report itself. I also believe that given that the methodology for showing the data in the report itself is not the most fortunate solution, because in the next report, the office should apply a slightly clearer methodology so that the work of the same thing depends on the source does not differ. Why do I find the situation unsatisfactory? The central office of the state administration of three rushes had to send units of local and regional self-government to deliver the data. If the Central Office of the State has had to rush local authorities three times to respond to the Central State Office's request in accordance with the law, and that report has not had any requests for the availability of information, then this is indeed not a good situation. I can't understand or understand who in local and regional self-government is unless they give information to citizens, they don't respond to the Central State Office's demands. This finding in your report is worth a lot to see if there's a possibility of sanctions against responsible sanctions, no matter who it's about. It is unacceptable for you to be in a situation next year to find a similar situation without anyone being sanctioned in the meantime. The more we advocate, due to the direct election of leaders and this new model for strengthening the authority of local self-government, it is unacceptable in Parliament to go over the fact that they did not give up responding to the request of the Central Office or even to the haste they received. In this case, it's local and regional, but if it concerns anyone, it's the same thing again. Consider, see, and suggest the possibility of imposing sanctions for this kind of behavior. This isn't acceptable, and we can't go over it. The second reason I believe that the situation in the field of information is not correct is to mention the rulings of the Administrative Court of the Republic of Croatia on the complaint by Ms Jelena Berkovic. It is not so controversial for me that the report does not mention the verdict, although it was made in 2008, but I am concerned about the other two things. Well, all those who claimed, and now they've gone out of the hall, I'm sorry, the orderly corrections, that it's not disputed whether there was something secret or just closed to the public. I will read it, so I will quote from the argument or document of the Administrative Court why the government refused to give the information Mrs. Berkovic asked for. I read, "By decision of Class 022, 03, 05, 04, 01 of the regulation of 29 November 2007, the defendant, so the Government, rejected this request, with the reason that all agendas of the Croatian Government's meeting were marked by a certain degree of secrecy." So the government has determined that these agendas are at a certain level of secrecy. I suppose that the agenda points of these sessions were of the utmost importance for national security because I see no other reason why the agenda would be defined, by a certain degree of secrecy, and the second reason my concern is also the fact that the government that proposed the law does not know until the end of the law, because to consult someone, then it would have respected the appeal of the first solution and would not have been brought to the situation that the case must end in the Administrative Court. To end up in the Administrative Court because of a public institution, a municipality, a city or another, I could still understand, but you'll agree with me, I guess when the government ends up in court and loses that dispute, and it's about law enforcement, it's not a good message, it's not a good message. Thirdly, the ministry accepted 239 requests for information, 21 refusals, 30 were clearly submitted to other bodies and 30 were not resolved. So one-fifth is either not solved or rejected. If one-fifth of the demands or unsettled or rejected are assessed as good, then let's figure out what is the limit above which will be bad, satisfactory or very good. Fourthly, from the examples given by the Central State Office by illustrating the problem of access to information, I have noticed a lot of examples where council members in municipalities, cities and counties have to use the law on the availability of information in order to obtain information or information from the authority of the headship or council. You are now giving me an explanation, please, of what kind of democracy, local democracy and local authority in which a council member in order to obtain some information from the authority of the headship, or the council itself, must be called upon to the law on the availability of information. What's this about? What's this about? What are we introducing in Croatia? So could we tolerate the fact that, as Parliamentarians, instead of consulting questions and data-seeking, we should call on this law in the future to get answers? Can we tolerate that, too? Is it acceptable that a councilman in the county council or city council can't get the answers and data he asked for through council questions? It's not acceptable to me. Whoever that is acceptable to and whoever is going over it is clearly not understanding the meaning of local democracy. And final. Some find it strange or funny why GONG's remarks are mentioned in a parliamentary debate. GONG is a civil organisation that, by means of a method of questioning and making requests for information, tests the model and has the right to publicly publish the results of its examinations. Some studies are conducted by polling, some in this way and we can ignore here in the Assembly what GONG has published, but I assure you that those who follow Croatia's progress not only by the number of European laws that we adopt in Croatia, in the Croatian Parliament, but by how we apply them and with great attention have studied the GONG report. It doesn't have to matter to us here at all. We can pretend that GONG is at the service of one or other political options, but in this case it is not, because they did not choose on political preferences to whom they would apply. We can pretend that their reports are missing, but there are those in Zagreb who have read it and who will ask our negotiators very unpleasant questions when the topic is current. And that's why Mr. Secretary of State would be extremely well, the main document published to GONG has given 20 allegations, their results with concrete examples that the body, as much as they require in their research, and none in yours. The answer to this or comment on this GONG claim is necessary, necessary to remove the dilemma whether the report is authentic or not and whether or not it can be voted for. Ignoring GONG's allegations gives me the right to doubt that they're right, not you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-26-0.u30668	Thank you. One correction to the incorrect allegations, Mr. Representative Josip Djakic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-26-0.u30669	Thank you very much, Vice President. Well, here's what's wrong with... If you took a plate on the first page of the GONG report you would clearly see that 50% of the requests were answered within the deadline and in accordance with the law, that 50% was not answered within the deadline, but that of those 50% who did not respond within the deadline following the complaint 39.29% were responsible, and that 19% of the requests were not answered at all, i.e. 19 requests are not answered which accounts for 11.30% and the administrative dispute has been initiated by 1.78%. [[Because of a loud announcement, the speaker does not understand.]] This is a report by GONG which makes it clear that the situation is actually very good at everything that seems to be going on, that each year is getting better and that there are more and more timely responses or responses after the appeal.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-26-0.u30670	Mrs. Representative Mirela Holly. Debate please proceed elsewhere.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-26-0.u30671	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues, for the government's representatives. The conclusion that is in itself imposed, after reading the report on the implementation of the 2008 Law on the right to access information, can, unfortunately, be reduced to two words, nothing new. Because the fact is that public authorities, which is the highest responsibility of the state administration, have not shown any ambition in 2008 to seriously approach the implementation of this extremely important law, one of the fundamental tools for fighting corruption. This is not only opposition dramatization, because the fact was strongly warned yesterday by representatives and representatives of NGOs, more specifically the Association for Independent Media Culture, GONG, Transparens International, and the Croatian Journalist Society. They saw this report as flawed, inconsistencies, tendantly, that it contains incorrect data, and that it wants to convince the public that law enforcement is fantastic even though the situation is getting worse every year. I sign every letter of this evaluation of the report that we had yesterday heard from the representatives and representatives of the NGO sector, because it is indeed a sad fact that this year's document also denied the public for basic information on the basis of which a report was made and how many public authorities have provided their data on the implementation of the law, and this was warned by Suzana Jasic of GONG. She said, among other things, that the report assures us that the law is respected and applied, but the reality is completely different and is not bright, and that the report is so bad that it would be funny to conclude something from it. She warned that by comparing the data from the report to her research, GONG found that the report contained 20 incorrect or abandoned data, for example not to mention that two journalists had received court rulings against the government and the Ministry of Finance for breach of the right to access information. Zorislav Antun Petrovic of Transparency International warned that two journalists, despite court rulings, had not yet received the requested information, which is not a good climate for the development of democracy and the reduction of corruption. Why didn't this information get into the report we're discussing today? I am afraid that the main reason for laxating or embellishing the sad state of affairs with regard to the implementation of the Law on the right to access information is, in particular, by the central government authority. What concerns is a very bad practice that requests for access to information are only addressed to those who explicitly call on the Law on the right to access information although this is not defined anywhere in the law. I recall Article 11 of the Law, quotes: "The authorising officer exercises the right to access information by submitting an oral or written request to the competent authority of the public authority. If the request is submitted orally, the minutes will be drawn up and an official note will be drawn up on the telephone or other telecommunications device." The end of the quote. It does not say anywhere that the authorising officer must be referred to the provisions of the law or the law itself in order to exercise the right to access any information in the possession of a body of public authority. But since authorities are not in the interest of being open to the public and transparent in their work, it is easier to ignore and ignore such demands. GONG warned that the report wanted to convince the public that the information was delivered on time, although the association, i.e. GONG, determined that the answer to less than 50% of the questionnaire was received within the proposed legal period of 15 days. So I think that Susana Jasic rightly concluded when she said, I quote: "When you are looking for some benign information you will get, but for the more sensitive things you probably won't succeed" and reminded that the agenda of closed meetings of the government is still the most closely kept secret. Therefore, the SDP supports the request for GONG to establish an independent body of the Commissioner for Information and to amend the legal framework so that citizens can be able to access information more easily and faster. Given that I worked for four years at the Ministry of Environmental Protection and mainly on information affairs, i.e. working on these jobs, I have had the opportunity to see how much the interest of citizens, media representatives, but also legal persons in obtaining information related to the work of the public authority body, I am particularly concerned with the data from the reports relating to the number of requests for access to information, which fell again compared to 2007. We should believe the report, which states that all bodies are public authorities, which I remind almost 4,000 public authorities, state bodies, units of local and regional regional self-government, legal persons with public authority and other persons transferred to public authorities, received only 2731 requests in 2008 and 931 requests less than in 2007. Almost a thousand requests less is not exactly a negligible number. This information confirms what I said during the debate on the report on the implementation of the law in 2007 or that although it was logical to expect that the number of laws with each new year of application of the law will grow from the simple fact that citizens will increasingly use this right when they are familiar with the legal right to receive such information, the practice of implementing this law under the HDZ magic spin stick has shown the diametric opposite. In other words, in years of ever more rigorous HDZ party control in public authorities, a constant decline in the number of requests received for access to information is recorded. That confirms the data from chart number two. In 2004, 19 thousand 600 applications were received, in 2005. 4449, 2006. 4357, in 2007, as I already said 3671 requests, and in 2008, scandalous 2730 demands. As it begins, we can expect that in this year no one will even file an application for information, or at least reports in a year will make that claim, because there are citizens and legal persons who are not at all interested in obtaining such information. What can you do? And just as civil society claims, something drastic is wrong, i.e. that the fundamental role and task of the Law on the right to access information adopted in 2003 at the time of the coalition government led by the SDP was fully played, our goal was to raise the transparency of the work of the public authority body, and thus raise the quality and responsibilities of the public authority. These responsibilities for years or since HDZ is again at the head of the state, there are no more and these are aware document makers, competent from the Central State Administration Office, and as well-trained parrots repeat the phrases of last year's report on how information is available, publishing information on websites and so on. Although the report cited a reduction in the number of requests, it somehow did not say too much that the number of complaints to the Administrative Court increased from year to year, i.e. this suggests some conclusion, which is that officials are not being dealt with by the requirements, so they must seek their right in court. Finally, when we put aside that the appearance and content of the report are inconclusive or that the report in this form may be difficult to consider to be a serious document prepared by one government body, the report is impossible to accept because such alarmingly low numbers of requests indicate the following disturbing conclusions. The rulings have been spending several years of an elaborate policy of closing public authorities from citizens, media and interested public. Because of the awareness that they will not receive information even if they repeatedly ask the public authority for information, citizens are increasingly looking for information that suggests a great non-transparentity of government work. The rule of this law deems an irrelevant and pointless document, a disturbance, and the leaders of the public authorities marginalise the importance of the implementation of this law. Such marginalisation by the ruling policy is recognised by information officers who are largely sloppy. The sloppyness of law enforcement by the competent officials tells the information and that it is extremely rare to enroll telephone enquiries and e-mails that certainly reach at least a few in each body of public authorities. One note, in order for my colleagues and colleagues not to correct me, I am not talking here about performances, complaints and similar actions that are not subject to this law, but the General Administrative Procedure Act. And finally, this document disappointed me because it is talking about the dramatic fall of democratic standards, and the increasing closure and intransparentity of the work of the public authority in the last few years. Therefore, I cannot accept this report and appeal to the competent authorities to make this law more serious. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-26-0.u30672	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect allegation. Mr. Representative Andrew Hebrang. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-26-0.u30673	Thank you very much. Well, in a series of these witty findings, I'm only correcting incorrect allegations. I quote, "the bodies of the state administration have not shown any desire to improve the situation in this area." Well, colleagues, if you don't trust statistics, then make up some other branch of proof of records. According to statistics, the number of requests has dropped by 86% over the past four years because information has been introduced into the system. Of these 2730 requirements, only 3.7% were rejected and only 2% were not resolved by the end of the year. I don't know what numbers you want. A second incorrect quote. Spin the HDZ bat. No, this is Mrs Susana Jasic's spin stick, which, in conflict of interest as a member of the Croatian Council and the president of the GONG, shows in his business a large donation from HRT which is not seen there, since the day of entry into office of the HRT Council. I can't trust a person like that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-26-0.u30674	Thank you. 18.25 hours have elapsed to report a ten-minute hearing. Mr. Representative Nenad Stazic. And before that, with the right, full right, the replica of Mr. Representative Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-26-0.u30675	Thank you very much. My colleague Holly, it's not only a problem that I have a lot of inaccuracies in this report and discussion of the report. The problem is that here in Parliament, they are trying to defend themselves with incorrect data, so after quoting the court document, I challenged fellow Matosic's claim that it was not secret agendas and documents, he even said that it was all published on the government's website. And the court document states that the government has declared the agendas a certain degree of secrecy by its decision. Now they're quiet about it. So Djakic keeps repeating and reading a document by GONG where he will prove the situation is good. But I must now warn him that there is another document of the GONG which is called Analysis of the official report on the implementation of the Law on the right to access information in which GONG found 21 inaccuracies in the government's report and there was no relevant report of the response or comment of the government's representative. I think that by insisting on this, we could resolve whether this report by GONG was done by Susana Jasic or by other people and whether it is the fact that Mrs Jasic is also in the Council of the HRT and at the head of GONG any connection and consequence with the situation in Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-26-0.u30676	Replication response, Mrs. Representative Mirela Holly.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-26-0.u30677	Well, colleague Lesar, you are absolutely right and what seems to me is that the reactions from both our colleagues and colleagues from HDZ and this rather nervous reaction to GONG's report and yesterday's press conference are just confirming that the the thesis that I presented, which is that this government, the HDZ government, is really not in any intention to implement this real law and that this law is actually perceived as a left-wing disturbance that needs to be ignored. Because who cares about cooperation with citizens and civil society at all.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-26-0.u30678	Thank you. Mr. Representative Nenad Stazic. He's gone. He's losing his word. Now I have one application card, and since I've done a lot of pharmacy work, I think it's Mrs. Representative Ingrid Anticevic Marinović. Did I guess?
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-26-0.u30679	Yes, Your Honor, Mr. Vice President. It's not a fake, but it's a fake what we have in front of us. And I'm surprised at you, Mr. Palaric. Do you think that when Prime Minister Ivo Sanader leaves his post, he will protect you? Dear colleague Roshin is well from his point of view of more artists and so said that it could not be forgeries. He's the one who found the foothold. About this very thing he couldn't find, so he called on his profession and really there he says forgeries. No, because there's no original. That's how it could be defended from his profession. And I appreciate his efforts. But this is about falsifying an I.D. The article.../The speaker turned off and re-enabled./... and we should be in serious danger because we are responsible all of us individually who would, i.e. gave consent to such a false display. In fact, Article 311 speaks of who makes false corrections, etc. with a view to applying such an amendment as rights. Only the last case from Zadar, so you can see it on the pages of the Administrative Court where the town of Zadar spokeswoman was convicted because she did not answer the journalist's question. And you don't have that in this report. But the truth is, even this is no longer news at all that the Administrative Court punishes representatives of the public authority who are obliged to provide such information precisely and spotically, within the time limit. But you have one interesting thing about the court being in the same thing, but irregular because the thing is still there, the offender freed the city of Zadar with an explanation. Please listen and hear that the independent judicial authority wants to be justified before this authority, and says: “The city of Zadar is an institution of public authority, but not of authority, and then it is not subject to that law.” There is only one case, the last case, or which is listed for last year and which you do not have here in the report. Let's just remember how the matter began to ignore the decisions of the Administrative Court when the Administrative Court was ruled against the prime minister and then dismissed the President of the Administrative Court even though he was not the judge in that court. Furthermore, where the case of Ivica Grcara, who received two rulings from the Administrative Court against the two ministers, has asked for the amount under the concession agreement. He didn't get the answer, but that's why he got the administrative court's decision. And you see that's why, of course, GONG reacts. The NGOs have joined many associations because this issue is important and important. In fact, the issue of implementing the Law on the right to access information is a test of whether we want to fight corruption and organised crime. This is an opening story and this is a preventive law in that sense. First of all, it needs to act preventively, for if information is obtained in time, neither will evil happen. And if they're hiding, then they're covering up and everything that's happened. That's why associations clearly say that when it comes to benign information, there's a spot on the bodies, they give answers in time. But when it comes to questions of financial nature, there are many difficulties. And as part of the project, these government associations have established a pressure group. They say themselves that Ivo Sanader will be reminded of the right of the public, information and that this information is of exceptional public interest which the Government but, unfortunately and in turn, all ministers are persistently denying because the Croatian prime minister is one of the few European prime ministers of the government who calls the press conferences exclusively in exceptional circumstances and does not allow the issue of journalistic issues, which openly deny any possibility of questioning government's work. And it basically forms what they say to their ministers, and it unequivocally states that the political will really does not exist for the establishment of an open government, and that is how it is spoken from letter to letter on that round table. The government forgets that the right to access information is a civil right, that the government has no authority over information and that information belongs to citizens, that journalists also have specific needs in terms of the need for quick information received and unlike citizens, and we see that a growing number of citizens are looking for such information. Well, we're witnesses, too, when we ask a question, we ask a very specific question, we get a completely different answer that's not an answer at all, but it's also considered by the government that she's answered, and she hasn't answered at all. So it's pure abuse of law. Mr. Toni Gabric, who is president of the Association for Independent Media Culture and who is also the editor-in-chief of the Halter portal, urged reporters to send all questions that did not receive answers to the address of the Legal Assistance Centre to use all legal means and simply force the authorities to answer. So did Journalist Zdenko Duka, noting that the project is actually helping to implement the Law on the right to access information. Of course Mr. Josip Kregar, a professor and assistant professor at the law school who was an active participant in the round table, joined this. And he's just talking, and I think we can all agree about it that, really, without the political will to move more significantly here in the implementation of the Law on the right to access information, there will be no, and then our serious and systematic fight against corruption and organised crime and abuse of the authorities of every kind. As an example of political will, he cited the move of a new US president, who obliged all his commissioners to have transparency towards the public by giving them very, very specific instructions on how they must treat the public. The latest case by Ivica Gričar, who was also a participant of the round table and who said that he was one of the few journalists who has not given up and who will write complaints to the Administrative Court unlike other journalists who simply cannot wait for such long-term information because of the nature of the work, so he cited these two examples that I have also told you. So, although it insists on a powerful decision by the Administrative Court, the verdict and a very concrete obligation by the two ministries to choose to give the requested information to the journalist, journalists have not yet received that information. Why? Because it's very, very sensitive to the power of information. So whenever it comes to issues that have one of their own financial weight, I would say because they are looking for exactly that kind of data, then they are regularly denied or given no answer to that question. The question is, where are we? In fact, here's the year 2003 that law was passed. Where are we now? The government in our country is aware of the killing that its power and arbitration is less open and that it would provide the information that is required of it. And here, it's red, that I no longer burden you and cut you short, but what you're going to do, America has Obama, and we have a delusion and I call on my colleagues here to in no way accept this report on the implementation of the Law on the right to access information because it has nothing to do with that real information. There is only one piece of information written here, that is, what the authorities are responding to, but that is exactly how this report is drawn up tells us what the government's attitude towards citizens is, to journalists when they ask questions.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-26-0.u30680	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations, Mr. Representative Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-26-0.u30681	Mr. Vice President, it's still incorrect that this is a hoax and it's an incorrect assumption that I'm going to correct and say that it's not true that someone is being deceived in this report and that the government doesn't want to give information so that it weakens her power. If it weakens the power, then as far as I can see, it is the City of Zagreb that did not actually give information to all cities and municipalities according to GONG's survey, so neither did all the towns and municipalities of Požeko-Slavon County. I don't know what that tells you about power. ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-26-0.u30682	State Secretary Antun Palaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-26-0.u30683	Mr. Vice President, well, the esteemed representative has begun her exposure with one threat, but she's stopped in half a word, so I don't know if it was a threat to prison, shooting or not to know what, but well, then I don't think whoever's elected somewhere has to know that one day he's going to be resolved and that whoever's afraid he's going to be resolved, that's better off not being caught, doesn't fit on public duty. I wanted to respond in a few words to what has been said so far not to be lost until the end of the debate. So more than 35,000 different associations operate in Croatian society, more and more each day. They are founded to achieve some goal of sports, human, artistic, and someone to deal with political processes and each of these associations has some forms of funding that affect both activities and associations. Otherwise, GONG is our associate in many projects. We organize round tables together, promote the transparency of work, including the right to access information. I'm not going to say anything concrete against them, but they have the right to their own opinion, they have the right to provoke and they send me questions that are not real questions and they're not asking for information, and I've already said it in advance, and then they're burdening the system and they're creating their own database, and of course the closeness to certain media is opening up a media space for them, and it can create one pressure and distort that real picture of the state of things. On several occasions, it was said today, I'll quote, but not to say who, "the journalist didn't get this information, the journalist didn't get that information, the journalist sued...". Look what it's turned into. It was still to be said and the lawyer didn't get the information for his file, but it turns into journalistic issues when he gets the responsible public authority, they sign it and publish their article, and that's how they do their job in a way that we do the same and our employees do the job for them. This is not a law that protects the rights of journalists. It protects them, too, but it doesn't just turn into press enquiries and what the press needs. There was a question and it was really embarrassing, I signed the district three times and threatened local self-government, threatened other public authorities who did not supply the data. But where are the instruments? You said the law when it was written. It is true, it was written, it was passed in 2003 but apparently without the intention of applying it because they were not, there was no intention of applying it. If it were to be applied then it would have been brought in 2000, 2001 and shown in practice how it works than we did in 2003 before the end of the term of office, following the disbanding of the Parliament. ... We apply it and report it every year. [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-26-0.u30684	My colleague, please come and we'll sing in the duet.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-26-0.u30685	Every year, the Croatian Parliament adopts the report and every year the report is getting bigger, more and more detailed, getting better, even though I am telling you this law has achieved its purpose, citizens have the right to information. We as body leaders offer information and no one is denied except for some journalists who are. Some have succeeded in court, so that's good. It is no shame that the Croatian judiciary is doing so well that it can make a decision against the government. This is not the end of the world for us, we have our own legal understanding, officials in the government their legal understanding, the court's legal understanding that the court can freely judge it and it is a reflection of democracy. It is a reflection of democracy and the power of the judicial authority that acts freely in Croatian society as well as other bodies, as well as opposition representatives who can even threaten. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-26-0.u30686	Thank you. Ms. Representative Susana Bilić Vardić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-26-0.u30687	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State with associates, colleagues and fellow MPs. At first, I would like to stress that, unlike the previous speakers, I will support the 2008 report on the implementation of the Law on Access to Information, which the Government of the Republic of Croatia has submitted to this House for discussion and adoption in accordance with the provisions of the law. The report submitted is based on the law of only 30 articles adopted by the Croatian Parliament five and a half years ago or more precisely on 15 October 2003 and is the fifth annual report by the Central State Administration Office in charge of overseeing the implementation of the Law on Access to Information and in charge of submitting a joint report on the implementation of this law to the Government of the Republic of Croatia by 28 February for the previous year and the Government of the Parliament until 31 March, which is also the case here. I mean, they're legal deadlines. The right to access information available by public authorities is one of the fundamental human rights protected by the European Convention on Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms, as well as the Convention on Access to Information, International Contracts and Provisions of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. The law on the right to access information provides citizens with the right to access information from public authorities which are obliged to establish a catalogue of information they possess, which they possess or monitor and to ensure access to such information. All public authorities are obliged to submit a report to the Central State Administration on the implementation of the law based on the information contained in the catalogue of information for the previous year. As the up-to-date bodies of the public authorities are seen in a report stating that he has sent three rushes to units of local and regional self-government. And how many public authorities there were in 2008 can be read in "The People's News" as well. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The law on the right to access information is published every year by the Government of the Republic of Croatia by a list of public authorities which was, of course, done in 2008. And on four pages downloaded from the internet of that list, I was hoping exactly, several times I counted, there's no reason to doubt 193 public authorities who are obliged to comply with the provisions of the Law on the right to access information and submit a report to the office. When I say 193 we need to know that, with the Croatian Parliament, the Government, the Office of the President of the Republic of Croatia, 15 ministries are also mentioned county courts, municipal courts, commercial and criminal courts, public administration offices in the counties and we know that such is 20, and the city of Zagreb. The Centres for Social Care of the County Road Administration writes just 20 counties, units of local and regional self-government, means 126 cities, 429 municipalities and 20 counties and the City of Zagreb were a total of 576 applicants in accordance with the Law on the right to access information, various institutions, agencies, chambers, institutes, councils, communities and alliances to veterinary stations and clinics. They say colleagues from the opposition that counted about 4,000 are obliged. According to the information provided in the reports to this office during 2008, public authorities received a total of 2 thousand 731 requests for access to information from which 2 thousand 520 requests were accepted, 103 requests were rejected, 55 requests were outstanding while 84 requests were granted. If the colleagues in the opposition had carefully read the report submitted by the Government without having dealt with the GONG report then they would have seen that according to the law, the data provided in the reports of the Central State Administration Office were correct. The number of requests from year to year falls. The biggest interest was in 2004, as many as 19 thousand 600 applications submitted. And I'm not going to do it now because the predecessors quoted it as saying it. Here, compared to 2008. Two thousand 731. But I did my best, so I compared the figures on 2007 and this year. So let's say for the bodies of the state government. In 2007, the Croatian Parliament received 43 requests and in 2008 it received 46 requests. The Office of the President of the Republic of Croatia received 3, 7 requests in 2008. Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia in 2007 7 requests in 2008 Five demands. Government of the Republic of Croatia in 2007 10 requests in 2008 27 requests, and let's say in 2007, the ministry received as much as 654 requests for access to information, while in 2008, the number of requests dropped to 312. The analysis of the reports submitted by the Office estimated that the public authorities still lacked knowledge of the law, because in the reports, this refers only to those who provided reports, send and data on the number of all questions of natural and real persons which they addressed during 2008, i.e. on which they provided expert opinions from the work of the body, and not only requests for access to information by means of the Law on Access to Information and cannot be personally and we also said on the board that we are not satisfied with this finding that the public authorities still do not know enough laws. During 2008, the office organised three seminars, according to a report for information officers who carry out these tasks in the Central Authorities of the State Administration as in local government bodies and regional self-government and reports, it is evident that such practice should continue. And in short, the implementation of the law on access to information can be assessed by good, which doesn't mean that I agree with it, which doesn't mean that it can't and shouldn't be better. The government and the Parliament have brought in documents guaranteeing and allowing this area to be completed. Last year, namely, this High House adopted the Strategy's document on the repression of corruption, which contained Chapter 5. – Preventing corruption, chapter The right to access information has been set for us, namely our objectives, improving the exercise of the right to access information, making clear the exceptions to the general rule of access to information such as protected classified information, and personal data. I therefore expect that we will continue to work on the amendments and additions of this law during this year in order to have the right to access information both physically and legally. And not because of those in Europe, not because of our negotiating groups, but because of us here in Croatia, because of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. And for the sake of this, I will support the report on the implementation of the 2008 Information Access Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-26-0.u30688	Thank you. Ms. Representative Tatjana Šimac-Bonačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-26-0.u30689	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Secretary of State with colleagues, colleagues and colleagues. Here at the late hour, I thought I'd give up, but here they say I'm up now, so I'm back anyway. Thus, the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia guarantees us freedom of opinion and expression of thought and as one of the manifestations and freedom is essentially the right to free access to information. Of course, this benefits from democratisation of the state, society, local communities in general, i.e. by curbing corruption. The right to access information promotes the idea that the government is a public good and is as such an interest of citizens, openness and transparency are used to show that there are no secrets, that public interest has advantages, and to explain the activities that this local self-government has. As far as this report is concerned, I think it's flawed, that it's tending, that it wants to convince the public that it has extraordinary results, but the situation is different. The situation towards the Association for Independent Media Culture towards "Gong", according to "Transparency International" and the Croatian Journalist Society from year to year is getting worse. The report is trying to convince us that the law is respected, applied, but the reality is completely different. The public is very often deprived of the basic information on the basis of which the report has been drawn up and we have no record of how many public authorities are listed for almost 4 000, as many as have provided their data on the implementation of this law. It was mentioned on several occasions in the Jelena Berkovic case, I would not like to repeat it. It was also heard in a positive and negative context, but I believe that the case has confirmed citizens' right to information and I would actually say that it is the Constitutional Court's decision that this case is encouraging. Then the city's case was also mentioned where the collection of information was a kind of precedent in communication between local administrations and taxpayers financing it. In fact, this was proposed by the Dubrovnik Headship but within the framework of the formation of the so-called “Dubrovnik Headship”. The catalogue of information from the City of Dubrovnik. As we have heard from the City of Dubrovnik's chieftainment, the regulation according to which the information catalogue available to this body is subject to a fee of 20 kuna on the basis of the request, the request for information, and the correction of the information. We have also heard the reasoning of the Mayor of Dubrovnik, but we learn from the media that the Ombudsman also addressed with a statement that warns this body to the public, that access to information must be free of charge. The city's headship has provided for an important item of this law, which is the basis of which the law prescribes free and equal access to information, not access to it. The payment of the fee under the application violates this law, because the right to pay is no longer the right. The collection of information also violates the idea of public authorities as a general good, reducing citizens' desire for insight into information, and this can lead to a reduction of democracy in this case by local authorities. Then we have cases that even the tenacity can't come to any valid information, so we have reports from a reporter who says he talked almost every day, called, it's specifically about the employees of the Privatisation Fund he was asking for, but after threatening a lawsuit over a violation of the Law on Access to Information Act, they got the answer. The biggest problem seems to be that there is no political will to publish certain information. We also heard tonight, we actually heard about council issues. Perhaps it would be very interesting to ask the local self-government to report how responsible it is and how not responsible it is for parliamentary issues. I believe that many environments would fall on the test of transparency, or the public. Therefore, very often we can say that there is secrecy, there is intransparency that journalists, councillors and citizens are actually cut off on information. And what's left? Journalists depend on good faith, local authorities, or state, to have dozens of questions to which they are not responsible. What are the sanctions? The sanctions are mentioned as a necessity and what remains? There's still a lawsuit. The lawsuit can be won, and the question is again that beginning of the right to information. And that's why I'm thinking that the law needs to be amended, but this report, like my SDP colleagues, cannot be accepted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-26-0.u30690	Thank you. Replica, Ms. Representative, Bozica Šolić.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-26-0.u30691	Well, thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Here I will replicate my colleague and immediately say that I gave up the debate, but not for the reasons that we have already passed 7 hours, but for the very reason why I gave up that there are no representatives from the Zagreb city of Leka, Mrs Lugarić and Mr Stazic. Because I want to talk here nobody talked about it today, and what the whole public is really asking about, especially the city of Zagreb is interested in the city of Zagreb. Because it is visible from the report that 186 requests have been filed right in the city of Zagreb, and it concerns what is very important to say exactly in the way and very strange purchase and replacement of land in the city of Zagreb, and to the harm of the citizens. We have witnessed many times that when the media asked to declare the headship of the city of Zagreb along with the mayor of the current one, and to talk about it the truth, we came and we saw that simply the mayor made a play with journalists and disrespected such an important thing. Also information. We are witnessing today that in the city of Zagreb we have so many inappropriate situations, especially remember this latest one toilet stands a million and 500 thousand kuna, that it was some that you deal with toilets. Well, people are our money. This is where we need information. And exactly the city of Zagreb is one whole that is actually wrapped in very secret. But I call on all institutions today when you ask the city of Zagreb, then it is always the same answer, let the institutions do their job. I'm inviting these institutions to do the job tonight, because as I hear the attorney's office is covered with such charges. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-26-0.u30692	Thank you. Final review, State Secretary. Excuse me, did you show me the tile? If it's okay. [[I'm sorry. Okay.]] Here, Mr. Palaritch, you have your word.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-26-0.u30693	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen. Here I would like to finally respond to all those who have criticised this report, but here is only Mrs. Shimac Bonačić left. And I would point out, this exposure as a highly civilized approach to the subject. The representative spoke in a nice way, culturally, without argument, without threat, without inappropriate words. She stayed with her attitude, it's normal, everyone has a right to their position and repeated the thesis repeatedly stated that journalists can't get the information. Gentlemen, I say again, this law is not meant for journalists. It can be used by journalists, they use it, it's intended for citizens. Citizens have full information about the work of the public authority body, but still as in every country and country there is something called a state secret, business secret, official secret and so it was, so it is now and so it will always be and some things are not for the public. That's what every country and every government has a right to do. It's like that everywhere in the world, everywhere in Europe. However, very rare and open sessions of the government. We also had yesterday's government meeting with the President of the Republic who was even directly transferred, which is very, very rare. When the report was discussed, it was then accused the Central State Office of being a forger. Gentlemen, the law is that the Central State Office combines data obtained from all bodies. I can't answer or bear responsibility for why the tax administration on the inquiry said that something business secret or not, tax secret or not. It's the tax administration's position whether it's like that or not, according to their laws. That's what they know best. There is judicial protection, we have established it, we have secured the independent work of the courts and let things be cleared in court. But we've heard that, and I mention it more than once in public appearances, and I'm expanding this right, and I didn't happen to go to Ilock to give a lecture on the right to access information to local self-government representatives. I didn't just happen to go to Zadar. When I go to Zadar or Ilock lose all day. There's 120 people in the office. We produce only how many laws we produce and materials for the Parliament it is countless, without speaking individual acts, other acts, regulations, regulations, but I went to participate in the education of those in local self-government. However, there is something called the Constitutional Guarantee of Local Self-Government and the government has very limited control over local self-government units. I can't do anything to the mayor who doesn't respond to the councilman. There's nothing I can do to him, nor will anyone who comes after me, because it's a relationship between a councilman and a mayor. If he behaves arrogantly, if he acts irresponsiblely, illegally, then there are mechanisms for his resolution, but the government cannot intervene in it. We asked for a report, they wouldn't give it to us. We can put them on a pillar of shame. Maybe that's what we'll do. Perhaps in the amendments to the law, we will provide for criminal sanctions for those who do not deliver the report. But I can't do anything to the city council, to the council, to the mayor unless I get the report. And this material is the best we can do. He has a summary report, he has a report on a particular body, he contains a collection of information that the public authorities have provided us. Behind them are ministers and other leaders of the public bodies, behind what they have signed. The government stands behind what we united and delivered to the Parliament. I, too, stand behind this report on behalf of the Government and claim that it is the best so far and that the law is getting better and better applied, not by chance, but simply because we are making a great effort to take on one hand through electronic media and powerful data, information that we put on the web of citizens available, with the education of civil servants and local officials on the rules of access to information. We've come to the fact that the law is getting better and better. We're ready to do an even better report next year. Say, we heard the debate right, right, how someone thinks. But there will never be a report so good that it will satisfy the esteemed representative of Lesar, he will never be so good that he will satisfy the esteemed representative Beus Richembergh because if the Pope wrote it or I don't know who would not be good at it, because someone sees his role as criticizing the government. You can criticize the government. I have just praised the way to talk, how you can stay with your attitude, express your opinion and make it at a high civilizational level worthy of this House. And this way, I can't say about the threats that were left unsaid to the end, so I don't know what was thinking about whether it was just a shift or an arrest or maybe something worse. I ask the remaining MPs to vote in favour of this bill, and those who are not here for me, it is a sign that they have nothing against this report and that they will vote for it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-26-0.u30694	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. I'm interrupting the session. Continuing tomorrow at 9.30 p.m. with a debate on the proposal for a public service pay base law, with a final bill. ... No, we're going to go tomorrow with this final bill on the basis of pay in public services, and after that we'll probably have nothing more to discuss than somewhere in one, half two we have a vote on the already absorbed points and on this proposal for a pay base law in public services. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Report on the implementation of the Law on the right to access information for 2008. I am giving the vote the conclusion in accordance with the proposal of the Assembly Working Body. A report on the implementation of the Law on the right to access information for 2008 is hereby adopted. Who's in? Thank you. Against? Thank you. Restraint? With 79 votes in favour, 33 against the proposed conclusion.
