ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-24-0.u34231	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear ladies and gentlemen. Peace in the Republic of Croatia won its legislative framework in 2003. After almost 6 years, it is proposed to amend the Law on Peace and all with the aim of further developing the system of settlement as an alternative way of resolving disputes in courts, but also outside courts, and ultimately to ensure that justice is accessible to legal and natural persons in the Republic of Croatia. During the year 2008, at the level of municipal courts of a total of 638 sent to the standstill procedure, 170 cases were successfully resolved. It means about 27%. While 153 cases were sent in the first quarter of this year but were significantly more successfully solved as much as 46%. In the framework of a project carried out by the government to strengthen the peace as an alternative way of resolving court disputes during November and February 2009, 13 information seminars were held in 12 cities, and more than 540 participants passed these seminars. Educational seminars are also under way, as we try to educate as many tranquilizers as possible. The Law on Reconciliation regulates the scope of the law, as defined in the terms of the law, the question of the initiation and completion of the proceedings, the conditions and appointments, the duties and powers of the settler, the principle of confidentiality, the inaccessibility of evidence, the incompatibility of the function has been governed. And the provisions are also contained in the reference to calming down and regulates the issue of the cost of calming. On 21 May 2008, the European Parliament and the Council adopted a directive on certain aspects of settlement in civil and commercial matters. In 2008 too, amendments and additions to the Law on a litigation procedure were adopted, and an institution was introduced as a procedural option for the parties during the entire litigation procedure. Which means the appeal procedure. For the purpose of full implementation of these provisions of the PPP, according to whose provisions the judges have the power to refer the case to a court at any stage of the whole litigation procedure, and the directive on the scope of the law which should be sufficiently broad to ensure its application in the relevant civil, commercial, working and other property legal disputes, and to facilitate access to settlement, it was necessary to intervene in the provisions of the applicable Law on Peace. The following requirements shall be ensured by the effectiveness, impartiality, competence of the peacemaker and the possibility of any person carrying out the peace of mind regardless of his or her belongings or occupation, and regardless of the manner in which the peacemaker is appointed or requested to conduct the peace. Furthermore, it has been ensured that neither settlers nor persons involved in the administrative organisation process will be forced to provide evidence in civil and commercial court proceedings or arbitration in relation to information arising or related to the settlement process. Except, of course, when it's necessary for justifiable reasons. The issue of limitations has also been settled, and thus the mandatory harmonisation of the Law on Peace with the Directive has been carried out, taking into account the fundamental principles of the settlement procedure and this principle of volunteering and the principle of autonomy of the parties, it was particularly necessary to ensure that certain issues, in particular concerning procedural situations, are not excessive. Otherwise, the procedural autonomy of the party's will would be excessively limited, and that is precisely the greatest risk of any normative arrangement. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-24-0.u34232	Thank you very much. Do the rapporteurs want to take the floor? Yeah. On behalf of the Justice Committee, the chairman of the committee of Mrs. Anna Lovrin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-24-0.u34233	Thank you very much. Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Madam Secretary of State with an associate, colleague and colleague. At the 31st session held on 23 June, the Justice Committee of the Croatian Parliament discussed the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Peace with the Final Proposal for text as a parent working body. In his opening statement, the president pointed out, in particular, all amendments and additions to this law. The members of the committee unanimously supported the adoption of amendments and amendments to the law. Following the discussion, the Committee on Justice decided with 7 votes to propose to the Croatian Parliament to pass a law amending and supplementing the Law on Peace with the next amendment. Amendment 1 to Article 15, Article 17 is amended as follows: "if the parties have not agreed differently, each shall bear its own costs and the costs of the proceedings shall be borne in equal parts by the party". The proposed amendment regulates the provisions on the costs of the standstill procedure which constitute the party's exclusive cost in the standstill procedure, such as the cost of representation by lawyer and the costs of the standstill procedure itself carried out by the parties in equal parts, such as the cost of the peacemaker, the cost of skill to avoid any different application or interpretation of the provisions on the costs of the procedure in practice. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-24-0.u34234	Thank you. Would the rapporteurs of the other committees like to? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the HDZ Club, Mr. Representative Ivo Grbić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-24-0.u34235	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, respected state secretaries with a co-worker, respected colleagues and fellow MPs. At the very beginning of the debate, I would like to point out that the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community will support the Final Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Peace, which is a legislative proposal to bring the legislation of the Republic of Croatia into line with the acquis of the European Union and the legal acts of the Council of Europe. On 21 May 2008, the European Parliament and the Council of Europe adopted Directive 2008/52 of the European Communities on certain aspects of settlement in civil and commercial matters. The Directive requires the Member States of the European Union to adopt the laws, regulations and administrative provisions necessary to comply with that Directive by 21 May 2011, with the exception of Article 10 of the Directive which is due on 21 November 2010. Otherwise, the Directive applies only to cross-border disputes in civil and commercial matters except in relation to the rights and obligations which the parties may not have under applicable law. In view of the general position of the legal community of the European Union that a double legal regime for cross-border and other disputes would not ensure equal rights and obligations for both domestic and foreign natural and legal persons, but would, on the contrary, cause legal uncertainty the Republic of Croatia has accepted the concept of a uniform legal regime for domestic and cross-border disputes in relation to peace. The Law on Peace in the Republic of Croatia entered into force on 24 October 2003. That law lays down the scope of the application of the law, concepts, questions of initiation and termination of the proceedings, conditions, appointments, duties and powers of the settler, communication with the parties, the principle of confidentiality, inadmissibility of evidence, limitation, settlement and settlement costs. As the Republic of Croatia is a candidate for full membership in the European Union, it is necessary to respect the deadline set by the Member States of the European Union to comply with its internal legislation with the Directive. The harmonisation of the Law on Peace with the Directive ensures the effectiveness, impartiality and competence of the peacemaker, allowing any person to conduct the peace regardless of its belongings, occupation, the way in which the peacemaker is appointed or requested to conduct the peace. In addition, it shall not be binding on decoupling agents or persons involved in the process of administrative arrangements to provide evidence in civil and commercial court proceedings or arbitration in relation to the information arising or related to the settlement process unless justified circumstances so require. The issue of limitation is also settled in relation to the requirements which are subject to the standstill procedure. Also, nomotechnical and linguistic improvements in the number of provisions of the law have been expressed. For this purpose, the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community supports the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Peace and the amendment of the Committee on Justice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-24-0.u34236	Thank you very much. On behalf of the SPD club, Ms. Representative Ingrid Anticevic-Marinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-24-0.u34237	Thank you very much. Your Honor, Mr. President, the honorable secretary of state with a co-worker, co-workers and colleagues. From these opening discussions, the public would conclude that we are this year in 2009 passing the Law of Peace. The Law on Peace, as pointed out, was passed in 2003. This year, then, in 2009 six years after the adoption of the Law on Peace, we should discuss here today how much this law was implemented, how much justice was released. But it's only about the pilot project, there are 173 cases in commercial courts and about 150 cases in front of regular civil courts. It's miserable that the poorer it can't be. And now the question of responsibility is what the government has been doing for six years that this law is practically not in place. In 2004, they were preparing for a pilot project. In 2006, the pilot project was just launched. It's just inadmissible. But what's going on? We saw and we witnessed in 2005 for local elections there were land-book reforms, and then it went away. You remember those big billboards where the land was scattered. This year, 2009 for local elections, we had, in all media outlets, the government has been propagating a peaceful dispute resolution, in 2009 just propagating. So today we should be talking here about how effective this law was. In fact, we're all witnesses to judicial oppression, and that's not just our headache. In fact, many systems highly developed democratically have problems with backlogs today. And that's why the issue of peaceful dispute resolution is being given a lot of attention. In fact, the process of peaceful dispute resolution emerged sometime in the 1960 ’ s in America when a large number of backlogs appeared in the state of Texas. The wealthy Americans realized that they were too expensive to build new court buildings, and they went into this particular project, or passed a law on a peaceful way of resolving disputes. He was interesting for the first time, that first year, for the first two years nothing happened, so the objects were still more slowly solved. Most people looked down on this way of solving. But after five years, 90% of disputes are settled this way. So, we expected if not after five years, at least after six years we had such shifts. So, from time to time, let's remember that there is a bill like this that the parties would have been allowed institutionally, if the government had implemented this law that came into force on 24 October 2004 today would have far, far less problems with unresolved cases, the parties would have been more satisfying, in some way leading to one legal certainty. And not to mention how much money, money, in particular work is done mainly and for such cases are interested people who run litigation cases, but also those who have companies and who run cases in front of commercial courts. Thus, the court settles disputes, however, in the past few hundred years almost means that simple judicial capacity can no longer absorb the sharing of justice. In a way, as states become more powerful but its third party authorities, the judicial authority is almost everywhere weak and public expectations for that authority are higher everywhere than it can meet such needs. And that is why this peaceful alternative way of resolving disputes is manifested as an extraordinary tool. Of course, implementation of this law requires great resources, but only initially and they are only seemingly large. However, it very quickly shows all the efficiency, thus saving funds and capital investment in the judiciary, we save funds for new employment because it is a good solution to these changes that enables peacemakers to be persons regardless of their belongings, regardless of their interest, it is main that these are people who enjoy trust among the parties, that their case will be resolved peacefully, impartially and satisfactorily. So I immediately drew attention to what is really frantic that the pilot project started in 2006, that it covered the Commercial Court in Zagreb, the Municipal Court in Bjelovar, the Municipal Court in Osijek, Rijeka, Slavonski Brod, Varazdin, Zadar and Zagreb. But after the pilot project, since these were initials back in 2004, then we could really talk about a good, good starting path. Because we saw that from the beginning a smaller number and a smaller percentage is being solved, and here's the secretary of state said that in this second case the percentage of solved cases has increased. So, people would not ignore this way of resolving disputes that institutional things are complicated as the basic law resolved in 2003 and with these regulatory improvements offered by the SDP club, we will certainly accept and approve them and we will vote for these amendments. But here again I repeat that it is incomprehensible that after 6 years instead of today, we are looking forward to seeing how often this way of resolving disputes has absorbed the disputes, how many satisfied people we would have, how much dissuaded justice would really be dealing with issues because here, often and not legally complicated things, but often in the interests of the parties and in some way, the use of exactly the litigation of the judiciary that the party who is not rightly difficult and strained with the litigation, regardless of the speed of the proceedings, or of the good solutions that we have set in the Law on the litigation process, are still very long because of the multitude of cases, but also with great backlogs that continue to burden the judiciary. So we give full support to these changes but we express great concern that this law has not brought about in its fullness, i.e. it did not start in its application yet in 2004 and it is surprising that for these supplements, no funds are needed for the application of these supplements. All good things also cost to apply if it really means to seriously apply this law then it requires money or we wait for more local elections to call the citizens and convince them that reconciliation is a good way to settle disputes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-24-0.u34238	Thank you. On behalf of the HNS Club, Ms. Danica Hursa. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-24-0.u34239	I would like to thank Mr. President, dear secretary of state with an associate. Peace in the Republic of Croatia was given its legislative framework in 2003 by the adoption of the Law on Peace that came into force in that same year 2003. The Law on Peace is governed by the scope of the law, the definitions of the concepts are given, the question of the initiation and completion of the procedure of calming down, the conditions of appointment, the duties and powers of the peacemaker is regulated. The issue of communication with the parties has been settled, the principle of confidentiality, the inaccessibility of evidence, the incompatibility of functions, the issue of limitations, the issue of making a settlement in the settlement process has been settled, and the law also contains provisions on reference to calming, and regulates the cost of calming. The Law on Peace should comply with Directive 2008/52 EC so as to ensure the effectiveness, impartiality and competence of the settler and to enable any person to conduct the peace regardless of its belonging or interest and regardless of the manner in which the peacemaker is appointed or requested to conduct the peace. Under 2 so that neither the settlers nor the persons involved in the administrative organisation process will be forced to provide evidence in civil and commercial court proceedings or arbitration in relation to the information arising from or related to the settlement process unless it is necessary for justified circumstances. And below 3, so as to settle the issue of limitation in relation to the requirements which are subject to the standstill procedure. We are confident that the Law of Peace will have four important features. Under 1 calming can significantly contribute to resolving the problem of overload and the unreasonablely long duration of court disputes. Unfortunately, since 2003, we have not received good results in this regard. Under 2, the peace is faster and cheaper than the state's trial and for the parties is a more favourable way of resolving disputes. Under 3, peace contributes to the creation of a tolerated environment for economic and social development. And under 4, for the foundation and development of calming in Croatia, it is important to train peacemakers and state incentives for peaceful dispute resolution. The Club of Representatives of the Croatian People's Party will support this Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Peace. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-24-0.u34240	Thank you. We're moving on to an individual debate. She is the first female representative, Ingrid Antičević Marinovic. Here you go. ... Thank you. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Pulled. Then Mr. Representative Boris Kunst, who I don't see, loses his right to debate. Then Mr. Representative Dragutin Lesar, whom I also don't see, loses his right to debate. Then Mr. Representative Damir Sesvečan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-24-0.u34241	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament. State secretary with an associate. So here are the amendments and additions to the Law on Peace, which has been in force since October 2003. Therefore, as defined in Article 1 of this Regulation, it regulates settlement in civil and legal disputes, including disputes in the area of trade, labour and other property-legal relations in matters where the parties are free to dispose of, if any of these disputes are not otherwise specified by a special regulation. The Law on Peace is certainly an important procedural law which encourages the non-judicial settlement of cases on which courts have decided or decided, in view of the number of cases which have a significant impact on the burden of courts which further results in the dispute in the settlement of cases and the length of the proceedings. And it is this ineffectiveness and long-term court proceedings that has brought into question the achievement of one of the fundamental human rights and constitutional rights, the right to trial within a reasonable period of time. The introduction of a peace-making institute as one of the many alternative ways of resolving disputes through the Law on Peace has created additional assumptions for a faster, more efficient, clearer and more high-quality settlement of disputes between parties and there is just one of the fundamental principles of the settlement process. It's the principle of volunteering and consensus. This principle implies that the settlement procedure begins, takes place and ends with the free will of the parties, so the parties fully control the procedure themselves, which is certainly a significant advantage over other forms of alternative dispute resolution. As regards the proposed amendments and additions to this Regulation, they are necessary and necessary, in particular in order to comply with the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council on certain aspects of peace in civil and commercial matters, as of 21 May 2008. The coordination shall, as explained above, relate primarily to the provision, effectiveness, impartiality and competence of the settler and to the provision of information to persons involved in the organisation of the settlement, as well as to the conciliation that in civil and commercial proceedings or arbitration they will not be forced to provide information arising or related to the settlement process. It further addresses the issue of an outdated case in the settlement process and corrects certain doubts which have been raised in the application of the law. Given that this law improves the expression of certain provisions, that it is in line with the acquis of the European Union and fulfils the obligations set out in the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, I will certainly support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-24-0.u34242	Thank you. Mrs. Representative Anna Lovrin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-24-0.u34243	Thank you very much, Mr. President. My colleagues and colleagues. And I will, of course, support the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Peace, primarily because I believe that these amendments and amendments to the laws contribute to the improvement of the legal text, introduce some new provisions and institutes and therefore contribute to the further development of systems of alternative ways of resolving disputes of which one is certainly calming. It is true that the law on arbitration was passed in 2001, the Law on Peace in 2003. In the meantime, a number of other laws have been passed that contain provisions on calming down, such as the Law on Labour, the Law on Mandatory Relations, the Law on the Procedural Procedure, the Family Law, the Law on Juvenile Courts, the Law on crafts, the Law on the Croatian Chamber of Commerce, etc. I remind you that precisely because it has been observed that the existing legislative framework exists then in 2005, but that there is insufficient application in the practice of calming down, that there is no way to say that there is sufficient response of legal and physical persons. In addition to the Strategy for Justice Reform and this Croatian Parliament, in 2005, the Government also adopted an alternative way of resolving disputes that provided for the development and promotion of this way of resolving disputes during the three phases of 2006 to 2012. It is no doubt a political will to introduce, to the greater extent, into our judicial system of the Institute of Dispute Resolution for the reasons that such a way of resolving disputes, except by reducing the costs of proceedings, except that it should significantly eliminate the work of the courts, certainly contributes to the one tolerated environment of the preservation of good relations between parties in disputes, mainly here it is important for trade disputes, the reduction of costs for both the party and the state and the judicial system, the resolution of interest disputes that cannot be settled in court disputes etc., etc. As we heard today, Texas took five years to achieve good results. The Croatian Government is doing everything, and the Ministry of Justice, that after adopting a legislative framework with a series of measures that it implements from pilot projects in individual courts to education of judges and non-judicial settlement entities, in order to promote and promote the peace of mind and I must say that the budget also provides funds, not only for the process of settlement in courts, but also for the procedure of non-judicial settlement, mainly in front of the Croatian Chamber of Commerce and the Croatian Chamber of Commerce. So as this law is proposed today, I think it's good, that it introduces some new institutes and provisions that allow for further and wider application of court and extrajudicial settlement, and therefore I will support it, and here it also encourages the fact that only in the 1st quarter of this year of 153 cases that have gone to rest in percentage of almost 50% of successfully completed cases. So this is what we expect in application after the creation of a legislative and institutional framework to then show and show results in the implementation. Of course, this percentage could be much higher, but it should be systematically done because our mentality is simply not prone to this procedure, people are going to court thinking that the court will give them a sentence, often for a long time, and often it happens that, by using its procedural powers, it is also deliberately delaying the proceedings, and it is also for an analysis of how it is worth delaying a person's proceedings and not seeking swift justice, because it is known that the disputed justice is the greatest injustice, which means that something is not well arranged, but it is precisely in a series of amendments to the Law on a litigation procedure and the Law on Criminal Procedure that sought to legally prevent the possibility of abuse of the parties in these procedural proceedings. Here, for reasons I believe that these amendments and additions contribute to further strengthening the peace as necessary, one of the necessary alternative ways of resolving disputes, I will support this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-24-0.u34244	Thank you. And five minutes on behalf of the HDZ Club, Mr. Representative Boris Kunst. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-24-0.u34245	Honorable President, State Secretary, fellow MPs. The fact is that the Law of Peace was passed in 2003, but it was brought precisely for that reason to clean out drawers that were then overrun by court cases, meaning unsolved court cases that were about a million and a half at the time in court unsolved. Somewhere out of one-third of those million-and-a-half were related to labour disputes, and there were billions of demand for workers in terms of material rights. Usually 80% of these disputes are work disputes with material claims, and somewhere 20% of the waste to cancel work contracts. In 2003, more than 22,000 lawsuits against the state arrived, which was filed by civil servants and tenants, if you remember because of certain claims on your material rights, so that in 2003 it was a record year for work disputes, a total of 53,000 were labour disputes initiated by workers. In 2006, the fact was that this pilot project was launched, which showed excellent results as regards the application of the Law on Peace, so from the 378 cases that were then resolved by calming down 121 cases, 24 lawsuits were withdrawn, one dispute that lasted 10 years since '95 was resolved. and a 12.5 million kuna dispute has been resolved. The fact is that since that 2006, as far as calming down in Croatia is concerned, it loses its pace and normal, especially with regard to this trade court in 2008 of 245 cases is only 55 resolved by calming down, 245 which were in the process of calming down, the situation regarding the settlement of work disputes is something worse, it is moving around 18 to 25% of the resolution of the settlement. I must say, if the model of calming is acceptable to everyone, and the fact that, to all social partners, this model is acceptable to employers, unions, governments, and the Croatian Parliament, as well as to the European Commission, which supported in Croatia, this model of calming must still be made more positive for me in the sense that this reconciliation is more recognizable both for workers and for employers. First of all, I think we need to move to public promotion, make a sign of a calming course or alternative dispute resolution. I think there's a lack of promotion of this system of rest and that the workers know little about this possibility. Secondly, it should mean more together both employers and trade unions and the Social Partnership Office, but also the Ministry of Justice more familiarises people with what the model of peace offers. Third, it is urgent to amend the Income Tax Act and the Income Tax Regulation in order not to pay the income tax when an agreement, agreement, settlement in individual labour disputes is reached. The damages caused by the consequences of the accident at work, the tax is not paid after the court's decision, is not paid even if there is a standstill in the course of the court, but is paid if there is a settlement in individual disputes. So, to be able to arrange both the worker and the employer, before the case itself comes to court, then you have to pay income tax on the amount they agree on. I think we should even this out, and we talked about it on the board yesterday that this should be leveled with court settlements and court decisions, so that would be one more motive for both workers and employers to approach, as far as working disputes are concerned, because unfortunately they deliberately avoid the process because they have to pay income tax on the amount they agree on. And I'm gonna end up with it because I can see that my time is up, otherwise I thought I'd talk a little longer. Finally, the peace is certainly recognised as an alternative way of resolving disputes. It should continue to be used and I think that, with this major promotion, we should continue to work on it, because unfortunately, our situation is not brighter today as far as the number of pending cases are concerned. I'm not going to talk about that number, but I'm just going to say at this point somewhere around 200 grand we have labor disputes unresolved. And I'm sure that calming down in that would do a lot of good. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-24-0.u34246	Thank you. And final Mrs Marina Dujmović Vukovic on behalf of the promoter. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-24-0.u34247	Thank you, Mr. President. The amendments to the legislative framework are precisely aimed at introducing and accepting the Institute of Peace, which is a newspaper in our society. The acceptance of a standstill is exclusively within the scope of the party's unanimous decision in the procedure. I thank you for the discussions and suggestions, and we accept the amendment of the Committee on Justice in relation to Article 15. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-24-0.u34248	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. He'll make up his mind during the day. Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Action, Emergency Procedure, P.Z.E. No. 371. The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. The amendment was filed by the Justice Committee. During the debate, the proposing representative accepted the amendment of the Committee, which is not voted on because it is an integral part of the final draft law in accordance with Article 169. Rules of Procedure. I therefore vote on the Final Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Peace. Please, let's get involved and vote. Score. The bill was adopted by a majority of votes, 98 votes in favour and 2 abstentions. Ladies and gentlemen, I am announcing a session, the Continuing session of the Assembly on 30 June at 9.30 p.m. on the agenda of the report on the work of the Research Commission on the fact of the connection of the procurement of 39 military trucks by the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Croatia in December 2004. On the same day, we will hold a vote on some proposals that have not been adopted today and that we have discussed, bill proposals, I think. I wish you a pleasant extended weekend with a desire to gather as large as possible on Tuesday to continue your work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-24-0.u34251	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen. In December 2008, a new Criminal Procedure Act was adopted, a USKOK verticalised, which means that the structure of USKOK as a special state attorney is being monitored by the organisation of courts and police. This is the rounded entire structure of the fight against crime. The Law on State Attorney's Office was passed in 2001 and has been amended several times so far, and more significant changes have been made in 2007 and 2008. Therefore, for the sake of clarity of text and application, it was necessary to propose the adoption of a new law. The legal text of the proposed Law on State Attorney's Office is regulated in logical terms and has 5 units. The first part relates to general provisions, the second part of the body of jurisdiction of the work of the State's attorney, part of the third part of the general powers, the fourth part concerns appointments and resolutions, the fifth are transitional and final provisions. In part of the law relating to the appointments and resolutions of state lawyers as newspapers, provisions relating to the appointment of deputy state attorneys in municipal state attorneys, which will be appointed as deputies after a successful completion of a state school. The State School for Judicial Officials is established to achieve greater professionalisation of judges and state lawyers, i.e. their deputies, to acquire the expertise and skills necessary for the conduct of these functions and to advance their careers, which primarily ensures the principle of independence of judicial officials. In order to implement this law, it is therefore necessary to lay down the conditions that candidates for state lawyers, i.e. deputies, must meet, and primarily for the first appointment. So, as a newspaper, it is said that the candidate must necessarily have completed a state-level school for judicial officials. The significant conceptual amendments to the Criminal Procedure Act when a judicial investigation and a state-level lawyer's investigation has been terminated are the following reasons why amendments to the Law on the State's Attorney's Office are needed. As a result of this amendment, it is necessary to amend the provisions on the rights and responsibilities of state attorneys in criminal proceedings, as the state's attorney becomes a dominus litis of the previous proceedings. The implementation of the recommendation adopted by the Committee of Ministers of the Council of Europe, which contains key provisions on the position and role of a state lawyer, in particular his rights and duties in criminal proceedings, have been implemented through the provisions of this law. Therefore, through certain new provisions, those parts of the recommendation under which state lawyers oversee the legality of police investigations, decide on the initiation or continuation of criminal prosecution and are obliged to monitor and respect human rights by police. The recommendations point out how the State's attorney is obliged to require that the principle of equality and position be respected, in particular when data are given from an impact on the course of court proceedings to another party in the process, that the State's attorney cannot use illegal evidence or continue persecution in cases where the results of an impartial investigation show that there are no grounds for it, and these recommendations are interpolated in the law through certain new provisions. The law on criminal proceedings in certain parts indicates that certain issues or powers will be regulated by a special law, especially with regard to the state's attorney and police. Therefore, the Law on Criminal Procedure in Reason states that it is necessary to pass a whole series of relevant laws, of which the Law on State Attorney's Office is certainly the most important. The provisions of Chapter 6 and Chapters 6 and 7 of the Law on State Attorneyy have been amended accordingly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-24-0.u34252	Thank you. Legislative committees, for European integration, for the judiciary, for work and social partnership. I'm opening a debate. SDP advocates' club Mrs. Ingrid Anticevic-Marinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-24-0.u34253	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Respected secretary of state with a co-worker, co-workers and colleagues. The SDP club supports the adoption of the Law on State Attorney's Office, but wonders that this law has not been passed together with amendments to the Criminal Procedure Act, i.e. the new Criminal Procedure Act and the Police Power Act. This is a package that should have been brought many, many years earlier, so a few years earlier in order to spend time on education, and a simulation that we now hear was done on the road, so we just heard it recently, and 1. The 7th whole package will come into effect. So, after decades and decades, we can already say hundreds of years, 200 years, we're changing the system... And we've come to a conclusion today that we're discussing this law that's going to come into effect. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Those are inadmissible things. We, with this procedure in such an unprepared way, are still going into an adventure both for the State's Attorney's Office, and for the police, and for the court and most of all for the legal certainty of the defendant. Not to complain about his fate, but because it's possible for him to be accused and guilty to be convicted, and that's worse than 100 of the guilty to be released. In one country where it is possible for him to be accused and to be convicted, it is the twilight of such a state. Serious dangers due to this kind of reverse application of law-making have been a long time. We will recall, in 2003, a task force was formed in 2002 to amend the Law on Criminal Procedure and should be dealt with in parallel with amendments to the Law on Police and Police Authorities and the Law on State Attorneyy. Namely, the State's Attorney's Office not by this law but by the Law on Criminal Procedure, this law only gives its powers great authority. What used to be the safety of an investigative judge where if we remember a little bit of our legal history by the time we were 53, the investigation was conducted by the police, and then there was, at the time, a great abuse. And when the defendant was introduced in 63, 64, the defendant was simply saved in the sense that he was not found innocent. So judicialisation was one major step in democratisation of the criminal proceedings. We have now all agreed that the investigation over time has become what was once a democratic step, has become an obstacle to the development of the criminal procedure and has become the impediment to the development of social relations and to the satisfaction of elementary justice. Not only do the proceedings take a long time, but precisely because they take a long time to experience an adequate court epilogue, many countries that were a bard of investigations, inquisition proceedings such as Austria, such as Germany, have left a long time ago investigation. Here's what's left of Austria, but Germany has already left, 20, 30 years ago, left the investigation. And we've come to the consensus of our country in the environment, the neighbouring countries have also given up the investigation. Let's remind ourselves, when the work happens, everyone at the coffee shop or inn knows what happened, the police know, they've forgotten a little bit about the state's attorney, and no one remembers anything at the hearing. So there's one social consensus of the general public that I'm not talking about a professional public who's always a little bit and careful about going into this kind of procedure. The procedure is simple according to some of its structures but is very serious given the tasks now given to the State's Attorney's Office and the police. The State's Attorney's Office may be little where and in which country other than its role, its primary task is to prosecute the perpetrators of criminal offences, to provide evidence, to fix evidence, to prepare acts, indictments or other indictments for trial. However, with us that many things have not been solved, the State's Attorney's Office also deals with the protection of state property. In almost all Western countries, you will not find a copy of the state's attorney's office's work and protection of state property. That's what lawyers do. But it's good for us to do it for the state's attorney's office, but it kind of gets him away from his basic assignment. However, it is in such a way as to save so much of the huge state resources and still not adequately protected, but on this occasion, the role of the state's attorney's office to which I would still not speak specifically, just so we point out in the SDP club that unfortunately we have to realise that the role of the state's attorney is still irreplaceable in the protection of state property. What is more important than any law and how this new Law on State Attorney's Office has been hip because its basic guidelines are also given in the Criminal Procedure Act. The basic principle of how respected it is in reality because its position is defined by the Constitution. The state's attorney's office, and even when it's represented in civil matters, it's an independent body. However, the question arises as to how independent the state's attorney's office is today and how independent it can be. Only the prime minister publicly said it a few years ago, I counted nine times, but I let a lot of these warnings miss me because the monstrosity of things happened in that rush and the public's expectations of finding the perpetrator as soon as possible he triumphantly performed a warrant to the state's attorney's office. So the question arises under which law does the prime minister issue orders. The state's attorney's office and the police have to work by law and not by order, no warrant, no current prime minister. Of course, the public did not react at the time but only later because she expected exactly, it was at the time of the violent raids when we had, the news of the day would have been if it hadn't been for Zagreb or elsewhere in Croatia. It is necessary to be very careful about these things and the system should really be built to function in the day-to-day human development. That some processes don't open or close because this or that furniture is in power, that witnesses don't suddenly get a memory when this or that furniture is in power and we have serious problems in Croatia. Will this legislative framework be a step further? If we look at any provision, there's almost no grudge in this nomotechnical sense. However, more than that, more than the nomochniks themselves need to ask these key questions here and return to that source, to the Constitution on the position and role of the state's attorneyship, and thus more and more in the new role given to him by the Law of Criminal Procedure. However, this is an opportunity and we will now have very soon on the agenda and the Law on Police Powers. Furthermore, questions have not been settled in an adequate manner and a saying between the state's attorney's office and the police. However, no questions between the state's attorney's office and other state bodies have been resolved. True, this provision has been repeated here for years in any law on the State's Attorney's Office that all state authorities and not only the State's duty to submit reports or to provide information required by the State's Attorney's Office. But it still doesn't stand anything and nothing happens if the state's attorney's office asks and we've seen it from the State's Attorney's Annual Report where the data is requested from individual ministries, from the Office of Money Laundering and no data is given, for months and nothing stands. Police have been asked to conduct certain shops and nothing to anyone. And it is not settled here what will happen to such persons who are authorised and obliged to give that information to the state's attorney. This is another time since it has not been resolved which should have been resolved for every investigation to go untraced, as is usually the case in Croatia. Exactly this way that there is no sanction for such a person who does not provide data, that person who, especially the official in the responsible place who has these data, who does not give data, must be incriminated as a criminal offence. That's one thing. Another thing, what happens to regular forces that refuse obedience to the state's attorney's office. It's not even saying it's well-defined. In some ways, it is embarrassing to read and to the one who is in good faith, and such a spirit of the law sees that the state’s attorneyship must still play this adequate role that it is now the only commander of the investigation, or that it manages these activities. Namely, when a crime occurs, practically this repressive apparatus is at war with such a perpetrator. And there can't be two lines of command. They continue to exist, it's the cancer of our procedure. And then what do you have? The public is simply confused. If good work is done, we'll see the press police conference immediately, they'll boast about their exploits. If there's anything wrong, they'll transfer it to the state's attorney's office. And equally the same thing, and the state's attorney's office will say the police didn't do their job. If there is a court case, if it is an inadequate decision as the public expected, or as announced, there will be various speculations in society, in public but also all those in the chain who participate in the process of disclosing the process of trial and trial will transfer responsibility to each other. Unfortunately, even this law has not been resolved because responsibility has not been solved. So here's one declaration and nothing more. In one law such as the Law on the State's Attorney's Office, no country can happen because the public, because citizens then do not take such a person seriously. If it's possible that the state's attorney's office is looking for something, that the state's authorities themselves don't give her that kind of information, that the citizens can't even have the authority of a job like that. We will all agree on an irrefutable truth and the tendency to want criminal proceedings so that it is effective in this sense that none of the guilty will escape and none of the innocent will be convicted. Where they are guilty beyond the reach of the repressive system and I've just listed a few things as possible again, then about such a thing where the blames are not condemned can happen very definitely to the innocent who is convicted and that is the greatest danger that can happen to us. This is why we here at the SDP club hold that such powers granted to the State Attorney's Office must be defined in that sense that if he is given the authority to answer for them and then because the State Attorney's Office is now responsible for the outcome of the proceedings, and in order to be responsible for the outcome of the procedure, he must have an instrument at his disposal for all of them to ask for information, all those who need him to be able to agree on the prosecution to comply with his orders. Thus, the matter is set in principle but unfortunately not in the process of some articles. So it's obvious that the promoter didn't mean it very seriously after all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-24-0.u34254	Thank you. Club of HDZ Representatives Mr Ivo Grbić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-24-0.u34255	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, respected state secretaries with a co-worker, respected colleagues and fellow MPs. The Club of Representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community will support the Final Proposal for a Law on State Attorneyship, in which the legislative proposal harmonizes the legislation of the Republic of Croatia with the legislation of the European Union. The current Law on State Attorney's Office was adopted in 2001 and has so far seen more changes during 2007 and 2008, so that it has been amended over half of its provisions. Since the Law on Criminal Procedure adopted in 2008 gives a new position and role to a state attorney in criminal proceedings and the need to settle certain issues in connection with the conduct of a state lawyer and relations with other state bodies in the previous procedure and, for the sake of clarity of the text itself, the need to adopt a new law rather than access to amendments and additions to the existing provisions of the Law on State Attorneyship is indicated. The proposal for a new Law on State's Attorney's Office has 5 wholes. Part 1 contains general provisions, part 2 refers to the structure, affairs of the state's attorney's and judicial administrations, jurisdiction and work, reports and means of work and property of the state's attorneys. Part Three includes the general powers of a state lawyer in relation to lower national attorneys when working on any work, powers and duties of a state attorney in criminal proceedings and powers and duties in civil and administrative proceedings. Part of the fourth concerns the appointments and resolutions of state lawyers, deputy state attorneys, appointment and work of the State's Attorney's Council and provisions relating to state-level attorneys and deputies. Part 5 contains transitional and final provisions. Due to significant conceptual changes to the criminal proceedings in the Criminal Procedure Act, the proposed provisions of the new Law on State Attorneyship, the state's attorney becomes a dominus litis of the previous proceedings. Namely, a judicial investigation has been suspended and a state-of-the-art investigation has been initiated in which the defendant opposes the prosecutor, not the court, or the investigating judge. The state's attorney becomes the subject in charge of the investigation. He assumes the rights and duties of collecting evidence for the indictment. In this way, and in accordance with the Criminal Procedure Act, the court no longer combines the functions of research and decision-making held by the investigating judge at any stage of the proceedings. Furthermore, new provisions are introduced in accordance with a strategic study on objective and transparent criteria for entering the judicial profession, so that the first appointment of a deputy state attorney in the municipal state's attorney's office requires a successful completion of a two-year public school for judicial officials. They shall also exclude provisions relating to the immunity of state lawyers, except for a reference provision under which a State lawyer cannot respond to an opinion expressed in the case unless he has committed a criminal offence. The provisions shall be incorporated in accordance with the recommendations adopted by the Council of Europe Council of Ministers No. 19, 21, 22, 24 and 30 relating to the position and role of a state attorney, in particular on his rights and duties in the criminal procedure to monitor the legality of police investigations, decisions on the initiation or initiation of prosecution, the surveillance of human rights by the police, respect and the requirement to respect human rights, the principle of equality of positions, in particular when giving data from the impact on the course of the judicial proceedings, other parties to the proceedings, the non-use of illegal evidence or the continuation of persecution in cases where the results of an impartial investigation show that there is no justification for it and keeping confidential any information obtained from third parties, in particular in cases where there is a review of innocence unless the disclosure would be in the interest of justice or based on the law. In any event, the adoption of a new Law on State Attorney's Office will allow the application of the Criminal Procedure Act and achieve compliance with the provisions of the current law with the provisions of other laws relating to the work of the State's Attorney's Office. For this reason, the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community supports the adoption of the Law on the State Attorney's Office as well as the amendments to the Legislative Committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-24-0.u34256	Thank you. An individual debate. Mr. Representative Dragutin Lesar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-24-0.u34257	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. I must admit, first of all, that I am a little surprised by this legislative judicial stampede that has been present for the past two weeks. I wonder what's the rush? For all I know, the chapter of the Justice Treaty with the European Union has been blocked not only by us good neighbours and friends of Slovenians, but thanks to the British-Scandinavian blockade, the causes are elsewhere. And I think at this rate we can make some mistakes that we shouldn't. When Rehn and the others in Europe order us to reform the judiciary, we change the laws or we pass new laws. I don't remember any laws, I haven't found any law in the area of justice that we haven't changed in the last two months in Croatia and brought new ones. Municipal courts, county courts, Supreme Court, Constitutional Court, Criminal Law, Criminal Procedure, Criminal Procedure Act, State Attorney's Law, USKOK Act, police, police powers. So, all the norms were either changed or complemented or brought over again, and I thought the reform of the judiciary was something else. And I don't know how the reform of the judiciary can succeed by changing the law, if the same people, the same phones, computers, the same offices, the same rooms, everything remains the same, we only keep changing the laws, and the constant is that the perception of the public in Croatia is most subject to corruption or exposed to the dangers of corruption. And since changes in laws and the adoption of new laws don't change anything in this country, perhaps only on one occasion, to illustrate. I think it would really be good to write a big password in the entrance to Croatian prisons only for those without dual citizenship because for a year back, all who are sentenced to prison sentences for 5 years and more did not end up in prisons in Croatia, but in countries whose citizenships are still in place. In prisons, we end up with naive, hens, bicycle thieves, and these traffickers with mild penalties. I don't have to quote examples of the general known in Croatia. The other day, police stopped one of them who apparently thought his sentence would be 5 years and more, so he tried to prevent him from going to neighbouring Bosnia and Herzegovina, then the court surprised him only when he was 3 years old. Why did I mention that? The practice remains the same, and I do not recall any example of the State's attorney's office asking the court to grant a safeguard measure, e.g. The ban on leaving the place of residence, the ban on leaving the territory of the Republic of Croatia, and the confiscation of travel documents to prevent escape from the territory of the Republic of Croatia. I do not recall any provision or practice that the state's attorney's office, including the Croatian courts in the defendants, verify the possible existence of dual or triple citizenship and the withdrawal of those travel documents from another country or third countries. Because in Belgrade there is one caught that has both our Bosnian and Serbian citizenship, so triple citizenship. It is also accessible in its own time to Croatian law enforcement, so it is protected by triple citizenship. So what happens is what is the responsibility of a state lawyer who does not go with the proposal to issue a ban on leaving the territory of the Republic of Croatia and to withdraw travel documents. Why does the State Attorney's Office or the County's Attorney's Office not seek such a measure for persons who are in court because of the crime of taking bribes, corruption in a sensitive area of health care, for example, or science and higher education, anyway. How is it not in the practice of the Croatian State's Attorney's Office that such a measure is also sought for persons who have been accused and who are in charge of criminal offences in conversion? Therefore, although laws exist and such measures are envisaged, they are not used in Croatia. And that is why most of the public suspect that this is not an accident and that it is the arrangements of those who press charges, those who are responsible for such adoption of these safeguards, because they are not applied in any serious case. For me, it is a reform of the conduct of the judiciary to protect the interests of the Republic of Croatia and its own, to prevent the escape of such defendants from the territory of the Republic of Croatia and later to send their greetings from neighbouring or other countries. I think it's a good thing we're leaving the investigating judge's institute, I'm just wondering if maybe this is being prepared by people in the state's attorney's office for a year back in secret, and no one knew that they were able to assume these powers now and immediately. So, I'd really like to ask Mrs. Secretary of State to answer that question for me. Were the employees of all the county district attorneys prepared in secret for such a major change in the role and position of the state's attorney? So for this reason, we can apply this law immediately or it is believed that this radical change does not require any additional education, and in particular, additional people within the state's attorney's office and, in my view, the USKOK. It is only then that we can assess to what extent we are prepared not only to pass laws and Brussels to notify that we have passed laws, but to carry out the first procedures and the true reform of the judiciary. I must admit that I look forward to Mr. Bajic's State's Attorney's report and explain to the Croatian public why all the defendants, the defendants of serious crimes, are fleeing Croatia, and why in no case has he asked for a judicial measure to protect him from leaving the territory and withdrawing travel documents? So, we ask this answer so that you can understand what happened in the USCOK and the state's attorney's office that within a few days I can immediately begin to apply this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-24-0.u34258	Thank you. Mr. Representative Igor Dragovan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-24-0.u34259	Dear colleagues and colleagues. This State's Attorney's Law is good. The law can be perfect, it can be in the world, the main thing is whether there is a political will and a framework for this law to function in real condition. What's the basic thing and I'm worried about no matter what time we're in, I'll repeat eight months or more ago in this House we've reached a certain consensus. Our consensus between both the positions and the opposition was a firm political will to deal with every type of crime particularly with corruption and organised crime. I'm asking a question at this point, and now is that political will that exists at this point? It seems to me that this political will is slowly disappearing, because some things are being gestured, something that is being heard inconclusively confirms that political will. For example, we would all like the state's attorney's office, the judiciary to do its job as efficiently as possible, professionally, professionally, unburdened by daily or any other policy. But unfortunately, there are certain examples that are public examples that are unresponsive and truly worrying. For example, I'll name one. Recently, a senior HDZ official publicly cited one fact in a certain interview calling for me to say the way certain processes are being conducted by a state attorney for a particular political intervention. What I'd like to see is a sharp denial, and I didn't notice it, a harsh response to that kind of accusation, because I want to believe that it's an accusation and I don't want to believe that anyone is saying that the prime minister of the Croatian government orders the state's attorney to prosecute, or to prosecute the wife of the parliament attorney. I don't want to believe it. And that kind of thing if it's made public, then I really expect it to be very harshly denied from all levels that are in some way involved. The battle against organised crime is a battle that is not solved only by papers, is not solved overnight, is not solved by laws that can be the most perfect in the world. I will repeat myself with a decisive political will in which people who need to do their job will get full independence, politically unburdened to do the job. I would also like to point out that last June we already had a report from the attorney general here in this House. A long wait, however, was almost until November and late November for the 2007 report to be discussed. Now it's June and the state's attorney's report has not yet been received in the parliamentary procedure. And I hope we didn't get it for the reason that it's somewhere on the understanding, but simply because it's still not concrete and comprehensively done work on the state's attorney's report. Just as I would like to point out, and what is the fact and without what is the deal with corruption above all, and organized crime is not possible, and that is absolutely confidence in the institutions of the state, in the officials, in the people who do the job. So those people who are witnesses, who see, who know and who can prove and want to help the state and its employees, the bodies that do and process should have absolute confidence. So, people who are willing to report corruption, who are willing to report organised crime, who are ready together with the institutions of the state to go into battle against this crime should be sure to be protected, that their identity will remain protected, but unfortunately, all the examples we've had in the past speak quite the opposite. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-24-0.u34260	Thank you. Final review by State Secretary at the Ministry of Justice Marina Dujmović Vukovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-24-0.u34261	Thank you. Dear Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen. The amendments to the legislative framework are just now aimed at a more effective fight against crime. During 2009, since the Law on Criminal Procedure was adopted, very intensive education has been carried out in the implementation of the CAP. These educations were conducted in Valbandon. With great effort and advocacy of all the participants of this process, the training has been shared for the first time precisely at the simulation of actual cases by police investigators, state lawyers, deputies and directors of USKOK and judges, all of whom should, since 1 July 2009, apply the new Criminal Procedure Act. It was done precisely because of the necessary synergy of all parts of the repressive apparatus. Following this kind of education, all participants are expected to be prepared to apply new rules. In particular, it develops and improves mutual cooperation between state attorneys and other state authorities in such a way as to specifically prescribe precise ways of handling in certain circumstances. I thank you for your suggestions and discussion. Amendments of the Legislative Committee to Article 190 shall be adopted on Articles 194, 195 and 196. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-24-0.u34262	Thank you. I'm closing the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-24-0.u34263	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, let's get back to work. On behalf of the SDP club, Ms. Milanka... No, I don't. Okay. On behalf of the HDZ Club, Mr... Nothing. And Mr. Puppet asked me to... Nothing. Okay, thank you. We're going to vote. First the quorum. Please, let's get on with it. Score. There are 90 MPs present, so we have a quorum. We can decide. We move to the Final Proposal of the Law on State Attorney's Office, emergency procedure, P.Z.E. No. The proposed law is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. The amendment was submitted by the Legislative Committee. I would like to ask the proposer's representative to take note of the amendment of the Legislative Committee. Ms Marina Dujmović Vukovic, State Secretary.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-24-0.u34264	Thank you, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-24-0.u34265	Amendment 1 to Article 190
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-24-0.u34266	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-24-0.u34267	It becomes an integral part of the bill. Amendment 2 to Article 194.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-24-0.u34268	It is accepted, but in a way that Article 194 is amended and it reads: "The entry into force of this Act ceases to apply to the Law on the State's Attorney's Office ("National Journal", No. 51/01, 58/06, 16/07, 20/07. and 146/08.This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. "years."
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-24-0.u34269	Mr. Board President, Tomljanović.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-24-0.u34270	It is accepted in the formulation as said by the secretary of state.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-24-0.u34271	So, according to the statement that the secretary of state is here. Okay. Article 195, Amendment 3.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-24-0.u34272	It is accepted, but in a way that Article 195 reads: "This Act will be published in the "National Journals" and enter into force on 1 July 2009, with the exception of Article 16(2), Article 33(2) and Articles 57 to 86, which enter into force on 1 September 2011, when the proceedings in cases for criminal offences not contained in Article 21. The laws on the prevention of corruption and organised crime and Articles 109, 110, 124, paragraphs 3 and 4, 156, 157 to 161 and 185 which enter into force on 1 January 2014. "years."
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-24-0.u34273	What?
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-24-0.u34274	Same obvious, we agree.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-24-0.u34275	It's accepted in Ms. Secretary of State's statement. Thank you. 4th Amendment to Article 196.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-24-0.u34276	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-24-0.u34277	It becomes an integral part of the bill. Thank you very much. Therefore, the adoption of this law requires a majority of the votes of all MPs, i.e. 77th in accordance with Article 226. Rules of Procedure. I am therefore voting on the final proposal of the Law on the State's Attorney's Office. Please, let's get involved and vote. Score. The law was passed by a majority of votes, 80 votes in favour, 1 abstention and 24 against, together with the amendments accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-24-0.u34278	We're moving on to the next point. - Final draft law on the Anti-Corruption and Organized Crimes Office, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 387 Proposer is Government. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and Justice. You received the reports at the session. State Secretary at the Justice Ministry Marina Dujmovic-Vukovic will further explain the proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-24-0.u34279	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen. The functioning of the Office for the Prevention of Corruption and Organized Crime as a Special State Attorney's Office is based on the implementation of the repressive, educational and preventive roles of USKOK in relation to both the phenomenon of corruption and organised crime. The Republic of Croatia has joined key multilateral international legal instruments that contain provisions related to the effective prevention of corruption and the fight against organised crime and ratified the civil-legal Convention on Corruption and the Criminal and Law Convention on Corruption, which took effect in July last year. The new Criminal Procedure Act abolished the judicial investigation and introduced a state-of-law investigation. Therefore, the Law on the State's Attorney's Office and the USKOK Law had to be harmonised. As the USKOK Act has so far been amended on three occasions, which has significantly amended certain provisions of the USKOK and, in particular, since it is necessary to amend a number of existing provisions now, it is estimated that, in the interests of clarity of text and application, a new law should be adopted. The structure of USKOK is adapted to the needs of more effective international cooperation and the section of the Department for the Prevention of Corruption and Public Relations is specified. In particular, jurisdiction has been regulated and the possibility of transferring the proceedings to other courts has been increased, and particularly regulated relations between USKOK, the Police Directorate, the Ministry of Interior, the Tax Administration, the Office for the Prevention of Money Laundering, the judges of enforcement and the extension of the USKOK's surprise powers regarding the data that represent the banking secret protected by the Bank Act and the initiation of the forced confiscation procedure. As a result of significant conceptual changes to the Criminal Procedure Act, provisions on the rights and duties of the State's attorney have been amended, hence the Director of the USKOK and its deputies. So the state's attorney and the director and his deputies are the subject of an investigation. It becomes a dominus litis of the previous procedure. They assume the rights and duties of collecting evidence for the indictment. With respect to the fact that the changed role in the previous procedure now requires that the powers of a state lawyer in the ordinary state attorney's offices and in the USKOK should be amended in the same way or in a similar manner, in accordance with the amendments to the Criminal Procedure Act, as these provisions are now in the work contained in the Law on State Attorneyship. In addition to the above, the work of USKOK is subject to obligations regarding the designation of security checks and the registration of assets. The provisions of the Implementing Law applicable to the so-called ‘Implementing Law’ have also been substantially amended. the freezing of property acquired by criminal acts, which is why it is necessary to comply with the provisions of the current law. It is important to point out that Article 21 of this proposal lays down the competence of the USKOK in which cases of criminal offences will take place. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. determines the delirious and jurisdiction of courts so-called in the case referred to in Article 21 of this Act, the following shall be added: The special provisions of the Rules of Procedure have established the establishment of special departments within the county courts of Zagreb, Split, Osijek and Rijeka, as well as the obligations of the President of the County Courts, security measures and the conduct of officials and deputies acting in criminal matters as referred to in Article 21 of this Act. In this way, a vertical is established, the whole structure of the fight against corruption and organised crime is surrounded. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-24-0.u34280	Thank you. The Legislative Committee? The Justice Committee? I'm opening a debate. The club of HDZ Representatives Mrs. Ana Lovrin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-24-0.u34281	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Madam Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. By considering the proposal to amend and supplement the USKOK Act, I believe it is primarily important to say that the country's social, political and economic progress depends on its ability to resist and combat corruption. The assumptions for this are primarily political, social, economic reforms that the Republic of Croatia systematically implements and expresses its political will to deal with this problem through, in part of the judiciary, systematic documents, which is a strategy for reforming the judiciary and the anti-corruption strategy adopted by this Croatian Parliament last year. The fight against corruption and the fight against corruption is going to be effective, necessarily in two directions. This is, above all, prevention, thus, the provision of legal frameworks and the insurance of decision-making procedures at the disposal or spending of public money to consume public powers in such a way that corruption risks are narrowed down as much as possible and that corruption risks cannot even occur. In the part of prevention, it is certainly also a measure or an effort to sensitise the public, both the citizens and the media to warn the problems of corruption and the citizens to inform and the competent authorities who are then strengthened and institutionalised that they are also carrying out this fight, as well as measures to strengthen the integrity of all public affairs persons and who are in possession of public money. The other direction is certainly to detect, prosecute and punish the perpetrators of corruptive crimes and only an effective trial and judgment can restore citizens' confidence in the judicial system and in the state that it has a serious intention to fight corruption. And although responsibility in the fight against corruption on every member of society, as I say, I like to say everyone in their small backyard can fight corruption in their environment, whether active, whether passive, is certainly the greatest responsibility in the centres of political power and in the judicial institutions. Therefore, the persecution detection system is extremely important and, as I said, the religion in the judiciary is based on the swift and effective judgment of the perpetrators of criminal offences. However, in order to allow courts to be judged, it is certainly extremely important that there is sufficient evidence collected and credible because doubt or general belief in someone's guilt in a regulated rule of law is not enough for a verdict. It was precisely by recognising this in the Republic of Croatia, recognising the danger of corruption in 2001 that the USKOK Law or the Law on the Office for the Control of Corruption and Organized Crime as a special specialised body within the framework of the State's Attorney's Office was passed and that four county courts of Osijek, Rijeka, Split and Zagreb would also judge these cases. This law then established the activities of the USKOK, the offences of the so-called “Crime” have been established. The catalogue of jumping crimes and USKOK is, as I say, set up by law but of course it was necessary to systematically strengthen him as an institution and systematically strengthen funds, the amount of funds for his work. In 2005, the USKOK Law was amended and updated in a way that extended powers in the USKOK compared to specific investigative actions, strengthening, extended powers in the pre-examination process, the co-operation of USKOK with police and other competent authorities, particularly the tax administration, customs office, to prevent money laundering. In order to ensure more effective evidence of the conduct of the investigation and investigation procedure, the criminal law and the Criminal Procedure Act have introduced provisions on witness protection as procedural protection and the Act on the Protection of Witnesses as extra-processive protection. In 2007, the USKOK Act was amended in the part of the extension of the catalogue of jumping offences. It is also provided for by the Rules of Procedure of the Court outside of this law to be dealt with as priority offences and also to establish a special register of the conduct of corruption proceedings so that it can be monitored, the speed of their resolution. They are equally designed in jumping courts and so on and so on. Jumping judges, court rules. In parallel, the Penal Code has also been amended because the fight against corruption other than the verdict itself can be effective if any benefit it has obtained by criminal acts is taken, and in that sense the significantly amended provisions of the Penal Code on the Extortion of Exclusion of Assets acquired by a criminal act allow for confiscation of property before a judicial verdict and an extended possibility of linking acquired property with a criminal offence. In this work, I must say that the action plan continues to be carried out in accordance with the UN Convention to carry out a scientific study on whether, which are arguments for and against the introduction of a new criminal offence of illegal wealth. So property that can't be proven to be of origin. All of these measures, all of these measures have contributed to an increasing number of applications and processes ahead of USKOK. And from the analysis and assessment of the situation of the Anti-Corruption Strategy of the past year, we find that in the last three years the number of applications has not increased significantly, but that unlike earlier years, when most of the proceedings have been initiated due to minor crimes, so-called. street corruption, the structure of the criminal offences launched shows that during 2007, most of the procedures for corruption crimes are high and medium levels. These criminal proceedings, some of which are very well known in the public, undoubtedly contribute to the citizens' trust in the bodies of the detection and persecution of corruption. In this regard, I would like to say that the zero tolerance rate on corruption set out in the Anti-Corruption Strategy certainly means that it must include every corrupt act, small or large, as a message to citizens that every corruption is punishable. For these very reasons, the Croatian Democratic Community club will support the adoption of a new USKOK law for the reasons that the more changes to the law, of course, make it difficult to follow the legal text. It will support this new law as a relevant law with a fundamental law on criminal proceedings which, in a very new way, has set the role of the State's Attorney's Office as we have heard in the previous debate. And precisely because of such a provision of the role of the State Attorney's Office, which is in the jurisdiction and affairs of a special law, then within that law, we also have certain jobs in relation to USKOK lawyers in support of this proposal for a new law that regulates the activity and jurisdiction of the USKOK. And what we should say here is, in fact, that this new Law on the Office for the Control of Corruption and Organized Crime, there are no significant newspapers because it is actually in line with the provisions on powers for a state attorney, in a previous procedure that is in accordance with the Criminal Procedure Act entered into the State Attorney's Law. Therefore, we support the adoption of this law, and we also support the provisions by which the general authority or the provision by which a state lawyer can provide a so-called ‘. Smaller corrupt crimes are transferred to the jurisdiction of regular state attorneys, so that the Office for the Prevention of Corruption and Organized Crime can then deal with more significant large-scale corruption processes and quickly investigate and hand them over to the court for processing. Because, as we have said, only a quick verdict and effective can restore citizens' trust in the judicial system, and therefore it is necessary for courts to provide valid evidence to be able to judge. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-24-0.u34282	Thank you. HNS MPs' club, Ms. Vesna Pusic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-24-0.u34283	Mr. Vice President, ladies of honor from the government. Introductoryly, I would like to say that the first frequent change in the law and the short term currently at the moment is six days for the implementation of certain laws, always introduces a higher level of legal and any other uncertainty. For comparison and comparative research into citizens' trust in institutions, it shows that citizens trust institutions in Scandinavia. So including the institutions of their own countries and laws, it's 65%. So 65% of citizens have confidence in the institutions of the state. In Croatia it is 11%, the average of the old members of the European Union is 40%, the average of the new members is 20. But this spectrum of Scandinavia where people believe that the state really does what needs to be done and that institutions really do work 65% of them and in Croatia where they believe 11%. This in itself speaks of the need to stabilise institutions and to adopt laws that on the one hand will be able to function more effectively and lastingly, and on the other hand, which will have both space and time to be implemented and to prepare and prepare the institutions for their implementation. In this law and in the previous Law on State Attorneys, this is unfortunately not the case with regard to time, since both law and law, hence the new USKOK Act and the new Law on State Attorney's Office, are to be applied six days from today. It is a principled remark, but it certainly contributes to the mistrust of citizens in institutions and the feeling that there will be certain implementation problems. As for sustainability, the HNS Club hopes that this USKOK law will be permanent because it carries some elements with it, I would say the key elements, the reforms that Minister Šimonovic made when he entered his ministerial duty to propose and bring out here in the Assembly and say clearly that he will step down if he is not able to implement this reform for any reason. In this law, we have finally accepted and welcomed all of us as a draft. In this law, the elements of this reform are finally converted into legal articles, i.e. definitions in which some of them could be implemented. Of course, this law harmonizes the functioning of the USKOK with the Criminal Procedure Act, but other than the U.S.K.K.O. in the context of the new Criminal Procedure Act are defined by both the jumping courts and the freezing measures for those accused of corruption or organised crime are defined. These two points, therefore, the definition of jumping courts and the definition of the freezing measures of assets or of previous freezing of assets in proceedings against persons accused of corruption or organised crime are new in that sense that they are an integral part of the reform that we have as a whole exposed here in the Parliament and which we have accepted. The key article in this law is certainly Article 21, which determines the offences for which the BODGE is responsible. From this law, it becomes unequivocal and quite clear that BIAK is an integral part of the State's Attorney's Office, to some extent, and I ask that this be considered and considered, to some extent, perhaps beyond what would be necessary, since the Director of USKOK appoints the Attorney General as acceptable. But also state lawyers at USKOK, so the co-workers of that director are appointed by the attorney general. Perhaps there would be no excuse to consider the possibility of giving the Director of USKOK some powers in terms of the appointment of his associates and thus to enable it to function more effectively. The reform element present in this law is seen in Article 32, which speaks of those famous jumping departments in four key county courts, so in Zagreb, Split, Rijeka and Osijek county courts, special departments have been set up, so jumping departments that will deal with these very difficult and most difficult acts of corruption and organised crime, and are determined in the opinion of the HNS Club by a very important provision, that judges in those departments will undergo security checks and checks of property. This just points to another fact that is actually amazing, that every secretary in this House is going through a security check, and judges don't go through security checks, and in particular these reforms introduce security checks only for some judges, so for judges who are going to be tried in jumping courts, it's certainly good because as we understand in the club of the HNS, the intensity is that within the judicial profession we finally begin to deal with the quality of judges, our head problem and intact in judicial reform of the quality of judges and the quality of the trial. We've been reducing, increasing court seats, various other things, but a key problem, which is the quality of judges and trials we haven't dealt with. Security check and check of the property is certainly something that at least in intensity goes in the direction of forming some kind of judicial elite, some kind of group within a profession that could impose more and more quality standards. What's important is that it certainly does in that sense and interpret and that it does. Because as we've seen the Password case, it may not be exactly going to happen, no matter what the law makes it clear that the intensity is that. In the case of a member of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors, the Directors of the Board of Directors shall be appointed by the Board of Directors. The application of the HNS Club is that in the case of judges in the jumping departments should not be applied, and I hope that the legislator under meaningful interpretation meant it, but here we underline that this is not to be taken into account, it is not necessary to ask for a special request from the attorney general, but that security check and checking of the property for the judges of the jumping courts must be automatic, but I ask the Government's representative to comment on that, or to confirm or refuse this interpretation of the HNS Club in the case of the security and property checks of judges in the jumping departments of the county courts. The delegation of cases to other courts and county and municipal ones is also envisaged, introducing or defining the role of a crown witness in corruption and organised crime cases, the exemption from the status of a crown witness for murderers, terrorists, kidnappers and rapists is defined. It is stated that the court council, regardless of the request by the attorney general, should be declared a crown witness, that the court council may decide on the exemption of the proposed coronal witness, so as not to accept the proposal of the attorney general to declare a person a crown witness. The HNS Club is proposing here, and I would also ask the government ladies to comment on this, that when it comes to rejecting the attorney general's request that someone get the status of a crown witness, only the council of jumpers, the 4 special county court, can decide on that. Therefore, only those courts who, in fact or in any departments who have actually had judges who have passed a special selection of security and property checks and thus become judges of jumping courts, and not any judicial council, in case, say, these departments delegate the case to a municipal council or any other county court. They are introduced and mentioned, although not too clear, so a little hazy, mentions objective criteria for the appointment of state lawyers and for progress in the state's law profession. This is usually one of the very important elements of reform, that the advancement and entry of young people and new people in the profession is not defined by either grandmother or uncles, or by relationships with any other criteria, but by some criteria that are verifiable, so the results in the tests, grades in college, grades in postgraduate or additional training. That part here is only mentioned in very principle that objective criteria are being introduced. But what the objective criteria mean is not clear enough in the opinion of the HNS Club is not defined, and this is a key part of the reform that we are finally starting to deal with the quality of people doing these jobs. A reference is made to either pre- or temporary confiscation of property for those accused of criminal acts of corruption and organised crime. It is also an element of reform, an important element of reform, but also a very dangerous and very sensitive element of reform, because in this part it is crucial to prevent the abuse of this measure and at the same time it is very consistent to apply it by clear and all available criteria. The HNS club believes that this law is certainly a contribution or a realisation of the judicial reform that Minister Shimonovic spoke of in this House. They will uphold this law. However, for this law as I think one of my colleagues before me has said, is a key matter of application. I remind this House that everything we write in this law or in the Law on State Attorneyship or the law that follows, which is the Law on the Police, becomes by voting on this becomes the criteria or preconditions for the conclusion of our negotiations on Croatia's membership in the European Union. Everything we've written here will be a prerequisite or what we vote on will be a prerequisite that we can close the chapter of the judiciary and the fundamental rights that we haven't even opened yet. But that'll come, too. Therefore, the implementation of this not to write and vote in the Parliament, but the implementation and meaningful implementation of this law will be a prerequisite that we can also conclude our negotiations on the European Union. That's what laws should also be kept in mind when writing laws. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-24-0.u34284	Thank you. SDP representative club Mr Zeljko Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-24-0.u34285	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Madam Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. The SDP club will support the draft law on the corruption and organised crime control office. It is a law that adapts the structure of USKOK to the needs of international cooperation, determines the competences and what we in the SDP club particularly consider important, finally regulates relations between USKOK, police directorships, tax administrations, money prevention offices, because exactly the lack of interagency cooperation was the cause of non-quality investigations and poor results in terms of corruption, especially high corruption. What we must stress on this occasion is that it is one thing to pass the law, which is what my colleague Pusic was talking about right before me, and the other is to apply those laws in practice. And that's what doesn't usually end well with us. The best evidence for this is the global corruption barometer for 2009, researching and measuring public perception of corruption, which has shown that Croatian citizens are the most corrupt judge of justice, then state services, the public sector. While at the same time they believe that the most frequent recipients are the bribe police. How are we going to fight corruption with organised crime if citizens don't trust the police if citizens don't trust the Justice Department if they don't believe the court. So, without citizens' confidence in the system, there is no fight with corruption. So in Croatia on a scale of one, it's utopia without corruption to five total corruption, citizens rated the judiciary with 4.4. Almost absolute corruption. Therefore, the Ministry of Justice, the judiciary reacted very badly to these assessments. In their changes, however, they accused the media that they are the biggest culprit for why citizens think that the judiciary is the most corrupt, which is typical twisting facts by that rule, kill the messengers of bad news, not thinking about their own responsibility. For this speaker, Justice Minister Shimonovic said that 2008 was the year of preparation, writing strategies and plans, while 2009 will be the year of action and results. Unfortunately, you can't see that yet. Consensus was elected in this assembly and Minister Karamarko and Minister Shimonovic. We expect to finally see the results, but there are no results. Many studies confirm that citizens consider politicians and the judiciary to be the most corrupt and as such the greatest threat to society. And they're right. Corrupt judges, a corrupt politician who together protects the interest of large capital by the cancer of society. Because of them, the narrow layer becomes even richer, and most of the society is poorer. Because of them, an honest individual gets hit by the head, a journalist loses his job and ends up in house arrest, while the batinarians walk freely and hang out with social cream on the benches, often in the company of politicians and ministers. On paper, it's all imagined great when it comes to preventing corruption and organised crime. We have a strategy we have an action plan of 195 measures that is implemented, we have a government commission that is operationally monitoring the implementation of strategies and action plans, we have a parliamentary National Council that oversees the implementation of strategies. We've brought a whole series of new laws, to mention just some. Public procurement, concessions, tax and customs administration, general identification number, Penal Code, New Criminal Procedure Act, State Attorney's Office. Today we're discussing this USCOD Act, we're going to discuss police powers. So all these laws almost have no objections, the very words of praise. And I'd say some random observer, so you've got honey and milk in Croatia. Corruption and organised crime have come to an end. But unfortunately, it's not like that. Citizens a year after the adoption of the strategy, 8 months after the appointment of new justice and home affairs ministers do not believe a fraction more to the system, police, judiciary and generally would not report corruption because they fear for their head. At the same time, the ministry, for example spend an untransparent Justice Ministry 2.3 million kuna in a campaign to raise public awareness of the need to fight corruption without actually having results. The truth is, we've established a vertical jump from the national police office to contain corruption and crime through jump courts. However, let's just say the idea of jumping courts gets a big question if a notorious judge of Lozin can become a jump judge, if journalists who write about corruption and organised crime are left without a job, if they are threatened, if one year after he was beaten and actually tried murder on journalist Miljuš has no employer or perpetrator of the misdemeanor. The police director who has proven himself in the fight against corruption and organised crime is being replaced, I apologize, is being promoted. So, strategy one, he's just a frame. These laws are a tool that should create a picture of the fight against corruption within that framework, however, there is no picture. Fighting corruption and organised crime requires absolute and impeccable co-operation between police, lawyers and the judiciary because the failure to resolve attacks on citizens who in good faith report corruption or journalists who reveal a trail of dirty money show where the software is, where the hardware, where the Maestro is thus obtained a message of organised crime that says that crime has defeated the rule of law or may have become part of the state's apparatus itself. Citizens and journalists who report criminal acts instead of confessing get hit over the head and live like in Kafka's novel, those in custody and those who take advantage of corruption and crime walk freely and socialize with political elite as I have already said. Therefore, I reiterate once again that the SDP club supports all these laws that we have in the package today that should solve corruption and organised crime but the SDP club points out that the consensus that was in this assembly at the appointment of Minister Shimonovic and Minister Karamarka is slowly running out because we do not see results and we are looking for results right away.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-24-0.u34286	Thank you. An individual debate. Ms. Representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-24-0.u34287	Thank you. Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. A new draft law on the Office for the Prevention of Corruption and Organized Crime with a final bill on its part here will be adopted by consensus. No one doubts that many of the issues here are now more systematically resolved and that we have happily improved the bar in this verbal readiness in the fight against corruption than in 2001 when we passed the USKOK Act and when the current government of the then opposition was very skeptical or against law-making, that we do not need it at all, that we have a state attorney's office etc. and so much closer. However, it is not a matter of law, but there is really no will to fight corruption, there is no serious will. There is a will here and there to suppress the blade and the entire repressive system of eye to some street corruption, to what kind of blue envelope, but therefore it does not need to be established USKOK, but it seems that in the light of the actions it deals with, everything could have been solved in regular courts, it does not need jumping vessels. The basic thought when UskoK was founded was that USKOK was involved in political corruption but no one was responsible for political corruption. How a particular interest group or even an individual was favored to form a law so that someone could be enthroned somewhere. It's political corruption. As jobs are obtained, no one was responsible and they amounted to millions of dollars. Because formally looking at everything often is fine, the best bidder always gets jobs. Rarely when it's seen from paper. But how's the political climate? That other people don't report to such jobs at all, not to mention competitors. That means we're deep down. And what fellow Jovanovic was talking about on behalf of the SDP club, how people who point to corruption are being implemented in the first place. Their life became hell was an ordinary citizen, was even a man in a system that saw what was done or was a journalist. Journalists who write about it systematically get fired from their editorials and they are not even rare anymore. And that's why people see everything, and that's why this index of corruption, the perceptions of corruption, is once again the greatest in the judiciary because people simply don't take it or see that the government doesn't mean it. Is it possible in one courteous state to identify people and to tell them that, and only when they come across resistance do they make some kind of joke that they've been seen at this or that rally and not ruling. That's what people see, they're threatened to lose their jobs. It's political corruption, and if someone has won 100 or 200 kunas, it's just corruption, street corruption, for which cannons shouldn't be hired to kill a fly. So there's no serious political will. Data that yet someone who could be and prosecuted for such criminal acts are strictly kept secret, there's no way that it can penetrate the public even though there's a provision that the bodies carrying out the investigation can give the public information. But there's no way that this data is even possible if we're having some kind of rush that someone might be able to identify themselves, then the denials are coming so that such a person can't be identified or recognized. And then the investigation into that sinks, the public doesn't know anything about it and the journalists who know something about it can't write because they don't have anywhere to write, because they'll be out of a job. How were the people who reported corruption? They've lost their jobs, and not only that, but their social reputation is nothing, people look back on them because people get used to different behaviors. And such a person who is persistent in revealing and revealing and speaking the truth even experiences social condemnation and declares himself a person with insufficient emotional intelligence, as if he doesn't know where he lives, is smarter to keep quiet. And so until such a political climate is changed, there is no point in saying that this bill too is going to come to life as it is imagined. But in any case, we are far away from the original idea that the Office for the Prevention of Corruption and Organized Crime and that the jumping courts are established is reserved for the most difficult forms of corrupt behavior, i.e. for political corruption. But she seems to be far from reach, it was so visibly shown by fellow Jovanovic that she is already justified in fear that she is not on the side of social structures, that she is deep in social structures, that it is about social dignitaries with great political power, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-24-0.u34288	Thank you. Mr. Representative Zeljko Jovanovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-24-0.u34289	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. According to Croatian citizens, politicians and doctors are highly corrupt. I'm both a doctor and a politician and a president of the Anti-Corruption Council. Therefore, my life goal is to restore confidence in politicians as well as faith in politics. Working as a politician in a sick society, I also do some medical work trying to make this sick society healthier. And it is known when it comes to corruption, the cancer of Croatian society, the only remedy is a powerful conviction. Until we have a greater number of rightful convictions, there will be no citizens' trust in the judiciary, there will be no citizens' confidence in this House, there will be no citizens' confidence in politics as a whole. Every corruption is dangerous and harmful, from street bribery to a police officer due to a traffic violation, blue envelopes to a doctor to get a surgery or a professor to pass an exam that has not been studied enough, but it all begins and ends with the political corruption of the mother of all corruption. In Croatia it began with the privatisation of the 1990s and continues today... laws such as the Law on Golf or the Law on Agricultural Land, the networking of politicians and media owners always with only one goal, convenience, interests of the mostly HDZ and HDZ close groups. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] That is why journalists who point to corruption in which HDZ's political interests and capital are networked are being threatened and fired. The media played a key role in revealing corruption and pointing to the importance of fighting corruption but media today precisely because of the network of owners, advertisers, editors and politicians can be the source of corruption, both economically and politically. Therefore, two meetings of the National Council to monitor the implementation of the anti-corruption strategy were very important to indicate that without investigative journalism, there is no freedom of the media and without freedom of the media there is no fight with corruption. But there can be a large questionnaire, because some say that the media and the owners of these media are actually very free but also journalists working in these media are completely unfree. One example was the presentation of journalist Hrvoje Appelt at a session of the National Council, which is a school example of how journalists who come too close to the software of corruption, the great master and their political and material interests. Ignoring this appelt performance here in the Media Parliament, I think it echoed much stronger than those five minutes of thunderous silence that journalists tried to point out to the problems of their profession. We in this House are obliged to provide a political framework that will allow media freedom. But what that political framework means. He means only to enable journalists to write freely without pressure, without censorship and without self-censorship. That's why it's almost incredible, and that's all I'm talking about, and as a representative of the club, that we're passing laws that aren't respected. So, the Media Act was passed in 2004, according to the law, all the media printed electronically were obliged to adopt the statutes of the editorial, the statute of the editorials that would significantly enable journalists to influence the creation of the editorial policy of the newspapers in which they work. Only the voice of Istria and recently HINA adopted that statute. So how come we who have passed such a law don't follow what happens to the laws. Therefore, the Law on Media adopted in 2004 is not implemented in practice, there is no statute of regulation and it is therefore possible for journalists who do their job fairly and responsibly and lose their jobs. On this National Council there were a whole series of proposals, so I mention them on this occasion, so to bring and set up a Croatian Media Council in which publishers and journalists would be involved, to review the editorial policy of Croatian Radio Television and Vesnik, which, as a house that we, all citizens finance, would have to have research departments, departments of research journalism and not to deal with elite topics on television that don't really respond to the essential problems of Croatian society. So it can happen that in an elite term on election night, in an election show, a journalist-leader on Croatian TV asks how many candidates enter the second election club. That says a lot about the competence of journalists. So competent journalists deal with incompetent issues because they are not allowed to work because they are too critical of the ruling party's policies in power. So there are a lot of laws that regulate and enable the fight against corruption, one of them is this Media Act, the other is the ones that we've passed today. The question is whether the USCOD Act, the State's Attorney's Law, will pass as the Media Act goes. It is the task of all of us not to go that way and that we in this House make sure that, for example, we don't. The media law begins to implement everything in practice in order to do what they do when it comes to fighting corruption. And their job is to educate, inform the public, to control those who have power and not only to deal with black chronicles, to create celibacy and everything that actually encourages citizens to read less, to watch less television and if they are less informed, then less will go to elections, and the current party in power will have a better chance of staying in power.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-24-0.u34290	Thank you. Mr. Representative Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-24-0.u34291	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. The USKOK Act is only one of the sets of laws that we are discussing here and that we should adopt today, which signify the conditional reform of the judiciary. They should all come into force on July 1st. But how we pass these laws and how the government's relationship with this reform of justice shows that these laws are being sent in an emergency procedure. Which is absolutely unacceptable. Well, justice reform has been preparing for a long time, reportedly in the government, so there should be some kind of plan or should exist. So I guess these laws, too, are minimum courtesy, home policy would require such important laws to be discussed at least in two, if not three readings. These are laws that are very sensitive. They are not only regulated by the efficiency of the judiciary, the efficiency of the persecution of crime. They are deeply affected by human rights and the right of the public to be informed. These neural points of these legal solutions are neither here nor can they be properly discussed when we apply an emergency procedure. Now I wonder if it's really necessary for all of this to start on July 1st. Well, since the government is acting so irresponsiblely, I'm not going to say that it's dealing with the intention, so this sends it to an emergency, at least we're a little bit more responsible, so let's stop this legislative stampede, discuss these neural points well and thoroughly and interdisciplinaryly, because this is what media experts and legal professionals should be involved in, and certainly the widest public. So let's bring quality solutions. How's the State's Attorney's Office doing? counterpart Jovanovic said something about confidence in the system and the word trust here is a key word. The normative solutions can be better or worse, they may look one way or another, but the intention of corruption in a country does not stem from a better or worse form of a law. It is evident in relation to the problem of corruption as a whole. Not only corruption, but crime when it comes to the State's Attorney's Office, which is responsible for the prosecution of all crimes, not just these corrupt ones. And as the State's Attorney's Office does, and did it deserve the public's trust... Let's just take the Glavas case. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It's about the most serious crime of the war. When does the investigation and the persecution occur? When he falls into the political unrest of the ruling party. And beware, the writings on this, the suspicions of the justified, the inexcusable have been all these years since the end of the war. The state's attorney's office is doing nothing. It only responds when politics gives the green light or when it is ruling in politics in the interest of investigating such an act. Can the public now trust this State's Attorney's Office, in its independent conduct, in its independence from this policy? Well, she can't, because that public would have to be extremely naive if she trusted such a state attorney. The Justice Department's starting with an ad campaign, those little ants, but the whole ants don't touch each other. The ants stay and nothing happens to them. So what's the relationship to corruption in our country? Declaratoryly excellent. They're all against corruption. There is no one in the government or in the Parliament or in the public who is not against corruption at all. But what happens in practice? Zeljko Jovanovic, president of the National Council for Monitoring the fight against corruption, is being insulted here in the Parliament, the parliamentary majority is insulting him. Why? Because he's doing his job as President of the Council, because he's talking about corruption. This public sees, not only what the legal text is, but what is the relationship between you, the parliamentary majority, the authorities in this country, towards who is talking about corruption, because it is among other things and his duty as President of the Council. They're all against corruption, but then there's a law on the golf course with the same Glavas who made it possible for the law to be passed. He was the one vote that allowed the law to be passed. A law that is, by all means, corrupt and who does it benefit? Those proven to be HDZ sponsors. Is that where the State's Attorney's Office reacts? It doesn't occur to him. Jump? He doesn't think about it. So can we, can the public trust such bodies? I don't think so. They're all against corruption, but when the director of the police insists that a corrupt affair leads to an end, a corrupt affair affecting very prominent officials, then the director is changed. And then a brilliant police career turns into a pale and probably not a successful political career, it's called Secretary of State at the Ministry of the Interior. Well, as Director of Police under these beautiful laws of ours, he doesn't have to listen to politics, but he has to do his police work, because we've written these laws, and it's good that the laws are like that. But when he turns him into a secretary of state, then he can't be disobeyed anymore. Then there is a minister and prime minister in the hierarchy and he has to listen to them. And so we euthanized an excellent cop, and we revived him as a bad politician. And that's how the government fights corruption. It's not enough to write the law. It's not enough to even enforce that law. It is necessary to show political will, determination to fight such corruption. And can this public trust such a government when it replaces a police officer because he insists on solving a corrupt affair and turning him into a obedient politician. I don't think so. They're all against corruption, but Brodosplit isn't being investigated. How many times has Marin Jurevic talked about it in this House? Countless times. $5 million is gone, and whoever's responsible is missing is gone. And who's involved in this affair? Top of the line. Ministers. Deputy Prime Minister. So can the public trust this State's Attorney's Office and that SCOTT when that affair didn't get its epilogue? So if someone came and said, yes, those people are guilty, then to say they're not guilty, we questioned. It's not even being investigated. Can it therefore be believed that the fight against corruption in this country will be effective if only the laws are good and the practice is bad? He can't. From there, and this mistrust of the public, both in the judiciary and in politics. And that mistrust is justified. It has its reasons. Because one thing is shown to be said and the other is working and that the real interest of this government is not to curb corruption. If she had, she wouldn't have sent these laws by emergency procedure either, she'd have sent them in time to discuss them here and to get them in as good a way as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-24-0.u34292	Thank you. Mr. Representative Marin Brkarić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-24-0.u34293	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Madam Secretary of State with associates, colleagues and colleagues. Here, I'm going to say a little bit about the very proposal for a law on the Office for the Prevention of Corruption and Organized Crime. First of all, personally, but also on behalf of the IDS Club, we will support this law. We will support for the reason that it is not about the new law, but rather about the bill which contains amendments and additions from 2001 to 2009 and is in line with the Law on Criminal Procedure and in part with the executive law without the freezing of property. So the conclusion is that there are no larger newspapers, but certainly support the law because everyone together is interested in an effective fight against corruption and organised crime. What I would point out, the first law was passed in 2001 and there was a political will to go, so to speak, in dealing with corruption and organised crime. Today in 2009, according to a public opinion survey, the fact is that we are not satisfied with the effects in the fight against corruption and organised crime, the perception of the public is that this corruption, already there has been talk both in the judiciary and in politics and in the state and local administration, means at all levels and that we need to be more effective in fighting corruption and fighting organised crime. Here, what I would especially like to stress here is that we should have political will and achieve consensus on changes to the Constitution itself because this is going to happen this year, and that's part of being clear with crime in conversion and privatisation, that is, that these crimes don't get old, which means what's since '90. The year until 2001 has been done, and we have reports from the State Audit that criminal acts have been committed, that it was a robbery of state property, means it's war profit, so in this segment I think it would be necessary for the change of the Constitution to also predict that the crimes committed in the conversion of privatisation do not become obsolete. I think it is necessary because this would be a clear message to all the citizens of the Republic of Croatia if they were of other value, that they were not the values of those committed or based on the abduction of something that was state, but values are acquired by work, by one moral approach in all segments. They can't be our role model today tycoons, they can't be our role model for today's luxury yacht and everyone else, but on the contrary, so we also have to send a clear message to young people that everything that has been committed to criminal acts in the conversion of privatisation, and also in the segment of war profiting when there has been aggression on the Republic of Croatia is being sanctioned. Here, in the context of this bill and in the context of this proposal, I advocate that the amendments to the Constitution regulate and this segment that such offences do not fall into obsolescence as they have fallen, and there is a clear report of the State Audit that was in this House. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-24-0.u34294	Thank you. At 12 o'clock and 2 minutes, the time has elapsed for registration in the debate for 10 minutes. Mr. Representative Krunoslav Markovnović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-24-0.u34295	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, the honorable secretary of state with his associates. So, we talked a lot here today, and we talked a little bit about the office itself. It seems to me we're with the law satisfied that it's good. Here, I hear we'll accept it. We see that the jumping objects, we heard they'll have priority. So I believe that people will be satisfied, they'll move a little faster, we've given more authority, and what surprises me about all this, now suddenly a huge dissatisfaction with the state's attorney and the director of USKOK, and as I recall, we've chosen them or voted for them, I think, all of them. So, with a lot of trust. And now it turns out, there's no trust if you don't process what I like. Or some imaginary affair because, dear God, if I'm saying something and I repeat it 10 times, then I guess that's what UskoK would have to confirm that's the case. Here, let me briefly repeat one affair. The Ministry is calling for a race for vehicles. There's not enough money, the contest's off. I don't know, interest, public interest, etc. And in a closed session of the Government of Vehicles, they're being bought. Clearly, we're all thinking about trucks, but it happened a year before that. So, in 2003, the Ministry of Interior opened a tender for the purchase of fire tankers, there was not enough money, the tender was cancelled. However, at a closed session of the government's tender is not important, let's get 230 or 240 fire tanks. So it's not 39 military trucks, it's 230-240 and they wouldn't believe it, Mercedes. So, there's probably no corruption here because the best, there's no savings for the state, not from 39 vehicles, but 230 vehicles, and we're wondering why Mercedes. It's probably been offered by MAN or I don't know anyone else, but they've been dumped. So there was no respect for what was needed from the first competition. But, dear God. A colleague, Stazic, claims there is corruption in such competitions. So now I'm interested. Who got the money if there's corruption? Is this the former Interior Minister of fellow Lucin, that and the vice-president of then-Government fellow Linic or someone else? Because fellow Stazic is attacking that the vice presidents of the government are responsible for everything. Or he probably didn't get a colleague, Stazic, so he gets angry about it. So the same objects, the same event, but one is corruption, the other is not corruption. And today we repeat the whole story. Trucks are corruption, but fire trucks aren't mentioned. Because, dear Mercedes, they are, together they are, but they better be more expensive, they'll be less corrupt and so on than military vehicles that are the cheapest, so if they're needed in some kind of war, it doesn't matter the less they do it the better, obviously by this one right here. Furthermore, we are talking about the percentage of trust in power, etc. A low percentage on corruption. Well, normally, let's look at the daily writing of the media. I don't really believe that a lot of journalists got killed unless they got to their boss's empire and then in that case they got fired. But the media write a lot, a lot of guesses, a lot of inventing the same affair, while at the same time corruption in the media as nowhere. Is it corruption or political prostitution? I don't know. But the fact is that many media are doing business for large companies, especially companies, because look who did the job on a working Sunday. The media is normal. For what? Because it's in the interest of employers. How did they pay? In big ads, I don't know, look, on Saturday you have 10 pages, 15 pages of advertisers that normally hold the media, because the media don't keep from selling. You'll see a bunch of unsold newspapers. People don't buy newspapers, they hear the news, and that's enough for them. So let's not be surprised. Everything my fellow SDP colleagues say about this or that, it's their business. They're attacking the government, but look at our voters. Look when they're talking about MPs, they're all the same. Therefore, there is no honest representative because he is on one side of the assembly and unfair on the other. We're all equal to them. As far as we're going to go, there's going to be a situation that's gonna make you feel worse. What we expect is great help from whistles. And how do whistles go? Very good. You get fired without a problem, because the most famous whistler Vesna Balenović when she discovered the crime in INA, when she discovered corruption in INA and huge damage, she got fired, but also satisfaction because at the end of the story she got court and so on. So it was proven that she was right. But here's a fellow Stazic who called Ankica Lepoj every morning and told him nicely, dear fellow Stazic what you know about corruption is wonderful. And Vesna Balenovic obviously did not reach Vesna Balenovic's number because she would probably call him too. So the whistler isn't the one making up the affair. And that's what you respected colleagues and colleagues would like to be, rather than one who proves the affair. The affair needs to be proven in this way that we may harm the one we suspect of something. Allow your suspicions, write to the state's attorney's office and they'll be processed. Otherwise, we agree on a lot of things. The state's attorney's office would be more convincing if it caught some big fish in the net. Sure. We had one big fish, a fish in the net here three, four years ago when we proved corruption to former Minister Chacic and we proved both crime and everything. Handed over to the state's attorney's office. Nothing happened. Why? Because protection from Pantovich is obviously too much, so nothing's going on. And that's where I agree. That it has political influence. Not on the side you think, but a little more from the upper parts of Zagreb. Therefore, because it is the perception of the people. When the people, let's take a look at who's in the protection of a certain gentleman, nothing happens to that. That's what I told my colleague Dragovan that he didn't have to worry about his mother when he got scared there. So he doesn't have to be afraid. So there's an impact definitely, but not from where you think it's from, but from one hill over. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-24-0.u34296	Thank you. Two corrections, one replica. First correction, Mr. Representative Igor Dragovan.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-24-0.u34297	Your Honor, Vice President. Mr. Markovanovic, I ask you nicely not to mention my mother. Okay? I beg you not to mention my mother. That's the first thing. It's a question of home-schooling. Second. I'm correcting the incorrect allegations about it, we're gonna remind you against the state's attorney's report, the SDP club voted against. So it's not true, and it's not true that we supported something together. And two. If you're being unfair to Mr. Markovanovic, that doesn't mean everyone's being unfair. Therefore, it is also your incorrect quote.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-24-0.u34298	Please, personal... Leave it, let's stick to it, let's stay out of it. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And offensive same remarks of a personal nature. Mr. Representative Sima Luchin, correction.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-24-0.u34299	Thank you very much. I'm correcting two incorrect allegations. The first is that the media abolished, or introduced, or working Sunday, which is not true. As far as I know, and probably the vast majority of Croatian citizens, and so did the Constitutional Court. Another false assumption is that we in this House have proven some kind of guilt to Mr. Cacic. I guess you know who in this country proves guilty. That should be the court, I guess. Why am I correcting these two allegations? For the simple reason that it is inadmissible for us to make such an easy statement in this House that neither the Croatian judiciary was independent and that politics was influenced by the media. I therefore think that in the future, such assessments should be avoided around the judiciary, regardless of the remarks I have.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-24-0.u34300	Replica, Mr. Representative Zeljko Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-24-0.u34301	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. So, I must stress that when we talk about responsibility for citizens' trust in the system and about citizens' willingness to deal with corruption, responsibility always lies with the ruling party. So, corruption doesn't have no authority. We know who's in power in this country, second term, six years. And the state of trust of citizens in the system and trust in institutions from the parliament to the local level has exactly the HDZ. And any corrupt affair that leads to a close HDZ ends with a fiasco because there is no political will to deal with corruption when HDZ is involved, or a person close to HDZ. And this is my colleague's reason why trust in the Ministry of Justice is such that no one in this country when it comes to citizens and fighting corruption wants to report a corrupt act because they fear for their lives and a journalist who writes in some way must also be protected as a whistler because when he points to corruption and organised crime that is once again in connection with HDZ gets fired. And at the National Council session, evidence was presented, and I can subsidize them.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-24-0.u34302	Reply to the replica Mr. Representative Krunoslav Markovnović.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-24-0.u34303	I wouldn't agree with a colleague in a series of things because I think there are really people in the paper who write a lot, and they write but to a extent until they touch the empire, I mention again, to their boss. And interestingly, the bosses of these media often mention in the context of some people who were so rather notorious or belonged to a mob or something like that. So that's certainly not true. As far as politicians are concerned, let's remember that the former government of the SDP has made fine decisions on the Supreme yacht, and also on the well-being of the Croatian people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-24-0.u34304	Final review by State Secretary at the justice ministry Marina Dujmovic-Vukovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-24-0.u34305	Thank you. Your Honor, Mr. Chairman. Therefore, the amendment of the legislative framework aims to improve the overall fight against corruption and organised crime. And any lip that is invested in preventive, educational and repressive actions has its positive results. That's exactly the number of about 95% of the convictions against the charges. The jumping vertical has been established, which means that, with the USCOC as a special state attorneyship, the departments of justice have been formed. All the judges assigned to the jumpsuits have passed security checks. These checks are specifically prescribed by the Rules of Procedure and these checks are ordered by the President of the Supreme Court. In relation to the decision-making process on the status of the crown witness for all jumps, the jumpsuits are competent and therefore for decision-making in these cases. The appointments of deputies and state lawyers are defined by the provisions of the Law on the State's Attorney's Office and precisely through those provisions are defined objective and transparent criteria for entering the judicial office. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-24-0.u34306	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegation by Mrs. Agent Ingrid Anticevic-Marinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-24-0.u34307	It is not true that the secretary of state has shown that the number of convictions against the accused is 94% and that this information is just testifying to our success in the fight against corruption. The problem is that these most corrupt people, political corruption, are not being charged at all. In this regard, Madam Secretary of State is a problem, not in this situation that is being processed.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-24-0.u34308	I'm closing the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-24-0.u34309	We move on to the Final Proposal of the Law on the Office for the Control of Corruption and Organized Crime, the Emergency Procedure, P.Z.E. No. 387, the proposed law is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. The adoption of this law also requires a majority of the votes of all MPs, i.e. 77 at least under Article 226. Rules of Procedure. I am voting on the Final Proposal of the Law on the Office for the Control of Corruption and Organized Crime. Please, let's get involved and vote. Score. The bill was adopted by most votes, 82 votes in favour, no abstentions and 23 against.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-24-0.u34310	We're going to the next point. - Final draft law on police affairs and powers, second reading, P.Z.E. No. 329 The proposer of the law is the Government. The debate was conducted by committees on legislation, European integration, internal policy and national security. You received the reports at the session. State Secretary at the Interior Ministry Ivica Buconjic will further explain the proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-24-0.u34311	Thank you very much. Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen. In front of you is the final draft law on police affairs and powers. Namely, after the first proposal of the law in the first reading passed the debate on both the committees of the Assembly and the plenary session, as I said, we listened to the comments and suggestions from both the board and the plenary session, and one part of the remarks, we adopted the proposals. I will only briefly explain these changes from this final version of the Law on Police Affairs and Powers in relation to first reading. An objection by the Committee on Justice has been accepted on Article 5 and this article has been arranged in accordance with the text set out in the report of the Committee on Justice. Namely, there was an observation that more precise and quality should be regulated the ratio between the applicable police authority and the objective achieved by applying police authority. The comments of the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities have also been accepted in the light of the supplemental of Article 9(1), so that, with the exception of the information provided by the police, it is stated to the public on the security conditions in certain areas. As regards the debate on information issues, the comments of Representative Dragutin Lesar on Article 9 were also accepted where it was specified that the information or reports were provided by the minister, the chief director of police and the persons authorised by them. The observations of the Committee on Justice on Article 13(1) of point 25 are also accepted. In fact, it said that police jobs could be prescribed by other laws. Most MPs felt that there was no need for other laws, so we deleted this point in Article 13(1). It is also noted that the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities in Article 47, so in this final text of the law, we have established that if a police officer is brought in and brought in, he must teach the person who is being brought in the right to defend himself. In Article 56(3) and Article 57(3), the text is amended in accordance with the comments of the Justice Committee, and it is stated that the costs of use and damage incurred by the use of other people's transport or telecommunications means will be compensated from the state budget by clarifying and clarifying any possible dilemmas on the right to compensation in the event of use and use of a foreign transport or telecommunications asset. It was also accepted the comments of the Committee on Justice and Article 59 of point 4 was more precisely nomotechnical and normatively arranged so that it is now clearer and more precise. In addition, in Article 61, in accordance with the observations of the Committee on Justice that paragraph 4 is concerned about the infringement of the right of ownership, that point has been left out and a new paragraph 6 has been added to which it is prescribed that temporarily withdrawn cases which cannot be established by the owner will be subject to the provisions of a specific law. In fact, the Law on Property and other real rights regulates this issue and we believe that the provision of the quoted law is sufficient. In Articles 73 and 74, according to the comments of the Justice Committee, the term space is uniform and is used everywhere. It was also noted that the provisions of Article 74 concerning the entry and inspection of a person’s apartment have been deleted, paragraph 5, paragraph 74, and there are only four precise, tax-listed options left when it can be entered for inspection in another person’s home. It is also accepted that the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system related to behaviour, the clarification of Article 103, which provided for the possibility of police handling at a time of emergency, since such behaviour has a small number of European states, we have deleted this possibility because the possibility and powers of police handling at a time of emergency are prescribed by the Constitution and other laws, so we do not consider it necessary that this authority and the way in which this law is dealt with. In the entire text of the law, according to the comments of the Justice Committee, an expression of basic doubt was used. In a number of cases, doubt or reasonable doubt has been established before, the underlying doubt is a real term, i.e. a form or degree of doubt on the basis of which the police may and must act to be effective. The whole text of the law instead of the term "specific law rules" uses the expression "specific law provisions", which was also highlighted in the debate. And we have, in particular, based on remarks raised in the debate on police powers for the collection, assessment and storage, processing and use of data, held a meeting with the Personal Data Protection Agency, and we have made certain normative and nomotechnical changes. Now these changes are fully in line with the opinion of the Agency for the Protection of Personal Data, so we believe that this part of the very sensitive part of the Law on Police Powers is much better, more qualitative, more precisely normised and removed any doubt as to whether the adoption and application of this law, i.e. Articles 23 to 29, could put human rights and freedoms at risk. Here in short, these are the most important changes in relation to the first-reading bill. I say, these are the remarks that have been made either on committees, whether here at the plenary session, and we believe that they are partially correcting this law and that the law as it is now proposed for final reading and adoption is a law that will contribute to the greater efficiency of the police, but also what I said in the first reading and repeat, not at the expense and not at the heart of human rights and freedoms because police must simply be more effective and effective without giving new powers in terms of greater repression or restriction or in bringing human rights and freedoms issues. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-24-0.u34312	Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? I don't see anyone. No, I don't. We're moving on to a debate. I'm opening a debate. And first they're clubs. On behalf of the SDP club, the distinguished representative of Shima Lucin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-24-0.u34313	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Secretary of State. More than 30 years ago, Margaret Thatcher asked John Alderson, head of the English police to stop the miners from entering London. He answered her on that occasion that if it was her police department, she'd be the one to order her. But since he believes that she is the national police, or the police of the citizens of England, that he cannot order them because it is not in accordance with the law. In fact, in this story in a certain way, it is summed up to the essence of police conduct. If you are reading this law, you will see that Article 4 well defines how police powers are exercised, therefore, according to the powers, that is, Article 3 and Article 4 clearly states, no police can order anything that is beyond the law and is not clearly defined. It also says that a police officer has the right to refuse an order unless it is in accordance with the law. And now we're actually getting to the point. We may have an ideal law, but if we don't have a stable system, that law won't work. Croatia has one problem, and this is that the term of the chief, or director of the police, is something less than 2 years, so this is 7 years, we got a fourth director. And the fact that these shifts of directors are always non-transparent and they are not, they are far from the eyes of the public. It's no problem for me that a director has been removed, but no one in this country except for the one who replaced the last police director knows why he's been removed. And that's the problem of the democratic and the rule of law. A fellow Stazic speaks and mentions whether it is some kind of corruption affair. I might be more inclined to believe, alluding to the dialogue between Tacherica and Alderson, that it was the peasants who went on a hike to Zagreb. I don't believe Pankretic ordered Pankretic to order the peasants to stop, but someone else certainly did. And that, in fact, opens up a whole spectrum of problems for me about the functioning of police powers, that is, the functioning of the police. It is unacceptable for me to say this in such a quick way, in a rash way, that something fellow Stazic was saying, today we are passing these three laws, therefore, on the state's attorney's office, on USKOK and on police powers. In order for the CAP to be able to function 1.7, I will remind you, for 8 years, there is also a working group on the amendments and additions of the CAP that should therefore have solved this problem of investigation, investigative actions, etc. And now we've got this bill, and someone's thinking that he's got to function one. And then we have to quickly pass three important laws that are partly and enforceable of the same law, so. I'm not sure anything's gonna change one. Seven, I think we need to remove all illusions, that it's going to be one. Seven, let the new story begin in the fight against crime, and even jump objects, and that something crucial will happen. He won't. Because anyone who knows how the state system works, so if you want the judicial system to work, he has to have some preparation. In some countries, especially I will mention Austria, the adjustment to this model and similar model that we are building here today lasted four years. I don't know how that story's gonna work and why we're in a hurry to go one. 7. When defacto is to educate police officers, it is also necessary to educate judges, state lawyers, members of USKOK, teams, etc., etc. should be formed. So it seems to me that we shouldn't have hurried with these three laws because it seems to me that according to our experience in the Parliament, it always happens next, and that's that important laws are being passed quickly, so in a month or six months, we have to change them. I believe that, given that Europe is not behind us, therefore, this chapter that should be opened, etc., will not change significantly. As regards the content of the law itself, the State Secretary mentioned some and cited some examples where certain amendments were made, i.e. where certain observations were accepted. But I'm not sure what we discussed at the first reading was accepted again, and that's the part that treats human rights. So, another story that convinces me that this law will probably not come to life quickly because it will be necessary to bring in a series of sublegal acts and these sublegal acts that will have to be very detailed, familiar with the whole of a police officer. So, that's one argument that we shouldn't rush. I am therefore going back to the fact that, except for two or three articles, there has been no debate or clearer discussion of the exercise of those powers in the sense of the possibility and that human rights are not being violated. I'm particularly going back to those special measures. In Croatia we were always sensitized to special measures, so listeners, follow-up, keeping in mind not so long ago, but also that ancient history. I would ask to be explained whether, say, monitoring, observation, this law is regulated at the same level as the CAP. That means I'm interested in whether the police can listen without a warrant from a state attorney. I don't understand it from this law. The CAP is clear here. Here's a reason why my remark was not adopted, or the SDP's remark that this was settled by the Criminal Procedure Act. Now I'm interested in whether it's on the same level. So, speaking of special measures, it is unacceptable for a daily list to say that some minister was on the line with a criminal in one day for 15 days. I allow that possibility, but I don't understand how that information got out. No one's going to convince me that this information came out by accident or by chance that it might be convenient for a minister, etc. He probably went out to hit a criminal. And on this example, what about data storage? Whether collateral, in this case this minister who's been caught on the phone with a criminal, whether or not those data are being kept for five years as provided for by this law, because I've also asked for it to be a little different, at least as I read the relationship of what's written here because it's de facto just listed, nothing has been worked out. Now, it doesn't say here that the rules of the CAP apply, so at least it should be written. Why? Because when you define a person's authority, then it is assumed that they are some sort of a superior authority, so that these powers do not require that neither the State's attorney's office nor anyone is writing any warrants, since there is no difference. Now, I'm going back to those first two USCOD laws and the State's Attorney's Office and this law, and that's where I'm gonna end up. The fact is, with these three laws, we give the State's Attorney's office, USCOK and the police in a certain way more power or in a certain way liberalize the whole story. At the same time, all of us together, from Minister Karamark and beyond, are talking about politicisation or the need to depolitise the police, and the good part can also refer to the judiciary or parts of the judicial system. Now, if we've given these and such powers as we've given, as stated in these laws, there is no de facto any extrapolitical, so to call it, measure and possibility of surveillance. I am convinced that the affairs of the Council or of the Sesveda case, also cited as one of the possible reasons for the replacement of the Faber Police Director, would not be that we have built on that principle of civil oversight, or that citizens were presented with the findings found and where they were wrong or were not wrong in these Councils, or during that action, that citizens could have asked questions and probably the story would have been closed. So, I think that somewhere in the coming time, as quickly as possible, in this home, if not in the government, we should consider certain mechanisms of surveillance and control for a simple reason, to avoid abuses that are easily possible and, as I said, from our not so far away history, we have often witnessed these abuses. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-24-0.u34314	Thank you. I just have to say that what's said is that one minister has been on the link of a criminal 15 times to a single daily list, but it's also true that the MUP has denied it as incorrect information. Well, for the sake of the accuracy of notifying the public, let the other side know. It's up to the IDS club, the esteemed representative Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-24-0.u34315	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor, Secretary of State, Your Honor, Mr. Representatives. So here's what Mr. Lucin, my predecessor, mentioned here by Mr. Faber, let me just quote some subtitles. "For the first time since 2000, the ambassadors of the European Union and the United States have jointly intervened in the Croatian Ministry of Business on this shift. Vladimir Faber's replacement from the head of police has caused infidelity in the Croatian public and concern in the international community where they wonder if Croatia has decided to give up the fight against crime. The members of the Police Directorate wanted to resign collectively, in which Faber himself prevented them. Tragic and verbal acrobatics according to which Faber was not removed but promoted, etc., etc."
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-24-0.u34316	Your Honor, you haven't started with a subject that's on the agenda, so I'd like to ask you to talk about the law.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-24-0.u34317	Look, Mr. Vice President, I know you're not going to let me speak, but some of the subtitles that I've quoted simply illustrate the circumstances related to this law, not to mention the state of the Croatian police. Article 1 of this law literally states that the law regulates police affairs, police powers. So it's not possible to talk about this law if we keep quiet about what's going on in this country right now in our police force. The circumstances are obviously not good if the entire principalship threatens the collective resignation because of its former chief. If so, it must be discussed both in the government or in the government and in the Croatian Parliament because this depends on the security of the entire state. If this is the case, as Lucin said before, the depoliticisation of the police in Croatia has not occurred, it is highly politicised and these politicisations in such an important segment should be feared, and what should be prevented among other things by this law, which is on the agenda, and we should fight against this politicisation, talk about it and talk about it normally. This law understands that the security of citizens should be strengthened or increased. However, I have the impression that we are somehow returning eight months ago. I can't judge a new director, there's success in fighting drugs in Rijeka, I say hello, he managed to solve a gold heist to his mother-in-law in two days, and it's commendable, but when it happens to others, then understandablely that the solutions are gone. But that doesn't matter, I wish him success, but success won't be unless these people at the head of those institutions are autonomous, at least like that police director in England Mr. Lucin mentioned. Why did I start the story with my former principal, Mr. Faber? Because this shift situation actually needs to be read as a promotion, it can reflect, and it reflects on all employees of all police administrations in Croatia. So shut up, that's the principle, listen, don't mind, don't run out, wait for retirement, that's the gentlemen's message for Mr. Faber's shift. Maybe I'm wrong, I don't know, I'd like to make mistakes, but I don't think I'm far from the truth. Article 4 of this Act states that a police officer performs police work and applies police powers, I quote, under official duty on the basis of orders of a superior, on the basis of the orders of a state attorney, court or other competent authority, when prescribed by law. In paragraph 2, the order and order to perform police work must be based on the law, clearly, defined, which is understandable. Paragraph 3., a police officer will refuse to execute a warrant or order which is obvious to be a criminal offence for the refusal of orders or orders of police officers will immediately inform his superior, which is also clear. Who, on the other hand, gives a warrant to the principal? That's what might be wrong with this law, even though some will tell me or honor that it's regulated by sublaws. Is that headmaster autonomous then? How autonomous is he? How long can he go in his own way? Who can stop him? Does the Minister, does the Prime Minister? In what case? Okay, someone's going to say that, as I say, it's regulated by sublegal laws, but I don't think it would be worse if we were to call it that, by the roof law, that power of his or her authority prescribes it. Article 9 literally states, I quote, the police according to their own decision, either directly or through means of public disclosure of information about events, events and phenomena from their own part-round which are of interest to citizens on measures taken and on security conditions in a given space, meaning they can communicate with the media, etc. I think that provision, I dare say logically, but I, perhaps even on my own example, had the opportunity to make sure that sometimes the police knew something and planted it. And then while you're washing, the train passed or as the Serbs would say the train passed. What needs to be regulated in particular, how does the person to whom the damage has been done not matter by the work of the police, the state's attorney, the judge in one word, the authorities, how do you rehabilitate this person under quotes? That's the point. Because we'll all agree, we all know that, one article in the paper, one spoken word on Croatian Radio, one hundred denials can't just fix it. One incarceration, let's say some people, a thousand denials can't just fix it, that person can't help it. One guilty court decision, no matter what money this world has won't pay you back. So be very careful with that. What especially needs to be regulated, it's supervision of police conduct. For the police to be autonomous, it is understood, that the Director of Police must be autonomous, too, but that some internal, external, I don't know what kind of political surveillance should also be all around. That's the point to me. That's why I think, here you see, our government made a mistake with Mr. Vladimir Faber. Maybe Mr. Faber's gone too far in something, but then that's what you have to say. Don't blur it out, and then as one advance say, so now they'll have a slightly higher salary, they'll have a clerk, they'll be secretary of state, they'll have an Audia A6, etc. I think you should make that clear. Not a man, as we're told, I don't know from the right scale to the left or from a spike to the right or to the left if he was wrong. Because someone can, one Shuker was a great centurf, but his role couldn't be played either by Boban or by Prosineski who were the best at that time in the world where they were playing. And so also with these roschads, the best director. The question of whether it could be the best secretary of state or vice versa. So that mystery or arouses a certain suspicion and then understandably people talk about it. I absolutely agree that everyone in their work normally becomes as autonomous as possible, but understandablely and that autonomy must be controlled, directed because this segment of society, police, etc., in general these repressive apparatus is particularly sensitive. And that's why the Parliament can't shut down and not rule out police work. Article 51, says here a temporary restriction on freedom of movement, in law, quote, the prescribed case may be temporarily restricted to access to movement in a particular space, the facility to retain a person etc. How is it possible when we are already talking about temporary restrictions on access to movement then man asks himself the question, how is it possible that I do not know that to the Croatian police or let's say to the Croatian authorities to us, anyone who simply wants to escape to Bosnia and Herzegovina and turned around? That every criminal from Bosnia and Herzegovina who has Croatian citizenship we accept, we do not sanction clearly when we can hand it over to Bosnia and Herzegovina, Serbia or vice versa. I don't think there's anything in the world and it needs to be dealt with urgently, so if necessary, and it will need to be amended by the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. The culprit for their escape across the border is the police, responsible for their impunity and fostering in these areas are clearly Croatian authorities. What is certainly new in this law is these articles of 56, 57, 57, 59, etc. It's been possible so far. Someone will say that no police officer has been prescribed to use a means of transport without the consent of a person, etc. But that's how it existed in practice. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. "a police officer may enter and conduct an examination of the other person's apartment and the associated premises without a written order if the owner of the apartment or tenant so requests. Second, if it's too much to do because of a distress call." That makes sense. "If it's too much to do in order to remove serious danger." That makes sense. "In order to carry out the warrant" and not to quote all those standards now. So, someone else's home is a cop who can go under a special law. Now there's a problem. I think that this special law should in some way be rewritten, or those provisions should be transposed into this law. I'm not talking about something that Mr. Lucin said just before those 15 contacts. That's what the vice president denied and that's good. But all in all, I think it's getting into someone else's apartment, detention, etc. too serious a substance that should somehow be regulated in my court by this roof law. This law regulates this marginally, specifically by law or by law, in fact, the actions of the Minister of Sublaws solves the problem, to put it this way, essentially. While that's the case, I don't think the police work will be transparent enough in this country. And that work must be transparent enough if we want to have what we need to have full confidence in the police. That's why the shift really needed Mr. Faber's promotion to be transparent and explained. I welcome the public recording, for example. in... which is an article 79 pre-announces, OK, Article 81, that I am not quoting it here right now. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] But for the end, the role of the police minister means either the interior ministry is extremely important in this country. It will always be one of the most important functions in the government. It is clearly not regulated by this law but by others, it is not disputed. I personally believe that Mr. Karamarko is doing a good job of having confidence in him, because the man took over the MUP at one of the most significant moments, but also that there is nothing to decide on the director of the police, rather than having to decide on him how the law rules the minister himself. This depends largely on the safety of the individual and the safety of the institution and the citizens, i.e. the country as a whole. However, I think there is too much discretion here, not about the minister's actions, but about the freedom to adopt certain sublegal acts, which is regulated by this Article 103 below. So the minister must also enjoy and trust a lot of freedom in the office, the Parliament should control it, all of it stands. But sublegal regulations of this kind, these weights need to be translated into law by my court, so if that is the way to strengthen the position of the Croatian Parliament. So I advocate, among other things, through this law and to strengthen the role of the Parliament and for the freedom of the minister, the chief director, and every police officer. But let's not self-degrade the clear role of parliament by letting the executive power regulate matters by sublegal acts, and Parliament ultimately covers something marginally. All in all, I think this law is one step forward, can be supported or restrained anyway. But that should... Strengthen the position. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-24-0.u34318	Thank you. We have two corrections to an incorrect quote. He is the first respected representative, Berislav Roncevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-24-0.u34319	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I am correcting the incorrect allegations of an esteemed colleague, Caine, who, during the course of the debate, has said that he has accused the police of sounding escapes of convicted persons across the border. Comrade Cain, at that stage of the procedure, the police have no authority to put and take people into custody. Be so brave, then point to the failures and the president, or the council of justice, and to the failures of the state's attorneys who, by law, have the instrumentation. At that stage of the procedure, the police have no instruments, the police can't act discreetly here, because that's when the problem would arise. That the police, without a legal basis, are holding someone back. We're fighting for the transparency of police, the police don't have that authority, and then if you have enough courage, point out the failures of some sound names that have failed to invest all the mechanisms, and they had according to the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-24-0.u34320	Thank you. And the correction of the incorrect allegations by the distinguished representative Frana Matušić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-24-0.u34321	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. You incorrectly told your colleague Cain that Vice President Jarnjak had denied any of the criminals contacting any of the ministers. He only explained that the police had denied it. So there's a big difference, so you said incorrectly. And second of all, you said the prime minister shouldn't decide who's gonna be head of police. The government decides on the Minister's proposal. So the prime minister, of course, should participate in that decision, but I will remind you that this government for the first time in a public competition after we changed the law a year ago began to bring in the Director of Police. You did not object when, for example, she was a political activist such as Ranko Ostojic, who sat in the ranks of the SDP, was appointed head of police. That didn't bother you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-24-0.u34322	Don't throw it away. Let's move on. It's a club debate. It is the turn of the HDZ Club's distinguished representative, Berislav Roncevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-24-0.u34323	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President, distinguished government representatives, colleagues and colleagues. In front of us is the Final Proposal for a Law on Police Affairs and Powers, which has been developed to improve and make police work effective, and to protect fundamental rights and freedoms of citizens. This law proposes to modernise the structure of police affairs, bring police rules into line with international standards and police legislation systems in European countries. The important law on police is that we say a comprehensive police law that regulates organisational, procedural, working and constraint relations, and the proposed law changes and sets out rules for the conduct of police and police affairs and powers, and thus follows the approach of a significant number of European laws governing this area. So the proposed law regulates police affairs and police powers that are being carried out. The arrangement of police affairs is important for the effective detection of criminal offences that are being prosecuted by official duty as well as offences. The proposer shall, in detail through the norms of the law, prescribe police affairs performed by the application of police powers either under official duty on the basis of orders of a superior or on the basis of the request of a competent national lawyer, court or other competent authority when prescribed by law. We all know that police treatment should be framed by law, clearly but simpler, faster and more economical, and police work must be regulated especially in situations where its exercise involves fundamental rights and freedoms of citizens. Therefore, the law and regulation provide for a provision whereby a police officer will always apply police authority to the minimum extent possible in the freedoms and rights of a person and at the same time achieve the purpose of doing police work. We know that it is the police who have physical coercion, and it is precisely that force that they can and must achieve, and must have a foothold in the framework of the prescribed laws. The law regulates an extremely important system of actions to be handled in the detection of criminal offences being prosecuted by official duty and offences and by their perpetrators, as well as the taking of measures to eliminate the danger and prevent the committing of criminal offences and offences. The proposed law becomes one of the most important sources governing the conduct of police in both key components of action, both preventive and repressive, as it is the only one among the authorities of the state authority that has the physical coercion and that coercion of the sea and can be achieved in the strict frameworks of the prescribed law and in a manner governed by the powers laid down by the law. The Law on Police Affairs and Powers regulates the conduct of the police before taking action under regulated rules of criminal proceedings and thus completes the entire legal arrangement in which the central place has rules of criminal proceedings. The law classifies police affairs as thirteen groups and prescribes 25 police powers for their implementation that are in detail standardized through the proposed text of the law. The importance of this law must be in the area of effective detection of criminal offences, taking measures to eliminate the dangers and prevent criminal offences and offences, police actions in accordance with the newspapers and the rules of criminal proceedings. This law should respond to the requirement to improve police efficiency, timely intervention, the security of citizens in the direction of prevention, with reduced entanglement in fundamental rights and freedoms. Discussing the detailed provisions of the proposed law, it is clear that this regulation regulates the taxation of the starting point of police work, the proportionality of the occasion and the objective of performing police work, the mandatory application of measures which achieve the same objective by means of a minor procedure in the rights and freedoms, the right to refuse to carry out an illegal order, the general duty to eliminate dangers and co-operation with other bodies. By reading this text of the final draft of the law, it is evident that the motionary of the Government of the Republic of Croatia has carefully considered the proposed law and all its provisions, that it has considered all the comments made in the debate of this law when it was first read and properly installed in this final proposal, and this is how the text was improved both in substance and in nootechnic terms. The Club of Representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community will support the adoption of the Law on Police Affairs and Powers because we consider the proposed law to be of quality and to offer good solutions that will best be used to challenge police work for the benefit of all our citizens and systems as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-24-0.u34324	Thank you. It is now the turn of the HNS club and the distinguished representative Zlatko Koračević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-24-0.u34325	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State with associates, colleagues and colleagues. The Croatian People's Party Club will also support the adoption of this law of the final draft law on police affairs and powers, as well as all those previously discussed by the State's Attorney's Office Act and the USKOK Act for a very simple reason. Our determination, personally defined and aware that in this country we need to ensure security for our citizens, that we must ensure that our citizens are able and that all citizens in this country should have the same chance and the same opportunity in their daily lives. It is a fact and it is good that a debate was held a month ago in the first reading of this bill. The remarks and proposals that were then made are mostly included in this text of the law, I repeat mostly. The debate on why something else is not involved or which is the reason why it is not included is quite certain the debate is possible but it is not important at this time for us at the club of the Croatian People's Party. Namely, the Law on Police Affairs and Powers is its objective, its intention is also to simplify and improve the effectiveness of police and to alert the structure of police affairs with strong protection of fundamental civil rights and freedoms. My colleague Lucine had already quoted an English policeman, and I'm going to have an English lord a long, long time ago, back in the '30s, a statement in parliament on the subject of the police. And he says, "If we have to have the police, then we should, then it should be ours, the police of all citizens, the public service of all citizens.". Is that what we have today? Will we also have this law? Taught by experience, by very negative and bad events and events which we and all the citizens of this country, who were eventually and several months ago and resulted in the change of the then minister of police, and here in this assembly we all supported this government decision, that Prime Minister's decision first and foremost to move into the process because the simple events and events around us at that time required one such reaction, not at that time and long ago, long ago. However, the willingness of those who took over the responsible leadership of this country, that time was not and unfortunately a lot has happened very badly, even tragically, and in order to move towards the necessary changes. And we've all given support. And today, we are likely to give support to this law as well. The details he mentioned, and they are very important, mentioned by fellow Lucin, deadlines, education, elaborated measures. All that needs to be done. We can discuss all this and bring it in, adopt it. But again, the key question is, and that's the implementation. Which guarantees us that it will also be feasible. What? Change of law? We've had law enforcement before. And what happened? What we're witnessing. And then when someone on the side presses us, faster, we better make human and cosmetic changes and get back to the way things were. It's mentioned today in the assembly, and I'm going to bring up the Brodosplit case. Did the police, did the state's attorneys do their part of the job for what they were paid for? Did they give an answer to the Croatian public. And it's obvious, I mean, we can't deny that nothing happened in Brodosplit. We can't deny it. However, the answers, the institutions of the system as our President Mesic often uses, have not given all the answers. The truck case, getting military trucks. Very unfair to our fellow parliamentary representative Roncevic, the then minister. President Mesic mentioned the case in a few years, the case ended in a debate in this assembly, the case was discussed by the parliamentary commission and part of the commission reached its conclusion. Part of it. And the police, the state's attorney's office, what they said about the case, is that correct for our colleague Roncevic? I don't think so. And at the same time, did the police, on this case, do their part of the job? They didn't have a legal basis? That's funny. They did. And based on what, I think, on the basis of which procedures can we also expect here that we are discussing these laws, soon, for an hour or so, we will very likely adopt them, but based on what can we expect something to change? Experience so far says it won't. My club president, Mrs Pusic, said very clearly in a previous discussion about USKOK, our waiting for chapter 23. And the opening and later closing. And what we're discussing today are elements, key elements for future closure. I hope warmly that, in pre-accession negotiations, we will address the problem with Slovenia rather than Chapter 23. We cannot influence Slovenians, but we can influence this. But what have we done so far? And finally a very important, very important topic. The topic is called depoliticisation of the Croatian police. We all agree on this, all right and left sides and the environment, we all agree that the necessary depolitisation of the Croatian police is also necessary. And the recently removed minister, a removed police director in his opening speech, along with the police minister, made it very clear that he is moving towards depolitisation, that he is moving towards the depolitisation of Croatian police and certain steps have been made in certain political administrations. Is that his minus now? Is that why he's taking his shift? I want to believe he didn't, but at the same time does any of us have any argument that he can believe that? Besides... politicization was very picturesque at the time describing the situation in the system, the police system for which he received criticism and very powerful and public from the prime minister. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And that was a long-term distortion of smelling content in the cellophane. Is that true or not true? The events that were up until then and now say that it is present. Political personneling and including verified personnel, so that's evident. It's also known as a public secret, during every invitation to join the police service to conduct party consultations. Is that depolitanization? It's not. Can we expect such a system of impartiality and respect, in fact, to carry out our daily affairs by the basis of the law, the law before which we are all equal? And this shift from the police director, Mr. Faber, which is the message to the new police director who's also a non-party person, but what's his message? The message is also an indication of how he must behave if he wants to maintain his position. This adoption of this law definitely cannot prevent and has no effect on such a message. We at the club of the Croatian People's Party want to believe that the police will become and be a professional law enforcement apparatus, the law that we are passing in this Croatian Assembly. And so we also support this text of the law, we support all the proposals and texts of the laws that reduce the possibility of any corruption, all the texts of the laws that give simply one encouragement that there is still a chance of becoming a small country of pleasant life, not a small country for major crime. And I hope that in the time ahead of us, those who are in charge, and that is above all the Government of the Republic of Croatia, that the majority coalition in this Croatian Parliament, and be safe and you in the majority coalition and subsequent of that and the Government of the Republic of Croatia, that we, out of opposition, will support you if we go in the direction that the laws we make to apply these same laws and that, under these laws, every citizen of this country has the same security and the same chance. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-24-0.u34326	Thank you. We have two corrections to incorrect allegations. I would only like to intervene briefly as chairman, but also as former Minister of the Interior. If someone listened to these discussions on the side, it would turn out that the Croatian police are incompetent, ineffective, that in Croatia only crime rules, that these police officers are not doing their job, that they only listen to party bosses in the business. I must deny you that thousands of these officers are doing professionally, responsibly, very difficult and complex work and that Croatia is a safe country. Thank you. And now we're going to correct incorrect allegations. He is the first respected representative of Nenad Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-24-0.u34327	My dear colleague, you said that the "afery of trucks" was discussed by a parliamentary investigative committee and that only part of the commission had reached its conclusions. That's how incorrect your quote is. Part of the parliamentary majority committee has reached its conclusions and they have entered the report, but part of the parliamentary minority committee has also reached conclusions in the light of a separate opinion, which is in line with the Law on Investigation Commissions. This isolated opinion is an integral part of the report and just yesterday you were divided into benches and these tables from that isolated opinion where it is fully evident in the analysis of these tables how many trucks were paid, and how much they could have been paid to take care of state money.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-24-0.u34328	I thank you, and for the very correct correction of the incorrect assumption. The second is an incorrect allegation, the esteemed representative Frana Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-24-0.u34329	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, it's an incorrect assumption that we haven't done enough to open chapter 23. Naima, chapter 23 is that Croatia is ready to open because we have fulfilled all the criteria. This is a chapter of the judiciary, and otherwise it should be said to the general public that this is the chapter introduced for the first time in the case of Croatian negotiations with the European Union. And at least it is an acquis or legal gain of the European Union and it opens up the most political, precisely the possibility of a political impact on the process that is happening in Croatia. But Croatia has fulfilled all the criteria for opening the chapter, all what was expected of Croatia. In this regard, both the police and the Ministry of Justice and all those involved in the process should be congratulated on that part, but unfortunately for all other reasons, these chapters are not being opened, that we are not spreading this story any further, everyone already knows that.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-24-0.u34330	Thank you. And by doing that, we've exhausted the club debate. We're moving on to an individual debate. Dear Representative Dragutin Lesar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-24-0.u34331	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues. First of all, I would like to admit that I expected and even wished that today this Law on Police Powers in the Assembly would present and interpret the new State Secretary, who was recently promoted, promoted from the center of the centre of reference. Unfortunately, however, he is missing, and I believe that he knows best the functioning of the police and the problems of the powers and legislative solutions. And why isn't he here, let's put him aside now. Secondly, in the introduction, I want to intervene for the second time today, and my colleague Cain, unfortunately as a parliamentary representative, sends false messages to the Croatian public and accuses that she is guilty when the defendants flee from Croatia or leave Croatia, fleeing before or prior to the verdicts. In fact, the police do not have any authority to stop anyone from leaving the territory of the Republic of Croatia unless the State Attorney's Office has proposed, and the court has accepted, the adoption of a ban on leaving the territory of the Republic of Croatia and the confiscation of travel documents. So, in all cases, when the defendants left Croatia and hid behind dual citizenship, the State's Attorney's Office is headed by Mladen Bajic, not the Croatian police. I think it must be clear and repeated so long as it is not understood and understood because the police have a lot of other problems and we do not need to pack up what is not her responsibility, and we need the police to stop these people who have travel documents and when they leave the territory of the Republic of Croatia is calling for abuse from police powers. This must not be done in Parliament. There are legislative solutions to the competent authorities that can in time prevent the fugitive or departure of the defendants in the face of court rulings. Whether they have only Croatian citizenship or a few others. And now on this text of the law in the second reading, I am pleased to see that some of my remarks from the first reading have been incorporated into this text of the law, but it remains my strong suspicion and dispute over Article 26 and because of Article 28. In particular, Article 28 gives citizens the right to make use of the database in a part of the personal data that the police have drawn up on them. In order for citizens to exercise this right, we must be clear in the provisions of Article 26 and clarify a few dilemmas. It is not disputed that this chapter 4 of the law regulates police powers, gives the police the authority to run the database. So that document is called a database. It shall consist of personal data, paragraph 1 of Article 26, personal data but also of operational knowledge, Article 26(2). In the first reading with the explanation that you gave after my debate, I must admit you've confused me a little bit, so I've been reading the whole chapter more carefully now. Operational knowledge, Mr. Secretary of State, about who? About citizens of the Republic of Croatia who are part of the database? The data collection consists of personal data, as well as operational data or knowledge. Now I ask you to explain to me what personal data the police are introducing in the database as referred to in Article 26? What's that, a name and a last name? Date and place of birth, place of residence, place of work? Where do I work? I do, I don't have a mistress? What? And if I have the right to access that data, then what do I need to know about personal data if it's personal data? Because nowhere in the law is it precise what personal data are in Chapter 4 of Article 26. And then you have prescribed how long some of these personal data are stored and when the need to delete them arises. So that's my first question. Give me an illustration of the example, any one you want, what is the personal data about me that the police can enter in the database? That's the first question. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Do I have the right to see them or not as a citizen? Does a citizen have a right, and these data are kept permanently, everyone else is wiped out in 5 or 10 years? It says here that the data collected, or operational knowledge is kept permanently. Second question of mine, do I have the right to see them? And my third question, but please brief and decadent answers. Explain to me on the following example, Mr. Secretary of State, the police are ordered by the State's Attorney's office on the basis of a criminal report for the initiation of criminal offences, a warrant to examine the allegations in the application. After a criminal trial has been completed in which you have come to the operational knowledge and entered into the database, has it been found that the report states are incorrect and that there is no criminal offence, the police are sending and giving the State's Attorney General a request for criminal processing, right? Great. Is this information that the police have collected about me by criminal processing based on the orders of a state attorney included in the data referred to in Article 26(2) of this Article collected by operational knowledge that is kept on a permanent basis, so they are never deleted from the citizens' records? And secondly, are you merely stating in this information on operational knowledge the fact of criminal processing or the result of criminal processing? So does the citizens' file permanently keep the fact or fact or the fact and data collected by operational work or the result being recorded, so no criminal offence has been found? I think my questions are very simple, so I expect such answers, and it is particularly important to me that, according to article 28, does a citizen have the right to demand insight into the entire database collected by Article 26 or just what did you not use with a black flomaster to avoid reading? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-24-0.u34332	Thank you. Now it's up to the honourable representative Igor Dragovan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-24-0.u34333	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President. Last year was difficult for citizens' security and feelings that the state could guarantee them a peaceful and peaceful life and the fact is that we didn't once discuss it in this assembly. The fact is also that as responsible people in the opposition, we warned that some things in the system are not good, that some things should be changed, that they should be changed in the interests of the citizens and that something that is bad cannot be defended only by naked statistics because statistics certainly and definitely do not create a sense of security or uncertainty among citizens. So I'll tell you, Mr. Vice President, you did have one intervention today that was in a similar way in this House when we talked about security, that is, the state of security, that is, that is, that is, that is, that is, that is, that is, the point of the agenda, where you've accused the minority not in a certain way, and those who were concerned about the situation that is not good, practically accused of treason. Afterwards, we are extremely sad that the situation has taken place and created a serious political consensus in order to get out of the problem, to put all our heads together, and to resolutely oppose all forms of crime, primarily organised crime, which at that time appeared perception took too much of the wave in Croatia. It is not only that a political consensus has been created that some changes have to be made, that this is no longer the case, that the state of security is not ideal and that things have to change. Not only must this be achieved in addition to the political consensus be prepared by a legislative framework that allows for a more efficient, more efficient fight against organised crime and not only organised crime, corruption and all kinds of crime, but in this whole package, a defined and certain human-made crusade that will remind us all of the need to speak here in this House in its speeches and one and the other minister of law at that time I am talking about the Minister of the Interior and the Minister of the Justice announced and spoke about certain things, and, among other things, also, Interior Minister Karamarko cited the need in terms of amending the legislative framework and the new Law on Police Authorities then saying that he was in the final phase. The final phase, as we see, took a little longer than what could be treated as the final phase and today we have received a second reading and will probably be defined. Once again, I will repeat my opinion, which is that every law is good, that it can be the most perfect, but if people who act under that law do not do their job professionally, unburdened by politics, then the result is also questionable. But to go back to another kind of consensus, which is a consensus about people who should have been a guarantee that changes are really going to happen and that there's a firm political will behind these people, that they've got their hands off in a job where they're professional, trained, efficient and they know how to do it. And then one thing was said, and here the Home Secretary said something like this. "In fact, every modern police force in its essence is a career and hierarchical organised service, where progress in the service necessarily depends on professional preparation, work results, years of internships, and professional and social competences where police managers are relatively difficult to become, but these same managers are even more difficult to replace." I think the weather's turned him off. It is very easy to replace police executives, and if a police executive is easily replaced at the highest level, and this is the chief police director, then there is no doubt that it is much easier to replace other managers. But the minister also said that permanent staff changes in police management and at the level of police administrations, the department of police and the interior ministry in general over the past 15 years clearly show that we have not changed and built a new system, but we have only changed people, and that is inconsistencies with the huge influence of different political structures and interest groups. And that the so-called leaders do not have the authority of the most fundamental need in their calling, which is the profession. And now we have the case that the chief director of police has been promoted, and that this one, as representatives of the Croatian Parliament, I have also asked that question on the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security, because I believe we have the right to ask such a question and ask for an answer to that question. Got it or didn't get it, reasons why it was done? Because for the simple reason in this House around people we've given a certain consensus that will guarantee that things will move from a dead end. Unfortunately, and I fear that the political consensus and the political will to deal with organised crime, corruption and other types of crime that are happening around us is being abandoned by the ruling majority. I'm afraid that's not good, and I'm afraid the situation will return to what we did last year. But all right, you take responsibility for it, you decide to do it, and don't be angry when we keep warning that this job isn't good. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-24-0.u34334	Thank you. Just a very brief review of one's discussion. It is incorrect that I declared it to be a debate, that I declared someone a traitor, but that your answer to what you said when the UK declared Croatia to be an insecure country because of it and it was taken out of the debate in the Parliament, an uncertain country to travel to Croatia. That I don't quote them to the end now so they can deny it later. So, but I'll give you an excerpt from my debate later. Thank you very much. We're continuing the debate. Dear Representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-24-0.u34335	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Secretary of State with an associate, co-workers and colleagues. The final proposal of the Law on Police Affairs and Powers on Paper, and in fact, the law on the repression of police powers is in effect. We have a policy that pops out the police's teeth and then mocks her that she's moaning. They won't protect them even when they're attacked by criminals, when they shoot them. The proposals we asked for in 2003 have been rejected, and we have crowned in our criminal law that the murder of a police officer be punished by a new sentence, a life sentence. So how this law is going to work, what kind of business and powers we speak when there is an absolute politicization of the police today. The truth is, there are people who are trained for this job, who want nothing more than to work by the law, but they don't. Namely, the story today speaks of the final proposal of the Law on Police Affairs and Powers in this law that should have been passed a year ago so that he could have a vacacio legion so that, together with the CAP, the Law on State Attorneyy and the Law on Uskok, he could enter into force only after a year, and we here are 15 minutes ago, so that he can revive or enter into force 1.7. But talking about the law and not talking about the currents that happen in the police, which is what it means to deny the environment, deny even reality. The story of Mr. Faber is about the police. It is a man, as counterpart Dragovan said, who was brought to his place by the terrible moments in which Croatia was found. He's not happy to be admitted to this place, he's happy to figure out and to shut his opposition mouth at that terrible moment, that something has to be done after all. As soon as he got here, he said the truth and the truth that it was wrapped in cellophane, and the man rolled the cellophane and wanted to clean up things that stink, but they started to smell obviously mean to someone. And what happens then? Mr. Faber was disabled in his police affairs and powers and put at the bureaucratic table, and the matter was obviously re-wrapped into celephan. But many are wrong, and so are those who promote it. Not everyone in Croatia is allowed to shut up and not even when they have improved, and Mr Faber will not be silent to you. They will not be silent, for such a man is according to the habitation; for he is a man who hears the voice of his conscience; for he is a man who hears the voice of his calling, and wherever and whenever he finds his way. And there's plenty of them who won't be allowed to shut up. There are people who, in all times and in difficult times, remain at the height of their professional and human task. That's what Mr. Faber is like, and you're not getting rid of him. About the law itself what to say? Basically this law that was to be said and resolved? The issue of division between the state's attorney and police, but this government does not come to mind that its part of the forces involved in detecting the perpetrators and fixing the tracks, thus ensuring that the building for an effective procedure is put under the rule of law. It's easier this way for a little bit of justice to be ignored, so there are some considerations. So it's easier to call on the phone. Therefore, this law and my basic objection to that first reading was to resolve relations, this law should have been resolved between the police and the state's attorney's office because the Criminal Procedure Act only knows one line of command when war is declared for criminals and that is, in any case, when a criminal offence begins. And when the Criminal Procedure Act was passed, these issues were discussed in detail, the Law on Police Powers, which was to go parallel. After all this time, this law is passed but my remark is rejected by reason that it is sufficiently regulated in the Criminal Procedure Act. Well, if it's already a lie about the law being passed, then it won't be a lie in its application and what its application will be. And that's not important because of some theoretical issues, it's just because of the system's effectiveness. The same is true of what is said and what we talked about here from the SDP club when we talked about both the Criminal Procedure Act and the State's Attorney's Law that we will have two lines of command and escape from responsibility again. In the case of well-resolved matters, there will be a matter of reservation of terms on how to declare to the public whose merits, whether the police or the state's attorney's office, or the court that brought the matter to an end. When things aren't going the way they're supposed to go, then there's going to be a transfer of responsibilities, and that makes it possible for this law because it hasn't solved in enough way what happens when the state's attorney's office gives an order which is the master of the investigation and what happens when the police don't follow his orders. And today, we have situations to look for data from various state institutions and bodies, especially those that should be simply an auxiliary workforce to the state's attorney's office and that no answers are received, from the Office for the Prevention of Money Laundering and to the ministries themselves. And that law was supposed to be settled by police authority, but no. Therefore, a whole other set of things that would define both their responsibility and their commitment to the law and not politics are not resolved. I will repeat here, therefore, not only in the state's attorney's office, it was quite a situation when the prime minister was wearing exactly and on the wings of this public expectation that everything was happening in public, the defeat of the most brutal type of crime. You keep going out with statistics that according to statistics, this number is in decline, but when you see a modus operandi the way that certain crimes have been committed that disgust the public in their total and in their weight regardless of the number, they talk about the seriousness of the situation and the increase of the most deadly type of crime. Today in Croatia we have admitted whether or not killings by order which do not have adequate sanctions and are not adequately processed, nor can they be adequately processed because they are not adequately revealed. And I can't reveal myself until the police are only bound by law and not by order. The prime minister spoke openly. I issued a warrant to the police. I issued a warrant. We don't expect the police to know what all the prime ministers are saying. Later pressured by the harsh condemnations of the public, it no longer happened publicly but who tells us that this was not happening secretly, and particularly a sweet deal with political opponents and their loved ones or others. We have the information and myself when a police inspector came in yet for the rule of Minister Kirina when some media articles were checked that weren't accurate and he was screaming literally, those are the words of the inspector who left me the number, phone, name and last name if you were interested. But find him something. Is that how the police work? But a man pressed with his conscience refused to do it, made all the legions of artis. So there are such people. And no one denies it that the most important part of every profession of honest people who won't do anything else but work by conscience and by law, but politics doesn't. It doesn't give them this ruling policy because it's obviously too dangerous for her.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-24-0.u34336	Mr. Representative Nenad Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-24-0.u34337	Thank you very much. What is the purpose of this law? Why is the law on police powers being passed? Well, because we want to have an effective police force. What is an effective police force? One that reveals the committing of crimes, which captures those perpetrators and which simultaneously acts by safeguarding, protecting, non-hazarding human rights. In order to be an effective police force, of course, he must have powers. Now it can be good and it can be bad. It is good that police have broad powers if it is depolitic, if it is fully professional and if it has the broad powers that benefit from the repression of criminal offences, the detection of criminal offences and the capture of perpetrators. It's bad for the police to have powers if she's political. Because if it's the political police, then it's better to have as little authority as possible and the best thing to do is to have none. Now what's our police like? Is our police politicized, is it political police or is it professional? We may find the answer in the efficiency of that police force. That efficiency was changing, it wasn't always the same. For example, at the time of Minister Kirin, at the time of Minister Roncevic, they were not particularly effective. Minister Kirin was involved in monitoring Internet services, and during for example Minister Roncevic did nothing to discover or shed light, to establish the truth about the truck procurement affair. Police investigations only started when Minister Roncevic left and the new minister arrived. When the new minister came and the new head of police the police started to work great. A few large cases have been solved. The Glavas case in Osijek was solved, with 49 other murders discovered in Osijek, which were solved by working on the Glavas case. The murder of Ivana Hodak was resolved, a complicated, difficult case, perhaps even more difficult case of the murder of Ivo Pukanic, the perpetrators were found, organisers were also found, there were no employers yet, but in the end it is a bit today and beyond the reach of the Croatian police, there is also a need for international co-operation. An assassination in Rijeka has been prevented, in any case the police have begun to work excellently on the pride and satisfaction of all of us. We were all full of praise for both the new minister and the new chief of police. And we were full of praise for a reason. They, the director of the police, used these police powers that the law gives them in this or the previous law on police law in the right way that the police reveal criminal offences. And then what happened? So a successful director, such a successful police force who used police powers properly changed. So why is he replacing a successful cop? Well, people can't be surprised. Well, I guess it's obvious that it's not responsible for those who replaced him that the police reveal criminal acts, that they're not afraid to go into pre-examination actions of corruption affairs, and that when the highest state officials are involved in it, and apparently they're going to banish this investigation to the end. That's what they did to Faber. It doesn't fit. And who replaced Faber? Prime Minister Sanader. So why? Why did he have trouble with a successful police director? Oh, he was in the way! He was totally in the way! He bothered him by trying to prosecute crime, trying to resolve a corruption affair about military trucks. Well, you won't, think Prime Minister Sanader, you won't. This affair isn't that simple, it's not just an affair, it's touching HDZ, it's touching high officials, it's coming to me as prime minister, so you're not doing it to me. You're not doing your police job like you thought you'd do professionally and to the end. I'll take your shift. I'll take your shift. I'll get you another one. When Minister Karamarko came, he said his goal was to depolitize the police, what does that mean? Which means that his sentence at the time of his... here in the Parliament? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] That means the police were politicized. Well, the new minister is setting a goal for himself to depolitize the police. And he got unanimous support here in the Parliament, we all knew he was telling the truth when he was talking about politicized politics, and we all knew he was right when his goal was to depolitize the police. And did Karamarko make it? It's not. He threw the spear into the thorns, agreed to take Faber away from him, he preferred the chair of the minister over the depoliticization of politics. What can he do? Every commodity has its price, that's the law of the market. Why he agreed to it, I don't know, he knows. Anyway, one successful police director is probably turned into a failed politician. And what message was sent not only to the new principal but to all police officers in the system? Well, if you didn't happen to think about doing your job, investigating crime, especially if this investigation of yours could lead to an unpleasant high-ranking address. Because if you do that, you can be successful, I don't know how, but you can solve 150 murders of the most complicated, but you can be a genius, we'll replace you, we'll replace you, you won't be cops anymore. It is a message sent to all police officers, the new police director and the entire public in Croatia. How the cops are going to go, how they're going to apply this law now. How can they use it when they're afraid of a job? Faber found himself a new secretary of state, so it would be a little too dangerous just to throw him on the street without knowing if he'd say anything afterwards or not. But for a bunch of police officers who want to do their job fairly and responsibly, you won't find yourself a secretary of state. There's not so much, as much as this government has produced state secretaries to piles, there's not so much. He's more of a cop than a secretary of state. I can't turn them all into state secretaries, all those who want to apply this law fairly, use these powers. So, as with the discussion of the previous law, the law is great, but the law is great, so no one has anything to do with the law, but the government's actions towards the police, according to the chief police director, according to the cops, it has nothing to do with this law. That's the second pair of sleeves. It's a message we're afraid of effective police and we'll replace any effective director who goes into investigations against high officials. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-24-0.u34338	Thank you. Two corrections. First Mr. Representative Krunoslav Markovnović.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-24-0.u34339	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, here's what I have to do to correct the wrong quote of my fellow Stazic. There's no "affer trucks." There is an accusation of a moral vertical from Pantovic who wants to skin former Minister Roncevic, purely for vengeful reasons, and there is a parrot's repetition that, the affair exists. We'll prove it. There's no affair. But we'll also see if there was an affair in the purchase of fire tanks from 2003 during the government of the late Racan.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-24-0.u34340	The second amendment. Mr. Representative Frano Matušić. Berislav Roncevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-24-0.u34341	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. In a whole series of incorrect allegations made by Mr. Stazic, I will correct this one in which he binds the resolution from the post of Chief Director of Police, Mr. Faber, to him "the affair of trucks" and my name. Mr. Stazic, you chaired the parliamentary commission, the investigative committee in which you heard Mr. Faber and he is asking you whether you found the elements of the crime you said no, if we had already filed criminal charges against the perpetrators, so he and Minister Roncevic were. What you've spread your bright eyes to and of course you've concluded that it can't go like that and continued the pressure on Mr. Faber, along with some other members of your club. If anyone has politicized Mr. Faber, the police and police department, it was you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-24-0.u34342	Mr. Representative Zeljko Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-24-0.u34343	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Parliament. So the importance of the Law on Police Powers is great, it can also be seen well on the changes that have been linked to the creation of a Police National Office to combat corruption and organised crime, as it has created assumptions for example. that corrupt local powermakers can no longer stop investigations as was the case in the case of "Brodosplite" and "Imostroy" which did not experience a judicial justice precisely because of the poorly conducted investigations that undoubtedly the most responsible person was the police chief in Split, who then protected the interests of HDZ and not the citizens of employees, for example. In Squirt. But Faber's shift, I apologize once again, Faber's promotion, stopped Karamark's announcement of depolitisation and professionalisation of politics and further questioned the willingness of this government to truly fight organised crime and corruption, because the message is a terrible future Sanader's orders don't touch my HDZ's and when they've cut deep into corruption and crime. And that answers the question why there are no big fish in the Croatian network of corruption. They're being guarded by Sanader. The replacement of police director Faber, I repeat, on the orders of Prime Minister Sanader is a complete failure of the Karamark concept of depolitisation and professionalisation of police. Sanader's notion of professionalism in the police, but throughout politics, it's an unspeakable obedience, so anyone who puts professions, responsibilities and professionalism ahead of HDZ's party interests ends up losing their jobs. The recent meeting of the Anti-Corruption Council of the Croatian Parliament confirmed that a journalist pointing to close HDZ corruption was fired by his research work. The same happened to Faber, who apparently worked in the interest of the citizens, refused to carry out political orders from Sanader's workshop and continued to work professionally and responsibly, regardless of what the results of the work suggested to the harmfulness of Sanader's policy. HDZ and Sanader support the fight against corruption and crime only if it is not linked to senior officials of their party. I think we came very soon very close to the moment when the only salvation for Croatia will be for the whole of Sanader's government to be promoted.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-24-0.u34344	Thank you. Three corrections. The first is Mr. Representative Frano Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-24-0.u34345	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. It is difficult to explain the hatred stemming from fellow Jovanovic's speech, but we will correct at least that basic message that someone from HDZ, or Prime Minister Sanader, is sending a message, as he said, not to touch the HDZ's even if they have been marred in crime. No one is excluded, and there is no such message at all. That's the first one. Secondly, the message sent to the public is that no one can be excluded from persecution if he committed any crime. And the third message, this very law creates assumptions that, indeed, and ultimately, in the right way, the police would get rid of all irregularities that they have their powers for. In your day, unfortunately, there was no desire to do so at all. You've politicized the police to the maximum by putting a political activist, your mayoral candidate. So you've completely politicized the police at the time, not just the police, unfortunately.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-24-0.u34346	The second amendment. Mr. Representative Krunoslav Markovnović.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-24-0.u34347	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, it is an incorrect claim from counterpart Jovanovic that someone is protecting HDZ, prime minister or anyone else. You protect them from their colleagues, Jovanovic, because with imaginary affairs and accusations you lead them to the fact that no one trusts you anymore, that's one thing. Secondly, the history of life teacher and remember, in 2001, all the mayors, during Minister Lucin were charged with abuse of position and the conclusion of harmful contracts. Same pattern in all cities, all municipalities. So who's suing? Clearly, then, no one apologized, and nothing was found. Therefore, there were baseless charges on your part.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-24-0.u34348	Third Amendment. Mrs. Representative Anna Lovrin.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-24-0.u34349	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I am correcting the incorrect allegations that Mr. Agent has made, which is that it has been proven that a journalist who writes at the Anti-Corruption Council has been shown to have been fired by a journalist who writes about corruption. I have to act as vice president of the National Council, I was present for the seriousness and credibility of the work of that council, journalists have exposed their problems, corruption risks, writing about corruption and subjective testimony of journalists is that he was fired because he writes about corruption. No evidence was carried out there, nor did the real reason for the termination is established. It's canceled, but the National Council isn't carrying out any evidence and nothing's been proven.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-24-0.u34350	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, representative of Shima Lucin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-24-0.u34351	209. Well, colleague Markovanovic, Mr. Vice President, wasn't correcting the wrong quote. No, I don't. Because that's exactly what you said that all the mayors were researched and ended up in... /The speaker's off. /...
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-24-0.u34352	Mr. Representative Boris Kunst. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-24-0.u34353	Honorable Vice President, Secretary of State, fellow MPs. Well, it is obvious that just today, because of television transmission, colleagues from the opposition are deliberately trying to politicise the police and show and show the police as listeners who are subject to the current policy. ... /The speaker was turned off and turned back on./... That's what they rule out, normally. At least they talked about this Law on Police Affairs because about from their... /The speaker was turned off and re-enabled./... I can, I've got time, I'm asking you to extend that time for me. Apparently, they were not interested in the Law on Police Affairs at all, and they were simply not interested in the question of police officers, so those officers who are basically the basis of the police and carry all other jobs, but were convenient to politicise and now, most likely, about this last case. But I'll remind them, none of them remembered, although I think they were all invited when 101's celebrated the anniversary now that it's not. That many officers are working on their conscience and I will remind you now that today's Vice President of the Parliament, and then the Minister of the Interior of '96. However, he did not act under political pressure when it was due to prevent a gathering in Ban Jelacic Square related to 101. So, please, if you're already trying to politicize, then be correct and remember that's still not true. But in order for me not to politicize and fall for your provocations, I will ask here the Secretary of the Ministry of the Interior because it is clear to me that as far as intervention is concerned, we cannot make this bill ourselves, but I am asked by the Croatian Police Trade Union to pass it on to you so that it will try to do so by sublegal acts that will be based on this law in this sense to change something. Well, according to my assessment, these suggestions aren't bad. Well, I'm going to do a quick and tax-task about it now. As far as Article 58 of this Act is concerned, which is the temporary confiscation and sale of items that a police officer temporarily confiscates, I think that it should be seen that the sublaw may solve the problem of keeping cases taken away. I think a better solution would be that a police officer must urgently, unscheduledly and deliver as soon as possible to the competent state authorities or courts such cases as it is questionable and where you will store, where you will keep such items in the police, and the burden at the end of that person who will be in charge of keeping such confiscated items. I think it should still be transferred to those bodies that will be used in further investigation. Then, as far as Article 81 is concerned, there is in principle a fund of coercion. I think it would be good to see that the electric shocker is included in those funds. I think that means the use of electroshockers in overcoming dangerous offenders can have the least consequences, and even for those who have built-in pacemakers, and it can have its purpose far more useful than some other means of coercion, and I'm saying this can be with the slightest damage. Then, as for the case, Article 85, where the reasons for the use of the means of binding, I think that might be added to that, as well as to the electroshocker. So just add more to the connection and application of the electric shocker because these reasons are very useful to me here, which are listed in the law itself. As regards the re-use of motor vehicles in Article 89 which can be used as means of coercion in the insurance of protected persons, I think these means can also be used to address hostage situations. I don't think that's a bad thing, that it's probably just as defined in that sublegal act. As regards Article 91, which states that the use of firearms against persons whose cop can use firearms against persons who may be sentenced to prison for at least 10 years. I don't know why it's been 10 years. The police union thinks that this should be in accordance with the Criminal Procedure Act, which states that for five years, this is the limit of a serious crime, i.e. the most serious crime, and that in principle or to be taxed, which are acts for which a police officer may use firearms. And in the end, I would ask you, and I think it is very important, that the current ministry with the current minister be brought in that part of Article 104, where the powers of regulation are to adopt a final protection regulation on the work of police officers. Why? There is a Labour Protection Act, but this Labour Protection Act just indicates that all other institutions, all other resolution ministries, means all other activities closer to the provision that safeguards must be used for the safety of the person for individual jobs. I don't think it would be harmful to try it once, although the law obliges in some way that such a regulation on protection at work must be passed, why not pass that protection rule at the work of police officers, who would normally try to see all the specificities of these jobs what a police officer must use on certain jobs in certain situations, and I think that it might in any way resolve it when it's said that he has to wear a protective vest or I don't know what he must use when using some means that can leave lasting consequences for the person who uses it, I mean the chemical means. So here's the part I'm asking you to do are some of the important proposals of the Croatian Police Union. I don't think that... as far as the law itself is concerned, it's that I can do it with the sublaw and make it very much better and better. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-24-0.u34354	Mr. Representative Mato Bilnjic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-24-0.u34355	Dear Mr. President, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. There was a heated debate about this law today, and at least there was talk of the law. The aim of this law is to improve effective police work and the protection of fundamental rights and freedoms. By passing this law, it seems a major shift towards the legal certainty of citizens, as police powers are defined through law, not sublegal acts, as they have so far been. This law sets out in detail and defines police powers and their application. In particular, 25 powers and the exercise of the powers of police officers are defined from Articles 13 to 81. Articles 81 to 101 prescribe 13 authorised means of coercion from physical to special weapons. In fact, what he would pay attention to is that it means Article 91, 92, 93, which is how firearms are used. Internal Affairs Department officials, we all know that because of the financial situation in the country itself, they're not adequately equipped for certain interventions when it comes out on the ground, and we know when a man goes out on the street with an automatic rifle that doesn't have control over firing shots, that he can simply kill anyone on the street. So, through their training, cops should be given far greater authority or prepared to shoot at first, and then say "stop" to protect themselves and the citizens around themselves. What with the application of this law that we will pass and rejuvenation of our officers means with additional training, with additional equipment, because we can be overjoyed and satisfied with our police when we remember that most of our officers still work today, that they simply learned about police work in trenches while defending the Homeland. And with the application of this law of additional equipment and training, I think we'll have an effective police force. And here, finally, with the support of this law, I would like to congratulate Statehood Day on all members of the Ministry of the Interior and all members of the Armed Forces, because they are the most responsible that tomorrow we will have a holiday of Statehood. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-24-0.u34356	Thank you. Mr. Joseph Leco. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-24-0.u34357	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and fellow MPs. To discuss the Law on Police Affairs and Powers should bear in mind that the police, that police may be an instrument of state, and we would like the police to be an instrument of the rule of law. And that's the difference we especially stress from the SDP club. In fact, the proposings are spreading normative optimism, suggesting to us and citizens that everything will be fine if the law is passed. However, in practice especially in recent times, it can recently be concluded that the laws go in the road, and politics and government by noise when it comes to police. Why? So in the last change of police and police chiefs, here in the Croatian Parliament and one and another minister, and through the public and police director, they were asked to be given time so that the personnel can consolidate the police, so that they can depolize the police, professionalise the police, so that they can arrange a system of progress in the police depending on whether they respect the law rather than the hierarchy in terms of conduct, so that they can establish co-ordination of police work and services and how to raise the general security of citizens. So, the police are this state power, state power. And we bring the framework legally, provide legal and material resources to get that power, but that power does not benefit if it is politicized. If the most important element is police obedience. If that were the case, I had just stated that the Minister of Interior and the already removed director of the Croatian Police had asked us here and the Croatian public to ensure that he could successfully say that the rule of law and the rule of law is the meaning of work. In such circumstances, to pass a law specifically set of today's laws where investigations are entrusted to the police, where the police decide and have a huge discretionary right without ensuring police supervision and release from political addiction is not smart, it is really not in the interest of the Republic of Croatia and especially not in the interest of the security of Croatian citizens. It is very easy to slip from the rule of law in such a law, especially in the case of such practices of the Croatian Government. If it is added that Article 4 of the final draft of the law provides for proportionate treatment of objectives and needs and that these objectives, these needs, are not standardised anywhere, then it really opens huge dilemmas or those who know that the police know how to abuse their powers and, in particular, if the Executive Authority of the Government appointed by the Director and Minister really does not have any reason to place such trust on the part of the Director in this way without a valid explanation, there is no such reason. There's no reason, it just doesn't give out the trust of the practice that we're calling on here. That is why I think it would be useful if, given that the Parliament does not perform its constitutional role and does not monitor and does not have civil police supervision, it would be very useful to reopen the security debate as a system that would have to act autonomously by the executive authority. This would be in the interest of citizens, the security of citizens, it would be in line with European Union standards, and it would certainly ensure that Croatia is able to overcome accession negotiations with the European Union more easily and to remove blockades from the judiciary as a whole. Since there is no political will to do so, there are many reasons to argue, there are many elements and one is also in the law of embedded articles, I think Article 103 or 104, where it is ensured that the minister and the state's attorney prescribe conduct in police reconnaissances. I think it's a bianco-wide authority passed on to the state's attorney and interior minister. Since a lot of things have been said, I think I've covered everything that I wanted to emphasize in particular. It could still be said here that the highly designed addiction was put through the election and appointments from the state's attorney to the director of police and interior ministers, the State Judiciary Council, which all indicates that this dependence on executive authority and political will has been designed. That is why this law by my court does not deserve passage to the Croatian Parliament. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-06-24-0.u34358	Thank you. No more reports. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met. We move on to the Final Proposal of the Law on Police Affairs and Powers, second reading, P.Z. No. 329., the proposed law is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. The adoption of this law also requires a majority of the votes of all MPs, at least 77 under Article 226. Rules of Procedure. I am voting on the final proposal of the Law on Police Affairs and Powers. Please, let's get involved and vote. Score. This final bill was adopted by most votes, 81 votes for, 1 abstention and 23 against.
