ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-14-0.u37064	Thank you very much, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament. Here are a few words about this Law on the reduction of pensions under the Law on the Rights and responsibilities of MPs in the Croatian Parliament. On the basis of the applicable law on the rights and duties of MPs in the Croatian Parliament, a more favourable condition for the achievement and determination of the pension of parliamentary representatives has been settled. But not just parliamentary representatives. The former members of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, former judges of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia, and the chief state auditor, also include. Since these pensions are made under special conditions that are different from those provided for by the Pension Insurance Act, it is determined that the representation salaries required by the submission to determine a pension of 55%, with the additions laid down by law not more than 85% of the last payment of application in the Croatian Parliament. At this moment, according to the statistics of the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute in June 2009, such users were exactly 479 where the average pension was 10453 kuna and 15 June. In view of these facts and starting from the basis that, in the first half of 2009 that exactly the revenue side in the state budget is significantly less than anticipated and necessary for the normal financing of all its obligations, it is precisely necessary that in order to make economic and fiscal adjustments to the newly created circumstances to take all certain austerity measures. As one of these measures is right in front of you and this law is proposed to reduce pensions by 10%, starting in August 2009 and beyond. So from 1.8 to further reduce pensions by 10% according to what these users have said. A total of 479. There's so much for now. Thank you very much. If there's any questions, we'll try to answer them.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-14-0.u37065	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the HNS club, Mr. Representative Miljenko Doric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-14-0.u37066	Mr. President, distinguished representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues. The HNS Club will certainly support this bill, because at a time of crisis, we must not transfer the burden clearly to all citizens equally. Socially sensitive groups must be spared, but we must be correct and say what is essentially achieved by these amendments to the law. Comrades and colleagues, we must tell the citizens that this amendment of the law has its moral dimension and for what reason we appreciate that this is how it goes. However, we will save about 3 million kuna by the end of the year, and 3 million kuna compared to the budget deficit carrying 11 billion kuna is one four thousandths. So one thousand thousand. We need to do 4,000 more of these procedures to just patch up the budget deficit. That's an important thing to say. So we still have a lot of work to do, so we need to carefully measure what we do to really, as we have heard the austerity measures now, achieve what we want. So once again, the HNS club will support these changes, but we know it's just a drop in the sea compared to what we still have to do.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-14-0.u37067	Thank you. On behalf of the HDZ Club, Mr. Representative Boris Kunst. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-14-0.u37068	Honorable President, State Secretary, fellow MPs. So yesterday we discussed in fact all day long and I believe that we all agreed with one, that the recession tide that hit Croatia for the result has reduced the planned revenues to the state budget, and consequently the reduction of the budget deficit. In order to have a more significant impact on the budget deficit, the Government of the Republic of Croatia has taken austerity measures. Although savings have been implemented so far and selective with full social sensitivity, since the Government of the Republic of Croatia has so far not intervened in any regulation governing social rights whose level has been significantly increased in the past six years. We can discuss it one way or another, but it's facts. It's a statistic that, unfortunately, no one can wipe with a rubber. And so is all the rights of the employees who are governed by the collective agreement. Especially here, I mean the officers and the tenants are respected. So they're not reduced. Such a level of social rights normally has its own price and it has actually cost so far. However, the price in this situation is obviously too high at a time when recessional negatives have spread to Croatia as well. The government of the Republic of Croatia started with austerity measures first of those categories whose rights are privileged under the Law on Rights, the responsibilities of MPs in the Croatian Parliament. So, it started on its own. But in addition to representatives in this Croatian Parliament, this law refers to a wider circle of pension beneficiaries, and these are former members of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, former judges of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia and the Chief State Auditor at the end of office. According to the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute in June 2009, there were 479 with an average monthly pension of 10 453.15 kuna, which means that for 479 users, the pension will be reduced by 10%, which is about 1 045.31 kuna per user or at the level of the month is about 500 703 kuna, meaning at year level 6 million and 8000 441 kuna, which will save the state budget. I agree, I'm sure with the savings and the cutting of certain privileged rights should continue to go on and I don't think that's questionable and that nobody here has ever challenged or opposed it. The peace of these users under the Law on the Rights and responsibilities of MPs in the Croatian Parliament will be lower in August, meaning when payment will be made for July this year. With this measure, the Government will achieve a certain savings of the state budget no matter how much it was, especially those funds intended to finance pensions achieved in a more favourable manner, and the government has accepted the social partners' suggestion, in particular I mean trade unions to reduce pensions to government officials, i.e. to start with the savings. The government is on the verge of greater social justice in which those who have more must and more invest in the resolution of the crisis and the budget deficit. And for this reason, the Croatian Democratic Community club will support this proposed law and propose that it be adopted normally by the Croatian Parliament. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-14-0.u37069	Thank you. We're moving on to an individual debate, Mr. Representative Dragutin Lesar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-14-0.u37070	Dear colleagues and colleagues, Mr. President. After last night's budget rebalancing debate, a lady called me and asked me if I knew about the Croatian government, the old rule that money is being saved when there's a lot of money? And when there is no money, that you have nothing to save, and that's why smart people save when they have money, and when they have no money, they spend what they have saved. Neither in that budget, the rebalancing yesterday, nor in these laws that have come to date, was the rule respected. They say new ideas are often daughters of the past, mothers of the future, but prisoners of time. In 2005, there was no economic crisis, no recession, no in Croatia, no in America when I first opened the topic of these pensions. Not because of the hanging and the teasing, but because I thought that the system and the way it was set up in '95. In 1995, therefore, and without the interim corrections sooner or later, they will be born into a radical situation. That's what happened. And now the government, under the pretext of saving, is offering two bill proposals. We are now considering this one that would reduce pensions for those who are already retired. The effect of that savings on the level of about 6 million kuna is significant, for someone and it isn't, it's for me, but it's said to send a message, that the government is sending a message that it will first cut itself, reduce itself to have the right to others. Is that true? Is that right? First of all, I ask the question, are you sure, government representatives, that this law will withstand the constitutionality test? You are proposing a new law that reduces certain rights under another law, and at the same time, only the point behind the agenda is to amend and supplement the law to which this law applies. So I would like to remind you that in 2002 there were also interventions in already acquired rights, pension rights of state officials that were being reduced, but by amendments and additions to that law that introduced those rights, not by special law, but by amendments and additions. So why did you not put these provisions in place in the amendments and additions to the laws that you have prepared, and what is the second item of the agenda today? That's the first question. Second, why the linear 10%? Does it mean that everyone retired has the same amount of pension? No, I don't. In 2002, a model was offered which, for me and that calculation, brought more savings and was fairer and then pensions of up to 3,000 kunas were reduced 8%, those of 3 - 4 12%, of 4 - 5 16%, and pensions above 5,000 were reduced 20%. So, the calculation methodology exists, only those percentages you had to apply to new amounts, ranges because by now the amount of the largest pension has passed already 11,000 kunas, and the officials would probably have more savings effects, but also a fairer approach. Why again in the claim to move away from himself and from the privileged there are sacred cows? According to the pension institution data for March this year, in 13 categories of pensions they call acquired under more favourable conditions, there are still some pensioners whose averages are approximated to this or to me three times higher, 4.5 times the average pension of workers and employees. So I ask if by the end of this month you will also suggest reducing pensions to members of the Croatian Academy of Science and Art whose average pension is 8 thousand 419 kuna, which have also won those pensions under certain more favourable conditions, where the principle of pension insurance, insurance internship and paid contributions has not been respected, which you always defend when it comes to the rights of those who are not privileged by special laws. Have you analyzed and considered that also the category of Croatian defenders, where the average pension of 5 thousand 896 is also to be touched, 5 thousand 896 kuna. Federal cases where, under Article 38 of the Law, the average pension of 3 thousand 780, former political prisoners 3 thousand 797. So there's another category that I think should have been the subject of special interventions in... And so I would ask you to say or think about these interventions, or think that this approach satisfies the needs of interpretation, sexting, reduction of some other social rights. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] 63 million kunas were planned for this purpose for pensions of state officials, parliamentary representatives, former government members and judges of the Constitutional Court in the pre-rebalancing budget. Out of the total expenditure of 34 billion pension funds in this year, 240 is the payment of pensions abroad, so the insurance companies of the Croatian office living abroad today. For Croatian Army pensions 450 million, former government members and parliamentary representatives 63 million, former JNA 400 million, administrative apparatus from former SFRY 20 million, former political prisoners 132 million, members of the Academy of Science and Arts 15 and a half, National Liberation War fighters 600 million, MUP 410 and Croatian Homeland Army 41, 45. 155 million. That's what they're called. status pensions. And at the same time, 15 billion and 100 will go to retirement. So, even less than half of the total pension expenditure in the pension institution are retirement pensions. The disability pensions 5 billion and 100, family 3 billion 900, add-on to peacetime, that's those 6% and 100 kunas billion 510. When we add this up, about 40% of pension expenditures are status pensions. I assure you that no pension reform will ever yield results until you exempt your status pensions from pension insurance and until it is direct from the state budget. The state cannot impose certain privileges, part of citizens or residents by law and put it into retirement insurance. In pension insurance only pensions can be made under general pension rules. All other status and credited items are subject to the state budget, as the state of weaving has decided. We expect you to take such an approach in addition to these partial actions and clean up the pension institution of everything that has not been obtained on the basis of the general pension rules according to the principle of internships, insurance and paid contributions. I will support and vote in favour of this bill, but I really expect from you an answer whether this is the only intervention or if you will have the courage to suggest other interventions in that Corps 13 privileged groups from somewhere around 180 thousand users of such pensions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-14-0.u37071	Thank you. And final secretary of state Miljenko Pavlakovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-14-0.u37072	Thank you very much, Mr. President. By searching what was said in the Croatian Parliament, I would also like to point out on the basis of the debate you heard yesterday here in the Parliament about the general budget. It is true that this is the first step in resolving the issue of all pensions acquired under special conditions. This law, which is here in front of you, clearly regulates only the issue of debt pensions. In the next period, i.e. with the next rebalancing, all pensions acquired under more favourable conditions will also be eliminated and their status and their height and method of acquisition will also be questioned. I would like to mention here that right now according to the harmonisations that have been carried out clearly that the average pension is 10 thousand 453 kuna and 15 June, but I would dare say that none of those 479 users have a pension below 8000 kuna. In view of these facts, there are no more pensions under these privileged conditions from here, as said 2, 3 or 4 thousand kuna. The lowest pension is a circus of 8 thousand kuna. Why go with this law? We are now going with this law to speed up this process so that it can already be applied with August, that is, to pay for July in August, and the law on amendments and additions that follows at today's session discusses the future of parliamentary representatives and Croatian officials' status. By this law we regulate the current situation, i.e. the situation earlier and the current situation, so I ask you once again to accept this law with 10% reduction in pensions for all officials of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-14-0.u37073	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. ... We'll decide when the conditions are met. [[Because of a loud announcement, the speaker does not understand.]] Good morning, ladies and gentlemen, MPs and counsellors! I warmly welcome you and open the 12th extraordinary session of the Croatian Parliament that I have called on on the basis of Article 197(3). Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. As I have announced in the call for the agenda, I propose the first vote on the debated items of the 11th session of the Croatian Parliament and as the second Report of the Mandate-Immunity Commission. Please engage to check the quorum. Let's get on with it. The result? I find that the quorum is secured by 92 registered MPs and MPs here. Any objections to the proposed agenda? There isn't. I find that the agenda has been adopted. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, we are going to vote on the debated agenda points. First of all, the final draft law on the reduction of pensions laid down under the Law on the Rights and responsibilities of MPs in the Croatian Parliament is on the table. It was an emergency procedure, P.Z. No. 406. The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. I am voting on the final draft of the law on the reduction of pensions laid down under the Law on the Rights and responsibilities of MPs in the Croatian Parliament. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? I find most of the vote 109 votes in favour of the 1st abstention of this bill.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-14-0.u37076	Your Honor, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen. At the same time as a package of laws introducing certain reduction measures between the other and pensions of parliamentary MPs, members of the Government and other officials of the Republic of Croatia, the Government taught its law which was submitted to this House several months ago, proposes that the Final Proposal of the Law on Amendments and the Completion of the Law on the Rights and responsibilities of Representatives in the Croatian Parliament, which, compared to the text in the first reading, had only experienced one amendment to Article 2 where the right acquired, i.e. MPs acting before the entry into force of this law, be entitled to a parliamentary pension in accordance with the rules which were applicable at the time when they exercised the duties of MPs. So just in the opening line is that this law provides the conditions for obtaining the right to retire parliamentary representatives, which means that instead of two years of mandate and 55 years of life for men, or 50 for women, a standard is now being introduced that requires 4 years of representation and 60 years of life for men, or 55 years of life for women. It's the text he was in his first reading. It is also proposed that this law enter into force after the implementation of the next election for MPs in the Croatian Parliament, which means that it would only apply to this next meeting of the Croatian Parliament. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-14-0.u37077	Thank you. Do the committees want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, Mr. Representative Emil Tomljavnović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-14-0.u37078	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues. The Croatian Democratic Community MPs' club supports this bill. In fact, this legislative proposal by the Government should absolutely be supported because it is absolutely necessary and necessary in a different way to regulate the right of MPs to become retired, in other words, to strengthen the conditions for obtaining the right of MPs to a representative's pension. It is also intended to support a legislative solution whereby the term of office of the official is not included in the period of office and the time in which the term of office has rested, and in the sense that he has been elected or appointed as an agent for his duties, whose conduct is incompatible with the conduct of the agent's duties. However, prior to the analysis of the proposed legal solutions, it should be pointed out, of course, that, under the applicable law, the solution has now been that the right to resign is exercised before the general conditions for the acquisition of the right to retirement are met, if three conditions have been met in relation to the MPs, but those three conditions of course had to be met cumulatively. The first of them, if a representative has held office in one parliamentary term longer than half the term of office. Second, if he has or has at least 20 years of retirement, then the insurance hold. And the third cumulative condition, that is, age, or years of life for men aged 55 years, that is, for women 50 years of life. To stress or to emphasise that by tightening these conditions, the proposed law on the exercise of the right to pension should be read and emphasized, i.e. to strengthen the conditions proposed by the legal solution itself. The first is, if for at least four years he has acted as a representative, so the full term of office. Second, if he has at least 25 years of retirement, then he's in insurance, not 20 years. And if he turned 60 years old for men, or 55 years for women. It is also intended to support those legal solutions that avoid all elements of possible retroactiveness, i.e. retroactive application of the provisions of the law. Namely, this law enters into force on the day of the Croatian Parliament's constitution, following the first next election of MPs in the Croatian Parliament. And to MPs who until then have exercised their duties, the rules applicable at the time of their duties will apply. In line with everything presented and given the government's intensities to tighten the conditions for obtaining the right to this kind of property, the Croatian Democratic Community Representatives Club absolutely supports these legal solutions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-14-0.u37079	Thank you. On behalf of the HNS club, Mr. Representative Miljenko Doric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-14-0.u37080	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues. The HNS Club will support these amendments and additions to the Law on the Rights and responsibilities of MPs in the Croatian Parliament. At first reading, we made it clear that we support stricter criteria, that we stand by them, although some of us went one step further, seeking to apply this law already to our composition in the Croatian Parliament, but then it was clearly said that the first reading should not affect already acquired rights. For this reason, Article 2 and Article 3 of this Law are in the nature of the proposals, but let me read them again. Therefore, the representative who acted before the entry into force of this law has the right to resign under the rules applicable at the time of his duties as a representative. counterpart Tomljanovic added a few words to make this article even clearer. And Article 3 of this law enters into force on the day of the Croatian Parliament's establishment after the next elections were held for representatives of the Croatian Parliament. Now there's a little dilemma. In fact, just 10 minutes ago, we were discussing a law, where we said it was allowed to penetrate the rights of certain categories of pensioners that had already been acquired, which is a little unprincipled. And I agree with my colleague, Lesar, who has discussed this topic and the question is whether the constitutional test will really show here that we have no right and it is possible that in this series of amendments and additions to the law for the reasons of saving, there will be a series of errors that we will have to correct in another attempt which is not going to be good, but it seems to us that it will come real. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-14-0.u37081	Thank you. On behalf of the IDS Club, Mr. Representative Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-14-0.u37082	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, gentlemen of the Parliament. What am I gonna say? What do I think? I think the pension of a representative should follow the logic of the mandate. It is not the same to be in this parliament, the Government or the Constitutional Court one, two, three, four, five or more mandates and so much if I could decide on one term I would set 45% of the average salary, for two terms of office 55%, for three mandates 65% of the average salary, for four terms 75, for five and more 85%. It means that work in parliament, government, etc. is valorised. However, I know this can be difficult to pass but because of how many "privileged" pensions in the Republic of Croatia. My predecessors used to say so somewhere around 180 thousand people are in one of those status situations. Let's start from the President of the Republic to the People's Liberation War fighters, from police officers to generals, from Homeland War fighters to coal miners "Tupljak" which I am extremely proud of because I personally forced this law through parliament all the way there to academics who were mentioned a little earlier, political prisoners, former Yugoslav People's Army officers, etc. Someone will tell everyone to share the same fate. But what's the point when we're talking about pensions today? It is a deindustrialized Croatia, it is through privatisation robbed Croatia, it is a decline in economic activity at this moment throughout the Republic of Croatia. This is finally the fact that at this point we have about a million 550,000 insurance companies, so those who pay contributions and we have about 1 million 180 thousand users of various pensions on the other hand. That's the point. And the question to which we will certainly not get an answer today who is responsible, who has brought the country into such a situation, who has put us in such a situation, or who has put us in such a position. The point is how stable our pension system is. And what is also important is that we can expect in time to see whether this system will take place, whether we will in due course encourage investment, consumption and one word development. System 1.4 does not, 1.38 workers versus one pensioner for a longer period of time is hardly sustainable. This should change both clearly and through a policy of solidarity within the pension system but above all clearly by raising economic activity. What is certain is that the worst is yet to follow this country and that will happen sometime before next year's season. I disagree with, say, a statement by Mr. Lesar a little earlier that Croatia had not been in crisis for some earlier years. Croatia had one difficult, destructive, aggressive war on its territory from 91st to 95th when a third of the country was occupied, Croatia was in crisis and years later, and 99th when we had a decline in gross products of 1.5% due to NATO impact on SR Yugoslavia when we recorded a lost tourist season. Croatia was in crisis even after 2000 without speaking today in 2009. What's going on? Since 2000, economic activity has started to increase on the basis of an ino of debt, and today it is the same 42 billion euros. And today, let's say, this year to service that debt, we have to pay 9.8 billion euros. We were in crisis all the time but we lived on the basis of the battery. Even today, when the world has fallen into a crisis, the crisis is shaking Croatia I dare say far harder than one Italy, Germany, Austria, America because we do not have our own batteries and the worst is only going to happen to us. Just before, someone also said that 34 billion kunas should be allocated for pensions at the annual level. This is equivalent to 1/3 of the Croatian budget. It's a huge burden, but no matter what these pensions get from work, gentlemen, let's not touch it. These status ones as someone calls them it's something else although acquired rights cannot be clearly touched, but in these pensions that have been acquired from work let's not enter because I dare say almost every other pensioner is in an unbearable situation. All in all, other clubs will probably support this cosmetics in this law. We'll vote too, it's not a problem right now, but I think we need to make one full, fair reform and those pension rights.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-14-0.u37083	Thank you. An individual debate. Mr. Representative Dragutin Lesar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-14-0.u37084	Dear colleagues and colleagues, Mr. President. First of all, I would like to say that the law whose amendments today we are discussing is probably the only law since 1990 that has been adopted in the Croatian Parliament and that its proposer has been a group of MPs. This law was passed in 1995 by the Parliament. It was not proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, it was not proposed by any representative club but by a group of MPs from then on and almost all parliamentary parties. It is indeed the only law that I have found in this context. It is interesting that after the adoption of that law in 95, all governments and all clubs of MPs often defend it. Secondly, apart from these cosmetic changes and a little more stringent conditions, it's important to say the following. This law will apply in 2016. So the law you're going to vote on this week will start in 2016. Not these, not next, not '12, '13, '14, '15,'2016, just because the first members of the government and MPs to enter the Parliament and the Government after the 2011 parliamentary elections will not be entitled to this pension until 2016. It is likely that this law will enter the recorders from the time when it is brought and at the time when it will start to apply. That's seven years in advance. But good. Article 2 states that those who have acted before the entry into force of this law exercise the right to retire under the regulations which they were then in force. If someone who exercised the right and didn't consume it, he didn't use the right to retire would be suspended if his right were now lifted. There's no talking about abolishing then acquired rights, because someone didn't even use it, he didn't use it, he couldn't and he didn't want it, he speculated. Some took and took six months' wages, then six months' pension, and then they'd like to retire. But at the end of the last term, some MPs called on the Parliament to apply for it and told them no, you have the right to retire, you have to either retire or nothing. I hear you're in government that... in a different way of interpreting. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So I do not accept the claim that by abolishing that right, those who did not consume the right would be deprived of the rights acquired. Which is '95. justifiable lawmaking? The claim that there are individuals in parliament and government who are not materially cared for because in the former system they could not exercise the right to work, so that they should be dealt with by law in particular. Is there still such people in the Croatian Government, the Supreme Court, the Constitutional Court, and in this House, individuals who make this law... Or it's just a privilege. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The type of privilege, for state officials in pension insurance, exists in most of the countries in Europe. However, these privileges relate either to early retirement or to benefits in the amount of a pension account. But at the same time, there is also a privilege in the conditions for retirement or for obtaining the right to retire and for calculating the amount of pension I have not found in any European state. The more I warn you, the more I warn you, that according to this law, the amount of insurance acquired abroad is accounted for as an internship that meets the conditions for retirement under this law. And this, based on the government's opinion in 2004, when today's President-in-Office of the Bebic Parliament asked for it, initiated an authentic interpretation of the law. The requirement for interpretation of the law was rejected by the basis of the government's right of reference, and the government asked the ministry's opinion that the law would result in an internship, a retirement internship, an internship obtained abroad to be accounted for by officials with the basis of the law's right to apply this law. Such a provision certainly does not have any other European countries. And let's get this over with. I will not vote for this law until you propose that Articles 8 to 16 be deleted from the law, which would mean that all government officials acquire their pension under the general pension rules. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-14-0.u37085	Thank you. Does the Minister want anything? No, I don't. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met. We move on to the Final Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Rights and responsibilities of MPs in the Croatian Parliament. This is a second reading. P.Z. No. 308. Proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. The amendments were submitted by the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system and by representative Emil Tomljanovic. I would like the representative of Administration Minister Davorin Mlakar to declare the amendments tabled first of all by representative Emil Tomljanovic on the second article.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-14-0.u37087	Thank you, Mr. President. The government accepts the text of the amendment submitted by the resident Emil Tomljanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-14-0.u37088	Thank you. It becomes an integral part of the proposal. And secondly, the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the Political System on Article 1. First amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-14-0.u37089	The first amendment to Article 1 is replaced by the following: The government accepts with the proposal that the amendment's text be changed in a way that instead of writing for 4 years, one full term is replaced, that the amendment stands for 4 years, or one full term. It would be an intervention with which we could accept the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-14-0.u37090	The President of the Constitutional Committee shall accept in this statement. Let's move on. And it becomes an integral part of the proposal in this text as the minister said. In accordance with Article 2(2) of Regulation (EU) No
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-14-0.u37091	Given that we have accepted the amendment of MP Tomljanovic, I think we have consumed the need to amend that article. Therefore, I believe the proposer has agreed.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-14-0.u37092	This second amendment was withdrawn by the Constitutional Committee because it was accepted in the expression of Mr Tomljanovic. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-14-0.u37093	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-14-0.u37094	Thank you. I am voting on the final draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the Rights and responsibilities of MPs in the Croatian Parliament. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? This law was adopted by the majority of votes, 114 votes for and 1 abstentions along with the amendments adopted. - Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Education and Education in primary and secondary schools, with the Final Proposal of the Law, an emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 407; Proposer of the Law is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. On the occasion of the establishment of the agenda, we accepted the proposal from the motion that this law be discussed in an emergency procedure in accordance with Article 159. Rules of Procedure. The emergency procedure unites the first and second readings of the law. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Education, Science and Culture, you received reports at the session. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. State Secretary, Mr. Željir Janjic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-14-0.u37096	Thank you, well-respected President of the Croatian Parliament, respected MPs and MPs. Let me tell you in the shortest lines about amendments to the law on education and education in primary and secondary schools. The amendments concern three solutions in the current law, one to the interurban transportation of high school students. The second relates to co-financing of alternative schools and the third concerns financing of food accommodation in dormitories. So let's take the turn. Article 69 of the Law states that funds for the interurban transport of secondary school students are being provided and that is to say, since the first grade, and we have started the school year 2007/'08. And now we'd be in third year this fall. However, since the funding in the state budget for the financing of all high school students for inter-urban transport and about half of them achieves the right to do so, we propose not to finance the inter-urban transportation of secondary school students since 1 September of this year. I want to say very clearly here, given that there were signs in the media that this also applies to primary school students, it's not true. The students of elementary schools and their transportation were never mentioned or thought about it. These funds are in the department's division, they're decentralised funds, and that's what's going on, which we're not discussing at all. So we're only talking about high school students. However, I must stress here that we have stated very clearly in Article 3 that the Government of the Republic of Croatia can, in accordance with the available resources of the state budget, make a decision on the financing or co-financing of the transport of secondary school students for each school year. So, we did not fully close the possibility that the future when the possibilities of the state budget are greater, to continue with such measures, but this time in agreement, as the Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia announced yesterday, so in agreement with the Ministry of Health and Social Care, with the Ministry of Defence, family and intergenerational solidarity, with the Ministry of the Sea and Tourism, we already agreed that in the next procedure in the state budget, we would provide funds for socially endangered families and children of the victims, prisoners, missing and Croatian wartime disabled in certain categories, and this is related to censorship to ensure that they are transported in an interstate manner because we are aware that these categories, if they are not provided, will be questioned by their attending the secondary school class. So this second thing I mentioned is about alternative schools. So, in law, when we brought it in last year, we said we would fund it up to 80%, but since we don't have the resources in the state budget to cover it, we here suggest that we reduce this amount and that alternative schools, as before, are funded as well as schools that are founders of natural and legal persons with the right of the public and that they be in that category. The truth is, God knows they're gonna have a little more support than these schools I mentioned. And finally, one of the measures that we wanted to encourage our students to enroll and finish high school, to get to the first qualification, to have a chance on the labour market, was to finance accommodation and nutrition in dormitories. When I say funding, then you mean full funding, and monthly accommodation and nutrition in dormitories costs 1260 kuna. We started with that measure in 2007, '08. years with first grade, this year we continued second, and since fall with third grade, so not only are fourth graders covered. The full amount, 1260 kuna was paid from the state budget and last year we entered into decentralised funds. Therefore, there is a provision to finance, which means a 100% amount. These measures remain until the end of this calendar year, so until December 31st, first, second and third grade secondary schools, students who are located in dormitories have full paid accommodation and nutrition. Since 1 January 2010, the measure will no longer be, but will return to those solutions we had before, so the state will continue to finance a 50% amount, i.e. 630 kuna. I'll explain why. So if a student enters a high school and wants to enter a specific program, and for example, there is no program in Vukovar, then he has an open opportunity to go to another environment where the program exists. For example, he can be a meteorological technician and sign up for his desired occupation, settled in a dormitory, and the state will pay him 50% of the amount necessary for accommodation in the dormitory, and 50% will pay for the parent and 630 kuna, respectively. In fact, we want to enable students to continue their education on equal terms, this is quite a high amount. If he was in his middle and traveled to his school, he might pay 700 kuna for transport, and he would need nearly 1300 kuna here. For these reasons, the resources of the state budget help students to realize their goals and to enroll the desired interest. Therefore, here to avoid misunderstandings, we say that after the budgets of the units of local and regional self-government will continue funding after 1.1, but with 50%, it will continue to be decentralised and will not be in the division of the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports, but in the division of the Ministry of Finance. So when we talk about this measure then we're actually talking about giving up this 50%, and with 50% going on. Here are the changes in the Proposal for a Law on Raising and Education in Primary and High School that goes according to emergency procedure. I must stress here that we are particularly grateful to the Committee on Education, Science and Culture for the discussions we had there and for all the help we otherwise have from this committee. In the end, allow me, when I mention it, to refer briefly to the conclusion that has been reached on the board. So this conclusion is acceptable. I will actually just repeat what the Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia said at the session yesterday, that there will be opportunities in these four ministries that have been mentioned that these transport measures are, to find a solution that socially endangered families will continue to be financed in this way as they have so far and, of course, when it comes to defenders of that category, who, by their legislative consensus, exercise the right to make it real and do everything we can to find those solutions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-14-0.u37097	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to see it? Yeah. On behalf of the Committee on Education, Science and Culture, the chairman of the Committee, Mr Peter Selem. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-14-0.u37098	Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State. My colleagues and colleagues. On July 20th, the Committee on Education, Science and Culture discussed the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Education and Education in primary and secondary schools, with the final proposal for a law, P.Z. No. 407. The Committee discussed the issue as a home working body, and the opening argument was tabled by representatives of the applicant. The proposal comes from the economic situation in the Republic of Croatia and the need for an emergency rebalancing of the state budget. Legal restrictions abolish the obligation of the state budget to finance transport by means of regular passenger public liner transport for high school students who have exercised that right. The same is proposed in terms of funding for the accommodation and nutrition of pupils in dormitories as well as on the current legal obligation to co-finance schools conducted by so-called schools. alternative educational programmes. The impact of these provisions is facilitated by the addition by which the Government of the Republic of Croatia could make a decision for each year on the financing, or co-financing of transport for secondary school students, in accordance with the national budget available for each year. In the same direction, the proposed provision is to provide regional self-government in its budgets with support for co-financing of the accommodation and nutrition of pupils in dormitories. In the debate, different approaches were made to this proposal, starting with the view that it is generally unacceptable to start with budgetary restrictions and saving on such a sensitive population as high school students. The applicant’s representative and part of the participants in the debate, who have had practical experience in their work so far, pointed out that it was not about the abolition of these rights but about their reduction that would in no way affect the socially sensitive layers of the student population. When it comes to spending on dormitories, the situation will return to the one from a year ago when the students, or parents, have participated with 50% in those costs, since it is impossible to maintain the standard that was then established. The Government of the Republic of Croatia takes further commitments in connection with the financing of transport that will facilitate the position of members of socially sensitive layers, with the programme being further implemented through the budget, but through ministries that can value increased social needs. As you've heard, these are the Ministry of Defence, Social Affairs, Finance and so on. the decentralised transferred assets. The increase in transport costs would not be able to bear the budget on the occasion of the gradual expansion of the current funding rights from the budget to the pupils of all classes of secondary schools, all in connection with the sharp rise in transport prices imposed by the carriers. In view of these circumstances, more than 500 million kunas should be allocated in the following year. This commitment from increased rebalancing funds will only be possible until the beginning of September of this year, which will benefit students who attend so-called. mandatory summer practice. A representative of the motions for unsaid objections stated that recently the laws in the field of education and education have increased the rights of the secondary population from the budget. Since this was the only way to put ourselves in a position where practically the entire population of that young age would be covered by secondary education. This would clearly be a mandatory high school for all and therefore lead to the preparation of amendments to the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. The possible consequences of school termination with alternative educational programmes have also been discussed. The proposer's representative says that these schools are small, but that for the time being, no general satisfactory solution can be proposed. After the debate on the outcome of the vote on the Amendment Law and the Supplements of the Law on Education and Education at primary and secondary school with the Final Bill of Law was the following. Of the 12 present members of the committee in the ranks, they were voted in favour of proposing to the Croatian Assembly the adoption of the law in question 6 votes. To propose to the Croatian Parliament not to pass the law in question six votes. However, the board unanimously proposes to the Croatian Parliament to draw conclusions. It undertakes the Government of the Republic of Croatia to implement Article 3 of the proposed Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law, etc. with regard to Article 143(2) and Article 3(3) of the existing law when using the possibility of financing the transport of secondary school students according to the available resources of the state budget, take into account social criteria. By applying the powers conferred on it by this law, the Government of the Republic of Croatia should establish a way of financing, i.e. co-financing of the costs of transport and accommodation of pupils in dormitories for members of the most socially vulnerable groups. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-14-0.u37099	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the HDZ Club, Mr. Representative Nevio Šetić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-14-0.u37100	Your Honor, Mr. President, the honourable Secretary of State, Madam MPs, gentlemen of the Parliament. So also, respecting the economic situation, this technical change is being made, I would say, where part of the right is being reduced. The fact is, and probably those rights were passed when it is known that 60% of jobs for these places need to be at least high schooled today in the European Union. Therefore, this need will also be imposed over a further period. But what is produced can be spent. Therefore, because of the lack of funds, this right must be omitted, and here I agree with what I have heard is that only part of these rights is dogged as well as the fact that 50% is co-financed in respect of accommodation in dormitories. But there is another information that is very interesting here about Croatian reality. Within a year or not, a little longer use is 100% increased means of transport, as certain situations have been created that could not be defended by the market. It also has information that no one wants to say, and it's similar with textbooks. I also want to say that this is where it's being built in, that the government is installing a social mechanism where social sensitivity is introduced for those groups that otherwise couldn't buy textbooks, so that all those who couldn't get to the textbook are protected. In any event, this legislative proposal refers to Article 69 of the existing law where only paragraph 3 is moved, where the founder is obliged to organise inter-urban transport by means of regular passenger public road transport to pupils of secondary schools who have a place of residence or residence at least 5km away from the place of school, provided that the programme has been entered at school by the nearest place of residence or residence. I only read this part to pull the parallel because other articles in the same way are just getting rid of what has provided these financial rights for these students so far. This applies to Article 142, Article 143, but here I mention once again that the accommodation and nutrition of students' dormitories only returns to the year last year when it was regulated and when it was co-financed with 50%. I also want to say that this law has not even reached the total population of high school, so it was only necessary for the next school year to be provided for the 4th grade. Therefore, this is an attempt which, due to financial potential, cannot be realised to the end, but it is likely that this need will again arise in the perspective because Croatia has defined to have access to a mandatory school by the age of 18, which is an exceptional decision because in the European environment you need to know that there are only a few countries that have this. This is therefore one reinforcement that will need to be realized in perspective. And there's one more thing I'd like to say, that all these rights will be realised with this school year, and the school year doesn't match this year, it goes to August 31st, so until September 1st because there are practices, all that goes, so that this situation will be solved. And yes, I want to say because it's really been speculated in the media that it's also about the transportation of primary school students. It's really a calculation, it's never been about, it's never gonna happen. Here, in this respect and for these reasons, the Croatian Democratic Community Club accepts the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Education and Education in primary and secondary schools with the Final Proposal of the Law and we will vote for it.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-14-0.u37101	Thank you. On behalf of the SDP club, Ms. Representative Marija Lugaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-14-0.u37102	Dear Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Just 8 days ago, here in the Croatian Parliament, you adopted most of the new government's work programme, which you say is old, that the government is continuity and in that programme, as well as those old one of the key priorities was "the knowledge society". Rebalance yesterday, these two laws today, and we're afraid of what we hear from the announcements, show that this "knowledge society" was obviously just an empty story and is just an empty story from this government. Yesterday we talked about the budget, most of you saying about the budget said it was "light" budget. For education, this budget rebalance is not even a little "light", but it is very sharp and almost this whole rebalancing of the state budget we have reduced to cutting the rights in education. One or more of these rights are cut and amended by this law. We, colleagues and colleagues, have sold these 20 years of state property almost everything that has been sold, you owe your generation, I dare say mine, and I think a generation of my own, or the children of all our younger, and what is left for us? The only way out, the only long-term as sustainable and developmental opportunity is to invest in people. Investment in people is only possible through investment in education and investment in science. By this law, we have already heard, the government is giving up financing the transportation of high school students, co-financing of accommodation and nutrition in dormitories, co-financing of alternative schools. We at the SDP club do not accept these proposals, especially no arguments, and it is completely incomprehensible how the first cuts work in education and on children for at least 2 reasons. First, the cuts in education, the cuts in children are in our opinion, but the last measure, absolutely the last measure that needs to come in order in every normal state, if at all it has to be in order. And secondly, these educational cuts are based on the arguments that we got from the government working to reduce spending, which is what education is again being subdued or viewed exclusively as consumption, which, in our SDP, education is not and must not be, and obviously we were wrong when we thought that you in HDZ finally understood it or at least said something like that. However, colleagues and colleagues, around this law should still be restored to the beginning because these measures that we are now abolishing and what counterpart Šetić says that we are now, for financial reasons, not falling from Mars. We introduced the law and those measures into the law last July 15th. When the law was passed, you from the majority, the ministry's representatives were very boastful of these measures, we from the SDP said that unfortunately we have nothing against them, but that we suspect that they are even sustainable. Unfortunately, we were right and that these measures were not sustainable in any way because we unfortunately have a rather classic situation here, which is tragic, and that is actually to solve problems that are either not supposed to be or shouldn't be at first. The story of free transport and co-financing of accommodation goes a little further than this law itself. In the spring of 2006, Minister Primorac announced that since September and already far from 2006 high school will be mandatory for all students and pupils. Time has shown that it was a classic Primorce's PR action which, although the idea is not in any way controversial, it was trying to be conducted, and it was designed simply as well as those of all others, it was styphic, unthinkable and without previous analyses and preparation. There are colleagues and colleagues, an anecdote that paints quite well this state of education. In fact, one man complained deeply to another man about working hard all summer to teach his dog how to speak. At the end of the summer, this other man wanted to talk to that dog. Of course he couldn't because the dog, despite the effort of this first one, didn't learn to speak. That's right, I've felt like I've been in these last six years and in education. It was said that there was either some promotion of the work and the character and the work of the minister, but it was not actually done with a real desire, or perhaps more likely, had a real perspective that what was wanted, or made to be done, or that the goal was achieved. So with this transport and with accommodation, because when it was realized that mandatory high school could not be introduced overnight, then here in the Assembly you brought a document called the National Programme of Measures for the Introduction of Mandatory Secondary Education and in this programme, along with many principled and declarative measures, these two of which we are discussing today, or those we are abolishing today. And all of this was introduced with an explanation that, well, kids don't go to high school because parents don't have enough money to pay for transportation or to pay for accommodation and nutrition in their dormitory, and now if we introduce transportation, if we introduce co-financing for food and accommodation, the kids will go to high school. Of course, here is the irresponsible question of whether the children will now stop going to high school. If we introduced these measures to get the children to school, would the children now stop going to school? And if that's how it's gonna stop, then it's just not a good decision. If children are not simply because of this, it was not a criterion for making decisions to go or not go to school, then what you suggested a year ago, or two years ago, was completely unnecessary. Therefore, this law not only abolishes one bankruptcy right of citizens, but degrades and almost suspends the national programme which, from the speaking of the pawn, was almost nationalally important from the argument, and we believe in the SDP that it is absolutely necessary, so the extension of the duration of compulsory education to the first profession and qualifications is absolutely necessary, but it is tragic that this programme, like many others, is obviously due to lack of thought-out and understanding of education as consumption, is almost completely suspended. While we colleagues and colleagues are already talking about this law since the vote of this law in the Croatian Parliament, we would like to point out exactly one year from the SDP that 30 regulations have been passed under this law which have not yet been passed. The norm rule, one of the most important ones, is said to be being prepared, still does not exist, a network of schools that is now being brought in in a different way has not yet been adopted, and it does not seem so soon since fully cut funds for a network of primary schools, or 50% for a network of secondary schools. Curriculum is still being talked about, a council has been created, which is mostly packed with academics talking about the need for moratorium to bring the curricula, and that's something that needs to be brought in urgently. Amendments to the law are also required in the section relating to school management relating to the powers of the principal and the composition of the school boards. A year of application has shown that there are too many policies. The pedagogical standards adopted in no way apply, the annual plan for this year's application of the standard has not yet been obtained, the report on last year has not been received. So there's a lot to be done to make what we've voted here and what you of the ministry have declared actually get some kind of concrete piece of material. And at the very end, colleagues and colleagues, we of the SDP think that parents with all the difficulty, with less pay, with more expensive lives, along with other difficulties waiting for them in the fall will still not as a state saves on their children, that they will not start from saving on the carriage of students, on buying books. And we repeat from the beginning investment in education is not consumption but the only cost-effective long-term investment. As we begin to apply it in practice, not just to declare and flaunt the phrases of the knowledge society, we will simply keep digging in what we've been digging around for a long time and, like, somehow just drown more in that mud than swimming forward. Therefore, because of the easy and insufficiently designed and almost stychical abandonment of what up to a few days ago has been said to be our national priority and that a key SDP club will not support this bill, and we hope that in the near future of the budgetary scissors, the government policy will not go for cutting investment in education and cutting investment in children and that this is actually one of the last laws that we have to discuss here in the Croatian Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-14-0.u37103	Thank you very much. We have two applications for correction of the quote. First of all, dear colleague Franjo Lucic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-14-0.u37104	Thank you very much. Here's what I'd like to correct is an incorrect quote from an esteemed colleague, and I appreciate your expertise, but don't talk so much that you knew in advance that these measures would be unsustainable. ... Correction of the incorrect allegation, you said that you knew in advance that the measures the government had taken would be unsustainable, and that's transportation, that's the students, and you only know that this recession happened that no one knew about and that it was only because... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Well, they're shutting down, probably because they don't want to hear what they're interested in. [[The speaker is not enabled, not understood.]] Don't say anything it isn't. It is exclusively due to recession and global crisis because the economy is in such a situation. But if it hadn't been for this measure at the same time, it would have been very sustainable and would have been for the benefit of our man, who we are really fighting for and taking care of. At the same time, however, we are unable to provide funds because we know that this is because of the global crisis and recession.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-14-0.u37105	Thank you very much. The profession is divided here, who has the power of psychicity and who doesn't. A lot of people read horoscopes every day because of that. But next came Nevio Šetić, a respected co-worker for the correction of the quote. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-14-0.u37106	Here's your thanks, Mr. Vice President. I would only correct an incorrect quote by Mrs Lugaric when she says that the Croatian government is stychically giving up the knowledge society. I'd like to say that it's almost impossible, because it's one process that was enthroned a decade ago, a little more, in our environment and in Europe, and it can't be given up, and you know that too. The fact that here it may give up the funding of what it has no condition to pay for now, and the fact is that only in terms of education is the definition of education not only knowledge but also skills, abilities, values and knowledge. Therefore, we cannot give up on the knowledge society and the Croatian government certainly does not give up on the knowledge society.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-14-0.u37107	Thank you very much. Next on behalf of the Club of HNS Representatives, distinguished colleague Miljenko Doric. Here's your colleague, Doric.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-14-0.u37108	Dear Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. Yesterday after this speaker, the Prime Minister said the goal of this rebalancing was to boost economic growth and ensure the macroeconomic stability of the Republic of Croatia. And we decided to go into that rebalance with the first strong cuts. Where? In the area of education. In the 21st century, therefore, ensure strong economic growth and macroeconomic stability in education cuts. It's something that probably this government can patent because we're probably the only case of that kind in Europe today. A year and a half ago, the government swore to a society of knowledge, in the middle of the mandate, we see it as a society of limited knowledge. What it'll look like at the end of the term, I'm not sure anymore. My colleagues and colleagues, so we're going into educational cuts. Saving on what? To save on transportation of secondary school students, to save on co-financing of schools conducted by alternative educational programmes, to save on accommodation and nutrition of students in dormitories. My colleagues and colleagues, perhaps for us Assembly representatives 600, 700 kuna is not big money, but for hundreds of thousands of Croatian families it is enormous money. It's money that they can't get to, to suddenly cover the extra costs. Last year they sent their child to a student home in the city of xy because they were told that the costs were covered. Now they're told no, the costs are no longer covered, now you're going to have to give half of that amount. Then they decided to send their child to school last year, which is 20, 25 kilometers from their home. They were told the costs were covered, let the child go to school. Now we tell them, no more expenses are covered, you'll have to cover half the cost since September of the month. Now as far as transportation is concerned, we have heard in this debate that not speaking mentions enough amount and that you are given to save significant funds. My colleagues and colleagues, in Varazdin County, HNS started 5 years ago, or 5, less than 5 years ago, then parliamentary elections but when the first local, or regional elections, started to finance, i.e. providing free transportation of secondary school students. That was our idea that we really did here in Varazdin County. When the Varazdin County agreed to transport with auto carriers, the price of 385 kuna per student was agreed. After a year we get the law and the state starts to negotiate the transport price in that same county and the price comes to 650 kuna. Something's obviously not right. So, obviously, there was a lot of money saved, but it wasn't saved. We've heard today that we should save when a man has, and we should spend when there isn't. Spending your savings when there's no man. We're unfortunately acting the other way around. In the assessment of the situation that we have here in this proposal, I expected that we will have perhaps one thorough analysis of the state of secondary education, that we will do some differentiation between deficits and those professions where students cannot get a job. Unfortunately, not a word of it. My colleagues and colleagues, are we aware that many students graduate from high school and cannot get a job in the profession, and we continue to enter these profiles. What do they do? Take a passport and go to Italy, Germany, the Netherlands. Unfortunately, no one in the balance assessment has told us how many losses we have through such behaviors regarding enrollment policy and everything else. That's where we were supposed to start thinking about saving up the planning work. These measures for the HNS club are absolutely unacceptable and we are ashamed to even have to discuss that macroeconomic stability is ensured by cuts in the education sector.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-14-0.u37109	Thank you. And last application on behalf of the HDSSB club co-legislator Boro Grubisic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-14-0.u37110	Dear Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Secretary of State, representatives of the government, the ministries, colleagues and fellow MPs. Here is this proposal for Law No 407 which is therefore called to quote "Adjusted Law on Amendment and Completion of the Law on Education and Education" etc. In fact, as long as one of these administrative official definitions of the law is acquired, I would say briefly, one decree, says chapter II, where it says "recitals and sources of the necessary means to implement the law" and says not necessary. In the budget of the Republic of Croatia, there is no need to provide funds, a really unnecessary chapter in one draft law. But okay, nomotechnics are nomotechnics, so here's the thing. It seems that today's short hairstyle is very modern, so here's how someone said budget scissors to us, according to this bill, they cut our hair and high school students, those of whom as a society, as a state we expected a lot, because we have declared ourselves and declared ourselves and we want to be a society of knowledge, a society of educated people, a society of polite people. Unfortunately, of those cut off 730 million in the budget rebalancing of education, education is affected by more than a third so about 250 million kuna. One of these measures is this cutting of what someone said about the acquired rights to the former or then former law that was in force in connection with the free transportation of students and the financing of high school dormitories. Now they're supporting it, and the student transport itself is actually definitely cut to put it so vividly. Today I received a text message from the Punovac municipality of special state care, a third category in which a gentleman from Punovac writes that he has two high school children and that the annual transport price of those children to the nearest secondary school costs 20 thousand kuna. He says it's his five-month salary. I ask you state secretary, co-workers and fellow MPs and everyone else, which means 5 months' wages for a man who works alone, so his wife doesn't work, she's a housekeeper at home, for two high school kids, 20 thousand kunas or her 5 months' pay only to transport students? When we talk about the fact that the transport was free for the first and second year of high school, later it was thought to re-introduce both for the third and fourth grade or year then we need to know that it is true that every child cares about their parents, but it is not the only thing that parents cost to train their children. Let us all ask ourselves which, my already grown and large, how much is the cost of schooling one child for all that is required in schooling from saying tennis, clothes, books, school supplies and everything else that one child in one normal school age requires as a student to be given and given to him. That's why we consider this one measure of rebalancing that yesterday... I have been proposed here for the public and opinion as well as a good part of the representatives that education is really an education, so education and education are really overly affected by rebalancing scissors and of the 730 million I repeat here in front of you and the public that in that part of education 250 million is affected. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So more than a third, about 35 percent when exactly calculated. For this reason, I think not only is this intention of a state that was well-intentioned and well-intentioned for free secondary education and compulsory secondary education of all students in order to improve one professional and one structure of education in the Republic of Croatia not only is it compromised. I think there is a little bit of a threat to each other's goals and the goal is actually the demographic reconstruction of the Republic of Croatia. I'm not saying that it's direct and nobody's born at 14, 15 and doesn't go to high school but from the price of kindergarten, from what a man pays for every student and what he spends during school and then to a high school kid and so the cost of a high school student is really every parent or married couple has to imagine what he's been waiting for since the birth of his child and so on. And then we wonder that in Croatia there is therefore a demographic decline, far more difficult than in some developed European countries. And my God, what do you say? Because yesterday, as I spoke or admired about budget rebalancing in the total amount of this imbalance, today I am talking about this Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Education and Education in primary and secondary schools with a final draft of the law as something that the HDSB Club cannot accept. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-14-0.u37111	Thank you very much. The honorary colleague of state, Mr. Janjic, came to the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-14-0.u37112	Thank you very much. Dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Let me say a few words briefly after the club presentation for understanding and perhaps clarifying certain details that may not be the most accurate here in your debates presented, so on. When we started with this measure of inter-local transportation of high school students in a 100% amount, of course, provided that it was more than 5 kilometers from place to place in 2007, we know that before that some counties had paid their secondary schoolers for transportation and that was clear, and all the congratulations for that. And, of course, when we made that decision here in the Croatian Parliament and the national programme of measures and later by amending the law that it was disbursed by the budgets of these counties possible somewhere both cities and municipalities that co-financed one part of the county, so maybe it wasn't a 100% amount that went out of the county budget, so I'm not saying all of them, but they agreed that maybe 50% would give the county and 25% of the city or municipalities. And then this measure from the state budget level, of course, is welcome. Until then, of course, the county had contracted transport, but when we started with this measure in 2007, in 2008 and this year of course we provided funds in the state transport budget but we did not, Honored Representative Doric, we did not arrange transport in the counties but the county agreed. We just transferred funds to the county so they could pay for the ride. The difference has become true God, I will remind you this measure has been a little bit and at an awkward time has come. You well remember that first year that the price of fuel began to rise rapidly, that it came to $140 for a barrel and, of course, as the fuel price grew, so the carriers raised the transport price. If we continue with this measure next year in the state budget, more than 500 million kuna should be provided. However, after the price of fuel started to fall, it did not generally occur in the largest number of cases that the price was downhill but remained mostly at that level. And you know what else? It happened, you remember the times before. There was a so-called. working monthly card and student monthly card. The student monthly card was about 30 to 40% cheaper than the worker's, and the beginning of these measures that we didn't really predict when we did the analysis happened vice versa. She became a student ticket for 40 percent more expensive in transportation than the worker, which was never there and we really didn't see it coming. So, there can go some excuse you pay for the job done, by the bill delivered so it's a month later and before it's paid in advance but not for God's sake that there's so much difference in price. There is, of course, a difference between county and county. You have a county where you only have one carrier, of course you call a public tender but no longer registers. So the position of the monopoly and then the price can be really anything. County doesn't have the option to pick one out of three, when three isn't there, when there's only one. So this has resulted in really considerable expenditures that we simply can't service anymore. The moment we made the calculations, of course, we didn't count on these amounts, we didn't count on this situation. Another thing, when it comes to entry policy, which is also mentioned here. I'll remind you we're making a decision on enrolment and registration structure by county. But the process goes like this, school to its county as founder, high school to its county as founder proposes a registration plan. The County accepts or seeks correction from the school itself, knowing the structure of the county's economy. Knowing what the data is at the Employment Service. And so when they agree and in many counties intervenes the Croatian Chamber of crafts which in some situations clearly states that, because it is necessary to provide free scientific places where the student will practice. And then the Croatian Chamber of crafts says, please correct the number of students you want to enroll in the hairdressers. Why? Because we have 150 at the employment office. If you re-enter them in some large number, they'll end up at the Employment Service. A part of them will likely appear on the black market and work undeclared. And be unfair to those who pay taxes to this country. That's not right. Of course they suggest in the county to cut that registration quota. And in many counties they accept it. That everything they agree to send to the ministry, we have no reason to dispute their projections or their registration plans. We have no reason. So the question is now, I would say express responsibilities in each county that in each county they will be asked not to educate staff who will not have a chance on the labour market. Finally, I may mention, when the respected representative Grubisic spoke on behalf of the HDSSB, he mentioned these measures that go from the state level, but I will remind everyone in the Republic of Croatia to take care of education in their environment and make sure that this education is quality. So, therefore, some environments, of course more of those that have more money, are not the rule of investing in education despite what the state is doing. So we had a situation where some of them were paying for transportation when it wasn't a measure from the state budget that might continue. There were those who took textbooks when the state didn't take textbooks. So it's not just you here in the Croatian Parliament that makes the laws, that you bring the state budget, those who care about the standard in our primary and secondary schools. They are certainly their founders, therefore also of the county, and in elementary schools and cities that the founders have and they have taken care of it as much as they can. We're confident that's how it's gonna be in the future. As much of course as I can, but they'll find space to help all of this, actually. And in the end, there's just one more thing. When it comes to accommodation in the dormitory, I will repeat, therefore, this measure 100% goes to December 31st this year and from January 1st goes 50%. For this 50%, it means how much participating parents, 630 kunas, I dare say that's a better standard than we have at students. The students have breakfast, lunch, dinner, accommodation, full care, therefore, communication with the school, communication with their parents, that's what their foster parents do, have a lot of free activities other than those they have at school, go to the movies, go to the theater, maybe in their midst and don't celebrate, and here they're provided with it. So it's actually about the truth of God, about the 50% reduction, but I want to tell you that with those 50% countries, it's pretty much taking care of that standard that they're doing that way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-14-0.u37113	Thank you very much to the secretary of state, actually on this example that he put out here, before it was spoken, and in the debate it shows what it means when one is contracting and the other is paying. But we in the counties and cities and municipalities know well how much it cost and where it went, but it is certain that it will need to be further monitored and that certain things will probably come back, but we also have two applications for correction of fellow Vinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-14-0.u37114	Dear Mr. Secretary of State, you said you couldn't understand this measure precisely for the price of student tickets paid by the county or the cities to the transporters. That's not true because it's primarily a matter for the state's attorney's office because they're all carriers. It's a matter for the state's attorney's office because they robbed the state budget. You said yourself that the price suddenly went up, based on one offer made contracts. Today, the fact that these resources in the state budget could be distributed, subsidized for all students and students in need of transportation. And today also according to these decisions and plus this with textbooks we definitely acknowledge that we are giving up the Croatian knowledge project.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-14-0.u37115	Thank you. And distinguished colleague Marija Lugaric. Here's a rectification of the quote.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-14-0.u37116	Secretary of State, it's not true that we're not the only ones who pass laws and budgets. We in Parliament are the only ones who make laws and budgets, those in local units can make other decisions, make local budgets, and we are the only ones who really make laws and state budgets. However, it is wonderful that some units of local and regional self-government take part of responsibility for education, but we are in a position where education A is of strategic importance, B is part of the constitutional obligation. Which is mandatory, which according to the Constitution must ensure equal rights for everyone in high school education cannot be trusted at the good will of some or some units of local and regional self-government. And that's the job of the state, and that's why this is so controversial.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-14-0.u37117	Thank you very much. You've corrected the quote, which is true that in school, we need both education and knowledge, everyone cares. We're moving on to an individual debate. First, an esteemed colleague, Mr. Iron Flego, checked in. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-14-0.u37118	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues. A few years ago, somehow this time of year, I spoke to a Finnish delegation, and we were very interested in how much they stand out for education and science. They said that they can't say exactly yet, yet they can't say exactly because they have a budget rebalance soon, so one of the members of our delegation is cynicalally asking how much they're going to take from you, and they're looking at us in wonder, so they said no, the budget in Finland serves to give education and science and something else to health. So that's what the budget in Finland is for, not for education to be taken away. Unfortunately, things go the other way around. The Ministry of Science, Education and Sports has lost nearly 10% of its budget in two rebalances and these are actually the biggest cuts in the anti-recession measures of this government and I must say this Parliament. And it's tragic to go in reverse order. Education is, as you know, and as we mentioned yesterday, a national priority and it's written in this government's program. Education is equally, together with science, the only leverage that can bring us closer to the knowledge society. We are still very, very, very far away from it and the government can bring stimulating and destimulating measures. And if education is a national priority and education is the only leverage that brings us closer to the developed world and we can run a new development cycle, then education is kept from negative rebalancing and ultimately comes to the turn of negative rebalancing. Then, first of all, all other financial resources and resources are exhausted to make it possible to reduce the costs of that, or to reduce the budget of that portfolio, which is of national priority. However, perhaps a budget rebalancing should be done so that the Ministry of Education, Science and Sports should have said we will make an internal rebalancing, but we will have the total resources left. Unfortunately, it's quite a different case, and I share a lot of concerns with colleagues who have talked about it. Secondly, we actually get into school, we get caught in the middle of kids, and we reduce parents, but then children's rights are acquired. It may not be so tragic in times of crisis, but it's a tragic consequence. Given the costs that, therefore, the additional costs that education carries with it, given the sometimes and direct costs that education carries with it, the restrictions will become more and more accessible only to the wealthy, and not to the gifted, nor to the good and orderly to say so, if they are from some layers that do not yet fall into the social critical categories, and parents will not be able to pay the costs of the education that you are now mentioning. Education will become a dam for social mobility, and thus all those who advocate such measures will advocate anti-constitutional measures. I remind you, Croatia is a social state and has an obligation to care therefore for those most needed, who are unable to cover the costs of their children's education. We also brought in a national programme in Parliament, it's called a measure to introduce compulsory high-school education. We're biting those measures a little bit, and the question is what's going to end up left. In addition to the costs of transport in this reduction, a further expenditure has actually been abolished and reduced, and this is a cost that is terribly valuable, which we have worked very hard for, which has barely been introduced into Croatia, and we are now reducing it to the extent that the question is whether it will be possible to survive. It's an alternative education, it's forms of alternative education. So, if we stop that too, then it will be just public education or private education that will be a replica of public education. And the alternative education that has been developed in the world, thank you for asking, is present in Croatia in a very, very small and narrow segment and we are now undermining it. And I think it will also cause extremely negative consequences. Finally, I'm afraid that this way of doing things I promise you a little bit, so I'll give you a little bit, so I'll take a little bit of it, it shows actually one unbelief and inconsistencies in the way of governance. Well, it's not really a state, and it shouldn't be any experimental polygon at the level of a private firm or any company. Yesterday we heard that some people are more responsible when they go to buy yogurt than according to what is happening to the national budget, and I think that I should make sure that all other funds are exhausted first, and only then that they start to get into school, that is to reduce the total resources available to the school, and that is the principle of the SDP's position why we will not be for this law and for the conflict of budget rebalancing that this is being made. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-14-0.u37119	Thank you very much, Comrade Flego. We have three reports of replicas. First of all, dear colleague Mario Habek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-14-0.u37120	Comrade Flego, what I can surely confirm is that, regardless of this government decision, the Varazdin County and the Krapina-Zagorian County will not allow this government to continue to destroy education in this country. We will, namely, continue these two counties, despite this government decision, co-finance or pay for the transportation of students to secondary schools, because we are normally putting education as a priority in this country, especially in Varazdinska and Krapina-Zagorje County, where the SDP and HNS authorities have always had education as a priority in their programmes. Schooling of children must represent the interest of all of us, so these two counties will try to ensure maximum conditions for continuing schooling. So we're going to deal with this deficit that this government has made for us, with this kind of move, that sends a bad message, a message to all young people that it's not a priority, but other private interests.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-14-0.u37121	Thank you very much. There's no need to answer that. This is just a confirmation from colleague Lugaric that we all have to worry. That's good. Comrade Doric, you've reached out to the replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-14-0.u37122	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Flego, I totally agree with what you said. Namely, the financial status of parents must not be a limiting factor for the education of their children. That's unacceptable. At least I expected from the government when it already proposes such drastic measures that parents did not expect by joining their children in a student home, namely by ensuring their education in a place that is relatively remote from their place of residence that at least they would offer student loans or another measure that would allow parents to bridge the situation they were in. Unfortunately, this minimum offer is not given to parents either. That's what I thought you might mention and that's why I called in the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-14-0.u37123	Thank you very much. Replication response, esteemed colleague Flego. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-14-0.u37124	Mr. Doric, I fully agree with you, so the government, especially in times of crisis when it reduces finances in one place, had to sort of compensate somewhere else. I was talking yesterday about how tragic it is that in times of crisis, so in times of need money on different segments and in different pockets so to say, they reduce the amount of money for scholarships. We should be stepping up our scholarships right now. And I hope this House adopts a proposal from the board, so it commits itself to the government to find resources for the social needs. But we also hope that at all levels, therefore at the levels of the municipalities and at the levels of the county, so at the level of the municipalities as we heard the county but also at the level of the state, the funds for scholarships will be increased especially for the best. Because if we put one in the best ones, the task force one, they'll be out of the way in 10. If we put a unit of effort into middle school, they'll be out of the way by one. So below average we invest unit 1 they're going to move by, move by 0.1. So you have to invest in everyone who's regular, especially the gifted. In particular, they should be invested in them if they are socially problematic environments. So, in which parents can't get the resources to train them. And if we don't secure those funds it'll be a loss not only for us but for the whole community, because skills and knowledge are common good, not only personally. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-14-0.u37125	Thank you very much. And the third application by counterpart Vujic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-14-0.u37126	Thank you very much. I have a need for a replica because it seems to me that even with my colleague Flega, who has the most competent in me, one of the most competent discussions. In some ways, one difference has not been drawn, and between the criticism of this budget as regards that it is, therefore, not developed in the sense that it does not accept the fundamental things of the knowledge society, etc. etc. But this is also about something extra over it, which is that it actually touches on the existential physical assumptions of education itself. My colleague Janjic, I understand I mean almost all your arguments. I could agree with everyone except one general, which is that you as a government have instruments to solve the issue of transportation, to resolve the issue of nutrition. It's eloquent to think we're discussing here in this House, so not even now about those things that accentes are given by many MPs in terms of how to further develop education, how to create a knowledge society. But that's what we're arguing about in the Dickensian way about whether these kids will be able to get to school and whether they can eat something there. So please be nice! Well, there's no land that allows it. That's one too many problems. And again I tell you, Mr. Janjic, I can agree with your argument. You've said all the difficulties you've had since the contest, so I don't know what that's like. But you're the government, you need to handle it. You and the government as a whole. This should be said that there is no such problem in Croatia in the Parliament, to discuss whether children will be able to get to school and whether they will have something to eat there. That's terrible!
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-14-0.u37127	Thank you very much, fellow Vujic, for being so temperamental. He's replicated his colleague Flegie. Is there a need? You agree with him. Okay. Then we point it all at Janjic together. And we're going to an individual debate. Dear colleague Daniel Srb. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-14-0.u37128	Thank you very much. Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. I must say that I agree greatly with much of what has been said here today in this debate when it comes to the need for investment in education. However, I do not want to repeat it but rather to say something that has not been said about this problem so far, which is what it is most about and how it will affect the development of the Slavonian village first. So, the area I come from. This cutting, these possibilities won't hit students living in cities. He will hit mostly those who come from rural areas to cities, to high school. And it's actually the structure of people who have the least available means. And I have to say something else that I think is particularly important here. We in the Slavonian village have the biggest problem in the educational structure where people living in the country have no chance of developing their environment and providing themselves with the future but through education. And we practically put them in a position like this to question them. And that is why I believe that this is exactly the last measure to be applied in terms of saving and cutting at different costs. Everything else should be before this measure. When it comes to, for example, the level of unemployment in the country, then I have to say that we have a municipality where unemployment is over 90% and because more agriculture can't absorb that labour force that exists in the countryside, so we have to give them an opportunity to live through education from something else. And actually, at this point in time, those poorest people are basically supported by this measure. I absolutely support all the ideas about helping those most needed in such a way as to provide them with particular benefits different that can be achieved through this system to mitigate the consequences of this. Yes, of course. But let's not save on this, because that unemployment level of over 90% warns. Therefore, this measure is more significant and has more serious consequences than all the incentives and support in agriculture that enable income for farmers and people living in the country themselves. So let's not end this. Mr. Secretary of State has warned of the problems that exist. I believe that there are and should be ways to solve them, how to bridge them and how to secure them otherwise. But it is absolutely certain that children who come, students who come from rural areas to cities, then of course have opportunities that the city center provides, from going to the theater to everything else. Well, there's no village theater, and that's perfectly normal, and that's what we need. But we also need to be aware that the pressure on student homes is extremely high, that they can't simply provide the necessary places for students who want to come to urban areas to continue school there. So, education in this segment is something that practically enables perspective especially for students coming from villages and developing especially Slavonian villages. So I have to say that under these conditions, when you have to save, first of all you have to tax luxury, alcoholic beverages, cigarettes, etc., and this must indeed be the last measure to be applied in savings. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-14-0.u37129	Thank you very much. And at the last minute of the application of a replica, distinguished colleague Boris Matkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-14-0.u37130	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, there's one part I'd like to agree with my colleague Serbs when it comes to the problem of students coming out of the village clearly, so smaller environments and gravity towards cities when it comes to their standard, or their parents' standard, and the problem of transportation. However, there is, in any case, a solution that has been so far, a fellow Serb. In particular, I come from one such environment that is very large, one of the largest, so not only in Split-Dalmatia County, but also in Croatia with some 300km square, 294 with 25 settlements, 28 large local committees, that I am not talking about desert sub-states where children come every day by buses, but in a way that the city participates 30%, carrier 20, so even those who pay, pay 50% of that ticket. That's one thing. And secondly, I don't think we can talk about taking this away from everyone. So we heard yesterday the prime minister, or we heard that this is not about that category that belongs to the needy, which means those who are in social care, that is, somewhere in the Ministry of Health and Social Care, and they will not be financed from the ministry from which Mr Janjic comes, but from the Ministry of Health and Social Care, or the Ministry of Defence. So the children of defenders and children will also be included, so those who receive social care and whom the institution of social care takes care of. They also address the administrations of the city and municipality who, in such cases, pay those children full of cards. I am a witness to this and I have an example for this, but in principle I can accept this first part of you, but this second one certainly should not be discussed in this way and in this respect as discussed by my colleague Vujic, so now you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-14-0.u37131	Thank you very much. Replication response, colleague of the Serbs. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-14-0.u37132	Thank you very much. Dear fellow Matkovic, I am pleased that you too recognize the existence of this problem, but what must surely be done should be provided by the early start of the new school year with a model and a rule by which the funds will be provided to those who need them, who cannot afford to go to school. Here, and my colleague Grubisic mentioned one example. There are endlessly many examples of such examples. But precisely because the village has become an extremely poor part of Croatian society and these are people who have the least possible incomes and are the hardest hit by this. That's why there's got to be a model for these kids, these parents' help. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-14-0.u37133	Thank you very much. There goes the debate, dear colleague Dragutin Bodakosh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-14-0.u37134	Thank you very much, Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable State Secretary with an associate, distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs. Well, I'm gonna have my argument here, start, maybe it's not this appropriate, but there's an old curse, "God forbid you have a God and then you don't." I think this curse fell on this particular government from which in time the one who thought he had and shared as God so here it was shared in this segment. Those who stayed in the situation that they didn't have them today, as Mr. Secretary of State said, must also be socially sensitive, must see who they can pay for something, and at the same time they came into the situation and pay the debts of the former leader's waste. So what now? Is it enough to make these changes to the law without side-by-side analysis, without seeing who was getting all these benefits, were they all supposed to consume them? I think that's one of the questions that was present in the past, not only in this, but perhaps in some others, so before the elections what you're all going to get this, you're all going to get it, whether it's someone you should get it or not. And now what obligations are being lifted? So he says the state budget's obligation to finance transport by means of regular passenger public liner transport for high school students who have achieved that right is lifted. Yes, they've earned their right because this Parliament has given them that right. Then funds to finance the accommodation and nutrition of students in dormitories. It is said that 50% should be reduced, or 50% should be paid, 50% will remain. I don't know what that was about, let's go, let's give it to everybody. You know why. And so far, legal obligations to co-finance schools conducted by alternative education programmes. So these are the obligations that this Parliament, this state, this ministry, and which we're going to have to do now, which are going to be abolished and who are left with these obligations? For those who have had them probably before, which in the first place is parents. Your parents will probably still consider it their priority because they also have children and school them and want to become people of them. We've all been through this and often in a difficult situation living, but it was the parent who gave up, and he's always giving up, and sometimes the state gets a little bit, sometimes takes a tree, or stops giving. Probably because the state offered one populist way and made it easier they were primarily for day-to-day political purposes ahead of the elections, and today when we talk about what we are saying is because of the recession, the lack of budgets. The government and the ruling need and assume their share of responsibility. It turns out that the simplest thing to say is that the pipe is not worth it, that before and now we're going through these changes, and you're getting along as you know it. That's not good, especially when we hear it, yesterday I heard it on TV that the new prime minister says she's not giving up on the Peles Bridge. Well, everyone so far has been very discreet about this Pelješke Bridge, which is what they think we don't need at the moment, and it's likely that this transport will tell people that we need it. Why, if we're just moving on to one new thing, and we didn't say anything as soon as we could possibly replace it. Well, there were speeches here, here's Professor. Doric spoke of the scholarship of these students, tied those scholarships to success. Well, we all, more or less, had student loans, and it was a relief for us, and that way we kind of went to school, because it wasn't easy to come from Slavonia to Zagreb and live here, to pay for substation, etc. and everything that went along with it. That's why I think we should tell the new Minister Dr. Fuchs, yes, and everyone in the ministry, don't do the ex-minister's spin anymore. He was glorifying himself that we were already educated in Europe by introducing a Bologna programme, and he did not establish any personnel or material conditions, or these free textbooks, transportation free of charge and other. I think he acted in some way in his statements as some sort of God who shared, but like his boss, he turned tail and went in the first chance when there was no more to share, or to waste. In the end, I must say that this area is not the first to stabilise the budget and Mr. Secretary and the Ministry when you think about it, you will see that your arguments are thin for the adoption of these amendments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-14-0.u37135	Thank you very much. The time to apply for a hearing has expired on this point, but we have two more applications. It is up to counterpart Zeljko Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-14-0.u37136	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. On January 1, 2000, the headline economists had only one sentence. The sentence was knowledge is power, the next society will be a society of knowledge. This symbolically wanted to show what would be the most significant in the 21st century. So today knowledge, intellectual capital, innovation and entrepreneurship are three basic competitive advantages that successful companies differ in the world from failures. Knowledge is inextricably linked to corruption. The educated are more successful at fighting corruption, thus corruption increases poverty, if we have educated people, then we are automatically fighting corruption and poverty. I don't often get attacked by colleagues in this assembly from the ruling party when I'm talking about the Croatian government, but I'm only honest, and sometimes the truth sounds harsh. Thus, how to interpret the relationship through this rebalancing of education and these laws that follow this rebalancing along the way, rather than as the irresponsibility and inability of the current government towards education, to those who should guarantee that Croatia in the 21st century will really step forward and move forward, not as it has been so far. Therefore, if we look at the fact that education in two rebalancings has lost nearly a billion and 500 thousand kunas and returned to its resources in 2007, then we must indeed admit that the steam that I believe was one of the most expensive paroles in Croatia in the last 6 years was really just a political parole, a political parole that did not have the willingness to really allow Croatia to become a knowledge society. Therefore, it is not only about free textbooks, about the financing of transport, it is a far wider problem which, if it continues like this, will not allow all education in Croatia, as well as health care, to be equally accessible, that each child has the right to complete not only primary and secondary school but also university according to his abilities, and not with material opportunities. So it is particularly sad that the Government is completely rejecting the possibility of part of the schools in Croatia, I am well, well aware of this problem because in Rijeka they asked me to help them, therefore alternative... The school in Rijeka. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] With this decision, the Croatian government will cease to exist. So far, the government has had an obligation to co-finance an alternative school programme with 80%, it abolishes it, it means the key to the lock of alternative schools. And can anyone explain to me why the government has decided to close alternative schools? If this is one of the first steps of this government, it is one proof that it is irresponsible and unable to lead this Croatia. Therefore, the high school for all, free textbooks for all were the Paroles of Minister Primorac, were the Paroles and Vice-Presidents of the Government at the time, Mrs. Kosor, the passwords that were only used for the demagogue collection of political points, and in fact had no ultimate goal of raising the ability to all acquire knowledge that would enable them to get a good job, to get a place of employment, to have a family, to raise their children, to have kindergartens where they would learn and she would go to schools that would work in one shift, which would have sports halls, school sports halls, which would have the possibility of additional school activities of learning foreign languages, and that today there is no. So it's not just a problem that a parent won't have money to buy textbooks for their children, he has to buy school supplies, he has to buy pants of a child, children grow up, he has to buy shoes. You'll see that some kids can pay for foreign language classes, others can't. Other kids go to sports activities, one doesn't go. So we have a separation from the very beginning that is linked exclusively to material abilities, not to the talent and ability of children to acquire new knowledge. So we end these rebalances, past and present, and resources to improve work with gifted children, equipping school libraries. So we abolish everything that allows children to learn more and really gain knowledge that Croatia is a land of knowledge, and not that it is just a parola that was particularly prominent before the local elections when it was called that all children would receive free textbooks, and it was known then that it was not possible. It wasn't at the time that it was screaming loud, even told the schools to destroy, to throw textbooks into the old paper. Obviously, at the 9th month, we're going to need a big action called "Solidarity in Action" to collect these textbooks and share them with those who won't have the money to buy textbooks. It's said again, so some units of local self-government solve the problem, and yesterday, local self-government units were attacked for being wasteful, that they were actually spending money on something they weren't using, but on buying cars, wages and everything else, and we know that's not true. I come from Rijeka where for many years we have been co-financed a whole series of alternative programs and working with gifted children. We also have programs to co-finance a whole series of other activities, get school supplies and everything. But it's a commitment that we've made to ourselves as the social Democrats that we run this city, and in fact it should be resolved by the states and not by the decentralisation again, we now have a new decentralisation, it's decentralisation of obligations related to primary education, for secondary school. But that decentralisation obligation doesn't follow fiscal decentralisation, decentralisation that would allow us to have that money, because obviously we've proven that we can do it better. Therefore, this rebalancing shows the collapse of the Croatian Knowledge Society project, and the project has been broken down by the ignorance of the government leading the country.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-14-0.u37137	Thank you. Correction of the quote by esteemed colleague Niko Rebić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-14-0.u37138	Thank you. Well, a lot of these were incorrectly presented by Jovanovic in his debate. And I'm only going to correct the talking part, and he's often said that this government is only eliminating the rights of sensitive groups through textbooks, times, so he's come up with some number of billions and some kuna I haven't seen anywhere. And what it looked like once when the minister was a colleague of his, then there was a total of less than 2 billion kunas for education, with a tendency to breathe 10% each year, so only in 2000 would they come to 7 billion. And I'm going to say now, so in these few years we've been budgeting, this is for the Croatian public to know, that we've raised the budget for education and sport from 7 billion to 12 billion. It says enough how much this government cares about and how he thought about the knowledge and conditions of those who need to get knowledge.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-14-0.u37139	Thank you, colleague Rebic. You've said a lot. But there is also a replica of my colleague Lugaric, so I will tolerate my colleague Jovanovic to do something longer and then answer. Here you go, Comrade Lugaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-14-0.u37140	You told your colleague Jovanovic that this law among other things and the Valdorf School in Rijeka could put a key in the lock. Not only the Valdorf School in Rijeka, but I think seven other alternative schools. The tragedy is that we have eight alternative schools in the state and that the state will save us a co-financing cut of 8, not 80, not 800. Eight alternative schools. The importance of alternative schools is multiple. On the one hand, it is a basic story that parents have the right to choose the conditions and the way they will raise their children, but what may be much more important for this large picture of education is that many methodical innovations, to put it simply, were first invented or practiced in alternative schools, in order to somehow become the dominant way of working both in state and public schools. What was trying to say as an official state method for us at the Croatian school of the 21st century was a difficult alternative hundreds of years ago. And secondly, regarding your exposure to reducing investment in education. I must now say that I fully agree with you. Because as much as the fact is that the budget of the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports has been increased from 7 to 12 billion kuna, the state budget has also increased from 56 billion to over 120 billion. When we look at the total increase in the state budget compared to the increase in the budget of the Ministry of Science, we get that the share of education costs in the total state budget has fallen. And that is, a colleague of Jovanovic tragically, and I agree with you absolutely.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-14-0.u37141	Thank you very much. Reply to the replica, MP Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-14-0.u37142	... That's exactly the proof that the share of education, science and budget education is actually at the level of 2007 which is the best proof that when education is to go back rather than move on. [[The speaker is not enabled.]] And a colleague who said he didn't see where the amount is about a billion and a half thousand kuna, so apparently his math isn't going, and I can later help show where that amount is.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-14-0.u37143	Thank you very much. We're going to the final report for the hearing. A fellow representative, Zoran Vinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-14-0.u37144	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, I regret that you must always be here in the House when not hot potatoes, but really when there are major problems concerning education and education in Croatia. And I also think that the Croatian people and Croatian citizens do not really care what happened in '97, '99. By 2003, after 2003, they're interested in what's gonna happen tomorrow. In this case, especially parents, especially children, elementary school kids, high school kids. I'll just remind you of one problem I've been pointing to in several memos to former Minister Primorac, who probably you've received or the current minister, but which I've never received an answer to. In fact, it was a matter of withdrawing this one anti-constitutional provision on the payment of the carriage of pupils. First only students of first grade high schools, then others etc. I further believe that funding can be found in this budget so that this amount can be distributed fairly to all high school students, primary schools, but also to students who travel daily to college and who are regular students. Today I am just inviting you to visit a little web site, to look at not the concern of parents, students, but precisely their bitterness. And immediately I ask you a question, which will be in a few weeks or a few yes to and when the same students and so on, as it was a year ago when she graduated, when they went out into the streets and when you caved right before youth, not you, but the entire ministry and the entire government before youth and the knowledge that Croatia has. The same problem is with the textbooks in which you showered the whole election before the elections, remember those red blue posters for and against when the majority of Croatian allegations believed you, gave you a vote. Today, Croatian citizens, not only of the Croatian people, but of the entire government, because this is the Government of Continuity, these are not any new people, these are all people who have been in ministries and have been in government so far. It is simply to be apologized for all those false promises and false hopes that were showered before not only the state elections but also before these local elections. So here is my Đakova, based on these false promises, one coalition that came to power six months ago by buying a dictionary that is now a people to direct elections and democratic elections has not given any trust to that HDZ coalition, HSS, HSS, HSS and HSP exactly for some promises that they will receive the transportation of students and students who come around 4 million kuna, which are standing there unregistered, did not pass the approval test. You have your own responsibility as well, and they were promised here somewhere from the government to transport students and thus to pay off those buses that would later serve for some city transport. Today you are calling here on this road and you know yourself because you are from Slavonia if you have definitely not moved here to Zagreb you know for yourself that most units of local self-government in the county today have no income that allows, and even the county has no income that allows local self-government and regional self-government units to cover this big problem. And it is normal that the last problem that this government is continuing and continuity, and it is difficult to defend this left hand side, on my left hand representatives of the ruling coalition because only a few months ago they were heartily defending the swimming budget, which was bathing while the world was under crisis and were not aware themselves that the crisis was already here in Croatia. Today it is really hard to defend and let them not mind, I am not angry with them and they have less reason to be angry with me and with the parliamentary representatives who have already warned about the difficult economic situation that is coming. I ask you how you will explain to parents, Croatian citizens, that the textbooks that were promised, who were to return and replace the new ones that were thrown into the trash and that new textbooks instead of 400 million kunas that would not save Croatia which is deep in the problems of those at the 9th month or at the 8th month will cost more than 700 million kuna. How will you explain when you have to go out on the street among those young people, among their parents, among their teachers, how you will explain how suddenly the missing Croatian knowledge, how suddenly those heavy bags that Mrs. Prime Minister did not want to receive to feel what all the children had to wear on their backs to get into that Croatian knowledge. Today, there is nothing left of the Croatian knowledge country or the knowledge society and that is not only the reason that Sanader has picked up his dung for unknown reasons, has withdrawn from political life, along with him and Minister Primorac. The reason is that she government but neither this government knew how to run a state nor recognize the problems in that country. And today, instead of Croatian Knowledge Society, we have Croatia's many problems, problems that are not being solved, but precisely this government is building up all new and new and more difficult and difficult problems that will not solve the next 50 governments. I therefore urge and appeal to you to explain to the former assistant minister, the current minister, as well as to explain to the assistants and now the Prime Ministers and also to the coalition partners participating in this government that this problem will not solve the accumulated problems of Croatia but will now cause even bigger and bigger problems. I, responsible from this place, argue that one large majority of local self-government units cannot deal with these problems because they are in much larger problems especially where, on the basis of such promises, false promises, certain jobs, provided services, acquired items or I don't know what. The city of Djakovo today owes 35 million kuna. In six months it's managed to hire a pet I don't know who. The city of Djakovo is gone today. This does not have almost one unit of local self-government in Slavonia and there is not a large majority of local self-government units in Croatia except these large cities, which since the 1990s, such as Rijeka, Zagreb, etc. have in their programs. I am telling you here at the very end and I am calling and asking you because yesterday we discussed the budget, about no historical document that will not find a way out of this difficult situation, a way out of all of this, and we must all admit that everyone who sits here in the Croatian Parliament and also across the street in Mark's square that the only way out is new people, new elections, new programs and new policies that Croatia can make on the right track. We're sick of breaking and entering.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-14-0.u37145	Thank you very much. We have two applications to correct the incorrect allegations. Dear colleague Dragan Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-14-0.u37146	Thank you very much. In fact, the colleague found that the Croatian Democratic Union must apologize for the lies and false promises it made in the last elections. In fact, HDZ has promised to enter Euro-Atlantic integration, we have entered NATO and we are at the door of the European Union. HDZ said it would not accept what the SDP is asking for to be kicked out of school. And we've realized it. The HDZ also did not prohibit Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina from voting and participating in the choice of government in the Republic of Croatia, and we fulfilled that promise. But we can't pretend that we live on another planet, the economic crisis in 2008, the global crisis has hit Croatia as well. And this government still has responsibilities, don't run away from that responsibility and pull if it needs painful moves.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-14-0.u37147	Thank you very much. Injury of my colleague Vinkovic's Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-14-0.u37148	I don't think the article of 209 is about correcting an incorrect quote at all, nor did I speak here of religious science. I personally went to religious school, baptized, honored, crisis, etc., I don't think it has anything to do with this right now. So, it's not working.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-14-0.u37149	Which is where the Rules of Procedure got hurt.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-14-0.u37150	Well, that's enough talking about...
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-14-0.u37151	You spoke in general and then he generally responded to it individually and now you can list one and the other what you thought and what your colleague Kovacevic meant. But I think so.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-14-0.u37152	I'm very well, I didn't mean, I was arguing. And that Mr. Kovacevic...
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-14-0.u37153	You can't say that that way like everything... You are, in the House, not in the habitation, you know. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] This is the Croatian Parliament and you say it all fell into the cracks. I also don't feel like I'm in a break-in and I believe a lot of other people. But here we go again. A colleague of the Kovacs.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-14-0.u37154	Dear Vice President,.../The speaker went off and turned it back on./...
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-14-0.u37155	What article?
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-14-0.u37156	In addition, the infringement of Article 209(1) of Regulation (EU) No So, you've made one point, and I've put out the documents that I've denied that fact and corrected the incorrect allegations, what's the breach of the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-14-0.u37157	Ivan Bagarić reported on the correction of the quote. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-14-0.u37158	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I would correct the inaccuracy of a colleague who said there was nothing left of a society of knowledge. So the knowledge society is certainly not a state of mind, it's a process that we seek, we try to achieve more and in doing so, so we had some goals of which, unfortunately, we now have to give up in part for a while. So it's about time, process, etc. Therefore, such an interpretation along with what you, Mr. Vice President, have corrected, therefore, in that break-in of course is absolutely unacceptable and incorrect. At the end of your interpretation of the withdrawal of Prime Minister Sanader and that of the current prime minister, Mrs. Kosor, the bag, is your personal interpretation and fact of personality and it has nothing to do with reality or what you said. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-14-0.u37159	Thank you very much, colleague Bagaric. We're taking care of the weather, don't worry, colleague Lucin, colleague Vinkovic, you've been lifting a plate, here's an article, what?
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-14-0.u37160	I note in Article 209 that Mr Kovacevic, the distinguished representative, did not correct any of my claims, but was replicating something that I did not really refer to. On the other hand, I am also asking you not to comment on my claims as vice president of this House, but also to apply for a hearing and simply not just from this place, but from the pay phone you are having a debate about this problem. Otherwise I can say that as far as I'm concerned again... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-14-0.u37161	Your time is up.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-14-0.u37162	Only now, only now.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-14-0.u37163	The Honorable Secretary of State, Želimir Janjic, has finally signed up.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-14-0.u37164	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. I will start with the last representative who participated in the debate, thank you, most well-respected representative Vinkovic for his understanding, I believe that almost none of you would want to change your place with mine today. Of course, I'd rather talk about something else, of course, that I'd rather talk about everything that we've had so far and open a debate about pick-up for our students, to even raise the standard, but unfortunately we're not in that situation. I am sorry that this debate has cast into the shadow of a number of other topics in education that we have been talking about recently and which we could now talk about, which are, in any case, steps in the education system, so it has thrown into the shadows the introduction of external evaluation, education that is clearly leading to quality, raising the quality of education. She has thrown into the shadow of topics such as vocational education and the adoption of many new programmes of modernization of existing programs, which is now shown and the enrollment of what is an interest in such programmes, she is throwing in the shadow of course and state pedagogical standards that we have started to apply in this school year since the reduction of the number of students in the classroom, from hiring a larger number of teachers. She threw in the shadows, of course, a different approach to professional training that we will affirm from the next school year and I have already had the opportunity to talk to some of the representatives about it and I am sure we will have the support for it. She threw in the shadow of course and adult education, and let's say the first competition that was held last year and this year is actually realized in three of our counties that have the weakest employment, so the amount, not so large but as a trend, as an announcement of what should happen in the future, so 2 million kunas in three of our counties for requalifications, for the defiticative occupations needed in these counties, she threw in the shadow of some new projects, such as what is here last week's information the European Commission has paid the first 11 million euros to support certain projects of the Ministry of Science, Education and Sport, which will later be spoken of. But here, unfortunately, we're in a situation like this, so we haven't talked about these topics, and of course they're not on the agenda, but this is exactly what we're talking about. I would also like to say to my respected representative Vinkovic that there would be no confusion, when we talked about transportation and when I referred to it, all the counties carried out tenders for the transport of our students, according to the law there is no job for anyone, at least for the state's attorney. The fact is, prices went up. The fact is, there were no more offers in some counties because there were no others. So that's, that's what our reality is. Let me also say that I am very pleased that Agent Habek announced that there are some counties that are already thinking about supporting this achievement standard, and I will say that there will be no exceptions, that there will certainly be enough. I do not want to say that I am calling for compensation when it comes to local communities, they will do as much as they can, but if these measures so far cover the students of the first and second classes, then the Island Act covers everyone from the Ministry of the Sea and Tourism, and the Ministry of Regional Development has covered the costs of third and fourth grade students. And we have areas of special state care, so in 16 of our counties there is one part of the student who was not covered and believe, in almost all counties it was covered by counties or units of local self-government, cities and municipalities. So if you want, and in one that has perhaps the smallest employment, in Vukovar-Srijem County, they covered the rest of the county, the solidarity of the county and the cities and the municipalities, so all the students were covered by these measures. So what Agent Habek said is likely to happen in other counties. Furthermore, I must mention when the respected Serbian representative spoke, then he spoke of the students traveling from our villages to the cities, that they were in a particularly difficult position. Of course, and you see what I've never mentioned here or been on occasion, we've suggested that, even in the decision we mentioned, where there's a train ride and a bus to use this first because it's much cheaper to believe. I will mention only one relationship, honourable representative Vinkovic, from our midst where we come from, the price of the monthly ticket on one train route is 268 kuna, the bus was 1280 kuna and you certainly know it well. But here's what if we choose what's more comfortable with us, then I can understand both parents or maybe students to prefer to travel, no matter what's more expensive, by bus, because it's usually in the center of the village, it's going to walk 300 meters, and it needs 2 kilometers here. So we've had situations like this. As for the place in the homes, there's no room in the homes. We have not had all the places filled for one year, but we also place students in unfilled places in dormitories, of course those who wish to be ranked according to the student centre's priorities. Unfortunately, we also have homes, such as our colleague Vinkovic and our Slavonia, in Ilock where home with 53 places, the truth God is not much, but there are no students. So we have situations like that. We have made it very clear, I want it finally and again, that the need to secure funds for particularly socially endangered families and those related to defenders towards the property censorship that this right belongs to, we will indeed do everything we can to achieve it. Finally, I would like to mention alternative schools mentioned by the respected representative Flego and the respected representative Jovanovic. You see, we had an explicit provision legally that it was 80%. I agree absolutely with all the arguments. Otherwise, what is left of this provision, which refers to schools which are founders of a natural and legal person with the right of the public, and then belong to alternative schools, is governed by a decision. So, it's co-financed, it's supported, and every year it's decided. Nowhere is it said how much will be determined by that decision, as much as can be done so that the amount is not limited to, say, 1450 kuna per student in high school but can be in some year and more. So to get this over with, I want to thank you all for today's debate, and in the end, I might mention something that would at least be a crumb of optimism. All these discussions that we heard today, all these arguments that you've said today, may help you to do certain things in the 2010 budget that we want to resolve differently, thanks to you, your discussions and your arguments, maybe we can make it happen. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-14-0.u37165	Thank you very much, Secretary of State. We have two reports of correction of the quote. First of all, he's a representative of Vinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-14-0.u37166	Mr. Janjic, he certainly has elements for the state's attorney's office regardless of the competitions, because the same day the ticket for the worker stands monthly 330 kuna, for the student from Budrovac, Piskorevaca stands 900 kuna. The other thing you said was that, and here I realize that the least you'd like to be in a situation right now, it's very easy to avoid. Get your boss to understand the situation she's brought to, with the coalition, along with HSS and HDZ, this Croatia...
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-14-0.u37167	Thank you very much! Time's up, you haven't fixed anything. Sit down. The next one is MP Mihalic, a correction of the allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-14-0.u37168	I would only correct Mr. Janjic in that when he spoke he said that all the counties had conducted public tenders for the transport of students. I just have to say for the public that the Varazdin County didn't do it three years ago, but it was directly agreed with the local carrier to transport students and it's today in effect. And I must also say that in Varazdin County 20% of students were currently paid by the county, 80% of municipalities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-14-0.u37169	Thank you very much. We've corrected the allegations, but we've brought this point to an end. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-14-0.u37170	Third, Final Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Completion of the Law on Education and Education in Primary and High Schools. It was an emergency procedure. P.Z. No. 407. The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. I am voting on the final draft law amending and supplementing the Law on education and education in primary and secondary schools. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? This final bill was adopted by most votes, 80 votes for, 1 abstention and 37 against. The Committee on Education, Science and Culture proposes a conclusion to the Croatian Assembly. The Government of the Republic of Croatia undertakes that, in the implementation of Article 3 of the proposed Law amending and supplementing the Law on Education and Education in primary and secondary schools relating to Article 143(2) and paragraph 3 of the existing Law on Education and Education in primary and secondary schools when using the possibility of financing the transport of secondary school students according to the available resources of the state budget, it shall take into account social criteria. By applying the powers conferred on this law, the Government of the Republic of Croatia should establish a way of financing, i.e. co-financing of the costs of transport and accommodation of pupils in dormitories for members of the most socially endangered layers. During the debate, the applicant's representative accepted this proposal. I am voting on the proposal for a conclusion of the Committee. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? This conclusion was accepted by most votes, 114 votes to one against and nothing abstention.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-14-0.u37171	We move to the 5th item of the agenda, e skipped me one, the 4th point is - Final bill on amendments to the Law on textbooks for primary and secondary schools, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 408 The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Suggestions were received into boxes. On the occasion of the establishment of the agenda, we accepted the proposal from the Proposer to discuss this legal matter in an urgent procedure. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the The Registrar's emergency procedure combines the first and second readings. The amendments are possible until the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Education, Science and Culture. We've also received reports from the board. We already have the amendment of the Committee on Education, Science and Culture. On behalf of the promoter here is State Secretary, Mr. Željir Janjic. Here you go, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-14-0.u37172	Thank you very much, well-respected Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, respected MPs and MPs. I'll be brief this time. It is one of the measures we are talking about today, which you mentioned in the previous debate on transportation and accommodation in the dormitories. So, with this proposal to amend the law, we propose to delete the provision of a government budget obligation, to pay textbooks by means of a state budget for primary and secondary school students from the next school year. In the second article, it is clear that the Government of the Republic of Croatia can ensure for certain categories that textbooks are obtained anyway. And just as in the last debate, so these four ministries will do everything possible to provide social categories to certain and defenders who, in accordance with the law and the envisioned censorship, exercise the right to provide them with textbooks for their education. Furthermore, since we would no longer have to implement this measure, we had to change certain deadlines, so we said that the editor was obliged to deliver the textbooks or other teaching means to the sales network by August 16. So far, distributors have distributed towards schools. So now it's not going to be like that anymore, it's going to be in the sales network. And it is therefore necessary to set an earlier date before the start of the school year so that textbooks can be obtained. Furthermore, in order to avoid misunderstandings in Article 5(2), we say that the textbooks that will be used next school year inform students and their parents by 30 June, which refers to the following year 2010 and all the years that come after that, and since it is necessary to establish for this year I will once again take advantage of the opportunity to thank the Assembly Committee on Education, Science and Culture, which has proposed certain amendments to which Article 8 of the amendment and the addition of this law should be corrected. And in part of that amendment, which the Committee has tabled, there is a provision relating to exactly what I mentioned for the next school year, that schools should inform parents about textbooks that will be used by August 16th at the latest. It actually matches this date when publishers need to make all textbooks available to the bookshop network. So, I would like to say right now in this debate that we accept amendments to the parliamentary committee, that this will not be necessary when the law is voted on. And once again, I thank the members of the Assembly Committee on Education, Science and Culture. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-14-0.u37173	Thank you very much. Would the representatives of the board like to? Yeah. The Committee on Education, Science and Culture. Here you go, pal Doric.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-14-0.u37174	Dear Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. The Committee on Education, Science and Culture of the Croatian Parliament discussed the draft law amending the Law on textbooks for elementary and secondary schools at its 20th session of 13 July. The opening argument was also tabled by the representatives of the applicant. Afterwards, a very interesting debate was developed, in which committee members expressed different approaches to the issues raised by the proposal for this law. Part of the participants of the debate, representing the view that they have previously warned of the unsustainability of the free textbook project for all students, as well as the denial of their obligations to safeguard them, suggest that the issue be resolved on the principle of social sensitivity. The second point is that at this point, it is not possible for financial restrictions to enable free textbooks from budgetary resources. It prevailed with the general belief that there are still many unresolved issues that should be discussed and answered in the area of the production and procurement of textbooks after all the amendments made in the legislation in practice. In general, there has been an expression of the view that in the world of textbooks there are express business interests of publishers who need to be opposed to better-quality textbooks and at a more affordable price. There is also a high degree of consent that textbooks cannot change too often, since in this way publishers find their own partial interests. But the content and shape of the textbooks cannot be fixed on long deadlines until documents like the national curricula are clearly adopted. There have been critical discussions on the movements in the area of textbooks lately, including inconsistencies in the implementation of the Law on textbooks. After the debate on the outcome of the vote on the Law on Amendments to the Law on basic and secondary school textbooks, it was such that 6 committee members voted not to propose to the Croatian Parliament the adoption of this law and six board members to propose not to pass this law to the Croatian Parliament. We also proposed two amendments. I don't think I have to read them now. The Secretary of State said that these proposals, our amendments, were accepted. And you colleagues and colleagues have them on your benches so we don't waste any time. I'll skip it. But I'm not sure if the Secretary of State said they accept or do not accept our conclusion. Yeah. So here's the conclusion you also have on the benches. If the applicant also accepts the conclusion that the Government is committed to clearly trying to find ways to provide textbooks for the socially sensitive layers, then I no longer have any additional notices or suggestions in front of the board.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-14-0.u37175	Thank you very much, colleague Doric. The Legislative Committee? There isn't. We're going to a club debate. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, distinguished counterpart Nevio Šetić. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-14-0.u37176	Dear Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State with an associate, Madam Representative, gentlemen of the Parliament. It is also a technical change, as all articles that regulate the procurement and distribution of textbooks in primary and secondary schools are simply deleted. We've heard a lot today, and yesterday about funding, or certain wishes that were to be financed by such textbooks, but the fact is that "the knowledge society" will not be threatened as it is today trying to say. They would be far more endangered if they were in debt and tried to survive on someone else's power. Well, that's... The fact that the Croatian society met, therefore, on what it creates, can also have it, and in this way I think that we are keeping the "knowledge society". [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Because knowledge society is not what we heard today in this House, so that as easily as Mr. Jovanovic used to say, it would have failed very quickly because the "knowledge society" enters all the pores through the economy and through scientific research and through other ways enters into our changes in the paradigm of behavior and relations between us, if you want to and in society as a whole, therefore something that has started for a decade, something little more, is very difficult to implement in a way that is trying to explain here. Because, gentlemen, at this moment, we have decided to change our way of understanding and shaping, let's say, compulsory education, and that's what all the teams who respect the profession work on, where they come from various political options, where they try to make a model that is both Croatian and European at the same time. He'll be working on that job for a few more years, and he'll be working on that modernization. Thus, the methods of "knowledge society" are absolutely applied, but where we work intensively. Therefore, by no longer funding the textbooks of the state, we will not stop the process. The truth is that textbooks have been opening up some questions that have been discussed for a long time. Let's say the distribution itself, in the very stock market of textbooks that we failed to create, and it can be created for used textbooks and facts and the truth is that the textbook doesn't have to last one school year, it will last longer although it is a latent process of change. Therefore, it seems to me that this situation will also create and schools will certainly organise, we can call it the mini-markets on which the textbooks used last year will appear, and according to the choice of teachers and that school year will be used if they want to. Of course, I think one proposal for an amendment or conclusion is just like that of the SDP club, I think it's a good proposal and that's what life organizes us from the inside. I prefer it to find reserves within ourselves, to find strength, understanding, to organize from ourselves what is good for all of us because it's stupid to throw what we have. It also seems to me that we need to regain that understanding, so we need to start by acting out when we can't afford something. Well, we can't borrow so much, we can't ask so much to find a solution to what we're not planning to accomplish in that year. And this can be part of our problem and it is probably, it can always be better, but it is a crisis that has affected us a much wider area of Europe and the whole world and it cannot be avoided. Therefore, the Croatian Democratic Community Club will support the adoption of this Proposal for a Law amending the Law on elementary and secondary school textbooks, and in particular I would like to stress here that social sensitivity is preserved and that is clearly stated in the law, so in Article 2 of this final proposal of the law is the following. The Government of the Republic of Croatia may, in accordance with the available resources of the state budget for each school year, make a decision on the financing, i.e. co-financing of the purchase of textbooks and other educational means for primary and secondary school students. For the purpose of paragraph 1 of this Article, the Government of the Republic of Croatia shall also establish by decision the criteria and criteria on the basis of which the right to finance, i.e. co-financing of the purchase of textbooks and other curricula will be exercised. And therefore, and we know from practice that even before such a legal solution that certain units of local administrations and self-government, local administrations funded textbooks, and that they even competed, even advocacy to the electoral body through these measures, but in any case I am convinced that even in the perspective of the textbook issues and these resources that are necessary, which follow the educational process will be debate and certain solutions. And what is more important to say for all of our parents is that on August 16, all textbooks according to this legal solution need to be in the bookshop network, or available to obtain and provide them. Here are all the reasons why the Croatian Democratic Community club will vote for this final bill.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-14-0.u37177	Thank you very much. We have three applications for correction of the quote. First of all, dear colleague Flego. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-14-0.u37178	Thank you very much. Comrade Šetić, I certainly find it extremely incorrect for you to claim that the knowledge society is doing so through various pores of society, including science. I think the knowledge society is something that happens through the terrible efforts of the entire community and from the specialized segments of that community, so the efforts in the developed world are being made, that 12.13% of the state budget is being invested in education and science, we have not reached 8% in Croatia yet, and our budget is significantly lower. And secondly, look, science is the activity that creates new knowledge, and the education system is the activity that distributes new knowledge schemeically, and we constantly reduce this area and financial opportunities, and the organisational aspects that I'm not talking about today.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-14-0.u37179	Thank you very much. The next amendment came from a distinguished colleague, Zgrebec Dragica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-14-0.u37180	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. counterpart Šetić incorrectly says that if this action of free state textbooks should be realised, they should be in charge. It is true that the state must make priorities, and if its priority were to be education and equal access to all social letters of education, then it would ensure such conditions and otherwise compensate this cost, conditionally said budget cost in another item that could be reduced. However, the fact is that here is being redistributed in a way that neither social nor economic priorities nor among the users of the state budget are guaranteed at all.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-14-0.u37181	Thank you. And the correction of the quote, colleague Lugaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-14-0.u37182	My colleague Šetić, it is not true that this law, that is, by the provision of the law that you quoted preserved social sensitivity. If the law said that the state had to provide free textbooks to children from certain social classes, then your claim would stand. Since the law says it can, which implies it can, but it doesn't have to. Here we are, here's if nowhere else on this example we learned what Vice President Shakespeare once said, said as through the phrase rabbit said, rabbit is a rectory. We have free textbooks, we don't. We have some, we don't have some. That's why no social sensitivity is preserved, these efforts are being made somewhere, they're likely to go this year, but there's no obligation, nor really, we all have reason to believe together that this is going to happen, and about all this chronology of events with textbooks over the past few years.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-14-0.u37183	Thank you very much. The debate now follows on behalf of SDP's representative, distinguished counterpart Marija Lugaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-14-0.u37184	Dear Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. By this law, the state seems to me now definitely giving up the project to share free textbooks with its children, a project that was so often in the mouth and the former minister, but more importantly the current prime minister. As far as the SDP is concerned, we will not support this bill for a simple reason because from the very beginning, it has been clear, consistent and unequivocal about free SDP policy textbooks. The state needs to get textbooks for those children whose parents are unable to do so. Consistent with our position, as we have opposed that all children receive textbooks, and those who do not need it, as well as those who really need it, and we have not supported this proposal, so we will not now support a proposal that says no one gets the textbooks. Neither do those who really need it, nor those who didn't need it in those first versions. There's no theme in education that's literally been parading here in Parliament for so many years, like the topic of textbooks. I am Mr. Secretary of State in the last amendments to the Law on textbooks, which was the beginning of December last year here with you I bet publicly that you would come with an amendment to the law within 6 months, because your law is unsustainable. Unfortunately, I lost that bet because it didn't last seven months, but I think the whole message of that parade that was going on still remained exactly the same. We should say, and when I talk about this subject a little bit back a few years ago that we would actually know how these free textbooks came about. Contrary to the majority of opinions expressed so far and in today's and yesterday's discussions, free textbooks were not fictional nor Minister Primorac nor educational policy. Free textbooks were designed and promoted by the current prime minister, Mrs Kosor, in the national population policy and the measure of sharing free textbooks with children and this House voted as one of the national population policy measures. Afterwards he took it under his laps this much self-promotion and prone to former Minister Primorac and then it went on somewhere in his portfolio, but by suspending this measure we suspend one part of the national population policy and I think you must be aware of that by all who will decide. The law goes on as it goes, all the kids get textbooks, so it's a little bit of a buy all the new ones, so let's not buy all the new ones, so they all get, so we've got a succesively... So it's been changing for years, until last year, somewhere in late November, and I think it's still in the Ban Courts, and there's a little bit of a fight here in the Parliament between the former prime minister and the former minister, it's pretty interesting because these are the only former characters compared to the last and this government. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] When former Prime Minister Sanader told former Minister Primorac that they should all tighten their belts and thus the Primorac and that there would be no free textbooks for everyone, last year at the end of November. In accordance with this, the Ministry of Science serves us here in the Parliament and we are changing the law that says parents will participate in the price of textbooks. And that's kind of how it is, we thought it was going according to the law that was voted here in the Croatian Parliament, but there was another twist not even a week before the local elections. Minister Primorac is calling a press conference. So don't make a decision, don't change the law, don't make a rule. It calls a press conference, at the press conference talks all the kids will get free textbooks and we'll buy all the new textbooks. You fuck the law, you fuck the Parliament, it doesn't matter the rules, it doesn't matter that there's no money in the budget, everyone gets free textbooks, and all the existing textbooks will throw themselves away. And then we're where we are. This example, by the way, we talked about it in the last debate, is just another example of how work and decision-making... In recent years, the government has been in English, under-designed and more PR-oriented education than really solving real problems. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But colleagues and colleagues, we see another very big problem here that we would like to discuss first, and then hopefully bring all sorts of conclusions together. Not only is Minister Primorac, former Minister Primorac completely contrary to the law, completely contrary to the money in the budget, to any rule of law, and then to the political morals, said at the press that in the fall the state would buy all new textbooks and that all the existing ones could be thrown away. There's a problem with the destruction of state property here. With the press and the minister's statement, we've thrown into the trash 100 to 200 million kunas we don't have. If this entire textbook business is recognised by the ministry, somewhere around 450 to 500 million kuna, according to the information we have, it's about 600, 650 million kuna, if a third of the textbooks could be preserved, and that's official data somewhere, by a statement by the minister at a press conference opposite the law, contrary to the rules, the budget was thrown 100 to 200 million kuna. Both colleagues and colleagues must be held accountable. One way or another. Leave that to forget already, was Minister, the minister gone. I think we're going to send not only a bad message, but we're going to legalize the precedent, so to speak, one practice that seems to me to be in orderly states, in orderly societies, but totally unsustainable. We said yesterday on the board, and it seems to me that some colleagues and colleagues did it today, and they did it again in the debate. Although I personally do not belong to some selectable people really with more attention I choose yogurt for breakfast at the store, rather than the minister unresponsibly throwing himself away with hundreds of millions of kunas that were not his, but mine, ours, yours, from all citizens and citizens of the Republic of Croatia. So I repeat, and that's what I'd like to get an answer to. We expect from the SDP some government action on the subject, because it is a first-class scandal that must be sanctioned. It just has to be sanctioned. Speaking of the Law on textbooks and I said that it was a subject that was very much parading here in the Parliament, we should say that when we passed the Law on textbooks, we were promised easier school bags, that we were promised cheaper textbooks, that we were promised textbooks of new quality. School bags cost more than ever. The textbooks are more expensive than ever. And the waste of new-quality textbooks is completely lagging out in the light of all the debates because unfortunately the discussion of textbooks is moving only to commercials, only to actually such or such satisfaction literally of the interest of several private pockets. And in that sense, I think we really need a thorough debate that takes care of the public interest, not the interest of this or that publisher, this or that author. And in conclusion, what we said on the previous law, it is particularly unacceptable for us in the SDP that first cuts work on children and that the first cuts work on education. These cuts in normal countries are avoided, simply out of the question, or if I don't know what kind of panic, they come but absolutely in the end. We chose them to be first. Second. The explanation that this is about cutting consumption brings us back to a time that we of the SDP thought was no longer necessary to discuss. Education is not consumption. And so it must not be understood. Third. We are proposing the basis of the debate on this law and the basis of this sad fact that, with one single sentence, the minister, who, along the way, becomes against the law, has been thrown all last year's students. So, we suggest a conclusion that the Croatian Parliament would invite all parents to use textbooks that they still have at home to return home to schools to share with those families, that is, those children and parents who cannot buy textbooks and to put somewhere in charge of the Ministry of Science to technically support this process that should take place in schools themselves. Given that just before counterpart Šetic said in front of the HDZ club that they have absolutely nothing against such a conclusion, and in fact it is one elemental social solidarity, we hope that this conclusion will be accepted. And in the end, let me just have two more sentences. Our parents are waiting for a really tough fall. The pay cuts are announced, the bills are actually getting thinner and thinner and with the fate of the ever-increasing state. Things in the shops are getting more and more expensive and then in the whole story, with all these concerns our parents are waiting for the ranks in the school books bookstores. Given the rather short that anyone who says the time period from when the textbooks will need to be available to the library network until their own purchase. Because of all this, because of maintaining the consistency of SDP policy around this part of the division of textbooks, we will not, of course, support this bill, and somewhere we ask you, Mr. Secretary and New Minister of State, and eventually, all of you from most of it, to stop experimenting with education, especially those experiments that cost a lot, give little, and then eventually suffer both parents and children. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-14-0.u37185	Thank you very much. We have an update on the alleged, distinguished colleague Nada Klaric. Here you go, colleague Klaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-14-0.u37186	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Here's Mrs. Lugaric says, this law of the state definitely gives up the free textbook project. Mrs. Lugaric is incorrect. This law speaks in fact of a decision setting out the criteria and criteria for the basis of which the right to finance or co-finance textbooks and other curricula will be exercised. In addition, other regulations regulate the right to exercise the right to free textbooks when talking about children whose parents are entitled to support, children who are located in foster families, as well as children who are located in welfare institutions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-14-0.u37187	Thank you very much. On behalf of the IDS Club, colleague Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-14-0.u37188	Mr. Vice President, Secretary of State, MPs. Very short. Today I read a text in a newspaper of 500 kuna that will be paid on average by parents of first - grade primary school students. The state would pay the same set 30% less. Then, a thousand 800 kunas will cost about a set of textbooks for a third or fourth-grade student, high school, and they'll have to buy them all because of the state's graduation. 700 million kuna, so many textbooks will be paid by parents of 550,000 founding and high school students. If the state had bought them, they would have cost a total of 440 million kuna. Tonight's Evening List. I don't know if your data is accurate, but if they are, then you should imagine them. But what's the point? I think we could have had free textbooks this year. I don't think a single kuna should have been singled out for that purpose this year. But what's your problem? The problem is, that's how I look at my kid, that we just turn those textbooks into work notebooks. Children write to them, solve tasks, and understandably second year that textbook of a child for third or fourth or second grade cannot be used by one who will go to that second, third or fourth grade. And then it happens that year after year we have to get new textbooks. I think that's kind of a problem. I don't think any rich Switzerland, Sweden, the Netherlands does that. I don't think that the way Croatia behaves, Kuwait doesn't behave either. Maybe I'm wrong. Okay. Time goes on. It may be one correct approach, but I don't think Croatia is so rich that every year we can throw away books for as many as 550,000 students in the Republic of Croatia. Why do you do that? Maybe that's what you do for a little commission. In other places, there's also a big problem. Children in the same classes learn from different programs. For example. One child in Buzet learns from one programme in Pula through the second programme of Croatian or that mathematics, in Rijeka after the third, in Zagreb by the fourth, and I simply don't understand what the point is now. By my court may in some way unify these programs, mathematics should be mathematics for third grade everywhere, and in one Buzet, Rijeka, Zagreb, Osijek, Dubrovnik and Slavonski Brod, not every city, each class has its own book of mathematics for children who go second, third, fourth or fifth classes. I don't think we're that rich. I'm going to hear what Mr. Zetic thinks about answering that. Secondly, what we just heard on average about the purchase of books, notebooks, accessories will stand on average at least 1,000 kuna, public transport certainly for one child travelling to school 5 kilometers will still be a thousand 500 kuna per year, that is 3,000 kuna. If the salary goes down 10% and it is announced that they have a husband and wife or husband, the wife average salary of 5 thousand kuna minus those 10% at the annual level of the two will lose about 12 thousand kuna. If it goes up VAT and VAT will then go not only to food, but to apartment, for electricity, for water, for other utility, if it goes up interest and probably will, so we come up with information that one four-member family or three-member family in the year ahead of us will be left without 20 to 25 thousand kuna. And then, normally, the question arises, "Who in these circumstances can endure such a financial blow?" Because I'm saying it's not 10% anymore, it's five, six salaries. If that happens with the pensioners' incomes, then it won't be five, six of their pensions anymore, maybe far more, and if we go out with that kind of policy in front of the citizens, I think they'll move us all along with the right. So, what do we do? We need to take a clear look at this face, say decentralisation 100 percent of this primary and secondary education but also clearly if we transfer these obligations entirely to local self-government, whether it's municipalities, cities, or counties, then we need to also find the means to which they or they will be able to finance it. It should be an autonomous clear area of local self-government. Everything is clearly not good, the country is led to the edge, we will almost fight for the naked survival of all of you. Which is why we did it, or it happened to us. Because of politics, we will easily, because of this redistribution policy, because of the politics we will not do anything, we have driven every investor away for conversion, etc., and not to list any further. That is why I think that a large number of textbooks could have been saved, that they should not have been repurchased in 2008, what was printed in 2007, as if we had been more rationally set up there would not have been a problem for children or parents who this year would have to allocate no small funds from their family budget. All in all, someone has mentioned certain property censorships before because a good part of the children will receive free textbooks and those who are most threatened absolutely have the right to free textbooks. On the other hand, in due course these property censors will have to start to define themselves. Speaking of which, we have a salary of ten thousand kunas or five thousand kunas but have or be able to buy a social apartment, I don't know 92, 91 or 93 for five, six thousand marks then. I claim it's more like having that apartment and five thousand kuna than ten thousand kuna and living in an apartment with some tenant. Let's finally put in a function and that famous OIB, I don't know if that applies at all. I know it's all easy to say, it's far harder to do an honest fair distribution at all levels in this society. And for the end, why throw those books away? Let the books come back, don't let those books turn into work notes and let the programs not change from year to year. If it is true that only this year 100, 200 million kunas are now thrown into books that could use generations behind this generation in 2008, it is at least irresponsible and socially harmful behavior. And as much of this legal proposal the IDS Club won't accept.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-14-0.u37189	Thank you very much. A prominent colleague, Marija Lugaric, came forward to correct the allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-14-0.u37190	Mr. Cain, although with a good part of what you've said I agree, one thing is really not true and I don't think that this subject in which there's a lot of misunderstanding shouldn't be added yet. In fact, it's not true that schools work on different programs. All schools have been working on the same programs, and unfortunately these programs haven't changed in too long. The fact that there are two different books for the same program suggests that one content can be processed in one way or another. However, it is the exact same content.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-14-0.u37191	Thank you very much. On behalf of the HNS club, colleague Vesna Pusic. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-14-0.u37192	Thank you. Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State with an associate, colleague and colleague. This week's budget rebalancing saves one-third of what is total savings in education. What about the rebalancing from next week? I would say Mr. Janjic that you have a much more serious problem than the discomfort that you have to listen to us here in the Parliament on this subject. I think that if, in the same model, it goes on and on as opposed to this untrue one in that true rebalancing next week, you will have to look for a job because education will end and then your ministry will be abolished. Because if more than 33% is now being saved on education from those 700 and some million kunas, then calculate if the budget gap, as said here yesterday, is 11.3 billion and it'll take a third of it to save on you, you'll have to look for a job. So I think that's what needs to be concentrated on right now, because with the right budget, education could be abolished. And now, just for a little while, it's a society of knowledge. A society of knowledge is a situation where we should strive more than 30% of people with higher and higher education. What then dictates the type of consumption, the type of cultural production, the type of economy, that's the society of knowledge. And they are not a society of knowledge methods used in the ministry to reach some, say, new regulations or define an external evaluation of education. And propo that if it continues at this pace in the next budget rebalancing next week, not that there will be no external evaluation of education, I think there will be no evaluation of education. So this is one small law with great consequences. What he shows shows shows is what happens when the laws are written first and moves to the wolf without having a complete picture and without having a clear idea of the consequences of such a law. And secondly, even worse, when under cover help citizens want a little help or perhaps a little more help from some of their concrete friends who accidentally engage in the publishing of school books and textbooks. So, with the help of God’s help, he wants to help a little bit and especially some specific people who publish these school textbooks and books. When this law was passed, we warned of two things. First, free textbooks are not for everyone and it is logical and normal and should establish some criteria and free textbooks to ensure that those who are socially in a situation that they cannot enable their children or that this poses a serious obstacle to sending children to school. And secondly, more importantly, the HNS has sent a bill of obligation to the Assembly to the same textbook for a period of at least 5 years. If only you'd or if you'd just accepted it and that law here... by the position rejected. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] If only that had been accepted, then no textbooks should be changed for at least five years. This would mean spending 20% of the total amount on textbooks each year. And in that case it could even be simplified to provide free textbooks for everyone, although of course there is no need. It says 20% because, according to surveys of about 18% of the family is below the poverty line, you would spend exactly that much on textbooks only to help yourself or to help citizens of Croatia and parents of children who go to school and not at the same time provide a large amount of money and wealth to publishers of these textbooks, and then one sentence or two of the textbooks was changed in the textbooks, so a new textbook should be purchased. And so, every year, publishers profited from printing new textbooks and the state paid for it from taxpayers' money. And of course, such a model and such a system cannot survive and neither should good times survive nor let alone times of crisis. This also makes times worse for crisis times, to slowly bite the budget, slowly bites without a clear picture, without clear criteria, without differentiating what real needs are and what services are to specialised stakeholders when doing so, then, of course, there is a situation like this and there is. On behalf of the HNS Club, I would like to warn more here about the public of my colleague and colleagues that when it comes to discussing the law, it is very good to read it before that. So I'm warning you that this law says that I emphasize and underline. The Government of the Republic of Croatia may, in accordance with the available resources from the state budget for each school year, make a decision that some textbooks are bought and salaries from the budget can, I underline, which means no. In a crisis situation, it's carried out in a won't. And don't talk about it anymore, because it says in there that the government is going to provide it. It doesn't say, it says the government can secure and it's clear if in this light rebalancing or temporary rebalancing, this is already changing imagine what's going to happen to the real rebalancing. So it's not in the least possible that in times of crisis that are a crisis for the state and the state budget, but there are also crises for every family, so in times of crisis, every family needs some kind of help, especially families with weaker property powers. Instead of now when a situation like this introduces order to at least now prohibit textbooks from changing each year. And to agree that it should at least be in a crisis like this, to be some kind of saving money, budget, and on the other hand, and to provide assistance to families. No, as a shovel was given linearly to all, so the axe cuts linearly to all. Education cannot be run by shovels and axes, nor can the state budget be planned with shovels and axes. There's got to be some idea why you're doing what you're doing, some criteria and some sense that you're doing it with. As the Government can from us in the Parliament, from you colleagues and colleagues from HDZ and the ruling majority, how can you expect to accept such a bill, which says that it will be regulated by a regulation, at least that you have that exit, that it will be arranged by a rule that some people may be provided with free textbooks, and that rule does not apply. That rule, those criteria at least the criteria for making the rules are unknown to us, based on what. If someone tells you, we'll still help some people by some criteria. What are the criteria? Are those the ones who are already receiving social assistance? Is that the 18% that are below the poverty line, according to research by the Catholic lay centre "Nota Bena", not some suspicious institution by your standards. Therefore, if there are some criteria, then it is logical that when it is said it will eventually be, if the Government so decides, and may decide to give some free textbooks to some according to certain criteria, and now we should accept the law without even knowing what the criteria are, on what basis they will decide. So that would be some minimum, at least some fig leaf for this situation. The only thing that is clear from this proposal, namely when it's pre-election, when the sun shines, when everything is good and beautiful, everyone's mouth is full of education and the importance of education. When it comes to hard, then education is the first one to fly through a window. The opinion of the HNS club, many times here, is that for a country such as Croatia education is a strategic instrument and exiting the crisis and development of the economy and competitiveness in the international market. So it's not for all countries like that, but for Croatia given the location, given the size it is. The only thing that is clear from this law is that this government believes that education is not, I repeat, education is not a strategic goal or part of the exit strategy from Croatia's crisis. Guys, take responsibility for that. I stress that in the program, in the government strategy whose continuity is minus two plus two written, it says, take that document, in the strategy of that government whose government is continuing with two less, two members so old have gone, two new ones have come, but 20 of them are inside, that it says that education is a strategic goal in the government's programme. So this government knowingly gives up that strategic goal. That's, of course, possible, that's legitimate. I just want to say very loudly and clearly that in the opinion of the HNS Club it is a catastrophic mistake, it is a step absolutely back and in the completely wrong direction and, as it is known, every goal and even an absolute bad and negative goal is achieved by small steps. This law is one not so small step in the wrong direction. Since there is a budget rebalance next week, there is room and possibility that in this next week the budget rebalancing will correct this, although there is no high probability of this, but hope dies last. Of course, the HNS Club will not support steps in the catastrophic direction of which this law is an integral part.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-14-0.u37193	Thank you. There are two applications for correction of the quote. First of all, dear colleague Dubravka Shuica. Here you go, pal.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-14-0.u37194	So I didn't want to get into the essence of this debate, and I didn't answer for it because I'm not particularly prepared. However, there is one quote that I really wanted to correct where Mrs Pusic said according to the research of someone, it seems to me that she mentioned some Catholic institute, where you said by your criteria. I'm really correcting your claim, you're not authorized to judge our general... No, no, you said after... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] You said by your standards and I'm correcting that assumption. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Of course we respect that institute, but we can also talk about our criteria, and you don't think that you're...
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-14-0.u37195	Thank you!
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-14-0.u37196	It wasn't an exact quote.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-14-0.u37197	I thought you were going to correct what was supposed to be an axe, that it would be a drink, scissors, or a knife. But okay, this is already closer. We have another correction from fellow Matkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-14-0.u37198	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, here's what I'd like to do, in short, just two quotes to try and make it right. The first colleague, Pusic, said there are no criteria under which to say what categories of students they should actually be and she spoke alone about co-financing and assistance by the government. Well, there are colleagues, Pusic, it is clear that they are social care users and defenders. It is also stressed that they will co-finance and finance from the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Defence. It's clear, and you can't say it's not true. As I'm refuting your second claim, I'm saying it's incorrect that the government doesn't care about knowledge, education, etc. My colleague Pusić, until 2001, I worked at school for 25 years, in high school, and I know very well what school is and what school problems are and how much schooling, knowledge is taken care of, etc. Well, I walked 12 kilometers one way, 12 in the other.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-14-0.u37199	Thank you very much. ... I believe that, here I will now announce a break, and that in the apartment, my colleague Matkovic and my colleague Pusic will work out a lot more. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Stanka is up to 15 hours, and then she'll get a word on behalf of the SDSS Club's esteemed colleague Mile Horvat. I see he was prepared and now, at three o'clock there will be even more. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-14-0.u37200	We continue the session and the debate on the draft law amending the law on textbooks for elementary and high school. SDSS representative club, Mr. Representative of Mile Horvat. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-14-0.u37201	Namely, the SDSS as a coalition partner seeks mainly to actively participate in the submission of proposals and initiatives for measures to resuscitate this situation. And in any case, they are assessed in various negotiations by the measures presented to us in this regard. Some are acceptable, some are less acceptable and these measures are proposed, which the applicant proposes these amendments to the law cannot be put in our assessment in the category of particularly acceptable or particularly popular measures. By law, we believe that the most important amendment is made in Article 2 where Article 4 is amended, where two essential new solutions are given, which is that the Government, as already said and seen in this debate, can, in accordance with the means available for each school year, make a decision on the financing or co-financing of the purchase of textbooks and other funds. And the other thing is, the second criterion is that it will be adopted, according to the second decision that the Government will adopt criteria based on the right to finance, i.e. to co-finance the purchase of these textbooks. It is clear that these solutions are allowed, it is clear that when a legislator proposes in such a situation as it is and when giving himself certain freedom and room for manoeuvre to be dissipated by some strong norms, strong dispositions do not commit to future times, then leave it to itself in the legislative proposal... Nomotechnical formulation in the space where he says he can do it. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Of course that doesn't make us happy. And because of what I'm about to say later, because of some of the larger projects that we're doing in the field of education, it's clear that we're not comfortable with this kind of crazy-finding one condition and the commitment that the government is taking on itself. We would be much more useful if that obligation were more specific for future school years. In particular, this second solution where the criteria for co-financing will be determined by specific rules, as well as by a clear point. However, it would be much better and more acceptable for us if we had a draft of this text of the regulations to see what are the criteria on which the government will in the future co-finance the publishing of textbooks. That's very important to us, so I would say here in this context the following. So, I'll talk about textbooks in a way that I can draw attention to a particular category of textbooks and these are textbooks for language education and letter to members of national minorities. The textbooks especially when they are drawn up in such a way that they cannot be used for many years, that parents are forced to buy new textbooks every year, because the concept is such that they are spent, technically spent in a school year, and then some new concepts come along, every year some new editorial concepts, etc. In any case, such an approach to publishing textbooks is a major blow nowadays, even in happier times, richer times it was a major blow and a great burden on home budgets. In this sense, I will say that according to some reports, members of the national minorities who are educated by letter and language by national minors have one different behavior, therefore, the fact that they behave more rationally in this regard because they use translated textbooks and use them for many years for the simple reason that they must continue to use them because they cannot be arranged differently even when they withdraw basic textbooks in Croatian. So, members of national minorities must use one of these same textbooks for several years, which I think, at some point, it was a handicap, but it is obvious that for some future time this kind of behavior should be common behavior. Members of national minorities who use their textbooks also have one problem, which is that these textbooks, textbooks when they translate and become available to parents and significantly more expensive than standard textbooks, for the simple reason that they are printed in a very limited story, is usually between 50 and 4 hundred pieces. And by doing so, that little limited story gets their printing. So far, I have to say here as an affirmative fact, so far that difference has been paid by the ministry under the free textbook program, so-called. free textbooks. Through the agency, the ministry bought out all textbooks and even textbooks for members of national minorities who are educated in their language and letter. This project of getting free textbooks is what I think even directly resulted in an increase in the number of titles for members of national minorities. So the Serb community came to a very high standard that it had about 96 titles for primary education in translation, which is a very high standard. I don't know if they are, they'll probably tell their colleagues about the Czech minority as well as the other minorities. But we can see that this is one approach, the Ministry's approach to getting free textbooks has just created space to increase the number of stories, or the number of titles for this social group. The ministry mainly financed textbook translations, financed lecturing, and financed correction processes. We think that this has also contributed to something that is more permanent, much more important and that free purchase of textbooks has enabled those members of national minorities who have been undecided whether their children will be sent to school in the language and letter of national minorities because of this one financial burden that they would have, this is simply, the possibility of obtaining free textbooks is allowed for this education project in the language and letter of national minorities in the Republic of Croatia to be carried out consistently and in quality so far. I have to say it publicly, and I think there was a good contribution to that kind of policy of the ministry. Now we are left with a question in this situation where we are and according to what is offered to us in the budget for this year, i.e. in the budget rebalancing, in which way we express a certain reserve and a certain doubt that those stages in the printing of textbooks such as fractures, such as printing, etc. will be possible. So we fear that these costs will remain uncovered by the state and that then the textbooks for members of national minorities will be significantly, significantly more expensive, they even come in some kind of relations and 500 kuna per textbook which is not a negligible thing. We are left to believe that the government will continue to co-finance that part of the cost difference in the story, because we think that this is a relatively small number of textbooks, and that the damages that would result in multiple. The damages are much greater than they would have been, than the cost of co-financing the printing of such textbooks. Moreover, it would not be good if the costs of such textbooks whose prices are higher than the standard textbooks were the cause of stagnation of this process which had begun well, which is, therefore, the process of education and attending the teaching of members of national minorities in their language and letter, in that ABC model, etc., which I say again well began, to create maximum favourable conditions for it to be realised. However, I can also say that there is also a stagnation of interest in such a way of education in certain areas. So if parents now have to buy, pay the full amount, the maximum amount of such expensive books and textbooks every year, we fear that this will directly reflect the interest in this kind of education of national minorities. And finally, we're just talking here, now I'm just talking about basic education textbooks, I wasn't talking about high school textbooks that are one special topic. It's a significantly smaller number, and that's why I won't mention it. We also did not talk about the special needs of children’s textbooks for special needs, such as textbooks for the blind, etc. These are all the things that require another further discussion. Finally, I remain convinced that these criteria that remain here will only be declared in Article 2, that these criteria will in any case respect these facts that I have said here and that this class of textbooks will be included in the criteria for subsidising printing by the Government in some future times. If so and in any hope that it will still be so, we will most likely support this concept of the law as a measure, an anti-recession measure in this package. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-14-0.u37202	Thank you. National Minority Representatives' Club. Mrs. Zdenka Chuhnil. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-14-0.u37203	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President. My dear secretary. Dear colleagues and colleagues. Yes, we have before us the Law on Amendments to the Law on elementary and high school textbooks that are not easy to support. In fact, yesterday we've been listening to rebalancing, about the rebalancing of the truth, some about cosmetic rebalancing, but above all, it's clear to everyone that we have unbalanced income expenses, that we can no longer spend what we haven't earned. We realize that this has resulted in a message to be expected by tears and sweat, or that we need to work harder for a lower salary. And that's why it was really unserious in May to promise free textbooks and now two months before school to tell parents that students have to buy. I also have to condemn gambling, gambling first and foremost the former minister and the ministry because we didn't throw the books away just this year. We threw out books last year, or two years in a row more than 400 million were spent to obtain textbooks that were eventually thrown away. And it's not true that in that mass of textbooks certainly wasn't a large number of textbooks that could have been used for two, three, maybe four generations. Therefore, regardless of these relations, I think it is necessary to support all those who now say that these changes should nevertheless clearly include a position to really say that all those endangered social groups of our citizens, or parents who cannot buy textbooks to their children, will be protected or at least provide them with books. We in law have defined it can be, the program will be, etc., but I think we would all be safer and easier to raise our hands for that law if it really were to be defined exactly that point in which way to provide textbooks most needed. As a representative of national minorities, I still have to look back at the textbooks of national minorities. Earlier on, a colleague of Horvat spoke about it, but since I have been in the Assembly for longer than 2000, when the Law on Education in the Languages of National Minorities was passed, there has been a constant struggle in the budget to provide some of the resources for textbooks intended for national minorities, because normally in these schools it is mostly bilingual, books are in Croatian, it is done in the mother tongue and it has been difficult for children, as well as teachers, and certainly parents at home who often had to interpret what the term is in which language. That's why we really did well two years ago when the textbooks were defined to be free and when the possibility was given, and most minorities took advantage of it, to define which textbooks they would publish as author textbooks, which part of the textbooks would translate, or which part of the textbooks would be obtained from the country of origin, normally with the agreement of the ministry in order to align the programs that had begun to be done. Unfortunately, however, it has arrived somewhere at 2/3 of the job, 1/3 has not yet been done in almost all minorities or all the titles that are needed have not been translated. Equally, it was not possible to publish all the author's textbooks, and the author's textbooks were primarily for the language of the national minority, meaning for the native language. Everything else was used means textbooks in translation. So it really stays open here and I'm going to ask the secretary to answer how this job will be done so that truly children of members of national minorities will be provided with all the textbooks that are needed. I want to say right away that they are not required to be free textbooks so that someone doesn't react to it. Normally, each should bear that burden and the amount of textbooks for each class cost. But here he was already talking about how much more expensive the textbooks for national minorities are. I'm saying because it's a small story, which is what I'm saying for that reason and in some ways paying the author for such a small story is very difficult and they accept it, which means that very often they're looking for something higher fees. But it would be important if it were to provide textbooks in the languages of national minorities at least I say accessible as much at the price as it is in others, i.e. for the textbooks of the majority people. I think that if we can get such promises that we no longer have to ask that it will be one or two textbooks, that it will certainly support national minorities, even though I say break this law, a law that does not satisfy. But if that's so that everyone gets better tomorrow anyway, we'll give up that part and contribute to saying with tears and sweat tomorrow we'll have a better future for the kids. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-14-0.u37204	Thank you. An individual debate. Mr. Agent Iron Flego.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-14-0.u37205	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues. This debate took place around the previous one and to repeat the material at least two elements. First, the Ministry of Education, i.e. Science, Education and Sports has reduced its budget in almost 10 percent and thus contributed to anti-recession measures and we hope that this is the end of our further contribution, because if the other ministries had also done so we would have filled the budget gap. And secondly, it is a very worrying procedure where we first shorten or financially reduce national priorities. This means we are reducing one part of the activity covered by this amount. In this way, the declared objectives and tasks that this government has also repeated and have established at a great distance with, so far, are at great length with what is proposed and with this budget rebalancing. That rebalancing would have touched three maybe four points. First, there is no longer any means of activity for the Republic of Croatia's strategic interest and for free textbooks, i.e. they are not legally guaranteed. Second, for this state of affairs as well as the consequences of a series of actions, there is something called responsibility. I would distinguish that responsibility from personal responsibility and, let's say, the responsibility of the command to say or the indirect responsibility of those who took part in it and did not prevent the negative consequences. It is about the fact that recently from the government, hand and hat promised to be textbooks for all, that every year the textbooks would be a total of new textbooks printed, which should have cost between 424 and 150 million kuna this year. This promise was already against the law in itself, because the law of your colleagues and colleagues who you brought to 15.12. last year established that all students and students will receive textbooks, but that their parents will participate in the price of textbooks depending on their economic power. As a result, as the quantity has been promised, so that the total amount of textbooks for all textbooks has been promised, as already given or thrown, and in this way, if the funds for textbooks for hundreds of thousands of pupils and students are collected, a hundred fifty, two hundred million kunas of the state budget, public funds for which this Assembly is responsible. I don't know how you're gonna deal with that. The second, or third, better said, we are talking about the technical elements of the consequences of this decision, that is, this rebalancing. I would warn of an important, essential, resourceful, qualitative convention that even follows from my morning conversation with a single woman who called me to say: “The government will not tell us that? Today it's mid-seventh month. I didn't make money for my two boyfriends at the 9th month. How am I going to do that?" I say how will you solve the problem, ma'am? So she says so, I'll buy two, three books for each and every one and that's it. This means more or less that we will go back 20, 30 years, that a part of the students and students will not have their textbooks, that a part of the students and students will learn from school records, or from dictatorships, and that they will actually be stimulated, if not forced to repeat what they have heard and authorized instead of exploring and growing in knowledge from books or textbooks, or in the art of serving books as cultural wealth. And there's colleagues and colleagues, there's Mr. Secretary of State, and I'm afraid if this is a paradigm warning, and certainly for one part of the population, it's going to lead to a serious drop in the quality of teaching, and then it's going to take us both indirectly and directly away from the declared goal. Finally, when we passed this law, we warned of some unsustainable elements and you did not want to listen to those arguments. Now is neither the time nor the place to triumph over it. But it is certainly time and place to warn ourselves that in the future we listen much more and that we actually make decisions with arguments and our own conscience, not some external dictatorship. Last item and final lesson. In recent years, we have been taught that developed countries and less developed countries become countries of intervention, become countries that, on behalf of the common and sometimes of general interest. They intervene in various social segments to prevent the penetration of particular interests and to protect most of their population from these particular interests or from the various deformities that have occurred with their hypostases. Instead of state interventionism, we're actually raising hands from an entire segment and I think it's a worrying phenomenon, i.e. a phenomenon that will lead to even more negative consequences than this one alone. Therefore, colleagues and colleagues, I think it is in the end the right place to strengthen the effort which articulates the conclusion of the Committee on Education, Science and Culture to commit the Government of the Republic of Croatia to find means for transport and textbooks of those groups of pupils and students whose parents are unable to cover these costs and not to be able or should, but also to cover the gap that will result in the social body of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-14-0.u37206	Thank you. One correction to the incorrect allegations, Mr. Representative Nevio Šetić.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-14-0.u37207	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I'd like to correct the inaccuracies of Mr. Flega, who said that this change of law would bring us back 20-30 years. It's simply incorrect. The textbooks are the same quality as these years, or they've changed a little bit, they haven't worked, only someone else will pay. So this is about money, not quality, because the textbooks are going to be the qualities we had. So the work on the quality of the textbook will certainly be added year after year, and here is the word that this cost cannot be afforded.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-14-0.u37208	Thank you. Ms. Representative Tatjana Šimac-Bonačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-14-0.u37209	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Secretary of State with an associate, colleague and colleague. This law again sees the policy of trial and error, but this time expensive attempts and infamous mistakes. A lot of promises, but not credibility, and we're wondering how does this act itself work on raising? And we're talking about segments of education and education. The promises were much, of course they didn't come true, and the books were more expensive than ever. We are all aware that the means to obtain textbooks and other teaching tools for primary and secondary schools are large and, of course, in the times in which we are to cut costs, but so am I, like my predecessors, and of course, our citizens are wondering why the first to hit to be children? Otherwise, the kind of megalomanical purchase of books for all was the purchase of votes, not the real social policy that was being shown. And what worries me is, they're actually the poor or the poorest and the less poor that they're left behind now, left behind overnight. This morning from Mr. Šetic's presentation, he mentioned that this law is technical change. I don't know who these technical changes are for. Then he can't please the citizens. Well, the citizens didn't ask for the bill, it was an account without the innkeepers, it wasn't what the citizens were looking for. And the third is said to be, that these are social measures. It's been said a couple of times before my predecessors wondered if when it was said it was possible, was it a social measure? Because it says that Article 4 proposes to actually change, that it can be put in line with the available resources from the state budget for each school year to make a financing decision, i.e. to co-finance the purchase of textbooks. However, colleagues and colleagues cannot write, but must. There must be funding for such a layer of children, decisions must be made, dates set, decisions on funding, or co-financing and the purchase of textbooks. To make a decision, to set standards and criteria, and not to write, some criteria will be adopted. Which one? When? We're also wondering who you need? What social categories will provide free textbooks when prices are up to 1,700 kuna, or 1,500 kuna? If we have two children, that's 3,400 kuna. When we put that on the consumer basket of a four-member family, then we see what that amount is. You don't know anything yet, and the start of the school year is here. It looks like every family will have to make their own home budget rebalance. What is he going to take away, or what is he going to resuscitate? The responsible government says you can't actually wait, you can't wait for it to possibly be extra money, but immediately plan it as a measure of social policy. A decision on collecting textbooks can also be made, which I am glad the SDP amendment was accepted. The collection of textbooks that were shared over the past few years has been cast. However, the well - being families had never bought new textbooks for their younger children before, but they used old ones until just the wasteful state changed it. And I think the time has come for the government to turn to the laws that will be taken by the rich, and not act like Super Hick. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-14-0.u37210	Thank you. Final review, State Secretary Željir Janjic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-14-0.u37211	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Allow me at the end of the debate to briefly refer to certain details mentioned in the discussions. Thank you all very much for the discussion. I hope this debate will help us solve this problem and the future. So let me just briefly say that it's true by the letter of the existing law, that somewhere 70% of the textbooks used by our students in primary and secondary schools, that they're working notes, that they're teaching means in which they're written and that they're inherited, unfortunately, they can't. That these 30% that are not written and that can be inherited, that it is not all 30% because by the letter of the law, the textbook can happen to change, that the teacher chooses another and then that number falls below 30%. The discussion mentioned that, and in the media, we had opportunities to read that the parents who bought these textbooks would come out more expensive than if they were buying the state. I have to tell you here that, of course, we've talked to the publishers about a particular discount, since we were meant to be a payer. That we will also talk to the publishers about this discount in this new situation, respecting the fact that this sale should go over the sales network and that probably some 10% rebate should be given to the bookstores who will do the job. But it doesn't occur to us not to talk to them and to fight them, to reduce that amount in that way. I would also like to say that when it comes to textbooks for students who are educated in the language and letter of national minorities, and before these two years of applying this measure, we have provided at the Directorate for Joint Programmes certain means of translation textbooks for our members of national minorities who are educated in the language and letter of national minorities. We look at all the problems they face and I have to say here that these projected funds were almost regularly greater than those spent because of what they really find difficult to find. It's a small story, which is what bigger fees need, etc. But I'm just as happy that we've managed to raise that number of translated textbooks over the past few years, but of course we'll continue to... a book and next year, so from next year. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Furthermore, it was mentioned that last year books were dumped. I have to correct you, that's not true. Last year, the textbooks were not thrown, but we asked the classrooms to review used textbooks, sort them out, and to inherit these textbooks. So, for this business in agreement with the unions, we paid that job so that textbooks are classified and that students are allowed to inherit one piece. We also have indications that it wasn't a large number of textbooks, although almost 80% of the saved textbooks were evaluated last year. So I'm talking about the first year of 2007 to 2008 that was inherited in 2008/2009. A year. And there's something else I need to mention. When it comes to improving the teaching process, one effort to make teaching students more visible, not only that students use textbooks, even though you have repeatedly confirmed in the discussion the textbook is not the only source of knowledge, we have not even defined it as something to have, but that is what the facts are needed for teaching. But I have to say that over the past few years, we've acquired, especially in high schools, quite a number of interactive panels, and this year we're getting another piece, so almost all high schools will have at least one interactive record, and we have information that the founders did, that some of them were getting donations. So it's about interactive panels that really make teaching more visible to our students, which are used, of course they can do more, from mathematics, physics, chemistry, biology, geography, and it's good to use them. That's what we're going to insist on, of course. And let me conclude that this law is very clear and insisted on it, almost from all clubs, that it be the teacher who chooses the textbook. Of course, such a solution is good, it opens up the possibility for a teacher to choose the textbook by which he will best realize his part of the teaching. But then, of course, it creates problems when it comes to inheriting that it is then necessary to take care of textbook redistribution, that this job should be paid to someone, etc. It's another thing. We also said here that the ministry... expert working groups that each new manuscript has arrived for the new textbook are reviewing and proposing the Minister's approval to be used in the next school year. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] That's the solution. The most common green light is given for these new textbooks and therefore we have an increasing number in our offer. There was thinking here, of course until the end they weren't in the majority of being one class textbook, in one school which would make it a little easier to inherit it, but such a solution in the law is not. It is equally said about the duration of the textbook and, of course, it is said that the textbooks for years of use, we have had the opportunity to hear that they should last 5 years. Of course, then the undertaking should be different, of course, that they would be more expensive and perhaps not mentioned, but it was aimed at taking textbooks for each year to come from the library. But I have to remind you that since 876 elementary schools, 413 high schools have a lot of regional primary schools, unfortunately we have one number that doesn't have libraries, which is why they don't even have an employee librarian, and that should stay in school right there. I must also say that there are schools that don't even have enough space to count on books to postpone at the end of the year and wait until the beginning of the next school year. It should be in that case having a school. So, we have a lot of solutions that are how this House of Highs has determined and actually if we want some different solutions, then we can think about it in a different way. Personally, I believe that this job can be done, but I think that quality solutions could only be defined if there was a consensus here in the Croatian Assembly of all parliamentary parties or the agreement of a very large majority and that we could then talk about any better solutions after all these experiences that we have had, which you stand for here. Thank you very much. I'm sorry, in the end let me make a very brief reference, but we're going to vote on that. When it comes to the proposed conclusion on behalf of the SDP Club, we have already contacted our presidents of the Association of Directors and of the other system, we will meet with them and on the trail of exactly that part, the first of your proposal conclusions will be discussed with them about what you are proposing, but also about the other, and we will probably be able to inform you very quickly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-14-0.u37212	Correction of the incorrect quote, Mrs. Representative Marija Lugaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-14-0.u37213	It's not true, Mr. Secretary of State, that these school years have not been thrown away. They were either thrown away or the children took them home. As for the position of the state budget and state property, they simply do not exist and are not available. The second is an incorrect quote when you were talking about how the textbook is not just a teaching tool and how you've done a lot to get smart records and so on. Smart records do not belong to teaching tools at all, but possibly to help. And these machines themselves absolutely mean nothing if there is no software that could serve anything to improve teaching. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-14-0.u37214	Thank you. I'm closing the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-14-0.u37215	4., Final draft law amending the Law on textbooks for primary and secondary schools, emergency procedure, P.Z. No. 408. The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. The amendments were submitted by the Committee on Education, Science and Culture. During the debate, the proposing representative accepted the amendment committees and did not vote on them because they became an integral part of the final draft law in accordance with Article 169. Rules of Procedure. I am voting on the final draft law amending the Law on textbooks for elementary and high school. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? This final bill was adopted by most votes, 81 votes for, no abstentions and 35 against. The Committee on Education, Science and Culture proposes to the Croatian Assembly the conclusion that it is bound by the Government of the Republic of Croatia that, in the application of Article 2 of the proposed Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on basic and secondary school textbooks relating to Article 4 of the existing law, it shall find instruments at its disposal to ensure that this law does not affect students of the most socially sensitive layers. During the debate, the proposing representative accepted this proposal. I am therefore voting on the proposal for a conclusion of the Committee. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? This conclusion was adopted unanimously with 114 votes. The SDP representative club proposes to the Croatian Assembly to draw a conclusion, which is 1st, the Croatian Parliament invites parents to return all used textbooks that no longer need their children to schools where they have and received them so that they can be used by children whose parents are unable to buy textbooks. 2., The Croatian Parliament owes the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports to help schools organise the collection of used textbooks and their division of children of weaker property. I ask the proposing representative to make a statement on this proposal. Mr. Secretary of State at the Ministry of Science, Želimir Janjic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-14-0.u37216	Thank you, well-respected President of the Croatian Parliament, respected MPs and MPs. The applicant cannot accept the SDP's proposed conclusions. First of all, for reasons we believe when it comes to point 1 that we should not call upon the authority of this high house because of what we from the ministry can do and what this process has already begun. And secondly, if we were to accept the second point, it would mean that we would also accept the financial obligations that would result from it. I will remind you that last 2007 on 2008 when students returned textbooks and we redistributed for those who will continue their education in 2008/2009. The year that this amount was massive, somewhere around 23 million kuna, and that's all the reasons why unfortunately we couldn't accept this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-14-0.u37217	Thank you. I am voting on the proposal for a conclusion. Oh, yeah, here you go on behalf of the club. Mrs. Maria Lugaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-14-0.u37218	Dear Mr. President, the SDP club continues to insist on this conclusion, given that, contrary to then applicable law, all textbooks are returned to children and we consider it necessary, and since this has not yet been done from the ministry, to invite parents to return those textbooks that do not need their children to school so that children of those parents who are simply unable to obtain them. We're in a situation, we've heard and we've been listening to a rather tense state budget and empty these days, and it seems to us that what is actually state property must not be lightly left behind, but that we must use it if you want and the elemental social solidarity together to use everything we've bought together. We therefore insist on voting on this conclusion and hope that a team will be accepted more in the debate on behalf of the club, the president of the HDZ Club, said that these conclusions are acceptable to him.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-14-0.u37219	Thank you. I am voting on the proposal of the conclusion of the SDP's Club of Representatives, so 1 and 2 which the government does not accept. Here, let's get involved and vote. Let's get involved and vote who isn't. How about a score? I find this conclusion not accepted, 43 for, 1 abstention and 74 against.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-14-0.u37220	We're moving on to the next point. - Proposal for implementation of the State budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2008 The Government submitted this report on the basis of Articles 108 and 110. Budget law. You received the proposal by mail. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Health and Social Care, Finance, the State budget, environmental protection, spatial planning and construction, tourism, work and social partnership, development and reconstruction, agriculture, fisheries and rural development and defence. You received the reports at the session. State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance Ivana Maletic will further explain the proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-14-0.u37221	Dear Vice President, thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament. I will briefly refer to the implementation of the 2008 state budget, starting first with macroeconomic economic indicators, which are thus established for 2008. Real annual growth in gross domestic product was 2.4%, average inflation measured by the consumer price index was 6.1% in 2008, industrial production increased 1.2%, retail trade registered a nominal growth of 6% and a real decrease of 0.5%. Total kuna goods exports registered an annual growth of 4.7%, while goods imports increased 8.8%. Why are these macroeconomic indicators important? Because they are exactly the framework that defines then budgetary revenues and budgetary spending from the aspect of budgetary revenues and the target deficit. Therefore, in 2008 precisely due to the lower, lower growth of gross domestic product achieved in particular in the second half of 2008 and total revenues were achieved at less than 2.3 billion kuna compared to that planned amount. Thus, an amount of $116.1 billion was reached, and were planned to amount to $118.4 billion. What is important to emphasise and what the government did in 2008, so when the second half saw the decline in gross social product reflected in the achievement of revenue, consumption was slowed down and the necessary measures were taken to rationalise and budgetary consumption would not actually affect the increase in the deficit in 2008. The rationalisation measures we have actually managed to achieve better fiscal positions and thus prepare well for 2009. In 2008, on the dispensary side, the execution was 118.6 billion kuna, which is less than planned for 2.5 billion kuna. Therefore, it is important to stress in the management of the waste side that they were achieved at a lower level than how the plan was set for 2.5 million kuna, which is the result of a truly rationalisation measure on different types of expenditure, from material expenditure to other elements of state spending. The total government budget deficit in 2008 was thus achieved at 0.8% of GDP. Therefore, the result of the income and expenditure difference was very favourable at the end of 2008 and it was indeed a favourable fiscal position for 2009, because in 2008, it indicated what would happen internationally and then the impact on the Republic of Croatia in 2009. So, from the point of view of implementation in 2008, we were still well prepared and set off from good fiscal positions. When the result of out-of- budget users and local countries is added, then we can talk about the lack of a consolidated general government in 2008 of 0.9% of gross social product. Here, this was a brief review of the performance indicators and performance in 2008. And if you have any questions, I'll be at your disposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-14-0.u37222	Thank you. The committees? I'm opening a debate. Mr. Representative Goran Maric's Club of HDZ Representatives. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-14-0.u37223	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Honored government representatives, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. Here we heard from the secretary of state in which macroeconomic conditions and with which macroeconomic indicators were implemented the state budget in 2008 and then I would not further repeat these same data except to say that in the second half of 2008 there was a rapid slowdown in economic activity, which led to a real growth of the gross domestic product in 2008 being 2.4%, which was 3.1% lower than in 2007 when it was 5.5%. In the last quarter, there has also been a significant increase in interest rates at a maximum rate of 16.76% in November. And it is important to stress that the foreign debt at the end of 2008 amounted to 39 billion euros and 82.4% of gross domestic product, respectively. The foreign debt ratio in the country in total foreign debt fell from 20.2% to 17.7% in 2008. According to the final data on the implementation of the 2008 State budget, the total revenues made by the revenues of the business and proceeds from the sale of non-financial assets were reached in the amount of 116.1 billion and at the level of 98% of the annual plan. The total expenditure of the State budget in 2008 was planned to amount to €121.1 billion, amounting to kuna 118.6 billion, which is 2.5 billion less than planned and 2.1%, respectively. The total expenditure of the state budget consists of operating expenditure made up of 115.3 billion and expenditure on the purchase of non-financial assets worth 3.3 billion kuna. The largest share in operating expenditures was paid to citizens and households amounting to HRK 60.1 billion, of which pensions and pensions amounted to more than half of as much as €32.8 billion, and after that the largest compensation was in the health care and social care system of €22.4 billion. According to the calculation plan, the income and expenditure difference in 2008 resulted in less than €2.5 billion or 6.9% less than the planned deficit. Finally, according to the 2008 final data, the total lack of a consolidated general government was achieved at 0.9% of gross domestic product, down by 0.2% compared to the planned deficit and 0.3% lower compared to 2007. The HDZ Club will be in favour of accepting the Annual Report on the implementation of the State Budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2008. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-14-0.u37224	Thank you. SDP club, Mrs. Representative Nadica Jelash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-14-0.u37225	Dear Vice President, representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues. To talk about the 2008 budget is actually deplaced at the moment when two budget rebalances were already made for 2009 and when new rebalancing are constantly announced and we can even say that the Croatian Government introduced a continuous rebalancing into the budget system. However, it is nevertheless necessary to say that the continuity of the policy would be seen because the budget is primarily an instrument for achieving the policy of the current government. Yesterday's 2009 budget rebalance, Finance Minister Shuker announced as a budget of truth. However, it was only a recognition of the truth, only a sobering and the budget of truth is still far from the truth, or from the realization. Because before speaking about the truth, we need to tell the truth and the truth is that already at the 2008 budget, everyone who wanted to see clearly the erosion of the Croatian economy because the budget is an expression of the potential or strength of the national economy. Only the government didn't want to see it, and now all of a sudden overnight, literally a copernicus, ready for the truth when it can't be otherwise. So, in 2008 we will remember a number of negative records. The lowest real growth in gross domestic product in the last decade has been achieved, only 2.4% in inflation of 6.4%. The low growth of gross domestic product is conditioned by a low level of gross domestic value created precisely in the domestic economy, which is largely due to the strong slowdown of growth in industry as the most important creator of the newly created value but also the most important creator of goods intended for exports. Unfortunately, this negative record related to the gross domestic product continues in 2009 but with significantly increased intensity. In fact, in the first quarter of 2009, the decline in gross domestic product is 6.7% which is the biggest fall in the history of independent Croatia. And what is most regrettable in this data is that in such a decline in gross domestic product the most contributed to the decline in personal consumption of citizens as the most important cost component of gross domestic product. So that drop is 10% and is the largest in the last ten years. So this is another one in a series of negative record decades and it is obvious that the standard of Croatian citizens is the first and biggest victim of the current policy of this government. At the same time, the current government is spending more and more. The only consumption growing in Croatia is just state consumption. The lowest growth in imports of goods and services since 1999 was achieved in 2008 only 3.6%. This fact is double negative. On the one hand, this means further slowing down the economic activity of the processing industry and, on the other hand, there is a significant reduction in revenue from the added-value tax title as the most important revenue of the state budget. Real growth in goods and services exports of 1.7% is also the lowest but since 2002. The coverage of goods imports by goods exports was below 46% and the external trade deficit increased by 12.6%. The total foreign debt was at the end of 2008. The 39 billion euros, compared to the previous one, increased by almost 6 billion euros or 18% in 2007. Most of this increase is burdened by companies. The foreign debt increased by 5 percentage points its share in the gross domestic product, reaching as much as 83% of gross domestic product. The three biggest problems are currently in Croatia. First, they're mass layoffs. Since September 2008, which marks the beginning of the recession and by the end of March 2009, around 50 thousand workers have been out of work. The next problem is to escalate non-payments. Currently unsettled payments amount to over 17 billion kuna and if their growth continues at this current pace, therefore, if there is no intensification of the growth rate, it should be approximately 500 to 600 million kuna per month by the end of this year unsettled debts could grow to 20 billion kuna and that means only one thing. A very likely layer of economy especially of medium and small entrepreneurship, and these are the most potent parts of the Croatian economy. In spite of all this, the government does not take measures from the declared anti-recession programme, which should be its short-term reaction to the state of recession and, even lessover, it sets out long-term strategic measures that would change the economic structure. Because the fact is that we have an economic crisis in Croatia because of accumulated domestic problems. It's a lot less importable. The import financial crisis probably successfully amortised the Croatian National Bank with its monetary policy and large foreign reserves. However, it will be much harder to deal with the crisis in the real sector of the Croatian economy because the Croatian economy has come down to the importing economy, where everyone is in debt, spends and buys and actually VAT is filled with the state register. And so a calm, satisfied state spends, builds bridges, owes itself to pay back old debts, rag holes, and creates new deficits, one word works like a nakarad perpeta mobile, I've already used this term these days, or even better... He can't stop because if he stops, he'll fall. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The industry that has been portrayed as unnecessary for years before collapse is. Croatia literally spent the past decade, therefore, that year's more affordable and cheaper capital without doing anything in terms of changing economic structure. And there's the crisis coming in cycles and they're actually getting harder and harder every time. So, all these years, the government has continued to create and the majority of parliament's budgets were based on borrowing and literally on the addition of the electoral body. And the 2008 budget is no exception, it is a typical product of such policy. Because of keeping a large part of Croatian citizens dependent on state... Because of the purchase of social peace, in one word in order to be held in power, what was not covered by the results achieved or by the inn, and it would be said, "lived on faith". [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And it is truly regrettable that Croatia is increasingly like a tavern with the difference that in Croatia it is well known who drinks and who pays for it all together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-14-0.u37226	My colleagues are not a Croatian pub. Unsuitable comparison of Croatia with the pub. IDS Club, Mr. Representative Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-14-0.u37227	Tell them, Mr. Vice President, to hold the cards for the post-election period.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-14-0.u37228	So, I'll listen to you. Keep congratulations for the post-election period for local self-government. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-14-0.u37229	On page 397, the main macroeconomic indicators of the Republic of Croatia for 2007/2008 were given. So this is how we see this 2007 gross domestic product growing at 5.5%, 2008. 2.4%. We're already at minus 6.7%, index, price 2007. 2.9% in 2008, even 6.1%, industrial production grew in 2007 4.9%, 2008. 1.2%. It's hard to say how much it's down today, the retail trade is growing at a rate of 5.3%, 2008 minus 0.5%, it continues to fall below 10% today, the number of nights, I don't know, foreign debt, etc., all these moments are getting worse normally, in 2008 versus 2007. 2008 was a difficult year but according to 2009, it was one great year and in 2010, I think we should all be rightly afraid. What the government does, especially in planting time, this cutting tail cat, little by little or every week rebalancing one, it's one wrong policy. We had recently when these protests of farmers in Zagreb were the promise of a billion and a half million kuna that should go to the peasants, it probably won't be anything. In the election time, almost 10 billion kunas were listed on various promises from the Podravska Ipsilon, through the continuation of the building of the Peljega Bridge, over the bridge over the Drava, etc. And maybe we should really look for a modus to help farmers survive in those large infrastructure items. But what's the point? In 2008, the crisis was only a few years later. It's hard to say we knew how to deal with it. Why am I saying that? Because last year and last year was a good year according to this 2009 GDP was only 2.4%, it was the lowest since 1999. For the first six months, the decline in gross production is 6.7%. '99. The year was the year when Croatia also had negative GDP growth minus 1.5%. Why? It was NATO's year of impact on SR Yugoslavia, so we normally lost the tourist season. It was the year that Croatia was insulated in some way to encourage the political changes that took place on January 3rd, it was the year of the destroyed banking system when the individence exceeded 26 billion kuna and yet the gross product fell only 1.5%, 1.5% Now let's see, today it is -6.7% which will say that it is almost five times lower than it was heavy in '99. A year. That is why the first thing Croatian intention of recovery is clear that there should be one current rebalancing, a real rebalancing, not the cosmetics that we had yesterday, although we see from these discussions today that no one wants to give up absolutely no social rights. In one word, budget rebalancing must be the first point to be taken from. In second place there are, the same fate will experience urban, county budgets that will also fail, perhaps they will fail even more than the state budget, surely in areas such as Slavonia, such as Dalmatia, etc. Croatia needs to be decentralised, not to share funds according to political resemblance, where mine are, where they vote for me, I'll do something there, I won't do it elsewhere. It is necessary to save exporters that should, even I dare say, be interested in endings that don't export anything, but those where that industry still exists. We need to save the season, it is indeed, even let the figures are relatively solid when it comes to nights, or the filling of these accommodation facilities, but the out-of-board consumption is about 30 % less than it was last year. In one word, we need to save the season or tourism to save the years or all that activity ahead of us. Number five, convince people that every potential investor is not a criminal and that he has to be well welcomed because in the opposite policy, we won't do anything, will simply destroy this country. We see that this year, let's say, the VAT has dropped 15% in the continuity of 6 billion kuna, which is why we're going to have less than those planned funds at the beginning of last year. Simply small ones can no longer survive, no development, and the measure of all measures must be a policy of stronger credit activity and consumption growth. Today I read in Bussines.hr how Todorovic sells his share in "Print" and is likely to buy "Adris" from Rovinj. If that is the case, then I fear huge problems in this company, and if God doesn't give Todoric his knees, it will be much more serious than shipbuilding, because if that happens, then all of Croatia will be on its knees. If Croatian citizens have a clear need, I won't say spend, they have to invest, they have to build, they have to buy, we have to boost that consumption because without it we all sink, but the government hasn't let people say they've been working in trade on Sundays over the past few months, it doesn't still give a change to the Smoking Act, and I think that's one wrong policy. Why did I mention that gross social product was '99? The year was -1.5%? So to say that in 2009, we're really in trouble to our throats because we're going to be smaller, I guess, not more 6.7%, not 5.2%, which some bankers predict, but maybe far more. And who brought us to that? The International Monetary Fund, not a single global bank or the European Union, has brought us to this end, but the greatest responsibility is clearly borne by our government. And that is why, as I said, the first thing to do is to somehow run that Croatia through among other changes and these rebalancings. We're in a situation where our entire economic branches are just on their way out. No one even talks about textiles anymore, the wood industry has fired 25,000 people for the first six, seven months, the shipbuilding industry has no orders, the state has already paid 500 million kunas this year according to shipbuilding banks. By the end of the year, six billion kunas were mentioned without a reprogramme, now talking about 800 million kunas. The only liquid construction site that doesn't cost the state a single kuna is this Oilman. Unfortunately, he needs to be privatized, I don't know why, I don't understand it, don't do it. One America supports its banks, General Motors, and we need to privatize what's still in business. In February, industrial production decreased by 14%, the processing sector registered a 17.6% drop, but there are branches that operate as never, these are our banks. Our banks' mothers in the world are losing profits, but that's why in Zagreb 2008 profits are growing by 25.7%, at the Business Bank by 18.6%, in Raiffeisen by 23.2%, in Erste by 31.6%, in OTP by 41%, and that's clearly not enough because their profits are now slowing down, they notice. But what would you say if we were to provide information that UniCredito, the mother of the Zagreb Bank, has a profit at group level -38% compared to 2008, Intesa's decline gains of 65%, Erste Bank -26.8%, Landesbank has a loss of 5 billion euros, etc., etc. What is the quality of the budget, or this material in the implementation of the budget, terrible for centralization, will not speak here about Istria, but surely those who do to them are least money from the state budget and they are returning and I think it is a devastating policy because we are simply going to do the same... Just ruin everything. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] What I stand for, once again I will say, let's not privatise "The Oil", solve the status of this tourist land, these tycoons pay no one anything, let this Law on the mountainous area remain in force. I'm afraid that someone will dare to change or that status will end Istria and the Primorje-Gorski County. Let the monopolies start taxing once already, let decentralisation begin, this centralization really doesn't make sense anymore, if possible let some foreign investment be stimulated, although at this point when they rapidly decline around the world there can hardly be words in Croatia. But it is certain that at the end of the year we will welcome perhaps 80,000 fewer jobs than last year. In all 2008, this budget was worth 116 billion kuna. Taxes we see last year amounted to 66.3 billion kuna. Out of that VAT 41.3 billion kuna, 40.7 billion kuna, 8.9 billion kuna excise duties, 6.8 billion kuna subsidies, foreign aid and local self-government are thus referred to in paragraph 5.7 billion kuna. But that was 32% less than the year 2007 and not counting any further. All in all 2008 was a bad year, but before 2009 it will be a golden year although the decline in gross social product was the lowest compared to '99. I think everyone would be overjoyed today if they knew next year there was going to be a decline in gross products of -1.5% as well as in '99. Nothing at all. The budget is behind us. We see this data right here in front of us and we'll see what happens in front of us.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-14-0.u37230	Thank you. An individual debate by Ms. Marija Lugaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-14-0.u37231	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Madam Secretary of State. It is to discuss the implementation of the State budget for the past year at a time when in the current year we have already made 2 rebalancings and we expect a third, and the question is whether this last one is slightly deplaced. However, I do not want to talk as much about some concrete indicators as my colleagues have talked about before, but rather about why we are discussing these documents at all. Why are we discussing budget implementation here in the Croatian Parliament? Therefore, if we accept the claim that state policy or priorities and what needs to be done in the country as not only a project and activities is defined in the state budget, then the purpose of submitting a report on the implementation of the state budget is actually to account for the responsible body, so whether the executive authority has done to us all that it has received to do, or to what extent it has done the things that it has to do. And then we come up with a bit of a paradoxic situation that we actually have a state budget count year after year. The law on the execution of the State Budget Act is set out in Article 6a. This was then transposed as Article 7 of the 2009 Budget Act, which said that the Government could make a decision on a proposal from the Ministry of Finance on redistributing the funds for operating expenditure, etc. in the framework of the budget of the planned funds. In 2008, the government made a total of 5 such decisions on redistribution, four, two in November and two in December. So that fifth was mid-October. And actually these decisions on redistributions of the budget that we voted here in the Croatian Parliament, which we only have the right to make a state budget, but it has nothing to do with that budget that was originally voted on. When you look at and analyze these redistribution decisions, it wasn't just within a single budget user, so let's redistribute internally. So, I don't know the Croatian Parliament has 10 million kuna available and now within its 10 million kuna happened I don't know 100000 more for this or 50,000 less for that. Government decisions have also changed the amount of individual budget beneficiaries. I'm not sure how much this is in line with the law that says redistributions can only be done in the context of the budget of the planned funds for individual expenditures, i.e. for expenditure. And those weren't small amounts. In all five decisions, three billion and 585 million kuna were redistributed directly by the fact that these redistributed funds relate to almost every item of the state budget. When you look at certain budget users, it may be the largest or most extreme example of the Ministry of Health and Social Care. Compared to the budget voted here in the Croatian Parliament, the budget of the Ministry of Health is higher by nearly 900 million kuna, almost a billion kuna, and I am not sure how much this fits so that distributions can be done within the budget of planned expenditures. And that's why I repeat the question at the beginning. What should be discussed at all about the implementation of the budget in this part of the submission so as to say one fundamental responsibility, one fundamental function of Parliament to oversee the work of the Executive Authority when the mild links that you now submit to us do not have with that budget that was voted in the Parliament through the initial budget and the one rebalancing that we had last year in the spring of 2008. And I repeat, they're not small funds. And you have some, when you analyze those decisions, you have some kind of relatively interesting situation. For example, it stands for the government. 3.11. by decision to redistribute 3.11. The government gets 4 million kunas, then 23.12. million and 600,000 kunas minus. What's that? It's a setup. The normal rule of law does not deal with the allocation of the state budget. Or that would be the last thing you should be doing. So I'm really asking you somewhere to understand these redistribution provisions as they were originally and thought. It is clear that at this level of budgetary planning where it is going quite detailedly in the programmes and activities, not all activities can be known exactly and well planned for what needs to be done. So probably life takes some activity a little more forward or a little more back. But nearly a billion kunas have a difference in the budget user more or less compared to what Parliament has said that I can think that a little claim for the right that can be based on the law, but in no way is it correct or would have some kind of legitimacy. Another thing I want to talk about that nobody's ever talked about that kind of thing that's somehow going quietly is using budget funds. According to the Budget Act, the budget resources shall be used for unforeseen purposes for which the budget has not provided the funds, i.e. for the purposes for which they are shown to have not been sufficiently determined during the year, or in the case of the adoption of the budget, this could not be foreseen, and then further in paragraph 3 of Article 56. The Budget Act explains that budget resources are used to finance expenditure incurred in the elimination of consequences, beware of colleagues, natural disasters, epidemics, environmental accidents or extraordinary events, or other unforeseen expenditures that occurred during the year. And look at this report on the use of the budget stock. And inside goes some, in this report, we're glad that you gave it to us and that you didn't try to cover up the truth there are just some things that don't add up, or the costs that couldn't be planned or that are unpredictable aren't elemental accidents. For example, one association, not to mention almost 100,000 kunas, all other associations have to go to the Association Office's competition and this is not some extraordinary project now, but for regular work. Why don't all the associations get regular work from the budget stock? Because that's not the purpose of the budget stock. Or, for example, the restoration of the XY church, you have such very many items. I really don't mind restoring any sacral or cultural objects. However, there is therefore a budget of the Ministry of Culture and it is known where such funds are determined and the procedure for obtaining funds is known. Or some kind of fun item like this. The Central State Administration Office, therefore, gives the Government to the Central State Administration Office 100 thousand kunas to co-organize a meeting on innovation in the management of the Mediterranean region, with an emphasis on innovation transfer methodologies, whatever that is. If this is the regular activity of the management office, then it had to be planned by budget. If it isn't, if it's something extraordinary, then it just doesn't have to be done because somewhere just state policy has to be determined. The Croatian queen of emigrants. For the financial need to implement the Croatian Emigrant Queen. I don't know what the implementation of the Croatian queen of emigrants is, a million kunas. Such large amounts simply have to go into the budget. These are not elemental disasters or ecological disasters. Vjesnik d.d. for the provision of excess employees 3 million 800,000 kuna. Or I don't know, and you have, there's one whole category of municipalities and counties and it's almost, so I don't know, specifically, the Ceminac Municipality to finance capital projects of building kindergarten and home culture. Other kindergartens are not funded from the state budget. Or they go according to certain criteria in the budgets of the Ministry of Education. And you can see exactly, as you would say, a political one. You can almost see who's in power in which municipality. Those who are closer to the ruling structures and the government receive regular donations for which other municipalities have to apply regularly to national competitions and are regularly scheduled for funding in the state budget. There's someone here who wants to do it, there's a lot of picanteria. Or one of perhaps the most bizarre. The government of the Republic of Croatia has decided to give the Government of the Republic of Croatia an amount of $150,000 for investment maintenance works. And the government has its own budget, five more times past the parliament redistributed the budget, then it makes its own decision on what is regular activity and what must be planned in the budget. Tekvando club Damgan Croatia, I guess that Minister Primorac was formerly in Tekvando to hold some championship. Others normally apply to projects. So you understand what I'm trying to say. The budget we're voting on, and by the law of execution, that you can redistribute whatever you want, but there's no... that we see these numbers right here, you're really good, you have good indices, which is when you're doing it. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And secondly, please, according to the Budget Act, the funds of the budget stock are spent for the purposes provided for by law, not to be financially supported by those who are either closer to the authorities and those who manage to scratch it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-14-0.u37232	That municipality is called the Ceminac Municipality, the Cheminac is called that municipality, not the Cheminac municipality. Cheminac, not Cheminac. Final review, State Secretary Ivana Maletic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-14-0.u37233	Honorable Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. Here, finally I would just like to say after the debate that fiscal policy has been focused since the very beginning of rationalization and consumption. No budget if you are looking at the budgets and the results has actually not brought the state into a situation that consumption is higher than planned revenues. Since 2006, very clear indicators have shown, meaning that the state is in the primary surplus, which means that this difference between income and expenditure is actually less than the expenditure on interest related to the repayments of debts from earlier periods. So, and that was what the goal was all along and it was highlighted as the main objective of fiscal policy. So, on the rational consumption that leads us to the primary surplus position, which leads us to the position that we really accept business, we finance the state spending we have. It is precisely thanks to such a fiscal policy that has then yielded quality results in terms of the primary surplus since 2006, we have a situation where in 2009, most countries, especially the countries of the new members of the European Union, and then beyond the European Union, recorded a huge decline in gross social product. We are, however, not in such two-digit signs of the fall of a gross social product, but we are still in a much better position because it was actually built from the very beginning in the long term. As far as redistribution is concerned, I think it is important to stress that redistribution is actually a mechanism of flexibility of budget implementation and that they have redistributed something that recognises not only the Republic of Croatia, but all countries, therefore in the environment, at international level. When we worked and when we negotiated certain areas with the European Union, they asked us how we ensured the flexibility of budget implementation. Therefore, redistribution is by no means a budget-setting mechanism, but a flexibility mechanism in the implementation of the budget is the aim of achieving the objectives set out through implementation and consumption. So it doesn't matter if more water has been purchased, I don't know any glasses, material expenditures of these or those, but have we really met the goals that we set? Have we given and maintained the growth we've given ourselves? So that's the goal of actually redistributing, a quality contribution to good budget implementation. That is why when you look at the provisions of the Budget Law, they did not change by law in 2003 or by a new law in 2008 which has been in force since 1.1.2009. The redistribution provisions are the same, meaning in the 2003 and 2008 Budget Act. They're exactly identical and they say that you can therefore change consumption within the expenditure items through redistributions. What we will try to do through the Regulation on the annual and half-year budget implementation report is actually to add to the implementation report another column of the plan before the redistributions, so that you can actually compare that you see that it is not a quantification, but that it is really about redistributions that contribute to the quality of the state consumption results that are given. So let's also say this one column that you're obviously missing and what you're most talking about, it's actually something that's part of good international practice, means that what was fundamentally planned is a column of redistribution and then what was done. So we can do so in that part of the improvement in the execution report. Here's a thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-14-0.u37234	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-14-0.u37235	We are going to propose an annual report on the implementation of the State Budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2008. The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. I am voting on the proposal for an annual report on the implementation of the State budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2008. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? This proposal for an annual report was adopted by a majority of votes, 79 votes in favour, 1 abstention and 36 against. In accordance with Article 111 of the Treaty on the The budget law, I am voting on the first decision to give consent to the annual report on the implementation of the Croatian Waters Financial Plan for 2008. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? This decision on consent was made by a majority of votes, 80 votes in favour, 1 abstention and 36 against. Secondly, I am voting in favour of giving consent to the annual report on the implementation of the Croatian Roads Financial Plan for 2008. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? The decision was made by a majority vote, 78 votes in favour, one abstention and 40 against. Third, I am voting in favour of the Decision to give consent to the Annual Report on the implementation of the State Deposit Insurance Agency's financial plan and the resolution of banks for 2008. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? The decision was accepted by most votes, 80 votes for, one abstention and 38 against. Fourthly, I am voting on the Decision to give consent to the Annual Report on the implementation of the financial plan of the Croatian Privatisation Fund for 2008. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? The decision was made by a majority of votes, 80 votes for, one abstention and 36 against. I am voting on the decision to give consent to the Annual Report on the implementation of the 2008 Environment and Energy Efficiency Fund's financial plan. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? The decision was made by a majority of votes, 82 votes in favour, nothing abstention and 38 against. The Tourism Committee has proposed to the Croatian Assembly a conclusion that reads: the Government of the Republic of Croatia undertakes to report to the Croatian Parliament by the end of this year on the deadline for completion of the depth analysis of Croatian tourism, the satellite balance of Croatian tourism and the tourism development strategy and the documents mentioned. I ask the Government's representative to be made aware of this proposal. ... This conclusion was accepted by the government. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] I am voting on the proposal for a conclusion of the Tourism Committee. Let's get involved and vote. The result? This conclusion was accepted by the majority of 97 votes in favour, 10 abstentions and 6 against.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-14-0.u37236	Next item - - Final proposal of the Law on postal services, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. Number 399 The bill promoter is the Government. Emergency procedure. The debate was conducted by committees on legislation, European integration, maritime, transport and communications. You received the reports at the session. The amendments were submitted by the Legislative Committee and MP Krunoslav Markovanovic. In accordance with Article 10(3) of Regulation (EC) No 2111/2005, the Commission concluded that the measures provided for in this Regulation are in accordance with the opinion of the Standing Committee on Plants, The Law on State aid is an earlier binding opinion. State Secretary at the Ministry of the Sea, Transport and Infrastructure Drazen Breglac will further explain the proposal. Here you go, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-14-0.u37237	Mr. Vice President, the Honorable and Mrs. Parliamentarians. Let us first say a few sentences about how we got to this law. First of all, I would like to point out that, in 2003, the postal law at that time is mostly in line with the postal directives in force at that moment, the first and second postal directive. This law introduces regulatory access to postal services. Services, universal services and reserved services are also defined. The 2005 amendments reduced the scope of universal services, strengthened the Council's obligations and public powers for postal services as the regulator in the postal services market was then called. With the latest amendments to the existing 2008 law, the law is further in line with the second postal directive, the universal reserved area has been redefined in such a way that the mass criterion is reduced from 100 grams to 50 grams with the delayed application of 1.1.2010 and the price criterion from three times the price of the first mass rate of the fastest category. These changes also brought together two regulators, then the Council's Telecommunications Agency for Postal Services with the current Croatian Post and Electronic Communications Agency. Furthermore, since March of last year, the strategy for the development of the postal services market was an important element in the adoption of this law, the implementation action plan and the strategy which defined the scenario for moderately slow liberalisation of the postal market. Of course, giving sufficient time to the public postal operator by the beginning of 2013, which is also the target date for full liberalisation to carry out the necessary restructuring. Of course, intensive communication with the competent directorate and the European Commission has been conducted in the preparation and drafting of the proposal for this law. Thus, at the beginning of this year, a technical meeting was held on two occasions, after which it became clear that it was necessary to pass a new law which is present and proposed to the Croatian Parliament for adoption. A public debate of 30 days, from 20 April to 20 May, 18 economic operators reported directly on the draft of the new law, 5 reactions with a few dozen remarks were corrected. It's about the very content of this bill. I'd like to draw attention to a few differences, or so far legal solutions. First of all, in universal postal services, in definitions it was thrown out, i.e. it was changed in a way that the direct mail that it implies... a message addressed to a minimum of 500 recipients is no longer part of the universal service. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Also part of the universal service is no longer a printer, as well as a post office quick public manual. And the shipments with the return, and the rush shipments. The reserved universal services in Article 9 confirm the intensity from past changes, which is the Stogram-reserved area, the Stogram Monopol by 1.1.2010, so over 6 months it is reduced to 50 grams, and also in further provisions in Article 63, it is defined that by 31.12.2012 it ceases exclusively the right of a public operator to perform those services. New is the rise of postal service with... The value of which replaces the old growth of courier services, and in our view, the Government in a more transparent and clearer way defined that postal services with additional value must contain cumulatively 5 elements and all 5, without which they are not under that definition, but fall under other services. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It's new too. It is possible to provide postal services and natural persons, so far they have only been legal, while the general conditions of the postal service providers are only provided to the agency regulator... , and no longer to the approval which is also a step into liberalisation. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It remains a provision to approve the price of reserved services by HACOM, so it is under certain control. As regards access to the public co-operative network, it is also new that access is made possible to all postal service providers, and so far it has been for universal postal service providers only. It is, of course, necessary to adopt a further competent sublegal act. Related to the quality of universal postal services, obligations so-called the five-day delivery that has existed and so far has been more precisely defined by this bill and will also be implemented with fewer exceptions by the Regulation that has been adopted by HACOM since 1.1.2011. At the end, user protection. It's also better arranged by this bill of law. In particular, an internal establishment unit organised within the HACOM Agency known from the Law on Electronic Communications, of course, is formed in a way that can effectively act and resolve consumer disputes and which seek satisfaction from the postal service area. And so far, the only place to settle disputes has been a court case. In addition, a specific period of not more than 90 days has been set in which the Agency must decide on a solution to the dispute. As regards the financing of HACOM in the end, I would also like to say that the novelty of it for the part relating to postal services for a part of it has been financed from the state budget, while under this proposal, the financing of HACOM is considered in an analog way as is implemented in electronic communications, which is that in a certain percentage of the total annual revenues, all operators, i.e. all postal service providers, are substantiating their financial obligations and thus enabling the efficient work of the regulators. So much in the introduction, for all further questions, of course we are available. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-14-0.u37238	Thank you. Committees, Integrations, Legislatives, Maritime Affairs, Transport and Connections? I'm opening a debate. HNS representative club, Ms. Danica Hursa. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-14-0.u37239	Dear Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State with an associate, colleague and colleague of the postal service market, we are expected to be fully liberalised, so we must adapt the law to the European Union, but also protect a public operator who employs more than 12,000 people. For this reason, it is good that total market liberalisation has been delayed until 2012. This is the period until we expect that Croatian mail will be reformed and ready to compete with the European market. Progress has been made in the field of postal services in terms of the level of harmonisation of legislation. A strategy for the development of the postal services market and the Action Plan for implementing the adopted strategy was adopted in 2008. The strategy proposes a timeframe for further liberalisation of the postal services market. The law we passed in July 2008 strengthened the supervisory powers of the regulatory body. The Post Office Council is joined by the Croatian Telecommunications Agency in a unique Croatian agency for mail and electronic communications. Furthermore, the law fully assumes the legal property of the European Union, contained in the first and second Postal Directive, with the obligation to close negotiations in Chapter 3 which speaks of the right of business creation and freedom to provide postal services. When drawing up the text of the draft draft law, it was taken into account the implementation of the third Post Directive of the European Commission and the specificities of the national postal market, as mentioned at the outset. The objective and objective of this law is to ensure a quality, efficient and modern regulatory framework that will ensure further development of postal services so that this sector can be integrated into a single liberalised European market by 2012. The details and newspapers that this law proposes, and if we adopt it and bring it to him, he'll be saying the state secretary exhaustingly, so I won't repeat it. To conclude, it is important that, during the transitional period ahead, the availability and satisfactory level of quality of universal postal services of a public operator will be ensured, of course, by an adequate level of standard of citizens and by the functioning of the economy as a whole. For these reasons, representatives of the Croatian People's Party club will support this bill.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-14-0.u37240	Thank you. Club of HDZ Representatives Mr. Zivko Nenadić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-14-0.u37241	Dear Vice President, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. The area of postal services has been governed by the Post Act of 2003. Meanwhile, there have been several changes. The law also started the process of liberalising a certain part of the postal service market. But also reserved post office services are a monopoly, with the insurance of mail delivery throughout the territory of the Republic of Croatia. That's the only thing Croatian mail does for now. No one else asked for such a concession, because it's not really worth it. They prefer to seek concessions for the delivery of postal services in large cities, the concentration of postal service users is high and costs are lower. And the provision of universal postal services is of interest to the Republic of Croatia and certainly throughout the territory of the Republic of Croatia. We are not interested in shutting down postal offices with which the Croatian Post Office started, as we have seen in a recent report on the work of the Croatian Postage and Electronic Communications Agency for the past year. And that trend should stop. The liberalisation of the market necessarily implies a certain regulatory body. At first, it was the Post Office Council, and then already mentioned the Croatian Post and Electronic Communications Agency. Of course, all of this and within the framework of compliance with European Union legislation on the path of accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union. The main issues covered by this bill are strengthening the independence and building the necessary capacity of the national regulatory authority in the postal service market. Afterwards, improving efficiency and supervisory powers, liberalising the postal services market, increasing the responsibility of postal service providers and especially much better protection of postal services. Therefore, the draft law lays down the conditions for the provision of services, the rights and obligations and responsibilities of the provider and the service user, the tasks of the Agency for Mail and Electronic Communications in the section relating to the regulatory tasks in the field of postal services, the exercise of inspection and professional supervision in the field of postal services, and regulates other questions relating to the provision of postal services. We believe that the Croatian Agency for Mail and Electronic Communications will introduce more order in postal services than it has ever been before. This is because the agency has already introduced an enviable level of order in electronic communications. And let them have a little more in mind that they're also in charge of postal services. The HDZ Club supports this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-14-0.u37242	Thank you. An individual debate, Mrs. Mirela Holly. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-14-0.u37243	Thank you. Your Honor, Vice President. Although I will support the adoption of this new Law on Postal Services at the very beginning of the debate, I must express my surprise about the precisely turbo-fast procedure that this law has been subject to since its entry into the Parliament. Although it's one of the laws of the so-called law. I consider the issue of postal services to be of exceptional public interest and given the fact that it is a completely new law rather than amendments and additions to the applicable law, I consider it to be of general Croatian interest that the law has passed two readings or that at least its assembly procedure has lasted a little longer because it would allow for something more detailed and careful reading of this bill. Although I welcome the adoption of this law and, above all, because it puts off the full liberalisation of the postal services market and for the purpose of continuing to book services for the public operator, these are the Croatian mail companies on state property, I am using this opportunity to warn of something that could prove a great lack of this law. This refers specifically to the fact that there is no mention of the services of the so-called service in this proposal. hybrid mail, which means that the user delivers the data to the provider by electronic means and the printer delivers and delivers the consignments. Namely, according to the information I received from postal experts, inaccurate regulation of services so-called services. hybrid mail in certain countries of the European Union has caused quite a problem, so we should start "smart learners at the mistakes of others" in this bill to regulate this type of service and thus not fall into the problems some European countries have come into. And the fact is that we tend to complicate things in this area even when we have defined and regulated by the laws of many details and can only fear what can happen on the market when some new services in postal business are not regulated at all by law. In this sense, I will remind myself of many ambiguities and dubiosis related to the business of the national operator of the Croatian Post Office. In fact, although HP has increased service prices around 50%, it has abolished commercial discounts and it is precisely the post office that is full of thanks for its extremely positive business although Croatian mail capitalises Croatia's postal bank is the fact that this state-owned company has achieved more than 200 million kuna losses in the past year. What do we have now? Now HP is issuing commercial records of 28m euros. Although this is quite a debt, it is not nearly enough for real investment in Croatian post office such as the construction of a new centre for the development of senders whose price is between 50m and 60m euros and which is necessary for the survival of HP. We must therefore conclude that this task has some other purpose and probably the one related to the realisation of short-term goals. This is at least strange if it is known that the price has been significantly increased and that commercial discounts have been lifted, so the inflow of funds should not be any problem. Therefore, the question in itself is why Croatian mail must be in debt if they do so well. If Croatian mail is not doing well and the profit is claimed to be why they are then buying a private allegedly courier company, why they are recapitalising the HPB and increasing the number of directorial posts with very high incomes. In view of the fact that I have recently been very concerned with the question of possible purchases of the company "City Express" by the Croatian Post Office, I have received special attention from this bill, more because I have been asked by the Government in April to explain to me the whole series of disputes concerning the possible purchase of this company by the Croatian Post without any explanation and apology I received the answer only last week, so after almost 3 months and this response in which the Government has not answered almost any of my dozens of questions related to this issue. I would like to remind you that from now on, I have also not received an answer to a very simple question about the area covered by this proposal of the law that we are discussing today, which is what the activity is actually dealing with Croatian mail and whether they have done business with profit or loss. I must admit that the silence of the most state administration on these issues surprised me, so I hoped that the government's response would be correct and thorough, but the answer was almost as if it were written across the will and not with the left hand but with the left foot of a government official and it was very surprising because in the Croatian media, for some time almost, Croatian mail would buy the company "City Express" and the mentioned purchase was made by the Croatian Post Office and even unmistakable in the government's reply that I received a day ago by spreading and taking over a particular segment of the market or by winning the market for courier services. However, this argument is very thin because the company "City Express" has been delivering e-mails that are easier than 100 grams for years and which, according to the applicable Postage Act, is actually reserved exclusively for Croatian mail. Why does the Government allow such an incursion of a private company in the area reserved for a national postal operator to no longer be known to anyone, and it seems that despite its European zeal, the government has forgotten that the model of the reservation of part of the services for a public operator is prescribed in the directives of the European Union and all present in the Member States of the European Union, in which this is not considered to be favourable to the state firm, but to ensure the availability of postal services and in the most remote parts of the country under the same conditions as in the capital centre. Therefore, there is a legitimate question as to what is the real reason for this transaction. I must point out that the 2008 HACOM annual report, which we recently discussed, also surprised me because it lacked explanations as to why the Croatian Post Office report on quality was accepted even though the quality of services was catastrophically low. Why did the Croatian Post Office abolish the weight rate of 20 grams and introduce a 50 grams rate whose price of 3.50 kuna is significantly higher than the previous 2.30 kuna for as long as the normal letter could be submitted recently and why HACOM approved a price of 3.5 kuna even though it was not accompanied by an explanation and a calculation of the costs by the Croatian Post Office. I would say, however, that the most important lack of that report was that there was nothing in it about the findings of the surveillance carried out. It is not clear why the Agency has approved this even though it should take care of the users of the national postal operator as a regulator. In order to approve prices from the reserved area of Croatian Post Offices, it is necessary to calculate and demonstrate the justification for price hikes. That didn't happen. The basis for this is separate accounting for each service separately. Although it is the Croatian Post Office since 2005 it has not been done to date. I hope that this law, which the Proposer argues, will pay particular attention to further strengthening the independence of building the necessary capacity of the national regulatory body on the market of postal services of HACOM, improving the efficiency of its work and structure and supervisory powers, indeed and producing positive effects for the Croatian postal market, because they now have the "Wild West" government, because until we have been given explanations for many illogicalities that have ruled the Croatian postal market for years, there will be doubts that something with the market of Croatian postal services is thick. Namely, how to explain more logically why all of a sudden Croatian mail prices raise their services even though until recently the company was at war with "City Express" by lowering prices to the lowest possible level. Why suddenly Croatian mail collects their services and makes them more expensive than the alleged courier service of a private company, which is just one of the segments of interesting story about the relations between Croatian Post and City Express, which is why the Government of the Republic of Croatia does not want to answer for what reasons. As if Croatian mail means they are not a state-owned company that did business with losses last year, so I guess it created all the preconditions for taxpayers' money to buy a competitive private company. Very logical and absolutely acceptable if viewed from the position of public interest which we Parliamentarians and MPs should and should defend on behalf of those who choose us and pay. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-14-0.u37244	Thank you for your final consideration, Secretary of State Drazen Breglec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-14-0.u37245	I thank you for all the comments made on this bill. Without any pretense to answer any questions asked because they may not be answered from this position at this time. I'm just going to try to give you some more information for the sake of full understanding and this proposal. So, the urgency for this law is explained in the proposal itself, I'll repeat once again, it's a law that makes one of, so whose adoption is one of six criteria for closing chapter 3. ... and freedom to provide services. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] As only in February and March this year after the technical meetings became... that it is necessary to pass a whole new law and these deadlines were very short, it is logical that the short deadlines in all stages of the adoption of this law except for the public debate that we have devoted enough time to. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But I must stress that in that public debate it actively participated in how... Social partners, from the union side and employers, that the proposal was given by the Economic Social Council to this law, that on this Economic Social Council the bill was given both by employers and by the trade unions and by the majority in Croatia and by all others. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] As regards the definition of hybrid mail, hybrid mail as such is not explicit defined by this bill. However, the other provisions of this law clearly point to how certain dilemmas should be implemented if they occur in practice. The specific definition of reserved services is, in the opinion of both the Croatian postal operator and the experts who made this proposal explicit enough that they should not create dilemmas in the implementation of this law because the definition is, of course, very clear in its weight limit and speaks about 100 grams reserved for Croatian mail by the end of this year, about 50 grams of weight work that has been booked since the following year and there should be no doubt about any, by any means of conduct. Of course there have been some problems, of course there have been attempts and there have been violations from the domain of this law. The competent authorities have, within the Agency, the Agency’s supervisors, or inspectors, who have filed with the Ministry in this regard a number of criminal reports and all of them, applied all of these measures at their disposal to sanction the infringements observed. As for the price that increased perhaps not by 50% but slightly from 2.30 to 2.80, with the weight class also increased from 20 to 50 grams at the same time, so a slightly smaller percentage was the increase. But it should be said that the price of the basic postal service has not really changed for years and that it was one big, one big misunderstanding in the business of the Croatian Post Office compared to the environment and the other economic sector. And it was an increase and necessary from a business point of view, and I must also mention here that it, like all other prices, is approved by the regulators. I agree and can confirm that there remains a certain obligation for a public operator to separate the cost accounting on the separation of parameters from the domain of universal or other services. And that's known, it's in the process, in the process of making, I'm convinced that in the shortest time it will be accomplished. As far as business is concerned, as far as I can from my position, in good faith, give further information on the comments that have been made here. I can only point out that the trend of losses from last year has been shown in this year, in part and thanks to this measure of increasing the price of the basic service but also to a serious and determined start of implementation... reforms and, as we know and see, and this bill does not allow compromise and sets a final deadline, until the end of 2012, when these reforms need to be implemented. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So there has been a great, we can say, conditionally large, agreed I must especially highlight the care of workers who have been technologically any other way excess in Croatia mail. Last year, at the end of the year about 780, this year's trend continues in the first half, also by the end of the year, the number of additional 500 will be approximated, including those that qualify for a full and full pension, which we believe will further contribute to a better business of Croatian mail. The result of these two measures is already visible, so the revenues, i.e. the revenues in the first 6 months and including those on the suspension of bonuses, have contributed to an increase in total revenues by 19.5%, so in the first 6 months of this year, and has also been shown by preliminary calculations of the operating profit of 75 million kuna compared to last year's result which was thick in the red area. Here, so much in this final review, I thank you for your constructive comments and I am convinced that this new law will allow Croatia to implement restructuring until the end and within the deadlines for satisfaction at this point slightly less than 12,000 workers, but above all millions of users. That there won't be too much closure of the office, but there is also important to implement the reform in a way that the postage adapts to the requirements and views of its, to similar solutions, well-known good, positive solutions outside of Croatia where part of the office can also be delegated, i.e. you... they may delegate not to be a full-time postal office, and even in a certain franchise way that the practice is out there and there are all the potentials that this important economic operator has 1% of the total, which, with its billion-and-a-half kuna annual realisation and 1% of the employees deserve. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you again and thank you for your support. ... I apologize, of course the amendment of the Legislative Committee is accepted. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] There are no other amendments at this time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-14-0.u37246	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-14-0.u37247	We move to the Final Proposal of the Law on Postal Services, it was an emergency procedure, P.Z.E. Number 399. The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. The amendments were submitted by the Legislative Committee and MP Krunoslav Markovanovic, who withdrew his amendments. During the debate, the proposing representative accepted the amendment committees and did not vote on them because they became an integral part of the final draft law, in accordance with Article 169. Rules of Procedure. I am therefore voting on the final proposal of the Law on postal services. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? This final bill was adopted by the majority of votes, 116 votes for and 2 abstentions, nothing against, together with the amendments adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-14-0.u37248	Now we go to the next point - Proposal for a law on electronic media, first reading, P.Z.E. No. 403 The legislator is the Government. The debate was conducted by committees on legislation, information, information and media, European integration and gender equality. State Secretary at the Ministry of Culture Nina Obuljen will further explain the proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-14-0.u37249	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Honorable MPs and MPs. You have before you a draft of the Law on Electronic Media, which was drawn up and put into legislative procedure in accordance with the National Programme of the Republic of Croatia for the accession of the European Union for 2009. At first, I would like to emphasise that Chapter 10–The Information Society and the media has been provisionally closed and that the current Electronic Media Act has been fully in line with EU legislation, but in the meantime, a new directive has come into force so that we are now harmonizing at the same time as other Member States of the European Union. The draft bill was carried out by a working group established in June last year, consisting of representatives of professional associations of electronic media publishers, national televisions, the Council for Electronic Media, HACOM, competent ministries, the Central State Office for e-Croatia, as well as representatives of the European Commission delegation and civil society associations. When the text of the draft law was established, a public debate was held. The draft Law on Electronic Media is implemented in accordance with the new Audio-visual Media Services Directive, followed by the Directive on the legal protection of services based on conditional access and services that provide conditional access, as well as the Directive on insurance and comparative advertising. What is a special newspaper in this law is that for the first time, it is arranged alongside audio-visual media services and television or television broadcasts so-called. linear audio-visual media services and audio-visual media service on request, so-called non-linear audio-visual media service. In addition, in addition to the general television or radio channel, this proposal also introduces a specialized television or radio programme channel, allowing concessions for such specialized software channels. It is arranged to use all available distribution platforms, including those of earth, satellite, cable and internet, and in accordance with European practice. The authorisation procedure is being arranged for audio and audio-visual media service providers on request, as well as for satellite, internet and cable transmission of audio-visual and radio programmes, as well as for so far the concession procedure for broadcasters of television and radio. In particular audio-visual commercial communications are arranged, so advertising, product placement, audio-visual program, editorial responsibility, sponsorship etc. This draft bill also regulates the implementation of digitalisation in the field of electronic media in a way that regulates the concession procedure for the free transmission capacity of a separate radio or television channel within multiplex, which will enable natural or legal persons to launch digital radio and television. It may also be noted that, in addition to certain concepts that have been taken over from the Directive and general principles relating to all audio and audio-visual media services and linear and non-linear and new conditions for the performance of activities, the non-profit radio and television programmes that introduce non-profit television or radio as public television are particularly regulated. Certain provisions relating to the work of the regulators, i.e. the Council for Electronic Media and the improvement of the Agency's work, are also provided for. Finally, it should be mentioned that certain modifications have been made in terms of infringements. So much for the introduction. We'll answer all the questions.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-14-0.u37250	Thank you. The committees? The Committee on Gender Equality. The president, Madam Representative, Gordana Sobol. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-14-0.u37251	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Madam Secretary of State with an associate. My colleagues and colleagues. At its 24th session of July this year, the Committee on Gender Equality of the Croatian Parliament discussed the first reading of the Proposal for a Law on Electronic Media as an interested working body. The applicant's representative introduced the draft law. The existing Law on Electronic Media does not regulate a number of new audio and audio-visual media services resulting from rapid technological progress and digitalisation in the audio-visual area, and it is necessary to regulate the new law and services in accordance with the new Directive on Audio-visual Media Services of the European Parliament. For the Committee on Gender Equality, specific provisions relating to the ban on the promotion and dissemination of discrimination, including gender, gender identity, expression or sexual orientation are particularly important. The proposed programming principles and obligations of audio-visual or radio programmes include promoting awareness of women and men's equality. The proposed law also prohibits the publication of contributions that offends human dignity and the contribution of particularly immoral and pornographic content. The Funds for the promotion of pluralism and diversity of electronic media would encourage the production and publication of programmes that are important among other things and to promote the development of awareness of gender equality. The representative of the Ombudsman's Office has expressed the view that the bill in many ways represents progress, but has also made certain remarks concerning the report on the suicide of children and possible fatal identification with victims and the need for programmes for children not to be interrupted by promotional videos. In the follow-up to the debate, it was suggested that part of the bill on advertising should be complemented by the provisions of the Gender Equality Act and the Media Law on illicit advertising in which women and men appear in an offensive or humiliating way in view of gender or sexual commitment. It is also proposed to supplement the provisions on the composition of the Council for Electronic Media, since the Law on Gender Equality requires that the appointment into state bodies should take into account the balanced representation of both sexes. After the discussion, the members and members of the committee unanimously decided to propose their conclusions to the Croatian Assembly. The proposal for a law on electronic media is adopted in the first reading. Any comments, proposals shall be made to the Proposer in order to prepare the final draft law.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-14-0.u37252	Thank you. Committee on Information, Information and Media, Vice-President of the Committee of Ms. Ljubica Lukačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-14-0.u37253	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. The Committee on Information, Information and Media discussed the proposal for a Law on Electronic Media submitted to the President of the Croatian Parliament by the Government of the Republic of Croatia by an act of 2 July 2009. The Committee considered that proposal to be a home working body. In its opening statement, the applicant's representative pointed out that the proposed law would adopt the provisions of the Audiovisual, Media Services Directive 98/87 EC on the legal protection of services based on conditional access and services which provide conditional access and, in part, Directive 206/114 of the EC on misleading and comparative advertising. Furthermore, it pointed out that when this proposal was drawn up, it was taken into account the need to adopt regulations that would be in line with the modern development of the principle of freedom of the media and the need to promote public interest in the pursuit of the activity of the provision of audiovisual media services, and that a public debate was carried out on the proposal of the law. The discussion on the board drew attention to the possibility of providing new services such as audiovisual services on request, and the use of all available means of distribution of land, satellite, cable and Internet, which in the opinion of some committee members raised doubts that abuse could occur. In particular, it is noted that Article 79 of the Law, which regulates the procedure for granting, permitting a licence for satellite, internet and cable transmission of audio visual or radio programmes, as the request is left to be refused which allows political arbitration, and this is particularly important in local TV and radio stations. In addition, the question has been raised whether this proposal provides media ownership in a transparent manner, as well as all forms of media service provision, and whether the way the electronic media council itself works and the electronic media agency is transparent. The applicant’s representative replied that the ownership issue was regulated in Article 52 and that wherever possible, a public commitment was introduced in the draft law. After the discussion, the committee decided unanimously with 7 votes to propose the following conclusions to the Croatian Parliament. The proposal for a law on electronic media and any objections and proposals and opinions presented in the debate will be adopted to the applicant to consider them when drawing up the final draft law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-14-0.u37254	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. Club of HDZ Representatives, Ms. Ljubica Lukačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-14-0.u37255	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, here's the law, the proposal for a law on electronic media, and here I will at first just point out a few notes that I think always, which I think I always remember well. So here are 24 TV and 155 radio concessionaries in the territory of the Republic of Croatia, and the number of persons performing electronic publications has not been established. The work of those electronic media is regulated by the Law on Electronic Media, the Law on Media and the Law on the Confirmation of the European Convention on Cross-border Television, while the work of Croatian Radio Television is regulated by a special law. The Law on Electronic Media regulates the operation of radio and television, the publication of electronic publications, the protection of pluralism and the diversity of media, the system and the work of the Regulatory Council, the Council for Electronic Media, which also proposes the Agency for Electronic Media as an expert service. Since the existing Law on Electronic Media does not regulate a number of new audio and audiovisual media services, they are the result of rapid technological progress and digitalisation in the audiovisual field, it is necessary to regulate these services with a new law, and in accordance with the new Audiovisual Media Services Directive. This Directive has been adopted by the European Parliament and the Council on 11 December 2007 and is amending and supplementing the Directive on television without borders. Furthermore, the provisions of Directive 98/84 of the EC on the legal protection of services based on conditional access and services providing conditional access as well as part of the provisions of Directive 206/114 EC on insurance and comparative advertising should be adopted. The proposed law addresses certain issues. Here, I'll just short-list some of them. So there are certain terms used in the law, especially those that have been downloaded from the Audiovisual Media Services Directive. Furthermore, general principles on the provision of audio and audiovisual media services and ways of promoting and protecting the interests of the Republic of Croatia. Afterwards issues relating to all audio and audiovisual media services, conditions under which audio and audiovisual media services can be provided for a request, conditions for the provision of media services, television and radio, software conditions for the provision of media services, television and radio services which are detailed in the programme and programme services and their classification in individual groups, etc. The proposed law also provides for fines for infringements in the event of non-compliance with the provisions of this law and the law regulates transitional and final provisions providing for a transitional period in which concessionaries and other media service providers must carry out their activities and shall comply with the conditions and standards laid down by this law. It is important to note that the implementation of this law does not require the provision of additional resources in the state budget, with the harmonisation of the directives previously mentioned for media service providers with the existing media services of television and radio, to enable the provision of new services such as audiovisual media services on request and the use of all available distribution platforms based on the receipt of concessions, i.e. approval. Finally, I would also like to point out something that seems extremely important to me, and the proposer has made this aspect, so this law regulates itself, and this is also visible in this part when the applicant is talking about the basic issues that need to be regulated by this law when it mentions the general principle of the provision of audio and audiovisual media services and the way of promoting and protecting the interests of the Republic of Croatia when in this part it talks about encouraging media service providers to publish programmes in order to achieve the objectives and values that are important for public information and informed by all citizens of the Republic of Croatia, and among other people with special needs are mentioned here. I here, in good faith, just want to propose to the promoter that here, in future taking care of names, therefore there are no persons with special needs, but rather persons with disabilities, although I welcome what the applicant has accomplished as a person with disabilities, and this is, in accordance with Article 21, here is this very important document, the United Nations Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, which therefore regulates freedom of expression and opinion in its Article 21, as well as access to information and, among other things, says that the states of the signatories are obliged to take all appropriate measures to encourage public communication funds, including the provision of information via the Internet to make their services more accessible to persons with disabilities. In this proposal, the Proposer regulated it in Article 14 of this Law, where it is said, of this incentive which I am now talking about and saying that deaf persons and blind persons therefore adapt to the means of public information. Finally, I would like to point out that the Croatian Democratic Community club will support the adoption of this law in its first reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-14-0.u37256	Thank you. SDP representative club, Mr. Representative Antun Vujic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-14-0.u37257	Mr. Vice-President of the Parliament, dear fellow State Secretary, Honored counterpart Jeremic, colleagues and colleagues. This is a law that requires a lot of specialized knowledge and in the consultations that we have conducted and in those texts that we have monitored, we see that a great deal has been done and that, in fact, in this round of debate on this law from the point of view of Croatia and its relationship with Europe, in fact, at the same level as the debate on this law in other European countries. In this regard, therefore, the problems that we have have both, and in this sense, are, of course, looking for solutions that are not so specific to Croatia, as they are special to themselves because a new area is being opened where many things that are regulated still need to be addressed and where some new phenomena and new problems will probably also look for further additions. But let's cut to the chase. The justification for introducing a new way of regulating electronic media in Europe comes first and foremost from the developmental direction the media is facing. Sectors such as telecommunications, media and information technologies have become complementary parts of the global market. Such a market multimedialy driven by processes... has become a strategic field of action for all 3 sectors, radio and television, telecommunications and information industries. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In a political sense, media circulation is stronger than ever before spreading ideas of different preferences and those with a political omen, so it is understandable that politics must be interested in achieving the social function of the media and in these more complex conditions, especially when it comes to media content. Decision-making in the field of media policy has significant implications for the future development of electronic media, both in Europe and in the Republic of Croatia. We'll just mention some of those decisions. One, the level of restrictions on the acquisition of combined ownership over the media, so-called Cross media ownership, then future development of the information society, copyright protection, digital rights management, regulatory frameworks for the development of new audiovisual services, are all areas that are very complicated and that will certainly, which should be very carefully installed to get the right result. So there is one law before us that bears the seal of all these changes. The law is also an obligation to join the European Union in the part in which the deadlines for the implementation of these documents are set. However, we have seen that in this respect the previous law we have already passed this test in some way, but this is now about harmonising with the new audiovisual media directive of 2007. In a legal sense, this directive is complemented by the earlier '89 directive, but in practical application it is trying to regulate media relations in Europe in a new way. This new directive is a long-awaited document for purely practical reasons. The directive comes at the time of the digital transition of the entire European Union and other countries from its environment, and a new regulation of relations in the media area is reasonably expected. Finally, following its adoption, issues of interpretation and practical application were raised, and this is also the subject of practical implementation of this law. Therefore, the amendment of the regulatory paradigm seems to be based on the Law on Electronic Media, and this primarily means increasing dependence on the processes of co-regulation and only regulation in the media today, which means that the area of negotiation and negotiation of different practices that goes beyond the legislation itself. How does that apply to this law? It seems to me that such issues should first be asked through the analysis of the work of the regulator, i.e. Electronic media agencies. This raises questions about the administrative capacity of such an agency, which so far employs 5 people who are actually a service for maintaining the regulator itself without any professional service so that it can fully carry out its task. There are therefore questions of financial sufficientness and should make an analysis of this situation to see if the law actually costs or doesn't cost. And there is also a question of the ability of the agency to develop other forms of media regulation, which is precisely changing the regulatory paradigm through increased dependence on the processes of co-regulation and only regulation of the media. On a concrete example, I'm going to try to show a taste of the issues themselves. Therefore, the issue of great importance among other things will be in the application of this law to assess in practice whether the basic purpose of the service provider is to distribute audiovisual content or whether it is random or secondary. Whether this will inevitably require a certain degree of discretion from the regulator and how this discretion will apply. The question here is whether existing media platforms, i.e. These forms of distribution may and may be alibis for any possible incursions to the activities of television that are today whitened through other media platforms. This is therefore a matter of certain prosthesis of content distribution and of those who are in some way legitimate for the content itself. On the one hand, the procedure for granting concessions for ground broadcasting has been laid down. In this respect, the recently amended law, following an emergency procedure in April 2009, which says that the regulator is carrying out preparatory actions to grant concessions in accordance with the concession law, and these preparatory actions include further procedures such as those. ... This came too fast, yeah. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I'm going to have to make an important cut and I'm going to give this contribution to my colleague, because he includes a whole series of concrete remarks, I don't know how it got this fast.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-14-0.u37258	There's something wrong.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-14-0.u37259	Something's wrong, I think. So now we're talking about how you actually acquire concessions specifically. This means that it is necessary to carry out at the standard level, to assess the value of concessions, to develop eligibility studies, to draw up documentation for competition, etc. There's a whole series of stores to do. And what we have on the other hand now in this case. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. So it's not about concessions, it's about permission for satellite, internet and cable transmission. However, this process for the transfer of the programme speaks a little bit about the content of the programme itself and the definition of the one which broadcasts it, and I think that the meaning of this law is precisely a matter of content, so the content, while the issue of the transfer of the programme is determined, or could be determined by other laws governing the issue of distribution, such as that of electronic communications. Of course, this is all thinking. We will probably come up with adequate solutions and we are on the way of quality solutions, but therefore we should also be careful here that one question in some way is distributed, and the other is content itself and that relations that extend to distribution cannot ignore the issue and content of that distribution. For the purpose of this form of broadcasting, it is necessary to permit regulators under this proposal, whereas the previous example in the case of earth broadcasting is subject to concessions with all possible assessments and embodies. So here we have an incomparably more open situation, but therefore a more uncertain situation. This set of problems is related to the relationship which is the backbone of the law, which is the difference between linear, analogue digital TVs, direct transmission and nonlinear, i.e. video on request, etc. service, which is not only a theoretical problem, because linear services are submitted significantly... the regime, e.g. the relationship between Internet regulation and television. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So on the one hand, we have a process of establishing justification, and on the other hand we have a mere licensing. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. And obligations, but I think there's a big, big field of uncertainty left. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] At the same time, there is no other assessment for the licensing process as in the case of concessions, which I mean open, which actually allows one open door and for all possible invasions into the television system which would not be welcome from the public interest point of view. This is seen in particular in the following questions, in the light of the unfair treatment of granting permission in relation to a media platform which distributes a particular programme and from the fact that no other media platform can be a cover for bypassing the law, i.e. let's say that a small door enters into the activity of television as is the case with some distributors, and this may not be fully explained here or in some way it is a matter that is not yet fully regulated. The question remains what the competent institutions are doing when a breach of television activity is taking place that is otherwise advertised as the activity of television itself. One of the fundamental European media rights is certainly the right to brief reporting, i.e. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. It is also one field that remains unregulated and with a lot of uncertainty. Thus, this right can be difficult to achieve by accessing the site of events, and what is the subject of the following article, since the organisers of some events in general do not implement the Law on Electronic Media, and from the above, we have seen that this is generally not possible for practical reasons, remains to be asked how to consume this right? Of course, the Council can neither, nor is it able to provide access to events nor the place of events, so we can only conclude that such an article is not feasible. Perhaps we should look at some other regulations and ways in which these problems have been solved, such as the type of BBC rule on how to handle the news that has developed a certain code of conduct so as not to have situations that we have recently seen both in HRT and RTL disputes over the handball championship. In the part of the law we welcome and support, I'd like to make some papers. This is the introduction of specialized television programs and their definition, although the provisions of 80% of the same content are somewhat restrictive compared to the European standard, which say the specialized programmes are above 50% of the same content. It is then a transparent publication of ownership, which is important, an extension of the criteria for the allocation of funds in Article 65, which includes those criteria that promote creativity in Croatian languages, but also those that encourage the development of awareness of gender equality and a whole series of elements some of which are highlighted here. The correction then of Article 38 on the share of its own production, given that the current formulations related to the percentage of that share were actually inconclusive. There is also a question of correcting infringements that were not enforceable in the previous law and are now perceived in a way that makes a lot of sense. But we have some reserves and primarily in a way that regulates the content and encourages the council to work, as in Article 66, which only encourages regulation, promotes co-regulation and promotes media literacy. The formulation in Article 10 must be generally accepted by the main stakeholders. This concerns only regulation and co-regulation, as an attempt to regulate this relationship more closely will not be successful, because it is very difficult to reach a consensus on these issues, especially as it is unclear what main stakeholders are doing here. And actually, you know, these groups are actually in each other's interests by themselves. So these are very, very complex matter. Such formulations should be replaced by what we see, by the obligation of a certain Council regulation to regulate these relations. If that's possible, what might possibly require ex post work. Positively, a provision in which the council encourages media literacy was introduced in the part-round work of the council, since the development of media literacy at the time of universal digitisation is at the same time the way in which technology is taught in everyday consumption. However, it remains unclear to apply Article 62 of that article to the application of rules on the protection of competition and Articles 54 and 55 relating to concentration restriction, and even to Article 12 of the recently adopted amendment and supplement law, etc. a regarding the pre-mentioned provisions of an assessment of the eligibility of a concession. In particular, if the provisions are applied as to the protection of competition, it does not appear to be binding on all judgments of this type. How will the Agency for the Protection of Competition take action in the event of disagreement with decisions implemented by the Council for Electronic Media under this law? It's unclear. But we've already had such cases in some other matters. Now something about a non-profit action, which is actually a very good step, but which may not be resolved until the end, or maybe we should do something about it. Namely, there is little known to anyone in the Republic of Croatia in the field of radio publishing, and this one needs to be specially underlined, a total of three non-profit radio stations. It's a "Catholic Radio", it's a Radio Student that's heard about 500 meters from the Faculty of Political Sciences, and it's a Radio Cretac school in Old Mikanovci. I just think comparisons for France have 30% of such radios than total radios. The U.S. has 40% of the specific forms of stimulation of radios like this in the Netherlands and elsewhere. And I think maybe there should be some provisions there that would stimulate this type of radio and radio stations. These considerations should find concrete material in some of the proposed articles of the law, which is more so because the new audiovisual media directive is further liberalising the market in many specifics such as the introduction of a term... in content and its legalisation, there are no previous obligations as to whether it must go 20 minutes between the interruptions of two advertising deadlines and a whole series of provisions that actually protect primarily how to say, they are not very likable from the point of view of the interest which would still be in the interest. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It's kind of public television. This all requires a genuine change in the regulatory paradigm, so one strong and qualified council as well as the council responsible for its results and what it proposes. And finally, we want to highlight another aspect. Audiovisual media services, as said in the preamble to the directive, are as economically as well as cultural services. Their growing importance for societies democracy in terms of ensuring freedom of information, diversity of opinion and media pluralism, education and culture justify the application of specific rules for these services. And so here we have the same thing that actually happens now and as a recommendation, which we often point out, which is that information and content media really are goods, but not just goods. And in that sense, it is the state's interest to impose this legislation in all elements that cannot be directly covered by these laws under its general media legislation. We think this is otherwise a quality bill and the SDP will be happy to support in first reading this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-14-0.u37260	Thank you. An individual debate. Ms. Representative Susana Bilić Vardić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-14-0.u37261	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Madam Secretary of State with an associate, colleagues and colleagues. Well, here is the strangest thing I am pleased to see is that, speaking on behalf of the SDP club, I am pleased that the introduction was positive about the compliance of Croatian legislation in this area of electronic media with those in the Member States of the European Union. So why did I just say this? Because of my debate on the Proposal for a Law on Electronic Media, I came up with a completely different concept, but I will still stay with my concept. Therefore, when we held a bile debate in this House last March 2008 on the agenda of granting consent to the statutes of the Electronic Media Agency, there was also a heated debate between the parliamentary majority and the opposition on the fact that the statute is not good, stated claims that the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Electronic Media of July 2007 was also not good, and that the Government of the Republic of Croatia must, as soon as possible, harmonise the Law on Electronic Media with the new Directive of the European Parliament and the Council of 11 December 2007, which regulates audiovisual media services. At that time, it was made clear by the proposings that the mandatory deadline for compliance with the Directive has been two years since the adoption of the directive, meaning December 2009. It was said then and I will repeat that the first meeting of the Contact Committee was scheduled for April 2008 and in June the second on which guidelines for implementation of the directive will be given. Why am I saying all this to my colleagues and colleagues and why this chronology? First, that today a member of the SDP who believes that the 2007 Electronic Media Act is good here today but obviously last year when we discussed the statute you weren't there, and then because there can be no such change of opinion and attitude. ... I'm not chasing two different laws at all. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] My colleague, you can lift up a replica or correct an incorrect quote. Well, because today we have a proposal for a law on electronic media another one in a series bearing the P.Z.E. label. and which, in accordance with the National Programme of the Republic of Croatia for Accession of the European Union 2009, is foreseen for the fourth quarter. The Government of the Republic of Croatia sent it to the Croatian Parliament for discussion and adoption in the first reading, which I also commend because it gives us the opportunity here to representatives of the Croatian Parliament and committees, working bodies to comment or to supplement and correct this proposal. So the government delivered it in the third quarter, which certainly implies it was made and staged in the second quarter of this year for discussion. And this example of why I present this, so I would like to commend and say that this is also an example that the Croatian Government and the RES are worth working on meeting the commitments and conditions of harmonisation of its legislation with the legal gains of the European Union for accession to the full membership of the Republic of Croatia in the European Union. This proposal for a law that we are discussing today in the first reading implements the harmonisation of the Law on Electronic Media with the Audiovisual Media Services Directive, the Directive on the Legal Protection of Services based on conditional access and services provided by conditional access, and the Insurance and Comparative Advertising Directive, which is governed by the area of audiovisual media services from each of their points of view. And get back to that 2007 directive. The Audiovisual Media Services Directive with which the Republic of Croatia had to comply with its legislation here at the moment when the Croatian Parliament is discussing this law in its first reading, we can say that it has brought its legislation into line with France and, in part, Belgium and Austria. Otherwise, when I again talk about harmonisation as regards the proposing, we should say that we are changing the law and supplementing the law that was fundamentally passed in 2003, which had been amended in 2007, 2008 was a short technical amendment in the field of telesales, but it seems to me that in May of this year we also aligned the Law on Electronic Media with the new Law on concessions, so if I'm not mistaken, I think that these amendments are adopted and published in the "National Journal" No. 65/09. So the proposal is to add here in Article 90 of this proposal to the law. But I also respect this small failure because it is obvious that the task force and the ministry have been making parallel changes and supplementing the law of compliance with the concession law here and with this directive, and then this error could be subdued. Otherwise, in the draft law, I welcome the amendment that is envisaged and concerns the president and members of the Council for Electronic Media. So far, seven members of the Electronic Media Council have appointed the Croatian Parliament on a proposal from the Croatian government, and the president was elected among himself by appointed members. In this law, it is proposed and envisaged that the president and members of the Electronic Media Council appoint the Croatian Parliament on the proposal of the Croatian Government and I welcome this amendment. I see that it is also regulated the status of members of the Council for Electronic Media. The current law prescribed that a year after leaving office, therefore members could not be employed in these similar institutions and now they are scheduled to pay six months in full and the other six months half the last salary they received while they were members of the Council for Electronic Media, which is also good. Here my predecessors have highlighted the importance of public ownership of electronic media, which is regulated in Article 52. I would just like to say and stress that this provision stood before and in the 2003 law was regulated in Article 44, but I would like to emphasise it because the Council for Electronic Media, which is required to submit its report to the Croatian Parliament once a year, should be obliged to include in this report the law of the prescribed provisions on data on the legal person and seat, i.e. the name and last name and the residence of all legal and natural persons who directly or indirectly became shareholders of shares or shares in that media provider with data on the percentage of shares or shares, particularly when we talk about the allocation of funds of the Fund for the promotion of pluralism and diversity of electronic media. From the above, I will support the proposal for a law on electronic media in first reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-14-0.u37262	Thank you. Mrs. Representative Gordana Sobol. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-14-0.u37263	Thank you. Mr. President, representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues. First of all, I want to welcome the fact that no matter what this law has, it has a code E, so P.Z.E. to consider it in two readings which actually proves that it is possible. Unfortunately, it seems to me that a series of laws were passed by emergency procedures, and it might be better if we did the same in two readings. So, I welcome this fact. What I would particularly like to emphasise is what I said on behalf of the Committee on Gender Equality because we have led one brief discussion and the Committee and therefore concerns all of those articles of Article 12, 18, 26, 31, which, in one way or another, address the problems of the prohibition of discrimination on all grounds, problems, promoting awareness of women and men's equality and in this section relating to the Council for Electronic Media but also to a fund through which it is also possible to take about a year back to take into account, therefore, and to co-finance programmes that promote awareness of the need for gender equality in Croatian society. What I would like to encourage and emphasise once again and ask the promoter to take this into account is the provision of a law on gender equality which, which speaks to the media, speaks among other things, so Article 16(2) says the forbidden public representation and representation of women and men in an offensive, demeaning or humiliating way in view of sex and sexual orientation. This provision, therefore, has been incorporated almost in the same way as the Law on Gender Equality. That is why I believe there is absolutely no obstacle to such a provision being incorporated into the Law on Electronic Media. We feel that this is an extremely necessary team more than we have witnessed, the truth less than it was before, but we are still in the part where advertising is especially about getting through a variety of ads, commercials that are just as offensive and demeaning as any woman, any men. And then when you react to such a thing I personally have already received answers in terms of so it is not a particularly regulated law on electronic media. Provisions that protect dignity, therefore, provisions prohibiting discrimination, etc., we and those provisions also have in the Media and Gender Equality Act but also in particular concerns this part of advertising. I, therefore, ask the Proposer to include such a provision in particular in Article 31, may be as one specific item, below as paragraph 6. Another thing I would like to support, which is the opinion of the Ombudsman for children, you as a proposer, I think you've received her comments and suggestions regarding the Law on Electronic Media. And I would especially like to look at the issue of advertising alcohol, or alcoholic beverages, or alcohol drinks, with a few sentences. For example, in Article 31, certain items also refer to the advertising of alcoholic beverages and, among other things, say not to be specifically directed at minors or, in particular, to show minors who consume such beverages, so that they cannot link alcohol consumption with improved physical condition or driving, they must not create the impression that alcohol consumption contributes to social or sexual success, they must not claim that alcohol has medicinal properties, that it is a stimulant, sedative or a means to resolve personal conflicts. They must not encourage excessive consumption of alcohol or show abstinence or moderation in a negative sense, etc., etc. On the Committee on Gender Equality, this is exactly what we discussed, issues, ads in which beer is advertised in every way possible. I'm saying this no matter how much I know beer falls under the Food Act, but I think we should talk about it here too. I also discussed this with regard to the adoption or discussion of some other laws. Adverts, beer consumption and beer consumption are tied to entertainment in enormous quantities, with sport, with success, with something that is very desirable. And I want to warn all of us here one more time. Entering the world of alcohol especially when it comes to male children moving with beer consumption, whether we like it or not. I'm aware that it's lobbying, that it's sponsorship, that it's big money. But look at the commercials and somebody tell me that commercials don't affect minors. In these commercials, I'm also interested in how many minors are involved in making such commercials. So, on the one hand, we're talking about banning advertising, advertising alcoholic beverages and, on the other hand, seeing as a society neatly how, of course, we're blaming it ourselves because we've introduced certain things into some of the other laws that we actually and among the underage population are growing consumption and beer consumption and nobody's going to convince me that beer, that beer, especially when minors are in question can't get drunk. So, it seems to me that these provisions, and otherwise related to advertising and other alcoholic beverages, are only to remind you, take, and most often on the eve of Christmas holidays, Christmas, New Year's Eves are nice with turkeys, mills and I don't know what to do and a few bottles of wine that advertise at a cheap price. Here's the other day I found out that on one of the commercial TVs was advertised martinis then they told me martinis you belong to food, so that martini is not an alcoholic drink. But I think that, therefore, through this Law on Electronic Media, through these provisions, it might be more clearly determined than advertising alcoholic beverages. Because colleagues and colleagues I know that as well as the state, we are trying to make an effort in terms of the tradition of growing and processing wine vines, or grapes, on the one hand, and the consumption of alcohol, or wine, the potential, on the other hand, do not forget that as a society, we have completely ignored the problem of alcoholism, the problem of addiction. And unfortunately, even today when we talk about the problem of addiction, we primarily talk about tobacco and talk about drugs. We completely ignored alcohol. Here the other day there was a story in one of our media, in one newspaper, a story of a boy who, along with his father, has been going to treatment in a club of people treated with alcohol for five years. This is the problem, there will be likely to be opportunities for some other laws to discuss in general the number of people who depend on alcohol in Croatia. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-14-0.u37264	Thank you very much. It's Mr. Representative Boris Kunst. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-14-0.u37265	Thank you very much, esteemed President, State Secretary, fellow MPs. I especially agree with my colleague Sobol's discussion, and I'm sure if a man eats a kilo of martini he can get stomach poisoning. But as far as this proposal for a law on electronic media is concerned, we are in fact harmonising the existing situation with the shooting development of technology by respecting the principles of freedom of the media and the need to promote public interest in the pursuit of the activity of providing audio-visual media services, so in light of the adoption of the provisions of certain European directives. That's why I believe this proposal is worth the attention and certainly should be supported. A number of questions remain open. The possibility of providing new services other than existing media services, radio and television is certainly a significant step for media service providers, although it should be taken into account that no abuse is made in any way. In doing so, I think, in particular, of granting or rejecting a licence for the transfer of certain content which can lead to the arbitration of various social entities and the resulting adverse consequences. I am equally worthy of holding an initiative on the introduction of non-profit television or radio, which as a type of electronic media is increasingly represented in the countries of the European Union, although I believe that rules should be set out more precisely in this case. Finally, I hope that the Agency for Electronic Media, as well as the Council for Electronic Media, as its expert service, will take the responsibility entrusted to them as seriously as possible and finally sanction a number of examples of violations of the provisions of the current laws. In particular, I mean those violations that were already warned by the Ombudsman about the child's privacy, and I support that children's shows are not interrupted by various ads. Also, what Sobol was saying should be banned from advertising alcoholic beverages, regardless of what is sometimes contained under food, because the data on excessive alcohol consumption, whether it is children, young people or adults, is worrying in our country. In everything I said, the Council for Electronic Media must play a far stronger role. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-14-0.u37266	Thank you. And Mrs. Representative Maria Lugaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-14-0.u37267	Your Honor, Mr. President. My colleagues and colleagues, Madam Secretary of State. So I will support the adoption of this Law on Electronic Media. I agree that it's very good to discuss the law in two readings. The law is good, I should say very little more details to work on. I will personally say a few things in which I actually want to help make the law better, because it is originally good. This area is normally quite ungrateful for one rigid and firm regulation since the development of multimedia, by developing to say communication opportunities in the broadest sense, things are simply changing too quickly, and then any regulation we would actually put at risk in six months or a year, but a very short period becomes but completely inapplicable. In that sense, the definition of the electronic publications you have given in this bill, I think it's better than that version that was in the previous Electronic Media Act that actually prescribed under electronic publications anything that actually didn't say anything. And in that sense, I think this definition is better, although I suggest you consider formulating an editorially designed website, because each website is one way or another editorially designed. My blog is an editorially designed website, and it's not a news portal and what was thought to be. Each of our private profiles on Facebook is an editorially designed site, because each of us who owns it has an editorial impact on the content published there, then indirectly in some way and responsibility. The intensity to present to electronic publications something that would be closest to the transfer of traditional media or what we know as traditional media in terms of radio, television or newspapers in some form of electronic form is a good choice and it was really necessary to throw these things of a type of blog and some private stuff out of public electronic publications. Of course, we need to be aware that some of these pages also serve to place news and form public opinion. Many decisions have just been transmitted not through traditional media and even through these closely understood electronic publications, but through social networks, but simply for now this definition is working, but somewhere we need to be aware that we will have to change it sooner or later. But I repeat, to think about, to see that this word is editorially thrown out, because everything on the Internet is in a way or another editorially designed. In addition, you later in law have chapters relating to audio and audio-visual media and various rules related to it. My colleagues talked about it, and I wouldn't get involved in it at all, because I don't know much about it, and I don't think it's necessary. However, you do not regulate electronic publications any further. The old law solutions that said that electronic publications adequately refer to the provisions concerning classical media, I think, was not a good solution because it was very difficult to rewrite the provisions on advertising or sponsoring to a significantly different medium. But here, the simplest thing to say is that we're talking about some kind of Internet regulation or part of it. The fact is that there are a lot of things to be left to self-regulatory, especially in this part, especially because we tend to have more and more content being user-formed, not to have some professionals writing and editing it, but one minimum regulatory must exist. In this sense, for example, what you have put in addition to Article 12 is not allowed in providing classical audio and audio-visual media services in terms of hate, discrimination, etc. This is something we should also apply to electronic publications. The Internet is indeed a free medium, it involves one express and individuality and express democracy, but it is very often a polygon of very brutal and insulting and expression, but absolutely the worst that you can imagine in any way and if it is difficult to regulate and should not be regulated. It seems to me that there should be some kind of restriction in that part. You've had a bit of bizarre under the law so far to put it that way. One of my fellow bloggers posted some sort of text, someone anonymously posted some kind of comment where he insulted a public person. He was called to the police and held there for two hours because he was called responsible for the content. We just can't do that and we can't let that happen. And I'm saying, in that sense, these legal formulations are good. But in some ways, there are limits to be introduced. Perhaps if we don’t write them even so clearly or in the legal part of the regulation, it really changes too quickly. But then let's just say that maybe according to some agency or council rules, they make certain decisions, certain propositions that would be appropriate for me to say the moment or the current time. Because a year ago no one spoke alive and had any idea about Facebook, and today there are far more important things going on, and the question is what new media will be like in the next six months or a year. And only two other short remarks. My colleague Sobol had already spoken about Article 31 and this advertising and telemarketing of alcohol and alcoholic beverages. I suggest that instead of formulating alcohol and alcoholic beverages, put in a formulation of alcoholic and alcoholic beverages. The practical coincidence is that beer and wine, and now I have to admit I've heard amazingly also martinis that don't lead under alcoholic beverages. But they are definitely alcohol-containing drinks, which are included in that category, they would have certain restrictions in advertising, which I absolutely agree with, and I suggest adding another restrictions on advertising alcoholic beverages, so alcohol-containing drinks, which is to be defined in a way that alcohol consumption is related to sports success. Because, unfortunately, it's something that we have in particular with beer and football, but it's inextricably tied up. It's almost impossible to watch a football game without you having at least a minute of half-time beer commercials. I understand that sports need sponsors, too, that he needs commercial money. But it really seems to me to be too far gone, but every step of the way. So everything can be done, but simply by measure. And secondly, just like this on the way. I must admit, I'm not completely clear on the wording of paragraph 4.30 and second article. So it's said to be the transmission of movies, shows, etc. can interrupt commercials once in an intended 30-minute block. Now, does that mean every 30 minutes can be commercials? If that means every 30 minutes I can be advertising, I'm not sure it's an optimal solution. Maybe to say it can be interrupted once in blocks, because these particularly commercial televisions are very brutally used by that rule and they kind of draw the viewers to let you go of the first few frames, then they release a 15-minute commercial block, even though they don't have a right for 15 minutes at all. So, you have one minute of film or series, then 15 minutes of advertising, then five minutes of show, then let's do the commercials again. So you don't even get to see it. So these aren't these logical units. So that can only be more precise. And here's one clean maybe this really small thing. Article 38(3) speaks of rerunning of radio and television shows. I absolutely agree that reruns should be clearly marked. And I totally see how these reruns could be marked on TV. So the reruns must be clearly marked throughout the duration of the emissions. But I really don't understand how on the radio if they're reprying the show, I can have it clearly marked as a rerun, because we just have a tone. Can't someone in the background at some bass talk this is a rerun, this is a rerun. So it's absolutely an idea to support it, the intensity isn't bad. But it seems to me that much better when we already have a solid law, when we're discussing it in two readings, that we also introduce these improvements that can really make a good law out of a solid one. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-14-0.u37268	Thank you very much. And finally, Mrs. Nina Obulen, State Secretary at the Ministry of Culture. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-14-0.u37269	Thank you, Mr. President. I thank the MPs and MPs who took the floor and commented on the law. We will, of course, consider them all when making a final bill. I would briefly refer to some issues raised in the debate. First of all, as far as advertising is concerned, we also mentioned this about alcoholic beverages and gender equality, related to the protection of minors. We have fully taken over the provisions of the directive, and as regards the law, the issue of alcoholic beverages and the Food Act, I must admit, and the European Commission has asked for some additional clarifications. We have sent them laws that are in force in the Republic of Croatia, and at this point their opinion is that it is, that these provisions are adequately taken over. But of course we'll consider all that said in the debate. As regards Article 79 and the authorisation procedure, so for satellite, internet and cable transmission, it should be pointed out that those who have so far dealt with the team were in some way outside the law. So there was a need to fix it. It doesn't exist, so the directive doesn't say anything, there's no single standard. However, what exists as a practice in the European Union is the issue of such authorisations or as it is called licences and as a principle it is necessary for these permits to be readily available, to be a short period for their issue. In the legislative proposal, we have regulated the relationship of these, so Article 79, in a way that the basic, general principles of the law apply and that allows the regulator to be able to do so in the event of serious violations of the provisions of this law to withdraw that authorisation. In addition, this permit is extremely important when it comes to satellite transmission because they cannot legally access satellites unless in their country of origin they do not have such permission. There were a few questions about the public. The law is improved in the self-regulatory and co-regulation section. There were rather long discussions on the working group, because there was indeed some interest in the publishers themselves in the part where self-regulatory and co-regulatory was planned to go to the rules to be prescribed by the council. However, what is the practice in Europe today is to go as far as possible to self-regulatory and co-regulatory as possible, and we have in this sense introduced this obligation to all those acts, so all decisions on co-regulation that will be made are public, which will be an additional, additional possibility for control. We have also introduced the public of programming bases and the public of ownership, as has been mentioned so far. As for strengthening the administrative capacity of the Agency, it is certainly also these last changes that have been adopted, and we will better count on that being introduced in the text of the law, so the preparatory actions for giving concessions will bring additional responsibility to the Agency and the Council and the need to strengthen their administrative capacities, and this should also mention these provisions concerning non-profit, or community radio, because we are just thinking about what will happen when some of today's concessions can no longer be given as commercial because we are simply aware that they are not commercial, that they should be provided through the institution of non-profit radios, especially radios, but also television where there is interest and the need for such media to continue their work. As for the right to brief information, I must admit that this is something that the task force has been discussing in part and in light of what has been happening in the past months on our media market. At this point, we have proposed the formulations that have been fully transposed from the directive, by adding the obligation, by calling for Article 10 and co-regulatory, because we believe that through the cooperation of councils and publishers, i.e. audiovisual media service providers, good solutions will be made. I would only mention that the Media Act, because that was also the case, so it applies entirely to electronic media, but, of course, where necessary, certain good solutions under the law can be repeated also in the Law on Electronic Media. As regards the definition of electronic publications, for now we have chosen such a directive, such a definition may only have to be noted that the adoption into the European Union is, therefore, under way, a new directive that will deal more with the Internet. We thought if they were, if this directive were accidentally adopted until the second reading, then we would be able to bring the provisions of that directive into this law. If not, there is a possibility that it will be needed in a relatively short time to complement the directive and in the end, we will consider how a replay can be continuously marked in the radio programme. I thank you for all the comments.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-14-0.u37270	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. We move on to the Proposal for a Law on Electronic Media. It was the first reading, P.Z. Number 403. Proposer of the Law Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. I am voting on the following conclusion: firstly, the proposal for a Law on Electronic Media and second all comments, proposals and opinions presented in the debate will be submitted to the applicant until the final draft of the law is drawn up. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? The bill was adopted by the majority, 116 votes for, 2 abstentions and one against.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-14-0.u37273	Thank you very much, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. In front of you is the Treaty between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Federal Republic of Germany, i.e. the Law on Confirmation of the Cooperation Agreement on the Prevention of Organized and Severe Crime signed in Berlin on 10 March 2009, by Mr Tomislav Karamarko, Minister of Interior of the Republic of Croatia and Dr Wolfgang Schäuble, Federal Minister of Interior of the Federal Republic of Germany and Reinhard Silberberg, State Secretary at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs in the Federal Republic of Germany. The present Treaty establishes the necessary legal framework for the mutual cooperation of the two countries in the field of cooperation in the prevention of organised and serious crime and legal provisions on the prevention, prevention and detection of criminal offences of organised and serious crime and issues relating to the means of cooperation and the supply and use of personal data. It is proposed that the proposal for a law on the confirmation of the Treaty between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Federal Republic of Germany on cooperation in the prevention of organised and serious crime be discussed and adopted by an urgent procedure, uniting first and second reading, since there is an interest in ending the internal legal procedure in the Republic of Croatia as soon as possible in order to ensure the provisions of the contract in question within the meaning of Article 140. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia shall become part of the internal legal order, i.e. in order for the contract in question to formally enter into force. And let me just explain this name of serious crime since it is not common in Croatian legal terminology. Since the agreement, or contract between the two governments, is a standard term of serious crime in Germany, legal terminology and the basis of the text's agreement, it is agreed that this term of serious crime is also used in this contract, although it corresponds mainly to the most difficult forms of organised crime, which is the subject of this cooperation agreement. And I would just like to say that this cooperation agreement is one more step further in excellent cooperation between the Ministry of Interior of the Republic of Croatia and the Federal Republic of Germany and so far the Ministry of Interior of the Republic of Croatia has had really great unmistakable assistance from the Ministry of the Interior of the Federal Republic of Germany and the signing of this contract and its confirmation of this law will certainly be another major step forward, one major step further in the cooperation of the two ministries. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-14-0.u37274	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the HSS Club, Mr. Representative Stanko Grcic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-14-0.u37275	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and fellow MPs. By passing this law, we confirm a contract with the Federal Republic of Germany, i.e. the Republic of Croatia, creates a legal framework for co-operation to combat organised and serious crime and thus makes a positive step both in the area of security and in the field of foreign policy, seeking to explain briefly and the reasons why we support this relevant text of the Treaty. Organized and serious crime due to a significant dimension manifested in recent years at national and international level poses a threat to the security of many countries. Many countries attach special importance to preventing and combating these threats. Therefore, in this area through foreign and security policy, the Republic of Croatia recognised an important role in further strengthening, i.e. improving common security and mutual trust with countries in the nearer environment, as well as with NATO member states and the European Union. We also consider the Treaty a formal legal framework for co-operation between the Republic of Croatia and the Federal Republic of Germany on the basis of which interests and other issues will be developed and aligned to combat organised and serious crime. Following this, we hope that this will facilitate the work of our competent authorities, with partners from the Federal Republic of Germany, in particular in matters related to prevention, detection and control of criminal offences, organised and serious crime, and issues related to cooperation and data exchange. At the end of our debate, we want to praise the efforts of both governments that are being invested to strengthen mutual security, and we hope that, after the adoption of this law, we will soon have fewer problems related to terrorism, intoxication, pimping and human trafficking, counterfeiting of public documents and documents, international vehicle smuggling, money laundering, corruption, computer crime, and other unwanted actions. From the above mentioned Club of the Croatian Peasant Party supports the bill confirming the contract between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Federal Republic of Germany. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-14-0.u37276	Thank you. On behalf of the HNS club, Mr. Representative Miljenko Doric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-14-0.u37277	Dear Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Here's the government hasn't given some of us much of a chance to say something nice in the last few days, but here's the last chance. I don't know if this is about Croatian cops or German cops, but we have a very good deal on our benches. Why the contract is good and why we will support it with two hands are the following reasons. Once we enter the European Union, we will have to cooperate with all Member States to prevent and combat 32 types of criminal offences. Here we have a list of 23 crimes and a nice introduction, a nice first or even two steps we can take through only this bilateral contract. There are some crimes where we certainly need to learn a lot more and the Germans give us that opportunity, especially in the field of intellectual property, computer crime, trade in cultural goods, etc., etc. But what, colleagues and colleagues, may be even more important in this contract is that our partner gives us a very great opportunity to achieve something else equally valuable, which is that our young staff essentially educate us, to take advantage of the opportunity to professionally perfect themselves in very well equipped laboratories, institutes in Germany, because I know what it looks like there. As a scientist, I'm extremely happy when they give us a chance to do certain tests on their equipment. It's the world's top equipment, and I need to take advantage of it. They offer us therefore mutually providing personnel, material and organisational assistance, they offer us the opportunity to perfect our people in the field of criminal skills and what we also like very much in this contract is the fact that it allows experts of one, or other countries to go to the ground in another country and participate in operational activities, which is extremely good. It is extremely good, we become part of a great European family and these are the first significant steps. What you may only have to answer, Mr Secretary of State, is related to Article 13 of this Treaty, where this Treaty stands on the day on which the parties to the contract were written diplomatically informed that all the conditions for entry into force of this Treaty have been met and the date of receipt of the last notification is appropriate. I took a little break, so I don't read everything. So it's due the day of receipt of the last notice. For the purposes of Article 5 of our law to stand, this law shall enter into force 8 days from the day of its publication in the People's Newspaper. I don't belong to the clearest people, but you have to explain to me what I'm going to tell someone if they ask me on the street when this contract actually comes into effect. Do you take the last notice or on the eighth day of the publication in "The People's News"? Because this agreement is as such an integral part of Article 3 of this Law. Well, in the final word, please just explain it, because that part is not clear to us, and it is certain that we need at least parliamentary representatives to know when certain international contracts will come into effect. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-14-0.u37278	Thank you. On behalf of the HDZ Club, Mr. Representative Dragan Vukic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-14-0.u37279	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and fellow MPs. The proposed law confirms the agreement between the Republic of Croatia and the Federal Republic of Germany on cooperation in the repression of organised and serious crime in order to make its provisions within the meaning of the provisions of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia part of the internal legal order of the Republic of Croatia. I would like to point out immediately that the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community will support the adoption of this law. We believe that police structures and quality cross-border cooperation are an important prerequisite for both the country's social political and economic progress. This Agreement constitutes an essential element of further promotion and deepening of mutual cooperation between the two countries and contributes to the continued consolidation and development of the friendly relations between the Republic of Croatia and the Federal Republic of Germany. He is another in a series of bilateral contracts that the Republic of Croatia has joined, starting from both common and special own interests, in order to fight organised and serious crime even more effectively with key multilateral international legal instruments. The objective of the contract is to regulate fundamental issues related to the prevention, repression and detection of criminal offences of organised and serious crime, as well as issues relating to the means of cooperation and the supply and use of personal data. It should also point out that the confirmation of this agreement does not mean that the German public security authorities will have unlimited access to information on the citizens of the Republic of Croatia to which they will come and which will be used only and exclusively in accordance with the legal order of the Contracting Parties. They will ensure joint implementation of previously agreed operational measures and actions such as investigation of crime or police prosecution of criminals. It is therefore about the exchange of information, the materials for analysis, the findings of art, the comparison of the results of scientific research to the other side and above all the education of people. Following all of the above, the Croatian Democratic Community's club will support the adoption of this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-14-0.u37280	Thank you. And the final secretary of state, Ivica Buconjic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-14-0.u37281	Here's only a brief explanation for Agent Doric. You've probably been confused by your reading article 13 of the contract. And Article 13 of the Treaty refers to domestic legislation. Domestic legislation is precisely this Article 5 of the Law, which says that the law enters into force on the eighth day of its publication. And within that time limit, diplomatic notes on entry into force will be exchanged under this law. So this is fully in line with our and German law legislation and the usual diplomatic communication. And here I thank you for supporting this law that I really think this law will be a really big step forward in the cooperation of the Ministry of Interior of the Republic of Croatia and the Federal Republic of Germany. They've been excellent so far, and we're getting an even better and more high-quality framework to continue the much more successful fight against these very most difficult forms of crime. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-14-0.u37282	I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met. We move on to the Final Proposal of the Law on the Confirmation of Contracts between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Federal Republic of Germany on Cooperation in the Facilitation of Organized and Severe Crime. It was an emergency procedure P.Z. No. 402, the legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. I am voting on the final proposal of the Law on the confirmation of contracts between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Federal Republic of Germany on cooperation in the fight against organised and serious crime. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? The final bill was adopted by a majority of votes, 123 votes in favour and one vote abstention.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-14-0.u37285	Dear Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. The proposed amendments and additions to the Law propose to regulate one of the conditions for admission into the active military service for the active military person more precisely. The conditions for candidates and candidates shall be leveled, and the reception of persons who have been subject to a military obligation regulated by civil service shall be excluded, and the person who has served a military term in the Republic of Croatia as a condition for admission to the active military service shall also be determined. As a category of military personnel admitted to service under contract, soldiers are proposed to allow themselves to be profiled in the officer in time until the expiry of the second service contract. This would increase their motivation and positive competition, mainly as this could include one or more participation in peace operations before the translation into the rank of officers. The proposed amendments and additions in addition to the regular conditions would also allow the admission to the officer's duties of those persons in the officer's armed forces system of officers, soldiers and civil servants who meet other reception conditions, persons with a higher age limit than those of persons who enter the military service for the first time, persons from the labour market, cadets and scholarships. These people are well aware of the military system, which is why they are built, so they do not have to invest equally in their additional education and training as with other candidates. The final shift of the age limit as conditions for admission to officer duty would further stimulate existing staff for further schooling and training, thus improving the overall qualification structure of staff. In addition, provisions that prescribe standards of professional development would be respected. The proposed amendments to the Act on Service in the Armed Forces in the Republic of Croatia are in line with the provisions of the Law on academic and professional names and academic degrees. The Act on the Service of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia is also in line with the Data Securitisation Act. The proposed amendments to a certain part of the law shall also be governed by the work to be regulated in both the work concerning and the responsibilities of the Member States. The number of major transgressions to some new major offenses is expanding, and some of the existing ones are proposing to be changed. This proposal complements and amends certain provisions of strict responsibility relating to statutes and penalties. Active military personnel who are seconded abroad to education and other forms of training are now in a privileged position compared to those who are educated in the country. In certain other situations, too, the resolution of duties, such as when referring to peacekeeping operations and missions, the status of sick persons as a result of injuries to work or disease as a result of the service, shall be paid or paid by the military person under duty prior to the resolution. The proposed solution would equalise the rights of military persons who are referred to education in the Republic of Croatia with those who refer to education abroad. In the final draft of the law in relation to the text set out in the draft law in accordance with the observations made in the debate in the Croatian Parliament, provisions have been added to the obligations of members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia, who are authorised to conduct administrative procedures or to resolve administrative matters and military personnel deployed from the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia to the Ministry of Defence in matters governed by the administrative procedure or to resolve administrative matters that have been subject to a state expert examination. This obligation will enable them to acquire additional knowledge that will enable them to carry out their new duties more easily and quality. Certain norms of the final draft of the law support certain nomotechnical harmonisation and more appropriate expressions compared to the applicable provisions of the law. The implementation of this law provides for funding in the state budget of the Republic of Croatia in the division of the Ministry of Defence. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, the meaning of these amendments and the additions we are proposing is that, based on the experience that we have gained in recent years, and they are largely related to the process of full professionalisation of the Armed Forces, with a more significant participation in peace operations, and probably in the first place to the end of the process of joining NATO, and now these few months by our actions in NATO. Based on these experiences of the proposals that we present to you on the consideration, they focus on strengthening efficiency, simplifying some procedures and also more precise definition of some processes, for example in terms of strict responsibility, as well as on more balanced treatment of active military persons in terms of their education, as well as opening up as clear and better perspectives to Croatian citizens who have committed themselves to the service in the Armed Forces. Here, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-14-0.u37286	Thank you. Do the work-body reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the HDZ Club, Mr. Representative Berislav Roncevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-14-0.u37287	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. President, distinguished representatives of the government, colleagues and fellow MPs. After the adoption of a strategic review of the defence and long-term plan for the development of the armed forces as well as the latest amendments to the Law on Defence and the Law on Service in Armed Forces from 2007 there is another novel of the Service Act in the Armed Forces now in the second reading. As the last amendments to the Law on Defence of 2007 gave the Croatian Parliament the opportunity to decide not to call the recruits on the obligation to serve the military deadline and that the Croatian Parliament had made such a decision, it was clear that one of the basic tasks of the Ministry of Defence as the central authority in charge of defence matters was to monitor the situation and ensure the staff's complete and active composition, as well as to maintain constant care about ensuring the trained reserve potential, defence potential in terms of trained personnel. It is quite logical, then, that the Ministry of Defence now proposes to this High House a new amendment to the Law of Service in the Armed Forces since they are also the result of monitoring the situation and an adequate response to movements in terms of the interest or attractiveness of a military call or of an active military service. The proposer proposes to regulate more precisely one of the conditions for admission to the active military service for the active military person, namely that the person has served a military term in the Republic of Croatia, the conditions for candidates and candidates are equalised and the reception of persons who regulated the military obligation by civil service or the service of a military period outside the Republic of Croatia is excluded. I personally hope that even when some other laws are amended, that obligation will be made which is also imagined to be simply one of the conditions for the schedule of certain duties in the Republic of Croatia as a condition of putting and serving the military term in the Republic of Croatia, because in this way Croatia is definitely long-term providing qualified and trained personnel potential for possible, for the reservation and never giving God the engagement of such qualified personnel to defend the Republic of Croatia. As a category of active military personnel, it is proposed to enable officers to be profiled in the officer at the end of the second act contract, which motivates the work of the soldiers admitted under contract, giving them the opportunity to prove to the end of the second contract as potential, honorary potential and certainly to welcome that change. The proposed amendments and additions in addition to the regular conditions would also allow for the admission to the officer's duties of those persons within the Armed Forces system of the Republic of Croatia, without having the status of an active military person and for them the legislator of this law left a greater age limit than for those candidates who would enter the so-called so-called Croatian Armed Forces and Croatian Armed Forces. labour markets, which is certainly to be welcomed because it is irrefutable for the adaptation of such people already in the system of the armed forces and the Ministry of Defence to take much shorter time than for people who come outside the labour market system. Therefore, the proposed amendments to the laws in addition to the regular conditions would allow for the admission into the officer's office of those persons who meet the standards of professional development, and precisely those standards would recognise this law in detail to their rules. Professional development standards within the armed forces system, i.e. the criteria for moving in the service, have been found in the system since 2004. In any case, there may have been some conditions in 2004 and I believe that the Ministry of Defence will continue to further develop them in line with the profiling and further professionalisation of the Croatian Armed Forces. Professional development of active military personnel defines this law as taking place in continuous training, training and education, successful conduct of duties higher than personal rank and promotion into acts of either military, honorary and officer. The proposed amendments also comply with the provisions of the Law on Service in Armed Forces with the provisions of the Law on academic and professional names and academic degrees in part of the provisions of the laws on professional preparation as well as the promotions to acts. In 2007, those amendments to the service law were made, a radical change in the strict trial was made, it was transferred from the area of trial under the rules of criminal law to the area of administrative legislation because the criminal proceedings were more complex and certainly a tighter procedure aimed at being swift, fair and efficient should not be burdened by very complex rules of criminal proceedings and the applicant considers that it is sufficient to follow the rules of administrative procedure. I'm saying it was settled in 2007. And in these changes, of course, the employer, here, the motioner prescribes the number of major offenses, clearly defines them, introduces some new major offenses, and I personally view it as a new contribution to further professionalisation of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia. Equalises the rights of active military personnel who are abroad and active military persons on education programmes in the Republic of Croatia, this has not been the case so far. With this equalization of status rights during schooling, it is certainly a certain way to contribute to schools and education within the Croatian Military School, we are recognized by the requirements and our friendly neighbouring partner countries for schooling in some forms here. Therefore, we ourselves must adequately evaluate the training we have in the armed forces system and the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Croatia. In the final draft of the law in relation to the text in the draft law, in accordance with the observations made here in the debate in the Croatian Parliament, it is clear that the applicant has carefully considered, completed and added certain provisions. For example, the obligation of active military personnel or members of the armed forces to conduct administrative procedures or to settle administrative matters and persons deployed from the armed forces in the Ministry of Defence to have a national expert exam passed. Normally, it is a quality step because the Ministry of Defence, or employees deployed in the armed forces, decide on certain rights of active military personnel by carrying out an administrative procedure, and it is perfectly normal that this requirement is now to have a professional exam passed so that we do not, as in some times, have one request of the active military person in the exercise of his right to do so, the measure is resolved by the conclusion that, of course, anyone who is seriously approaching this business would not do so. We believe that the obligation to pass the State Expert Exam will give that additional quality. Certain norms also propose a certain nomotechnical harmonisation, as the secretary of state said in his opening statement. The defence reform process involves development and the continued development of modern, efficient and well-trained, equipped, mobile, id... Power. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The accession of the Republic of Croatia to NATO is definitely an international confirmation that we have made a good reconstruction, that we have made quality and content reforms of the defence system that are internationally recognised and I am using the opportunity on behalf of the Croatian Democratic Community Club to congratulate all members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia who, by their professional performance, represent the Republic of Croatia not only here in Croatia, give security to the citizens of the Republic of Croatia but in any case, are very good ambassadors of Croatia around the world. It is very pleasant to listen outside the Republic of Croatia to the quality of the work of members of the Croatian Armed Forces, I would like to congratulate them once more and the Croatian Democratic Community Club will support these proposed amendments to the service law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-14-0.u37288	Thank you. On behalf of the SDP Club, Mr Ante Kotromanović. He's gone. Mr. Miljenko Doric on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the HNS. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-14-0.u37289	Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. The HNS Club will support this bill. On page 14 and 15, we received reasons for not accepting our proposals, there are a number of proposals from the HNS, SDP and HSS clubs. And I think one shift was made in relation to the text we had at the first reading. In front of the HNS club, however, I would like to say that you have not overconvinced us that the professional exam is a more quality but judicial exam for members of the military-supervised court in view of the gravity of individual decisions, the importance of individual decisions, the stripping of acts, the distance from the military etc., we are not sure that it is always a self-government procedure. Where we only ask you to help us in your final address to tell us something about what we are and we can read on pages 8 and 13. See, at the end of page 8, the shift of age limits as conditions for admission to officer duty for persons already in the service is further stimulated by those staff for further education and training, thus improving the overall qualification structure of staff in the service. Similarly, on page 13, the text is related to the dignitaries. So far, you've always referred to NATO standards in laws like this. I'm not saying that this is outside NATO standards but you haven't given us any parameters that would certainly welcome us, so let us know what age limits these are for the officers and officers of the NATO acquis and for the qualifications structure, it would also be interesting to hear, if you know, if we can't talk about it later. But it would be very good for us to get these reasons of the law and those standards for the reasons of a few months ago, we have to fit very strictly into... standards and we don't know the essence of that limit, those qualifications and everything else we should know, at least we here when we raise our hand for certain laws. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] There's only that much. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-14-0.u37290	Thank you. State Secretary, sir. There you go, that's it.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-14-0.u37291	Dear Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. Thank you for your support for these amendments and for the additions to the Armed Forces Service Act. A few final notes concerning the suggestions that have just been made. There are no unique standards in NATO concerning indeed everything, which would really be similar to the standards of the European Union that are deeply intruding into the functioning of society and state apparatus. So this is one question where there is no universal standard of NATO, there is a practice of certain countries that, by their traditions, their needs, their structures of the armed forces, adapt some of their laws, such as the one concerning the system of evaluation, the system of education and the systems that involve age limits of soldiers, officers and officers. Already much of it comes from the size of countries, from their tradition, is it really about the great forces, the smaller forces towards which they are then adapted to both age limits and that... Human resources from which they take people into armed forces. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In our case, we, I say again from all of our traditions, and especially from the way we operate and our experiences, learned lessons from the past few years related in the first place, I say with the professionalisation of the Armed Forces, participation in peace operations and action in NATO, have come to the conclusion that this amendment and the addition of the Service Act would best respond to the challenges that we now face and which we think we are directly following. As far as the age limits of officers who can be adopted under this law into the Armed Forces are concerned, that age by our estimates would be 30 years means as one moment when you can still take people and form them for an officer's call in the Armed Forces. So all the measures proposed and these changes and additions are going to make our system as effective as possible and as possible in a better way to value their careers and in some ways facilitate their service in the Armed Forces. In line with our study and experience of comparable countries, of course, in the first place of those in the NATO alliance. Here, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-07-14-0.u37292	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met. Ladies and gentlemen of MPs and MPs, I hereby conclude the 11th session of the Croatian Parliament. We discussed 130 points during the 11th session and pursuant to Article 197(3). I call the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament the 12th extraordinary session of the Croatian Parliament on Friday 17 July 2009. 9.30 hours with agenda voting on discussed items of agenda 11th session i.e. on the rebalancing of the state budget and other discussed points of the 11th session. I wish you a pleasant moment of this brief rest, so we will continue Friday at 9.30 p.m. Thank you. Ninth, Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on the Service of Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia, Second Reading, P.Z. Number 325. The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. I am voting on the final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on Service to the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? This final bill was adopted by most votes, 121 votes for, 2 abstentions and one against.
