ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-30-0.u30893	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. Here, there is a budget rebalance for 2009 in front of all of us. What I would like to say at the beginning because it is likely that during today's debate it will be often mentioned whether this budget should have been a month before, a month later and whether Croatia is an isolated island from what is happening in the world. So, surely neither Croatia is an isolated island nor could Croatia have planned and projected its projections differently compared to its environment. So let me start the opening exhibition with just for the sake of information from some countries that have had far more economically powerful and powerful countries, and you'll see how different it is compared to what was several months ago and also countries that have been transitioning us, which have been pushing us as an example over the past years that we need to look like we need to run reforms and economic policy, so you'll get a practical answer as to why the budget rebalance this time. So when you look at EU 27 projection in autumn 2008 was 0.2% and the level in January 2009 was minus 1.8%. Germany planned to have a stagnation in the fall. In January 2009, it was estimated that the level would be 2.3% lower than in 2008. Two weeks ago, a new projection goes with a minus 37 mark compared to 2008. And our Slovenian neighbours had a projection up until a few days ago that their economic growth in 2008 would be 0.6%, but I think they came out with a projection Friday that their level would actually be 4% lower than it was in 2008. And about the Baltic countries that I'm not talking about what projections have changed practically 100% compared to what they had in January. And what was the basis for making and the proposal for this rebalancing budget are, above all, macroeconomic developments which, unfortunately, were negative in the first two months, starting with industrial production, retail trade, index of construction works, which is a particularly significant reduction because construction works, the construction economy was something that had produced economic growth in the previous years. Stock exports in January decreased by 26.1% while goods imports decreased by 31.8%. And now that we're talking about imports then on the one hand, we can be happy because in this way we're reducing the current balance of payments deficit, but on the other hand, it feels pretty much in the budget because the VAT charge on imports, regardless of what happens in the next cycle, is practically halved from the same period of the previous year. So, with the trail of these macroeconomic indicators and a series of consultations starting from the central bank to leading economic analysts in the Republic of Croatia, we came to an assessment that the level of economic growth in the Republic of Croatia in 2008, in fact, in 2009, would be minus 2% and inflation is 2.6%. Two weeks ago, the central bank presented its projections at minus 1.9%. The normal thing that, due to reduced economic activities, it was necessary to make changes to the projections, the revenue from the state budget in order to build up and modify the revenue correction of the state budget could also create the expenditure side of the state budget, because we cannot simply spend more than we have, we cannot borrow more than what the financial market currently allows us and what we did in the previous period, is the first thing we did was bring in the anatrarecial programme, and then we went to, so to say, cutting the budget. Maximum reduction in consumption with a view to ensuring macroeconomic stability and job conservation, maintaining the life standard of the most vulnerable groups of populations, more efficient and efficient use of support and subsidies and their location, increasing competitiveness in tourism and protecting domestic production. So, on the basis of this, we went to the projection of the total state revenue and we propose a budget rebalancing that the total revenues planned by the proposal, in fact by the budget adopted in the 12th month of this Viskom Home, of 124 billion 636 million, be reduced to 116 billion and 603 million, or that the total revenues of the state budget be reduced by 8 billion 33 million. Where, unfortunately, did we have to predict the most significant reductions? In revenue from the value added tax of 3 billion 995 million, excise incomes of 730 million and contributes 2 billion 261 million, and then you will clearly see that this planned reduction in the revenues of the state budget clearly indicates the economic situation in the Republic of Croatia. On the one hand, spending has been reduced, which has been expected, on the other hand, to what we are always pointing out, and this budget rebalance and the government's full policy is to fight for the preservation of each job, because from this data how much the payment of the contribution was in the first three months of this year and how much we plan to cut in the budget for this year, it clearly says that the level of pay compared to last year will be somewhat lower. Something about a pay cut, and also something about unfortunately losing jobs. What we have reduced in the expenditures of the state budget, because we have reduced total expenditures by 5.4 billion and the total expenditure of the state budget, I am talking about the central state, so there will be no confusion later that this part includes Croatian roads, water and other extra budget funds, so the total expenditure of the central state is 121.6 billion kuna. The most significant reduction is to the cost of an employee of 389 million. Here, when we talk about staff expenditures, this is not about health care staff expenditures, because healthcare salaries are not paid directly from the state budget, but they transfer funds to users, so hospitals and other healthcare institutions, and they pay their salaries. Therefore, the cost of salaries as far as health care is concerned is at the post of the Ministry of Health. Material expenditures are reduced by 883 million, subsidies by 318 million, support for 519 million and compensation for citizens and households 328 million kuna and other expenditures by 972 million kuna. Since in recent weeks, the most debates have been about wages. Since, even in the adoption of the budget, before the adoption of the budget, for 2009 at the 11th month, there was also a lot of discussion about salaries, let me also give you, and also because of the Croatian public some information on why it went to this proposal to return the pay level practically to the level of 2008. First, because the level of economic activity, so the level of gross domestic product will be at the level of 2008, and also when you look at the growth of the mass of wage funds in the previous years, then you will see that the growth of salary funds in the previous years was ever higher than the total growth of the expenditure of the state budget. So you can see that in previous years, budget expenditures were growing in 2007. 13.5 in 2008. 9.2 the total mass or cost for employees increased by 15.2 and 8.6%. Therefore, the said budget rebalance reduces the funds for salaries from 23.5 to 22.1 billion or by a billion and 400. Here I repeat, there are no 8 billion and 200, 300 million funds for salaries paid in health care institutions. When you add it together, then the total funding for the salaries in the state budget is 31 billion and 600 million. And if I add up a billion and 400 million dollars to how much transportation costs are not work, then we can say that employees of them somewhere around 240 thousand who get paid in one way or another from the state budget, total expenditures are 33 billion kuna. We also said that this budget rebalance is maintaining the life standard of the most endangered groups of society, so you will see that the funding for the pensions planned by the budget is not reduced, the funds for the maternity benefits are not reduced, the funds for the child's allowance are not reduced, but because of the new Law on unemployment benefits are increasing and unfortunately because of these trends that the increase in unemployment will be slightly higher than the one planned, the funds are planned to increase by 10% compared to 2009 by this budget rebalance. Also, 130 million additional funds are provided in the Ministry of Health for social care, and this is a 3.4% increase. It's due to an increase in that base from 400 to 500 kuna. So what is the characteristic of this budget rebalance compared to all the rebalancing and budgets in the previous years? As long as the previous 4 years, we continuously allocated incentives for entrepreneurship and the business environment doubled, unfortunately we did not have to leave this budget rebalance at the level as planned by the 2009 budget. It was also necessary to produce a rationalisation of public enterprises. At the same time, subsidies have been increased, so that when I say three of the most vulnerable groups or economies, which is to increase subsidies to wood industry, exporters, textile industry and small and medium-sized entrepreneurs, through interest subsidies and loans and support. There is something that is not seen in this budget, which is the means provided through the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development. So on Friday, a contract was signed with the European Investment Bank for 250m euros in credit, 200m euros in credit intended to encourage small and medium-sized entrepreneurs. The budget also provides for 490 million kuna. One part is to increase HABOR's capital and the other is to subsidise interest on projects that the Ministry of Economy, the Ministry of Agriculture and the Ministry of Regional Development through the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development have. So, by the trail of both income and expenditure of the activities that will take place through the budget because the budget is the only legal instrument for the management of economic policy, we suggest that this budget proposal, the central government deficit, be 1.4% or 4 billion 975 million and the total lack of a consolidated general state to be 1.6% or somewhere around 5.5 billion kuna. So, what we're going to secure with this kind of budget rebalance. It's a normal thing for him to have different ideas, to have different suggestions. However, what is a notorious fact and it cannot be challenged and no matter how politically we agree or disagree. And that is that all international financial institutions and that we are fully and domestically and internationally financial markets measure and appreciate and evaluate our credit rating based on the level of state spending. We can talk about new taxes, we can talk about an increase in income. However, one real question is whether the Croatian economy at the moment is ready to accept a new tax burden at the moment. HDZ's response and its coalition partners are not. At this point, we simply must not allow luxury, any new tax burden, Croatian economy and Croatian citizens. At this point if we want to show our political and economic credibility, then we must show that we are able to maintain a level of consumption, in line with the economic power of the Croatian economy. And that is the best, clearest message to those who observe us and to those who judge us. Such budget rebalance is certainly a prerequisite that the Croatian state will be able to issue securities at the end of the fourth month, at the beginning of 5 months. That, on the one hand, they will be able to cover the funding of the deficits and on the other hand, the reprogramme of the commitments made from, excuse me from previous years. Also, if the state successfully issues securities, and I no longer doubt it, on the international financial market we open up the space that all available funds that will have financial institutions in the territory of the Republic of Croatia, above all I mean business banks, can be placed in the economy and also certain economic operators will be able to borrow from outside. However, what is very important at this point, what is said a lot at this time, and these are the conditions under which we will be in charge as a state, the conditions under which business banks will be in debt outside, and also those entrepreneurs who decide to borrow themselves outside, are also very important under such conditions, i.e. which is the height of the interest rate. We went in this direction, if we hadn't gone to a reduction in the level of consumption of the state budget, make sure that interest rates, what we think of the international financial market would be far worse. And when we talk about interest rates, let's not say that when we do so at certain times we declare that Croatian citizens should reduce interest to housing savings. However, the elemental question arises whether with such declarative requirements you will be in a position to do so. With this kind of budget rebalancing, this is exactly how we come in a position not to increase interest rates for Croatian citizens, why? Because the Croatian state will have international credibility with this, it will not be in debt with high interest rates or a business bank, and neither will the state in relation to others and thus have a lower interest rate. And the business banks will also accept the bank's appeal not to increase interest rates. And finally what he wants to impose all the time, what he wants to impute all the time, and that's the story with the IMF. I'm going to say something here that I've already said several times, the IMF is no bogeyman, the IMF is an institution with which both the government and the central bank are constantly and communicating and talking. However, I would remind those who talk and that during the debate I will have the opportunity and quote, I would not like to... what happens when you sign a stand by arrangement, what you're looking for, and that's exactly what we're proposing here, bringing consumption to certain levels. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And in order not to waste much time convincing each other during the debate, let me read about the expenditures of certain basic items in the state budget, so it would be convenient, I can copy them, the representatives of the ruling coalition and the opposition, so that it would be convenient to say because of the Croatian public to whom this should be taken off the funds and to whom it should be given funds. Because it's easy to say, one part says at a given moment we're for a pay cut and the other part says we're for an increase in wages. Therefore, when you look at the structure of the state budget, then you will see that the rebalanced budget expenditures for employees are 30 billion, pensions 34 billion, health care, so, HZZ at no cost for salaries 13 billion, maternity benefits 2 billion, family, youth, intergenerational solidarity 2 billion, unemployed billion and 126, social care 2 billion 884, defenders of a billion 356, the care of returnees, refugees 645 million, financial expenditures, the cost of interest, the borrowing of all governments in the past 19 years and the part inherited from Yugoslavia, because we still have the payment of the Paris and London Club 5 billion 249 million and the material expenditures of 8 billion 936. With the fact that I have to say that most of this is a waste to the needs of the Ministry of Defense, as far as our standard of NATO is concerned. So these are the basic and greatest expenditures of the state budget. If we suggest that something should be increased, let's say openly in front of Croatian citizens and who should be taken. Let's not play games. Let's not play with the tax hike story. Just look at the situation now that we have reduced certain taxes due to the introduction of capital gains tax, and today you have the kind of situation you have on the financial market, on the financial market, which would look like the state budget. And let me conclude. What would be the situation and the position of both the Croatian state and this High House and the Government of the Republic of Croatia would have been if we had left the deficit at 5% or 6%, if we hadn't reduced it to 0.8%. So, ladies and gentlemen, regardless of the political differences, believe this State Budget Rebalance offers one financial credibility of the Republic of Croatia and be sure that all representatives of the Government and the Central Bank will have a far easier and better position for the negotiations after this budget rebalance. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-30-0.u30894	Thank you. The committees. The Committee on Finance and the State Budget, the chairman of the board, Mr. Representative Goran Maric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-30-0.u30895	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Honorable Deputy Prime Minister, Honored Ministers and State Secretary, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. At the 31st session held on 27 March 2009, the Committee on Finance and the State Budget of the Croatian Parliament discussed the proposal to amend and supplement the State Budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2009 as a home working body. Introductory representatives of the Government of the Republic of Croatia pointed out that the effects of the global financial crisis are stronger than expected and available macroeconomic indicators for early 2009 suggest further slowdown of economic activity in the current year. Negative economic movements from the environment will affect a few economic activities in Croatia, and in 2009 the real gross decline of domestic products is projected to be around 2%. The proposed Rebalans of the State Budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2009 is used as one of the instruments for the implementation of anti-recession measures. Under such conditions, a new State budget 2009 revenue plan for the Republic of Croatia is proposed, based on planned macroeconomic developments and revenue achieved in 2009. Thus, total revenues for 2009 were planned to amount to $116.6 billion, down from 8 billion compared to the original plan. At the same time, it is proposed to cut total expenditures from 127 billion kuna to 121.6 billion kuna and 5.4 billion kuna respectively. According to these data, the planned deficit of the State budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2009 amounts to 5 billion kuna or 1.4% of the estimated gross domestic product, and will be financed by the difference of total income from financial assets and borrowing planned for 15.8 billion kuna and total expenditure on financial assets and loans. The proposed State Budget Rebalancing of the Government of the Republic of Croatia ensures the sustainability of fiscal policy and gives incentives through anti-recession measures to further strengthen macroeconomic stability and preserve jobs and growth in the economy. The Committee held its opinion that the proposed State Budget Rebalance should have been adopted earlier and that all the objections made by the opposition in the adoption of the 2009 State budget remain current. It also voiced doubts about achieving a rebalancing of the planned revenues of the 2009 State budget, which will likely result in another rebalance of the state budget by the end of this year. However, in the debate, the opinion prevailed that the proposed rebalancing of the state budget should be supported for the reason that its adoption, as one of the main instruments for the implementation of anti-recession measures, provides for preconditions for the promotion and development of agriculture, the promotion of small and medium-sized entrepreneurship, and also increases the allocations to help socially sensitive populations. The debate also pointed out the need for a systematic analysis of tax policy in the Republic of Croatia, especially in the part of the taxation of craftsmen, since several tens of thousands of craftsmen do not pay income tax, as they pay low lump sums that do not correspond to the level of their economic activity. After the debate was held, the Committee decided by a majority vote, 7 votes for and 4 votes against, to propose to the Croatian Parliament the adoption of amendments and additions to the 2009 State budget of the Republic of Croatia, as well as the Decisions on granting consent to the 2009 Changes and Supplements of the Croatian Waters Financial Plan, the 2009 Financial Plan of the Croatian Roads, the State Agency's Financial Plan for the Insurance of Deposits and Rehabilitation of Banks, the Financial Plan of the Environment and Energy Efficiency Fund and the Financial Plan of the Croatian Privatisation Fund for 2009. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-30-0.u30896	Thank you. Committee for Local and Regional Self-Government, Chairman of the Committee Mr. Zastavnik Zvonimir Mršić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-30-0.u30897	Your Honor, Vice President. Honorable Minister, Vice President. At the 26th session, the Committee on Local, Regional (regional) Self-Government discussed the 2009 amendment and addition of the State Budget. The Commission considered that the measures provided for in this Regulation are in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament as an interested working body. The Committee held a joint discussion on the Proposal for amendments and additions to the State budget, as well as on the final proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the implementation of the State Budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2009. The proposer stressed that the total revenues according to the proposed changes and the budget additions amount to Kun 116.6 billion, representing a decrease of 8 billion kuna compared to the revenues planned for the 2009 budget. On the other hand, the proposed changes and budget additions cut expenditures by 5.5 billion, which are now at 121.6 billion kuna. In this respect, the proposaler's representative stressed that the proposed changes and additions to the budget under the market conditions were used as one of the instruments for implementing anti-recession measures aimed at reducing state spending, maintaining the standard of living of the most vulnerable groups of the population, more effective allocation of subsidies and others. In the debate, the committee members supported the proposed changes and additions to the state budget. an opinion was put forward to increase the funding position of decentralised functions, rather than reducing how changes and additions to the state budget are proposed for this year. In this respect, it was pointed out that even the funds proposed in the 2009 State budget would not be sufficient to finance decentralised functions if it was taken into account the extent to which the revenues of the local self-government from the income tax base and the extent to which the financing of decentralised functions will be... financing from the position of additional balancing means for decentralisation of functions. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Also, an opinion was presented in the debate on the need to redistribute the tax in favour of units of local and regional (regional) self-government, as one of the anti-recession measures, since on current economic occasions the major burden of the crisis will be broken down right into units of local and regional (regional) self-government. After the discussion, the Committee decided to propose amendments to the 2009 State Budget of the Republic of Croatia to the Croatian Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-30-0.u30898	Thank you. The Maritime, Transport and Communications Committee? The Justice Committee? The Committee on Health and Social Care, the chairman of the board, Mr. Representative Andrija Hebrang. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-30-0.u30899	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State. At its 22nd session, the Committee on Health and Social Care discussed the proposal to amend and supplement the State Budget of the Republic of Croatia as an interested working body. The introductory explanation was submitted by the applicant's representative. At the beginning of the debate, most committee members supported the amendment and addition of the State budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2009, which proposes to reduce deficits through continued slow state spending growth compared to revenue growth, with measures to preserve existing jobs, which is a priority and with other anti-recession rebalancing measures is the best way to overcome the crisis. The Committee discussed the rebalancing particularly in the section relating to the health care system and the social care system. It has been pointed out that the budget rebalancing is a visible objective of preserving social rights and protecting the most socially endangered parts of the population from the consequences of the recession, which is one of the significant anti-recession measures. As the rebalance increases funding in the social care system, it does not reduce but increases pensions, it does not reduce children's allowance and maternity benefits, which maintains the standard and does not touch social rights, it is evident that the Republic of Croatia is, in these difficult economic circumstances, a socially sensitive state, in the health system itself compared to 2008, and this rebalance remains, an increase in funds in a number of significant segments. To equip the health system, to equip the social care system, has been increased compared to the 2008 IT system, to improve health care on islands, to equip telemedicine systems, etc. In improving the quality of the health system, they have been significantly increased compared to the previous year of 2008 for the prevention of malignancies as well as for the improvement of the transplant programme. The current course of health reform shows its significant contribution to the insurance of funds through increased income from supplementary insurance and from the state budget. Thus, the health system under the conditions of the global crisis receives additional funds guaranteeing its stability in 2009. As further discussion highlights, the return of the basic salary in the healthcare system and the 2008 social care system with a previous lack of employment will lead to significant savings in health care. At the same time, the lack of doctors and nurses was also warned, so the lack of employment will by no means apply to the employment of doctors and nurses. After the discussion, members of the board voted in favour, with one vote against the Croatian Parliament, for the adoption of the 2009 amendment and addition of the State Budget of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-30-0.u30900	Thank you. The Legislative Committee? The Development and Reconstruction Committee? The Environmental Protection Committee? The Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities, Chairman of the Committee, Mr Furio Radin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-30-0.u30901	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. The Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities discussed the amendments and additions to the 2009 State Budget of the Republic of Croatia at its 21st session. The Committee considered the proposal to amend and supplement the State budget as an interested working body. The debate found that the proposed changes and additions to the state budget were also covered by the resources provided in the state budget for the needs of national minorities. As part of the budget line of the National Minorities Council, funds are reduced by 455 000 070 or 1%, and this mainly refers to only one cultural event, while the funding of national minority associations remains intact. The resources provided for by the Government's Office for National Minorities are also reduced by 1.97%, which is a correction of the office's operating assets and funds for national minorities programmes and funds for Roma programmes. The funds foreseen for the National Minority Education Programme would be reduced according to the proposal to amend and supplement the national budget by 5.15%, which encourages education by 300,000 kuna or 8.33%, and the specific education programmes for the implementation of the national minority programme by 9.02%, while funds for pre-school education of national minorities for the National Programme for Roma and the promotion of pre-school education and pre-school for Roma would remain at the level set out in the budget. The funds would be adjusted to institutions operating in the human rights protection and promotion system, thus reducing the resources for the Ombudsman's office by 0.2%, for the child's attorney by 4.25, for the Gender Equality Advocate by 4.8%, and for the Ombudsman for persons with disabilities by 2.73%. Although these corrections do not seem large, the debate warned that they could, in practice, make it difficult for those institutions to work. Most of the attention in the debate, however, which was then crucial and for the vote prompted changes in budget items that have direct consequences for particularly sensitive categories of population, as well as the proposed reduction of funds for those programmes and projects containing the development component. So these should be incentives to get out of the crisis that we are facing. The opinion has been drawn that this dimension of the problem in proposing amending the budget is not sufficiently reflected. In this connection, it is particularly indicated that the extremely large reduction of funds proposed under the Ministry of Regional Development, Forestry and Water Economy is reduced by more than 339 million kuna, i.e. more than 16%. The reductions in individual programmes are so high that their implementation is at stake, without the applicant almost giving any explanation. I note that these funds directly affect the return process. It is pointed out that the funds for the Integrated Development Programme of the local community are reduced by 48.23% and the funds for the programme for the return of exiles, refugees and displaced persons by 24.47%, 1/4. The funds for reconstruction and construction in the war of damaged housing units are reduced by 23%, for the housing of returnees outside the area of special state care for 50%, for housing in areas of special state care by 28.75%, and for the financing of individual electricity connections from water, local electricity networks on a residential facility built on the basis of the Law on Areas of State Care for 50% As it depends on the programmes of which refugee return, exiles and war on displaced persons, as well as the provision of elemental living conditions in the areas of the specific state supply of water to the population of electricity and which are also encouraging to the construction sector and other economic sectors, the question of explaining the applicant for such proposals is raised. A similar explanation has also been requested for reducing funding on programmes under other ministries that address citizens' life issues while at the same time being a function of economic development. There were no such answers. It is also necessary to highlight the problem of a significant reduction in resources in various budgetary positions aimed at achieving the rights of persons with disabilities as one of the most vulnerable categories of the population. All this, as highlighted in the debate, raises the question of the concept of the proposed changes and the addition of the state budget. Following the discussion, the Committee did not support the proposed amendments and additions from the state budget. Three board members voted for the government's proposal to amend and supplement the state budget, four against, and two abstentions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-30-0.u30902	Thank you. The Committee on Regional Development, Forestry and Water Economy? The Tourism Committee? The Economic Committee? The chairman of the board, Mr Dragan Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-30-0.u30903	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President, honourable members of the government, vice presidents, ministers, ladies and gentlemen. The Committee for the Economy of the Croatian Parliament at the 22nd session held on 27 March 2009 discussed the proposal to amend and supplement the 2009 State Budget of the Republic of Croatia with corresponding contributions. The Committee shall be based on Article 140. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament on the above-mentioned Proposal for amendments and addition of the state budget with corresponding contributions discussed as an interested working body. In the opening statement, the applicant's representative presented the basic indicators of the 2009 Rebalance of the budget. Budget revenues were reduced from €124.6 billion to kuna 116.6 billion, i.e. they were reduced compared to planned revenues in 2009 by 8 billion, while expenditures from 126.9 were reduced to €121.6 billion, i.e. they were reduced compared to expenditure planned in 2009 by 5.4 billion kuna. The rebalancing was based on a projection of gross social product decline of an aproximate 2%, an inflation of 2.6% and a planned deficit of 5 billion kuna or 1.4% of the estimated GDP, an out-of-counter deficit of 0.1% of the gross social product, or a general government deficit of 1.6% of GDP. With the new 2009 plan, the biggest changes in tax revenues recorded VAT revenues, a decrease of 4 billion kuna, then revenue from contributions to a reduction of 2.3 billion kuna and excise revenues of 730 million kuna. The rebalancing of the state budget is one of the key measures of the government's anti-recession policy and is necessary to preserve macroeconomic stability and without introducing new taxes while retaining the same level of pensions, social rights and maternity benefits. The debate noted that saving is necessary in all segments of the budget, but that, on the other hand, in order to overcome recession and to get out of this economic situation where Croatia has also found it necessary to preserve those positions in the budget aimed at fostering the economy and entrepreneurship. Regarding the Ministry of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship in the debate, it noted that, compared to the 2009 plan, it suffered the smallest changes that were indexed by 0.1%. The 2009 plan was around €37.32 billion and the new plan envisaged by the rebalancing is €37.28 billion, which accounts for a reduction of €35.5 million and the largest part of around €25 million is for the Department of Stocks. The Committee welcomed the fact that rebalancing is not a reduction in the item of promotion of investment, strengthening capacity in the field of consumer protection, fostering small economy development, guarantees for a small economy, co-financing of entrepreneurs, fostering business infrastructure, support for increasing competitiveness and exports of small and medium-sized entrepreneurs. Therefore, the rebalancing process did not reduce everything that the Ministry of Economy had in place aimed at fostering the economic activities of entrepreneurship. It was also noted that the rebalance planned to boost exports by around 44 million kuna, then increase interest subsidies for loans and support of 10.5 million kuna, increase for the development of a 2 million kuna craftsmanship, a public procurement system strategy in the Republic of Croatia with an increase of 300 000 and a special welcome increase of around 2 million kuna for the education of craftsmen. The debate also highlights the importance of the recapitalisation of the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development by the state with over 200 million, which is an extremely important measure to promote the economy and preserve the level of economic activity, and which contributes to the preservation of jobs. HBOR credits in the situation of credit defaults and increases in capital prices in both the international and domestic markets are important levers in economic activities and investments in the economy which are the only way out of recession in the long term. The Committee welcomes the government's determination to maintain macroeconomic stability without IMF measures and fiscal and monetary policies, and in this economically complex situation it takes all to maintain the level of economic activity and preserve jobs. After the discussion, the Committee decided to propose amendments and additions to the State budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2009 and corresponding decisions to the Croatian Parliament. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-30-0.u30904	Thank you. The Committee on Labour, Social Policy and Partnership? The War Veterans Committee? The Committee on Spatial Planning and Construction? The chairman of the board, Mr. Representative Jerko Roshin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-30-0.u30905	Mr. Vice President, Ministers, Deputy Prime Ministers, colleagues and colleagues. I submit a report on the proposal for amendments and additions to the State budget of the Republic of Croatia on behalf of the Committee on Environmental Protection and the Committee on Spatial Planning and Construction, which held the meeting session on the subject. The Committee on Environmental Protection and the Committee on Spatial Planning and Construction of the Croatian Parliament discussed the proposal to amend and supplement the State Budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2009 at a joint session held on 26 March 2009. the year. and the proposal to amend and supplement the financial plan of the Environment and Energy Efficiency Fund for 2009 which was submitted to the President of the Croatian Parliament by the Government of the Republic of Croatia by the Act of 25 March 2009. The Committee on Environmental Protection and the Committee on Spatial Planning and Construction on the basis of Article 140 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament discussed the proposal to amend and supplement the State budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2009 as interested working bodies. In his opening statement, the proposing representative pointed out that the financial crisis that started with the mortgage crisis in the United States has gradually begun to spill over into the real sector at global level, and that the latest projections of macroeconomic indicators from the international environment point to a stronger intensity of the economic crisis than previously expected. This decline in global economic activity, especially in our environment, results in negative effects and economic activity in the Republic of Croatia, and in 2009, an estimated drop in gross domestic product of about 2% with an average inflation of about 2.6%. This condition requires the planning of a lower level of expected State budget revenue than originally planned. The government budget rebalances the total revenues by 8 billion kuna compared to the original plan, amounting to $116.6 billion, and expenditures are reduced by €5.4 billion, amounting to €121.6 billion. The total deficit in the 2009 state budget is projected at 5 billion kuna, i.e. 1.4 estimated GDP. The Minister for the Environment of Spatial Planning and Construction has indicated that the total division of the ministry has been reduced by 208 million 887 thousand and 751 kuna, from which the planned funds for the head of the ministry are reduced by 28 million 234, 950 kuna, or about 8%, and the main savings are planned by reducing funds for salaries, material expenditures, particularly intellectual and personal services. As the main holder of a total reduction of EUR 208 million, she noted a reduction in the planned funds for the head of the Legal Transport and Real Estate Agency by 179 million 253 and 651 kuna. This reduction was conditioned by the dynamics of the construction of apartments for which the agency agreed to purchase with the City of Zagreb. She stressed that the proposed rebalancing will continue to ensure a good implementation of the housing care programme for people with disabilities from the Homeland War, returnees and the construction of apartments within the social incentive housing programme. It also briefly referred to the planned funds for the Environment Protection Programme, and spatial planning with a focus on the planned funds for the development of business plans. The State Secretary of the Ministry of Culture stated that the total division of the ministry was reduced by 55 million 737 thousand 977 kuna and 5%, respectively. Of which employee expenditures are reduced by 15 million 737 thousand 977 kuna. Nature protection and conservation funds are reduced by 3 million 758, 396 kuna and 4.9%, respectively. Out of which funds for the management and administration of national parks, nature parks and state nature protection services are reduced by 2.7 million kuna. And the fundamental bearer is the planned reduction of the staff's salary. The funds intended for the programme of nature protection by rebalancing are reduced to two positions, which are the construction, maintenance and equipment of public institutions for nature protection by 700 thousand kuna, and ongoing donations in money to protect nature by 300 thousand kuna. It is concluded that the planned projects for nature protection and conservation will be implemented with rebalancing. The Secretary of State of the Ministry of Regional Development, Forestry and Water Economy pointed out that the total division of the ministry was reduced by 339 million 803 000 and 590 kuna, i.e. 16.08% of which employee expenditures decreased by 8 million 207 thousand 590 kuna and material expenditures by 12 million 707 thousand kuna. During the opening presentation, the presidents of the Environmental Protection Committee asked for further clarifications on planned capital investments by the Croatian Secretary of State for which they stressed that they continue with the proposed dynamics. The Assistant Director for Finance and Financial Support at the Environment and Energy Efficiency Fund pointed to a rebalancing planned reduction in the operating income of the fund of 257 million and 600 thousand kuna, as well as operating expenditure of 223 million 834 thousand 431 kuna. With regard to the planned reduction of revenue, she pointed out that, starting with the expected economic downturn in 2009 as one of the incentive measures, she had also joined and reduced the remuneration of bonds to pay for amendments to the Regulation for specific categories of waste. In accordance with the developments on the revenue side, certain savings are foreseen on the dispensary side. With a total income of 1 billion 127 million and 200 thousand kuna, total expenditure of 907 million 864 thousand and 369 kuna for 2009, the planned surplus of the fund amounting to 219 million 335 thousand and 631 kuna. During the discussion in a single critical review of the proposed and reasoned rebalancing, the view was made that, in the adoption of the 2009 State budget, macroeconomic indicators between the given environment and their impact on the economy of the Republic of Croatia were not fully reflected in the financial crisis. It was assessed that the proposed reductions did not make substantial changes to the state budget, and thus neither created assumptions for employment and economy growth, and that a new rebalancing is expected during this year. The opinion is expressed that this is how the state budget is planned, and in this respect the role of the HBOR in financing the economy and its current weak financial position has been underlined. Contrary to previously stated views, it was noted that the adoption of the 2009 state budget fully reflected economic developments both in the international environment and in Croatia, and that the latest projections and developments showed that the economic crisis and stronger intensity than previously expected. This way, the budget rebalance is an instrument for implementing anti-recession measures, reducing state spending, preserving macroeconomic job stability. It is also an example of the development component, an increase in employment through the implementation of projects related to environmental protection and the management of specific categories of waste. It has been pointed out that with the aim of strengthening the financial position of the HBOR, additional funding has been provided from international financial institutions worth 400m euros to help the economy. After the debate, the committees voted mostly, the Committee on Environmental Protection with 7 votes in favour and 1 vote in favour and the Committee on Spatial Planning and Construction with 7 votes in favour and 1 vote in favour, decided to propose amendments and additions to the State Budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2009. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-30-0.u30906	Thank you. The Committee for Croats outside the Republic of Croatia. President of the Committee, Mr. Representative Ivan Bagarić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-30-0.u30907	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues. The Committee on Croatians outside the Republic of Croatia discussed at its 14th session held on 27 March 2009 a proposal to amend and supplement the state budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2009 which was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia to the President of the Croatian Parliament by an act of 25 March. The Committee discussed that proposal of the law on the basis of its competence as an interested working body. The Government representative explained the need to amend and supplement the 2009 state budget with a total reduction in economic activity in the current year and a real decline in gross domestic product, a reduction in consumption and a fall in VAT revenue. Taking into account the negative economic developments in the environment, the original plan for 2009 was needed to reduce 127 billion kuna to 121.6 billion kuna. The planned deficit of the State budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2009 shows that 5 billion kuna or 1.4 of the estimated gross domestic product. This budget rebalancing is one of the fundamental anti-recession measures that ensure the sustainability of fiscal policy and encourage macro-economic stability to preserve jobs and growth in the economy. Before the debate, the Government's representatives further referred to the items of the budget of the particular interest of this committee. Those intended for Croats outside the Republic of Croatia. The debate followed mainly referred to the items mentioned in the budget relating to the support of projects in the fields of culture, education and science, health and information. Real needs were discussed, i.e. about the burning problems of Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina, the Croatian national minorities in European countries and Croatian emigrants. It has been found that each of these groups of our countrymen has specific needs and expectations and that those items of the budget that have been amended are in line with priorities and needs, taking care of all regular and start-up projects. The funds are thus provided, the truth is diminished for projects of particular interest for our countrymen living outside Croatia, among which are primarily supported by the educational, scientific, health and cultural institutions of the Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina, support for Croatian culture and language conservation projects in emigrants and Croatian national minorities in European countries, support for the mutual media connection and information of the Republic of Croatia and Croats worldwide, as well as support for the Croatian queen of emigrants in charge of various projects intended primarily for Croatians in emigration. The satisfaction has been expressed that there has been no change in the item concerning the project to support the return of Croats to Bosnia and Herzegovina. Some differences in the views that could be heard on the board were primarily related to the sightings of priorities and the effectiveness of individual projects. In further discussion, a proposal was submitted, supported by the committee to generally Croatia in neighbouring countries, and especially by Croatia in Bosnia and Herzegovina, to further participate in projects that will be funded from European funds, and to engage Croatian experts in the creation and support of individual projects as well as institutional strengthening of Croatian capacities there. Finally, the Committee was supported by the Government of the Republic of Croatia to rationalise budget money consumption in these difficult economic circumstances and thus to preserve, financial, economic and social stability. The stability of the Republic of Croatia is highlighted in front of all interests for which responsibility is shared by both Croatia and Croats outside the Republic of Croatia. After the debate was held, the Committee decided, by majority, 7 votes to, 2 against, 1 abstention, to propose to the Croatian Parliament the adoption of amendments and additions to the State budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2009. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-30-0.u30908	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. SDP representative club Mr. Representative Zoran Milanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-30-0.u30909	Dear Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues, respected finance ministers, I feel very much respect for you, since in every situation you are willing to take responsibility for what should be someone else's responsibility. So, for information to those who don't know, the prime minister doesn't have between us today, he doesn't always have to be here, and I'm not always here, he's the Prime Minister, so he's got 90% of the time of second obligation. However, in a situation where the minister said and reiterated several times the fundamental instrument of economic policy, in a state where public spending is spent in Croatia, there is no more important document. At this point, the prime minister was at a meeting of NATO Sanitation Groups, you know what it is? It's a group that's talking about what kind of flow will be, who's going to sit where, who's going to get up when there's a company playing, here's our colleague from that meeting, it's going to cross the deal right now. That's crossing the line. There is no such thing, gentlemen and gentlemen, in any European Parliament or in any European democracy. But all right, now we know what time it is. What should I start with? In particular, there was an intriguing statement by the minister that after this rebalance the Croatian credit rating budget would be more stable, so it brought about growth, according to a loan on housing savings, he probably meant housing loans. And then they'll, and then they'll, well, they'll say credit on housing savings and then they'll... be more stable, banks will probably borrow cheaper abroad and interest on loans won't grow. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] There is a grain of truth, but from that grain of terminals something else quite different, a terminal of one other truth and it is said that many of the countries you mentioned, and especially large countries, including some small countries, which are slightly more systematically driven by economic policy, have larger budget deficits, too large, incredibly large compared to what was considered unacceptable until one year ago, but that interest on loans does not grow. Because they have other sources, they have other resources. In what you said is unfortunately hiding the cry of a large tree of truth, which is that Croatia is totally in charge and there is no broken-down euro for what is important, for the standard of citizens, and for loans if you want, and also for the stability of the system, when we called as prime minister to not raise interest on already agreed loans that are being paid, we called for a fundamental social agreement to be respected in principle. While citizens are fairly paying back their debts which are growing and their burdens are increasing, banks should refrain from what they are formally entitled to under some kind of signed contract. And we're gonna do it again because we care about it. We can't stop it by force. But it is important that loans, so interest on loans that citizens, many of you at the end of the line, pay neatly every month, so hundreds and hundreds of thousands of mothers, the fathers of Croatian families don't touch, as they don't touch in England, as they don't touch in Scotland where banks fail, but where the state enters, intervenes as much as they can. So in that seed of truth, out of that seed of truth that you said grew one completely different tree. We should be happy not to touch funds for the private sector, for the economy, for incentives, which remain the same. Several times you and the prime minister have mentioned, not a few times, a dozen times, that this is a battle for jobs. This is a struggle for jobs in the public sector and should be preserved. But these jobs and that sector don't create wealth, it doesn't create a new value. It happens in the private sector. That's where you didn't take any step. Now we can discuss whether it was possible or not, in which situation we have even been in after all these months and years, but the fact is that the fight for jobs is not being fought in public services, but being led in the private sector, in the drive of the private sector. I guess that's where you should be given the most. It's not here. We cannot be satisfied with the level and the fact that we have yet to maintain this humble level. And nothing more than that. The fundamental problem of the Croatian state is the huge centralised and huge public spending. And everyone in this country already knows that, and that's why this problem with banks, with their borrowing abroad, with the fact that the state in Croatia took a lot of money from them, finally needed her to serve her debts, her needs, her budget promises, and now there's no money in the banks. They have to go abroad for that money, and that money's expensive. Now that is a dreary, unfortunately at this point a somewhat dreary Croatian painting should be changed. We can't change it with this rebalance, we can only change it with root, thorough procedures. If we are now talking about the need to decentralisation Croatia, who knows which way we repeat the thing we believe, which we cannot do with this budget rebalance because it is simply a much more demanding, deeper process, but only if we go from it will we have a more stable state, healthier finances, most of the responsibility of people living in their cities, municipalities, environments for what they create and for what they spend. In this way, at this level of centralization the Croatian state will always be expensive, always inefficient, always stretching much more than can be covered. We're talking about new taxes. Well, of course none of us are for new taxes that will kill people's will and desire to do it, to create, to earn, to pay taxes and to pay their workers regularly. Of course, when it comes to some taxes, some new taxes, not to mention taxes that will lead to the closure of jobs in the private sector. Not that, but about property taxes, about taxes on enormous property, about what we've been talking about for the past few years, yes. And this is not the way to do it and to manipulate it as it was done in that last election campaign when our demand, our proposal to consider introducing a capital gains tax, to introduce a tax on large assets, turned people into taxes on land and cows. That doesn't. Well, we know that's not true. He's got sources, he's got assets, he's got property that can be taxed, and we know very well who it is. Besides, that's what unions think. I think that's what all those who fear it don't need, and even those who have, and that's a lot of, legally acquired property, that's not what they should be afraid of. So these are new taxes. That's how American society works. In America and Britain, capital tax is a normal fact. It's been 25% for years, but we're not going back to it, so I don't get bored. So, at this point in time when it remains at the same level of incentives, at the same level of struggle for the real sector, for what is the Croatian chance, Croatian wealth, Croatian creation, possibly the Croatian way out of the world, much more cannot be expected. We can now say this or what, we can speak Croatian. I will take responsibility from this speaker to warn myself of the call of protectionism and that when statesmen and ministers speak, when public officials speak, to be aware of what the world economy is, which is free trade, which is the Croatian place in free trade and what are the dangers and traps of protectionism. I would prefer to buy Croatian car, Croatian shoes, Croatian furniture, anything Croatian if possible. But I can't. Before we buy Croatian, we must produce Croatian to the extent that it is worth it. To make it, we need something to help. It's that closed circle. Otherwise, we are part of a free world market, a free exchange in which if we talk and repeat all the time we buy Croatian, and we offer nothing adequate because there is no incentive of adequate products, because there are no quality products, then if we are too loud in this, we will face purchase Bavarian, buy German, buy American, fly to Bavaria, fly to Slovenia. We are a small country that is highly dependent on world trade, on the exchange of goods and services, and when we talk about it, we must be very aware that we do not escape the chair under which we are sitting. Croatia is a country that needs and can do much more than today, today very little, profit from free world trade, from the exchange of goods and from the exchange of services. And that should be made clear. It should also be made clear that there is no need to invoke any demons and talk about private sector wages and private managers' salaries. Whatever. We deal with the public sector, limit wages in the public sector, and in the private sector let the employers, the owners of capital, businesses pay their managers as much as they want, until the moment they regularly, fairly and politely pay their workers. Fair pay for honest work. These are difficult moments, and in those moments, he should refrain from populist statements. That's my appeal. We, as you can see, didn't enter the genealogy and recapitulate everything we heard from this pay phone, from the media about the good state of the Croatian economy, about the recession being around us, I won't be coming back. I'm not going back to the previous governments, not even Tito... had enough topics to talk about based on what happened in the last three or four months. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We did not make amendments to that budget at the 12th month because we claimed that the budget was irreparable and that it would not last a few months. That turned out to be true. Is that why we're happy? Is that what we're looking for? No, I don't. No, I don't. Finally, the SDP club will not support this budget rebalance because we see it as insufficient and weak as the budget itself. We don't see in it answers to the Croatian crisis and challenges and since the prime minister, and I'm really sorry that he's not here with us today and I really don't think he should be here all the time, but listen. Protocolal meetings are obviously more important than discussions on budget rebalancing. The protocol meetings are more important, and then for the end one Latin proverb that talks most about this budget: "Quod ab initio non currency, in the tract temporis, non convalescere". "What's wrong from the beginning is not being fixed over time."
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-30-0.u30910	Thank you very much. I am only obliged to say this because I said in opening the session that the prime minister is not present, not only for the reasons of this NATO committee, but also because the preparations are to be sent today by the Croatian Government and Slovenia to the proposal by Olli Rehn and that, in order to unblock the negotiations with the European Union, the proposal is now being prepared, the answer to this proposal is being prepared. It is jointly prepared by the President of the Republic and the Prime Minister and Foreign Minister. So you weren't at the time I explained it. A few corrections of incorrect allegations. First, Mr. Representative Davor Huška. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-30-0.u30911	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I am correcting the incorrect allegations by Mr Milanovic, who said that this rebalancing does not touch the funds for the economy and that no step has been made in that part. Step has already been made by adopting the 2009 budget where the funds for development and entrepreneurship are compared to 2008... [[The speakers speak in the same voice, of course.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-30-0.u30912	Detain from approval.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-30-0.u30913	...and it's a step up, an increase in entrepreneurship funds of 30%. The same as strengthening the role of the HBOR, which this rebalancing also gives rise to, and the information that we received from Minister Shuker, where the possibility of new credit obligations is created for our entrepreneurs. I will also remind Mr Milanovic that in Croatia he can buy Croatian shoes produced in Borovo, so that he can buy Croatian furniture produced in the wood industry throughout Croatia and I think we all must call out from here from the Croatian Parliament: "Let's buy Croatian!". Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-30-0.u30914	Second correction, Mr. Representative Mario Zubovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-30-0.u30915	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I have to correct Mr. Milanovic who told the truth that the Prime Minister is at a protocol meeting in connection with the NATO alliance. These meetings are regular and were held at the meeting by the president of the state, the president of the parliament, vice-presidents of the parliament, including Mrs Antunovic, the leaders of parliamentary parties. Is that funny to you, Mr. Milanovic? You wanted to deceive the Croatian public that it was a protocol meeting, it's not a protocol meeting. And it's a lie to Mr. Milanovic, and Mr. Sanader, Prime Minister... /The speaker has been disfellowshipped and re-enabled./...with the President of the State and with the Minister of Foreign Affairs agree the answer to Mr. Rehn. Maybe you didn't know that, and I think the... the speaker was turned off and turned it back on. But you knew that, you were just being mean. And I'm sorry Mr. Chairman to have me... /The speaker has been turned off./...
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-30-0.u30916	No, thank you very much. Please. It's good. Don't. Why are we doing what's ugly again, what we are, we all disagree with that, that our colleagues and colleagues are being turned off by a microphone? And Mr. Representative Dragan Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-30-0.u30917	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I would, in effect, correct Mr Milanovic's incorrect allegations that the government is fighting this budget rebalance to preserve jobs, but that this applies exclusively to the public sector, and that there is nothing for jobs in the economy. I spoke on behalf of the board here about several items that have increased, so we have an incentive to export is increased, then an increase in interest subsidies for loans and support, then an increase in resources for development of crafts, for a strategy to develop public procurement systems, etc., etc. The recapitalisation of more than 200 million kunas of the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development has also been announced. It doesn't go to public services, it goes to entrepreneurship and the economy. And also, what needs to be known is that there is also a reduction in public spending, a disbursement of the economy and a contribution to the development of the economy.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-30-0.u30918	Thank you. We still have a correction, Mr. Goran Maric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-30-0.u30919	Thank you very much. I would correct the incorrect quote of counterpart Milanovic, who said, quote: "The state has taken money from banks, there is no money in banks." That quote is not true because there's money in the banks. Only savings deposits of citizens and Croatian economies never more than today. Even 190 billion kunas, and even the abolishing regulatory measure of the Croatian National Bank last year when it abolished so-called. The GOP, the Border Mandatory Reserve, thus freed more than 4 billion euros. Business banks in Croatia have not even used 50% of that potential to date. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-30-0.u30920	Correction, Ms. Nevenka Majdenic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-30-0.u30921	Thank you, Mr. President. Here, MP Zoran Milanovic said that budget rebalancing is going to keep public sector jobs, not in the private sector. In part, Mr Dragan Kovacevic corrected it. This is indeed an incorrect claim because, with the retention of public sector jobs, it goes to both job retention and private sector through increased subsidies to the wood industry, exporters, textile industry, small and medium-sized enterprises through interest subsidies on loans and support. I know that the budget is large, but it really needs to be studied responsibly, and this is such clear data, so the public should say that it is going towards keeping jobs and in the public sector, but also in the private sector. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-30-0.u30922	Thank you. Correction, Mr. Krunoslav Markovnović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-30-0.u30923	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, here, I have to correct Mr Milanovic's incorrect allegations that there are no Croatian furniture in Croatia, no Croatian shoes, and if there are then they are unquality. I would be very glad to see a colleague of Milanovic if he were a little less obsessed with Prime Minister Sanader so he could go down to the shops and salons and see that he has extremely high quality Croatian furniture. It's that the wood industry is now in trouble but very high-quality, it has high-quality shoes, but it needs to go and take a look. This is an insult to all those who have led to this level and at this point it is a very high production of furniture first.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-30-0.u30924	Thank you. Correction Mr. Jerko Roshin.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-30-0.u30925	Thank you, Mr. President. I am correcting Mr Milanovic's incorrect allegations that we do not have quality products. I think that Croatia not only has quality products but also has products that are even much better than many foreign products. I think it's offensive for Croatian producers, that's what he said. And I keep correcting the Latin proverb "which is not right from the beginning". That proverb really exists. I just think it's directed at the wrong side. It should have been directed at another leader.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-30-0.u30926	Thank you. Mr. Dragan Vukic is correcting the incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-30-0.u30927	Thank you. Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Mr Milanovic made several incorrect claims that are easy to correct. The incorrect claim is that Prime Minister Sanader is in an insignificant meeting. It is correct to say that Prime Minister Sanader is in a very important meeting. Mr. Milanovic rarely comes to the assembly, mostly when Prime Minister Sanader is in the assembly. You misjudged this morning. I believe the prime minister knew you'd be here today so he could set up his obligations to come see you and you might be able to give him the results of the NATO referendum.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-30-0.u30928	Thank you. Please, let's concentrate on the correction. Whoever doesn't say I'm correcting the quote says which quote will take away the word for it. Please nice, I'm not speaking in relation, the Wolf quoted something. Please quote what you're correcting. Thank you very much. Let's move on. On behalf of HSLS and HSU, Mr. Agent Ivan Chehok.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-30-0.u30929	Mr. President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. In these ten years in two of my mandates, already with the third government, I have truly hoped honestly and warmly as a citizen of this country not only or primarily as a parliamentary representative of the two cost-effective budgets that we made in 2000 and 2004. I was really hoping that it would be real budgets, that it would be budgets that would finally suppress the state's immodestness, public authorities in spending, that it would be budgets that would really lead to denial, to so-called. fast and unmovable in overexpending both what we have earned and what we have failed to earn. But unfortunately, in 2000 and 2004, they were just expressions of desire, they were only in some way realizing that we are really spending what we do not produce in Croatia, that we are using the goods that we have failed to create and only with this rebalancing we have really one real consumer budget, only now we really have the right tightening and cutting, only now we really have the right to give up, only now, unfortunately, together with all the citizens of this country and what's worst with the economy of this country to learn that we can't live as age and escape, that we can't act as gods... who create from nothing because nothing can be created, but that we must begin to live as an ordinary paradise and not as an age and escape. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We need to start saving, we need to start spending just what's ahead of us and only what we can produce and do in due course. This is indeed the budget of curbing excessive appetites and excessive consumption. And the sooner we all figure it out together, the sooner we avoid the traps that we're discussing today in a way that the left hand spends something more thrifty, right hand, left hand, I guess in the middle I don't know what. Appetites are appetites. We've had them before, we've got them today. Appetites are, of course, physiological and psychologically viewed something that is very difficult to contain, something that does not confound and decrease so easily. In particular, we all know this picture which appetites, unfortunately, are something that comes with a conditioned reflex. With each preparation of the state budget, there is indeed a conditional reflex of all users. Everyone starts to get too much saliva and everyone expects that their appetites will be satisfied. And then at the Minister's most difficult, the Minister of Finance must try to give the crumbs to everyone. He's symbolically seen as a man who has one cake that he has to divide into equal parts without knowing in advance how many people he's going to use. That's not possible. It's a simple task that no one can do. And that's why I think it's good, it would be better if we did it for our internal reasons, and because we finally prevailed on the belief that in this country we can't spend something we didn't do, that in this country we can't spend it in such a way that we can't sell the family silver and the most valuable goods we've created, that in this country we can't live as an age and as a result of borrowing and that we can't be dependent on others financially dependent, economically dependent, and then politically dependent, and that, unfortunately, in this country, we, the representatives and we who act on public duties, can't show our example that we generate this excessive general consumption. And that's why I think this is a rebalancing of sobering that as I said it was actually us again as a conditional reflex, again as a consequence of the whole of Europe falling into a financial and economic crisis. This crisis is finally an opportunity for us to realize that we've been producing it, too. This crisis is a chance for us to finally get involved with doing what we can't, to spend what we don't have. If we prove it by example, then so will those who depend on the state budget, but also those who do good to this country, so will the economy. We at the club fully agree that everything the government has proposed should be reduced. We are confident, however, that the time will come again when we will have to reduce further. Let's not fool ourselves, ladies and gentlemen, and when we were getting the budget, here in this place, I was saying it wouldn't hold. And now I'm telling you, this rebalancing isn't going to hold. We're obviously not aware of the pressure, of course and our public, floor from this... The local elections, but also because of our constant fighting, the planting, the competition and the phrasing of phrases in this House and these constant political cowboys, that's what I call a debate, as if we're in a pub. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Unfortunately, we are not aware that the whole of Europe is in crisis, that just for example, I recently owned Spain lost in 2.5 months 400 thousand jobs and that the Spanish state is at the moment, but at the same time, all those who lost their jobs on agriculture in southern Spain. I'm asking you what we did? Our country stands empty, we can't even organize basic agricultural production, we can import agricultural products. I'm not just asking the government, I'm asking all of us, because it's a matter of local self-government and regional self-government, including all of us, and it's our responsibility. Neither did you nor we now. So it's a question of the future of this country. Slovenia has lost several tens of thousands of jobs in the past few months. They responded immediately. Hungary, Britain, France, transition countries do not need to talk about this in particular. Therefore, we must understand that, with the restraint of these appetites of excessiveness, this helpful denial is followed by even penance. We'll have to tighten the belt yet. And the sooner we tell the citizens of this country, the less we'll lie to them. With this rebalancing, I still have to remind myself that all of this isn't going to be enough to start the economy. Today, there is no lady and gentlemen of any European country who has not directly supported its economy aimed at preserving jobs. I've been proposing to the government for two months to pass a four-day working week law. If Slovenia did, if Hungary did, if it did even now, Serbia, then we have no alternatives, Mr. Minister. We have to ensure for all the export industry that is particularly affected by the crisis if they have a reduction in demand on the European and American markets, if they do not have enough production capacity for employees, so that the workforce does not run out of work, because the one who comes to the stock market is the most expensive for the state. On the other hand, of course, it's working on demoralizing itself, losing its working condition. We must introduce the possibility of a four-day working week and the fifth daily, i.e. the 5th day wage, the state pays with 80% as Germany does today, as Slovenia does. It will then save the auto industry in Istria, it will save jobs in textiles in Varazdin, it will save jobs somewhere else. We can't just kick 150 million kunas into shipbuilding, we can't do that anymore. We are equally responsible for the Varazdin, both Osijek and Istria and other parts. Therefore, let us introduce a four-day working week and some state if it is due to borrowing deficits but only for the economy and jobs, therefore not for dubious projects, infrastructure public works or whatever you want. So let the state pay the 5th day's wages. I repeat, and Serbia has introduced the law. Furthermore, even with this law, we will not endure unless, above all, the export industry is supported by direct incentives for job subsidies. Ladies and gentlemen today, looking at JGP as a national and looking at the number of employees, each country starts from Hungary to the UK, giving approximately 3 to 5 000 euros to preserve jobs. By direct subsidies, so from 3 to 5, because they calculated something for which a man does not have to be overly economically professional, that every lost job due to unemployment benefits is much more expensive than a direct subsidy. Therefore, if Germany, Hungary, I mentioned Britain, then we too will have to keep direct subsidies for the export industry, because I am afraid Mr. Minister that regardless of the excellent monetary policy of Mr. Rohatinski, regardless of the banking system I would not particularly talk about, which I think we could make a lot more than we have, and regardless of your efforts, we will be ladies and gentlemen in the sticung by the end of the year. We will not have enough inflows of foreign exchanges, therefore, we must strengthen the export industry. Which, of course, is not true that he didn't have my homework. We do, but we don't have enough. It's not true that we don't have a competitive domestic product. We do, but we don't have enough. But we only have too little because no government wanted to invest directly in the export industry. It has nothing to do with the political position. It's got something to do with us. We were earlier, we were sooner prepared to invest in infrastructure projects than we were willing to invest directly in the economy. And it's coming back to us now because we have to pay back our debts and our dear interest here. Here we did not produce national good, but we actually ate our own substance all the time. And that's exactly how we acted as age and escapes on our own substance. We cut down the tree and roots from which we all drew together as a community. Therefore, in addition to this rebalancing, ministers think about these two measures, about the four-day working week, about direct incentives to the workplace because that is all that will preserve the national economy.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-30-0.u30930	Thank you. Correction Mr. Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-30-0.u30931	With much to come forward, I absolutely agree, when Mr. Chehok speaks of the export economy. However, I want to correct that quote when he said that this year's shipbuilding will receive 150 million kuna. No, Mr. Chehok 150 million kuna, yes, it's so much, but 150 million euros, not counting those 4.6 billion kunas that the Croatian shipbuilding or rather the government has reached or will be charged by the end of 6 months. But that's what I'm saying to say to say that the oil on that basis, except for subsidies, doesn't get any lip. But shipbuilding, no matter what, should try to save it. It is due to survive in 2009, 2010 because otherwise there will be neither this nor that export cake that it can achieve in this year or next years. 150 million euros.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-30-0.u30932	Thank you. Correction by Mrs. Representative Gordana Sobol. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-30-0.u30933	Thank you, Mr. President. I'm correcting an incorrect quote from a colleague of Czechoko, on whom he has repeated several times that we've acted as an age and a fugitive. Comrade Chehok, I'm correcting, not me, you've been acting if age and escape. You've been sitting in this coalition since 2004, a colleague of the Czech Republic. You come to us every so much and you teach us these lessons, you lectured us the same way, and during the debate on the state budget last year at 12 months. Why aren't you so fierce in the coalition? Which you as a coalition partner don't press before you come to this hall of HDZ. To come precisely with these measures that you're talking about. And please don't take the blame on this side.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-30-0.u30934	Thank you. Age and escapes, it's like this one figure and it's not some claim but you're getting, but you've polluted with it once. I'm the only one who sees a colleague of Shems, maybe he's from the origins of the escape, so if he is. Thank you very much. Let's move on. On behalf of the CNS, Madam Representative Vesna Pusic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-30-0.u30935	Mr. President, gentlemen of the government, colleagues and colleagues. I have to say introducely that I was very interested in how my colleague Chehok is going to do this at the same time for and against the budget, it's a special art that he's growing, and now we don't know if he's going to vote yes or no, so neither can we. But let's move on to this thing that, of course, is very serious. These changes reduce the state budget of the Republic of Croatia by around 5.5 billion kuna. It is already obvious from these documents that the budget will need to be reduced further. So, to reduce these 5.5 billion before the local elections, not to be as much as necessary, and by filling the budget, so by the rate of budgeting and by reducing budgeting, it's obvious that it's going to have to go further, at least once more, and maybe more than once again, so maybe even more than double what's being reduced. In any case, the budget is always a document from which you must be seen and seen, that you always read where the country is going, or where a government that leads the country at that time leads. And that picture must be especially obvious in crisis situations, so from where they are cut, where they are not cut, what is possibly increasing must be clear what the objectives are and must be able to read the objectives of a leadership or one government that is being translated and re-drawn by such a budget. The original budget, which was adopted in this House last year, could not read the government's intentions for developmental direction, therefore, could not be seen clearly in which direction we will develop. At that time, it was claimed that there was no crisis, nor will there be, that it would bypass us in the great harbor at all. So maybe because it was claimed and it was actually obvious that the crisis was being indicated and that it would occur, there was such an undefined budget without a direction of development. However, from this crisis budget, and in my presentation on behalf of the HNS Club, I will try to show, in this crisis budget, even less see what the development goals are or what this is about. The crisis budget must contain two elements necessarily, this is obvious, one is savings, and another is a way of dynamicating the economy in order to make money and to be able to recover. So somewhere it's obviously necessary to save, but somewhere it's necessary and it's necessary to open up a chance for the economy to recover, stand on its feet, dynamic and start making money, because from saving, without giving it a chance to make money and to dynamicize the economy won't happen much, though. For example, in January 2009, according to recent data from the Chamber of Commerce, industrial production in Croatia fell by 14.1%). Of which several industries, let's say 20 percent of the industry grew and, for example, what goes under the category of other processing industry has fallen by 63% at the annual retail drop level is real 13.7%. The estimated value of construction works compared to 1 month 2008 is lower by 32.4%. That's our real data. I remember a month or a half ago when we discussed some of these topics, that there was a lot of shouting that it wasn't true, it doesn't matter, that it was some kind of catastrophic forecast, that it was some kind of private interest. Now look at this data provided by the Chamber of Commerce, they're all written inside. So, obviously the budget must be saved in such a situation where you have a decline in industrial production the largest in general ever 14.1% where the processing industry is obviously collapsed, where construction will have less than 32.4% of the value compared to the 1st month of 2008. So, all together, it indicates that it can't be solved by saving. Saving is one part, and the other part is obviously the start of the economy. However, what can be read or read from a model, if it can be called, or from a way of cutting budgets by individual cabinets. To allow it, just hold on a little bit with me to give you a brief review of how it was cut by the cabinets or added, not in relation to what was scheduled a month ago and here you voted, but in relation to what was actually realized in 2008. I remind you that inflation last year, also according to official data from the Chamber of Commerce, is 3.4%. So everything that's increased below 3.4 is either a reduction or a stay on it. So it's just to be clear. So, the finance ministry increases 16.8%, apparently serviceing everything you need. Tourism, 8.99% increase, it's such a small budget that it doesn't really mean much. This is a budget of about half, so our total budget of the tourism ministry almost exactly half of the incomplete data on how many countries in the public tax pay the church. So the tourism ministry is about half of it, so that increase doesn't do much. The Ministry of Health 7.76 of course there are now salaries. Agriculture +4.84, these are mostly increases. After that, the Ministry of Family, Defence, intergenerational cooperation and all the rest of 3.2, that's a little above inflation. The Ministry of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship, too, practically exactly at inflation level, so 3.67 is increasing, so it's going to be the same as last year. The justice ministry with all those big plans, the ideas of what's going to be done, the new swing, the increase of 2.41, the parts of the fight against corruption and organised crime are shrinking, the notes are being checked in the budget. So 2.41, which means a decrease compared to last year if you count inflation as 3.4. The interior ministry 2.15, therefore, is decreasing compared to last year. The Ministry of Science, Education, Sports and others remains at zero and increases by half a percentage point of 0.65. I'll just go back to that interesting information later. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Ministry of Defense. The foreign ministry is reducing -1.54, Ministry of Defence -1.9. I guess that's because we're entering the European Union and NATO. The Ministry of the Sea, Transport and Infrastructure -9.48 and now what we really don't need, the Ministry of Culture -15.23. That's where the minister went, but the poor really got hurt if we see it as money for the government, but that's a colleague of the Czechs wrong, it's not money for the government or for the officials, it's actually money for citizens from the citizens, so there's no confusion. The Ministry of Regional Development suffered absolutely, -22% compared to last year and then the absolute loss of environment. About 30% or a little less 28.28%. So, the Ministry of Environmental Protection has suffered here, just to show you, to protect or improve the quality of air, soil and the absolute loss of Kyoto protocol. Kyoto protocol has been more or less eliminated by the implementation of this. Now, if you look at what's coming out of this reading. Education, we could say it's an instrument to get out of the crisis. Some say we don't quote bigger and smarter than us, but some say education and investment in education and science is the way. It is obviously not for Croatia. Maybe it could be an economy. It's obviously not for Croatia. It's exactly the same as last year when there was no crisis, when the crisis was not talked about, therefore, at inflation level. It may be something to do with strengthening regional development or investing by the state in protecting the environment that we have to do. Because let me remind you, we have been looking for a whole series of delays in our environmental-related negotiating position and entry into the European Union regarding improving the quality of water, air and soil that are required for 30 years in some cases, and it is almost certain that it will not go through with these long delays. And if they don't pass with these long delays, then we won't be able to invest that money in environmental protection and raise the quality of environmental protection, but we'll have to spend it on foames that we're going to have to pay for. So this may just seem irrelevant, but it's potentially double and triple as much as what's being saved here. So maybe investing in environmental protection would be a smart move. But no. This is absolutely not working out of the budget, so environmental protection is down 30%, regional development is down to 22%. What's increasing? Tourism, not worth mentioning, is at 200, 250 million, therefore. The resolutions of coalition partners of which is 1 agriculture that keeps HSS where it is going into incentives that we will have to completely change in accordance with European standards. So, instead of reforming, on additional incentives. Tourism is also a coalition partner and more or less that's it. So, no other ideas. The note, Ben, is an interesting little detail. You remember here when we discussed growth, that is, wage cuts in public services. The Government of the Republic of Croatia is increasing the budget by 7.53% and the salaries in the Government of the Republic of Croatia are increasing by 5.11 according to this budget. Look, you'll see. I really don't get it. Is it that you're going to increase the salaries of people who are now working in the government or are you going to increase the number of government employees? That's not clear to me, but I'm really asking for something to be said about it because it's even at a symbolic level totally incomprehensible that the moment we're passing the law to cut salaries in public services, the government's salaries are growing by 5.11. I really need to have a little more fun with that. The budget can be compared to someone who has lost their job and then reduces to food, reduces to heat, reduces to electricity consumption, but has to at the same time as saving to look for a new job. Now, this budget is like someone who's lost their job, so it reduces to food, reduces to electricity, saves, but doesn't ask for a new job. There's nowhere to be seen where you could possibly make a profit. Crisis anti-recession measures must contain the elements of the first short-term measures must be harmonised and meaningful in the context of the long-term, they must be credible and the objectives must be realistic. In addition to saving measures, they must also contain instruments to dynamicise the economy, which is not what this budget does in the situation I have described to you. Therefore, not only will the HNS club not support this budget, but I really advise the government not to support it and to go and write something that makes sense. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-30-0.u30936	Thank you. First Amendment, Mr. Agent Ivan Chehok. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-30-0.u30937	Mr. President, I'm correcting Mrs. Pusic's incorrect assumption that she doesn't know how I'm going to vote... said I'd vote for rebalancing because it's good for Croatia, but I'm asking the government to bring in other anti-recession measures. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-30-0.u30938	Thank you. Ms. Nevenka Marinović's correction.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-30-0.u30939	Thank you. It is not the correct quote by Mrs Pusic when she said that this crisis budget still does not show the goals of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. This is incorrect because the objectives of the Government of the Republic of Croatia are focused and visible from this budget in order to maintain the level of economic activity and preserve jobs. That's the basic goal. And of the many measures that are visible from this budget, I will point out only one, which is that HBOR's capitalisation by the state with over 200 million kunas is an extremely important measure to stimulate the economy and preserve the level of economic activity, which ultimately contributes to the preservation of jobs, when Mrs Pusic already said that there are no improvements in this part. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-30-0.u30940	Thank you. Mrs. Neda Klaric's correction.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-30-0.u30941	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Here, I am correcting the incorrect allegations of an advocate who claims that the government's intentions for the 2009 budget could not be read. It's an incorrect quote. This is not, in fact, the correct claim because it is the 2009 budget that it wanted to improve both its wishes and its further, it remains in the rebalancing of the investment-enhancing budget, strengthening capacity in the area of consumer protection, strengthening and developing the small and medium-sized economy and small and medium-sized enterprises, business infrastructure and increasing the competitiveness of imports and exports. And it is also important to say that the 2009 budget is entered into the category of social benefits and pensions and health care and rebalancing with significant increases and is not laid down in this budget rebalancing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-30-0.u30942	Thank you. Ms. Representative Marija Pejcinović Buric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-30-0.u30943	Thank you very much, Mr. President. So I have to correct two incorrect allegations from my colleague Pusic. The first is, I quote, "the reduction in the budget of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Ministry of Defence is because these are EU and NATO priorities." In times of crisis, it must be saved solidly and proportionately, therefore it must be saved on these items, and therefore there will be no smaller engagement of the Croatian Government on these 2 foreign policy priorities. And another incorrect assumption is that by 30%, the share related to environmental protection is reduced. Only a small part of what counterpart Pusic read from this item is really about environmental protection, and the main part concerns the reduction in the part relating to APN. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-30-0.u30944	Thank you. Correction, Madam Representative Vesna Buterin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-30-0.u30945	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I am correcting Mrs. Vesna Pusic's incorrect quote. In fact, it is an incorrect assumption that no direction of development is seen through this crisis budget. On the contrary, counterpart Pusic, the proposed budget rebalance, the Government of the Republic of Croatia, ensures the sustainability of fiscal policy and gives incentives through anti-recession measures to further strengthen macroeconomic stability, preserve jobs and growth in the economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-30-0.u30946	Correction, Mr. Representative Nedjeljko Strikic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-30-0.u30947	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, the esteemed representative Pusic said that health increases are 7.76%, mostly wages. If she had read the budget of pages 300 to 326, she would have seen the items for health care. Expensive drugs increased by 50 million, that the transplant program was increased, that hospital budgets increased by 25% in the last year, that. Mrs. Pusic, don't comment. You could've read it and you wouldn't have said it like that. Therefore, the fact that you have said is incorrect, and it is written to you in the health budget. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-30-0.u30948	Thank you. Correction Mr Dragan Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-30-0.u30949	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I would also correct Mrs Pusic's incorrect quote that the agriculture budget remains the same or for support in agriculture rather than for reforms. So that's what this is about, I'm correcting this incorrect allegation because it's an absolute lack of understanding of the function of support in agriculture. In addition to the direct support that goes towards production, there are investment support and there are supports that go through operational programmes and they are an absolute contribution to structural reforms in agriculture because there is an increase in the number of permanent crops, orchards, vineyards, olive groves, as well as new livestock farms, etc. So that's a contribution to structural reform. And also these incentives contribute to increasing production and provide us with better starting positions in the negotiations to obtain larger production quotas. So you've come to realize that instead of reforming that it's given on additional incentives which is absolutely not true, it's a lack of understanding of the structure of incentives.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-30-0.u30950	Thank you. Correction Mr. Andrija Hebrang. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-30-0.u30951	Thank you very much. The Honored colleague said that above the inflation rate compared to 2008, only some of the non-essential items she listed and that is not true because more than the inflation rate in this budget in relation to 2008 grew and very important items only need to be able to read the budget. For example, energy sector reform plus 206%, so more than double, which means the country's strategic direction of development. Entrepreneurial education increased compared to 2008. 42.8%, interest subsidies on loans 32%, export incentives 436%, four and a half times almost. The Croatian Employment Service with 1.1 billion received 88 million kuna more, which is 14% higher. Material protection of unemployed 19% higher. About health care not to talk. Health received 3 billion kuna more. 2 billion in the budget and 1 billion in additional insurance reform and entering stable in the crisis year. So it may be inextricable because the budget needs to be read.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-30-0.u30952	Thank you. Correction Mr. Representative Boris Kunst. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-30-0.u30953	Your Honor. In addition to the impressions expressed by MP Pusic, she incorrectly said that salaries would increase for government employees. They're going to fall for nine million kunas. I think that should have been read. And also, just to remind you that the subsidisation of credit for entrepreneurs is increasing by 10.5 million compared to now. Then, to encourage exports, another 44 million kuna is planned, etc., so I think this is all you said at your level of impression than the real state of budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-30-0.u30954	Thank you. Mr. Representative Krunoslav Markovinović's correction.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-30-0.u30955	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, here, I must correct the incorrect quote of my colleague Pusic, who declares that there is absolutely nothing in this budget for the workers, which is absolutely incorrect. Namely, however the workers imagine he had in his hands a hammer, a sickle or whatever it is for all of them, it's definitely because a colleague says, "The incentives for shipbuilding will be lifted" but they exist. There are incentives for the textile industry, the shoe industry, the wood industry, there are incentives for the dairy industry. The government is subsidized, not only by the government, but also by cities and municipalities of milk production. So, there's a whole series of incentives, and I'm not saying that the government meets the wishes of a fisherman now that they're yawning because they've been talking all the time that they want the price of a 4 kuna diesel, no one's answering for 4 kunas anymore because the whole elevator is almost kuna.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-30-0.u30956	Thank you. I'm announcing that at 11:31, it's past the time for a ten-minute hearing. On behalf of the IDS Club, Mr. Representative Damir Cain. Here you go. ... Here you go, breach of the rules of procedure. [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-30-0.u30957	Thank you very much. Directly in two cases known Article 209, once a colleague of Kovacevic, once a colleague of Markovanovic. So, counterpart Kovacevic argues, corrects my claim that I said that the agricultural budget remained the same. Conversely, I said that the agricultural budget has increased by 4.84, not to remain the same but not to use these funds for reforms but also to adapt to a whole new model of incentives based on European standards where we have been looking for 29 delays, but 29 delays we will not get, and this kind of attempt to fight for the party's consciousness will not especially work for you. So either say something that has to do with what I said, or answer the debate, and then say what you think. As for the growth of fellow Markovanovic, who said that I said there was nothing for the workers. So I answered twice, twice people were correcting a quote I didn't quote. So, there's been a breach of the rules of procedure twice. I answered twice, the president gave me his word, one colleague Kovacevic, one colleague Markovanovic. I don't know if you think that... Before you start shutting down. [[The speech room is off, you can't hear it.]] I see the fight has become partisan. So you're not letting me have this other one.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-30-0.u30958	It's a violation of the rules of procedure cumulatively. On behalf of the IDS Club, Mr. Representative Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-30-0.u30959	Your Honor, Mr. President, Mr. Minister, the Honorable gentlemen of the House of Representatives. So far, every year, we'd have one rebalance on a regular basis. In 2009, I guess this is the first one in a series of rebalances that IDS first warned about. Although, we didn't believe it would be accompanied in March, we expected it in May but it's never too early. This is a rebalance for survival by the end of the tourist season. The spending side was cut by about 5.4 billion kuna, revenue for 8 billion kuna. However, this projection does not hold water either. It was done on the projection of gross social product decline by 2%. And what's the point? The decline in social gross product in America will be 2.6%, the decline in gross social product in the euro zone will be about 3.2%, the decline in economic activity in Japan should be 5.6%, and in such a superpower as Croatia, it should be minus 2%. And now you can imagine how that's gonna happen. Slovenia has brought rebalancing to the projection of the 4% decline of the gross social product. Croatia brings 2%, and every day on the other side we lose 500 jobs. And you know what 500 jobs are? That is, in one day, the number of employees that work in the Blue Lagoon or in one Buzetska "Cimos", or in one TDR from Campanara, or in 6 days in this country, goes to us to express myself, the number of employees of an "Olinik", or the number of employees of one "3 May". In two months, all industries say so in Croatia, which is concentrated in Istria. Why do these laws, let's say the salaries are determined by the government, by representatives, by judges, by the administration, by health care, etc.? So, because every three months, the wages will be adjusted down and the government will do it in future with automation, as in determining the price of gasoline. Central government deficit 1.4% and consolidated budget 1.6%. Great, but a man would say, let's wait for September. The question, all the questions, is who brought us into this situation? Slovenia with whom we frighten the nation? No, I don't. No matter how long it takes, say, to get to Croatia? IMF? They didn't get us into that situation either. Haag? I don't either. With them clearly, you shouldn't play hide-and-seek, '95. It wasn't '45. and nothing could be hidden, as it is known today, and let's say for the crimes of '45. World crisis? No, she is not the reason for the Croatian financial monetary, social breakdown that is ahead of us. I repeat, the global crisis is not the main reason for our troubles. The main reason for our troubles is above all an inefficient and unworthy policy. Which, for example, is... One of the City of Zagreb needed to get that tank or think about some drone? What was the prime minister supposed to get a blind BMW? No one in Croatia has been talking about rebalancing in the last few days. Everyone's talking about bouquets, about the 20,000 kunas that give away the boys for the Zagreb Stock Exchange. Okay. Someone will say they're not a private company, they're all talking about 6-7m-euro villas, about the Zagreb toilets of a million-and-a-half kuna, about their tank or the prime minister's BMW. And a man really asks himself a question, why do our beloved leaders get armored cars? Well, not that they'd run away from the people when they fell in love so much and had so much compassion for that people. And there's finally nothing HDZ has to say, and that's what I'm gonna say, sell that BMW. It's that someone gave it to them, but that's why the state, not the HDZ, for the same not a hundred times, has made it 300 times. And so the BMW should be the property of the state, not that the next day the state has to go into budget rebalance, in order to buy another new BMW of 200, 300 or 500 thousand euros, clearly bigger and even nicer. Who did the gentlemen sell Croatian banks? Well, the Croatian government. Who's responsible for the conversion? The Croatian Government. Who sold Croatian monopolies from THT where Mudrinic has 186,000 salaries plus bonuses and says it should be saved until the INA? Croatian Government. Who destroyed the Croatian exporters? Croatian Government. Who in the public sector in the last 4.5 years has hired over 30,000 people who have nothing to do? Who owed the Croatian state, and the foreign debt exceeded us by the end of the year 40 billion or 50 billion dollars. And most of all, it is precisely this government that proposes this budget. And in the end, well, come on with this external debt, I'd even say, which is why the CNB is responsible. We will eventually save foreign-owned banks, but with this overrated kuna policy, we have destroyed Croatia's economic base. Why am I saying that? 'Cause I'm afraid it won't last either liquidity or kuna, but that's what I'm saying Istria does. More Istria contributes in 2009 to the liquidity of the Republic of Croatia foreign exchange, than Croatia has done as part of the SFRY. What comes back in the end? Well, the crumbs are coming back. How much? In this rebalancing 67.3 million kuna. 426 million kuna in the Primorje-Gorski County. On the other hand, we had to resuscitate ourselves, say, the Istrian Bank, we ourselves had to resuscitate the Oilman who saved a Victor Lenac. I don't know "May 3" and so on. However, there are also indications at the moment that the Russians could cancel the order of six ships in Pula for which the price of $350m was agreed upon. If anyone in this House or Government wants to help the Oilman, Istria, Pula, please don't privatize the Oilman. I can only ask myself a question, what's only elsewhere? Just before, I said that Croatian shipbuilding is at the expense of 4.5 billion kuna. Of course, but the Oilman of the 4.5 billion kuna, or none of the limes on it. No Istrian company is in any recovery program. It's just for a while. Nothing's coming back. And for the first time, the Istrians are asking for help, not Istria, but to help the most vital parts of the Croatian economy, which is primarily export economy and that is tourism. These are the companies that make foreign exchanges dependent on the survival of this over-indebted nation at the moment. And let's say that if Slavons who are in the most difficult situation in Croatia want to be helped clearly and should be helped, then they will vote in favour of the proposal that I will propose, because this is how the country itself will survive, which is that 5% of the country's net exports of the Republic of Croatia are financed. It is clear that it takes one billion kuna, but while someone has already mentioned Serbia, he has known such a measure recently also Serbia. Istria has the largest export... Our first economic branch is industry, not tourism. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] One Pula is exporting $618 million. More than the Primorje-Gorski County, Labin is second in $160m, Rovinj third in $119.5m, a small Buzet with 6,000 inhabitants, $113.9m. We make the most of our tourism. I said a little while ago that we had twice as much exports from the Primorian-Gorski County, but also time to save those branches because they save the nation. And let people down to work, don't defend work on Sundays goes Vassam, goes Easter, give people the same chance to make money and work while they work, and then we can all clearly go on collective vacations. Let's not just force the tax collectors to tax. If taxes were to be paid elsewhere as paid in Istria, I think Croatia should think about how to redistribute another 5 billion kunas and not how to deprive itself of 5 billion kunas. Otherwise, the budget gap will not be 5 billion kuna, the deficit is expressed by a figure of 4 billion 975 million kuna. It'll be maybe a lot, a lot and over 10 billion kuna. Who brought it to that. So I say, among other things, this government and I believe that at this point the election is not the right thing to do if the government falls to the state. This is 2009, this isn't '91. When one party fell and a country fell apart, but as in one Hungary or Czech Republic, after the government fell, there was no drop in the state, I say Croatia would survive. By local elections, we are all aware, there will probably be one serious reconstruction of the government, but it's buying time again. The election's out, and I agree, it's hard to find some new people, but you'd probably find some new policies. This government on the other hand doesn't control the situation. We're afraid of bankruptcy, if only those who are in HDZ were scared, it would be great, but with these messages, I think it sends a bad opportunity to everyone else. I read this morning in the morning, the HDZ proposes a summer VAT in tourism of 10%. So seven, eight months. We proposed this tourist VAT back in '97, but that's not going to happen. I'll even say something that will be blasphemy. I wouldn't even mind if the VAT increased by 1%. If it were to move 2.5.3 billion kunas, I don't think the citizens would feel it because employers would take the burden on themselves, but on what condition? That VAT is paid not within 30 days but within 60 days. And that this import VAT and customs duties are not paid within 8 days and it was 30 days before, but 60 days ago. Such burdens as Croatia has have no one. And then what happens? The big ones usually always go out to meet and the little one's clearly screaming. Today it also takes one multilateral compensation, all with everyone, headed by the state. That it affects this 14.8 billion kuna indifference. A lot of stories about the Peljesk Bridge, too, are not funded from the budget. Well, we all know it's not funded from the budget, but it's funded from extra budget funds. It's enough to also talk about who inherited what Sanader from Racan, Racan from Matesha, etc. Let's be so honest, gentlemen, and let's say what we inherited as a country in the '90s. The average pension was 75% of the average salary at the time, when it was almost a thousand marks. Four hundred thousand social housing. The state has been as industrialized and today we really do when we see that every day we lose our jobs, without 500 jobs we don't need to ratify this agreement from... What do we do when nothing is done in this country anymore. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The relation of the workers to the pensioners was 3:1, but I also admit that we inherited one mad Milosevic, Kadijevic, one crazy Martic, Bebic, Babic, excuse me, and I don't count any further. What is more, however, gentlemen, the most important citizens are rotting under the burden of interest. In one Great Britain, France, Germany, interest has never been lower, with us ever again. On March 8th, on Women's Bank Day, the citizens were told to lift their kuna loans. What's the message, if we don't believe the kuna, the citizens must. Of course the citizens will believe because they have nothing else to trust but the kind of banks we have, because everything else would be far worse. Now we see that the government is offering a recession program at 10 points. This is a rebalancing now, removing non-taxable charges, and I welcome you here, if it goes towards HRT, ZAMPU, contribution to chambers, the liquidity of public enterprises should be strengthened, licences in 45 days for investments, etc. But many say it's a chamomile, often say it's sugar-free. For the end, I'm afraid this country is ill-written. And then there's the question of who do you attribute it to? Iscribe first of all to the governments but also to the tycoon's greedes, some of which would have more residences in this country than Joseph Broz Tito had, so now he wants another one on Pantovchak. A tycoon who won't stop until they come to power in person, because they're afraid with the right to be asked tomorrow, so how did you gentlemen get to those first million euros? Everything can be questioned in this country but no one is allowed to ask them how they got to the first million euros. Minister Schuker announced when the budget was adopted the largest growth so far in 2009 as much as 4%, and taxes in January failed 20%. It's about the months they have, I won't say marginal influence, but let's do it on total tax collection. Which may not happen until the 7th and 8th months if VAT revenues are not as expected. So we could have a hole in the budget maybe 20 million kuna. I, Mr. President, don't think I've been given all the time but it's given time to spend correcting Mrs. Pusic's incorrect allegations in my time.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-30-0.u30960	I have no reason to doubt here in measuring time.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-30-0.u30961	Well, I have, I have reason to doubt, I'm sure you've cut me at least three, four, five minutes. Okay, we'll check that out later. However, it does not matter, however Croatia may avoid parliamentary elections but it will not avoid the IMF or new taxes, Croatia will not save the season, Croatia will not decentralise itself, but the revenues will still be allocated as they have been allocated by political criteria so far and therefore we are clearly in the IDS against this rebalancing.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-30-0.u30962	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, lately the laps have been the main news in some media. The labs are really from the other day, and I've made one, so they're the main news, so I'm asking you to avoid them, if we can in any way, that these main things we're talking about don't go into another plan, and they're talking about the laps, right? Because I turned, at one point I thought that I... And between a grandmother and a baby is a huge difference. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Let's get some corrections. First, Mr. Boris Kunst. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-30-0.u30963	Your Honor. Agent Cain said incorrectly, and some of the same fellow MPs are repeating the incorrect data of how many people have actually been employed since 2004 to this day in state services, so let's remember that from 2004 to today, only 8 thousand 600 people have been employed in the field of education and health care for the most part. Well, then let's not throw numbers at each other. And when we talk about privatization evil then, colleague Cain, your party has just been part of the government when the privatisation of the second part of the Private Bank, Croatian Telecommunications, Rijeka Bank, Croatia Bank, Dubrovnik Bank, tourist hotels, ports, etc. I don't want to pick you up. So I think you should have taken a lot more care of the consequences than you should today list as the problem of this government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-30-0.u30964	We also have a breach of the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-30-0.u30965	All these intense insults and epithets that lit me up, I just want to remind Mr Kunst that the IDS was in Parliament from 2000 until there somewhere or not in May 2001, a year and three months and certainly IDS did not participate in it. And if you meant to indicate who was behind it then you should have been so honest, so correct, so open and started since '91, '92. And on and on.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-30-0.u30966	I'd like to know what the Rules of Procedure is about. ... So again, again, this infringement institute of the Rules of Procedure was misrepresented. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Please don't. We're gonna lose a lot of time on that. There's a lot going on for corrections, and then there's going to be replicas and things like that. Let us be a little more concise, clearer, and in corrections, indicate what is being corrected. This is the second time I've said it. It cannot be spoken in general, and it can correct an incorrect allegation. We have a further correction, Mr. Krunoslav Markovnović.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-30-0.u30967	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, regardless of whether it's 30,000 or 8,000 600, a colleague of Cain's incorrectly claims he's employed 30,000 people who don't do anything. So, colleague Cain, you should say that among these really, there are educators, there are doctors, you have a whole series of trainees which is extremely important, whether they are in public service or not, but these are the people that the Croatian state is receiving, preparing. One part will go to the economy and use it safely and there. But it's extremely convincing to say they don't do anything, because it's hard to find that much truth when someone's exposure is based on or based on 90% of the daily press reports. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-30-0.u30968	Correction, Mrs. Jeljana Kalash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-30-0.u30969	Thank you, Mr. President. Here I want to correct Mr Cain's incorrect claim that the main reason for budget rebalancing is ineffective government policy. That's not true. It's little to say it's a lie. Perhaps a fellow representative does not have satellite television or may not read foreign press, but about this global crisis and not only the European crisis as he said in the previous exhibition, even Mr. Chehok, it is a global crisis and Croatia cannot be an island to itself. So we must say that the decline in global economic activity must be felt in our environment and that it results in negative effects and economic activity in Croatia and condition the planning of lower levels of expected revenues from the state budget than originally planned. And just to end up reminding him once again that the financial crisis did not, it did not start with this government and no, it did not start in Croatia. In fact, it started with the mortgage crisis back in America and moved on. Gradually it began to spill over into the real sector at global level. And if he wants further interpretations, he might address a professional person or a finance minister. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-30-0.u30970	Thank you. Mr. Goran Maric, correction.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-30-0.u30971	Thank you very much. I am correcting the incorrect quote of counterpart Caine, who said that this government is the most responsible for the sale of Croatian banks and monopolys such as Croatian Telekom. This government had nothing to do with it. This was created and accomplished by those who have been increasingly through the media lately trying to teach this government what needs to be done and how to do, and trying to buy themselves a better past. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-30-0.u30972	Thank you. It is up to the HDZ Club and Mr. Representative Goran Maric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-30-0.u30973	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Ministers, State Secretarys, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. So no topic in the parliamentary debate draws so much attention and so much intense debate and so much conflicting thinking as the state budget, here's what we're witnessing today. A changes and additions, etc. the rebalancing of the state budget is also a common cause and an opportunity for these differences in the approach to planning state revenues and expenditure to come to an even greater degree of expression, and it is not surprising that fiscal policy affects key macroeconomic objectives. No matter how much it likes to say that the circumstances in which budget rebalancing is made are very specific, this time we can indeed stress that this 2009 Rebalance budget is being passed in an unforeseeable and back several months of an unpredictable macroeconomic environment. Almost all lovers of macroeconomic forecasts remained hit by the sudden collapse of US investment banks first, and then banks across Europe, and a sudden disturbance in the global financial market has led to slow economic growth throughout Europe, as well as most of the countries of the world, which has, of course, affected Croatia. Thus, estimates of the level of macroeconomic indicators in Croatia for 2008 and, above all, inflation and economic growth were wrong. Circumstances in the macroeconomic environment in which the 2009 State budget was prepared and brought about and circumstances in the macroeconomic environment today when the budget rebalancing was adopted has changed to a great extent. For example, in November last year, economic activity in the euro area was 0.2%, while only in January 2009 was already at -1.8%. In terms of these changes, many fiscal and monetary measures taken by parliaments and governments of individual states have witnessed with a view to reducing the consequences of this, perhaps the most devastating economic crisis in history. Only the United States, which came out of the budget, and from the primary show of the Central American Bank FEDA intervened in the economy with as much as $3,600 billion, and reduced the reference interest rate to an incredible 0.5%. And, of course, it took time to look at and analyse all aspects of the global global crisis and to assess the direction of macroeconomic indicators so that the more realistic planning could be made to the state of revenue expenditure and to propose this rebalance of the state budget that we have before us today. It is now certain that the spillover of negative economic movements from the environment to the Croatian economy will result in a decline in economic activity in Croatia so that economic downturn, i.e. a fall in real gross domestic product, is expected by 2% in 2009, while a decrease in average inflation is expected to be 2.6%. At the same time, primarily due to the marked decline in imports from goods and services exports during 2009 a reduction in current account deficits is expected, and due to the increasing foreign borrowing in 2009, a significant slowdown or stagnation of foreign debt growth is expected, in particular that of their share relating to the borrowing of the company sector. All expected unfavourable economic developments have resulted in numerous and complex consequences, but are, above all, causing a lower level of expected revenues from the state budget compared to the 2009 State Budget Plan. Of course, this proposal has been amended and complemented by the 2009 State budget to determine the reaction and response of the Government of the Republic of Croatia to the strong changes in the economic environment, with the main macroeconomic indicators having a negative sign. The proposed amendments and additions to the 2009 State budget in terms of revenue are based on planned macroeconomic developments and on the achievement of revenue so far in 2009. According to the plan, total revenues for 2009 are 116.6 billion kuna, instead of previously planned 124.6, which means 8 billion kunas are less than previously planned. Tax revenues as the most significant revenue of the state budget have been reduced by €5.2 billion and are planned to amount to €64.7 billion, and the biggest drop is expected from value added tax and now, instead of the planned €40.4 billion, €4 billion, 4 billion less income from value added tax. A reduction in income tax is also expected by €185.9 million, as well as a profit tax of €145.3 million less than previously planned. The expected slow economic growth in 2009 also affected the reduction of projected revenues from excise duties, contributions, income from assets, as well as revenue from the sale of non-financial assets. The changes and additions of the 2009 State budget reduce the expenditure of the state budget from 127 billion to 121.6 billion kuna, i.e. 5.4 billion. This uses the rebalancing of the budget in these amended market conditions as one of the instruments for the implementation of anti-recession measures through the maximum reduction of state spending with the aim of ensuring macroeconomic stability and the preservation of jobs, as well as the maintenance of the standard of living of the most vulnerable groups of the population, the more efficient and efficient allocation of subsidies, the increased competitiveness of tourism and the protection of domestic production. The expenditure on employees in 2009 was planned to amount to 31 billion 868 million kuna, but given the expected reduction in GDP, the growth of the base for the account of salaries financed by the 6% budget was unrealistic and fiscally unsustainable, resulting in the rebalance of staff expenditures being reduced to 30 billion and 98 million kuna, i.e. a billion 769 million kuna. In the government's efforts to keep the level of salaries financed by the state budget at the level of 2008 most of the state budget users came to an understanding and decided to bear part of the burden imposed by this major global economic crisis. These days, there have been public calls for the church to even behave widely and not to participate in reducing the expenditure of the state budget, however, it is true that the church gets 80 million kunas less through the rebalance of the budget and that it shares the fate of its people and shows at the average level of social sensitivity, and the revenues from the state budget by means of caritative other social activities return multiple returns to the state and society. Regardless of the reduction in expenditure of €5.4 billion, this budget rebalance is also aimed at maintaining the life standard of the most vulnerable groups and caring for the elderly, the powerless and the sick, because they are currently in need of assistance. With this pension rebalance, maternity benefits and child allowance, it remains at the pre-planned level for 2009, which is growth compared to 2008, since the pension allocations in 2009 rose by 4.1%, i.e. from 32.8 billion to 34.1 billion kuna. At the same time, redundancies for maternity benefits and allowances for children increased in 2009 compared to 2008 and thus maternity benefits for 223 million kuna and 12.4% respectively, and child allowance for 26 million kuna and 1.4% respectively. It is equally important to stress that unemployment benefits and redundancies for a demanding employment policy have increased by 10% and 103 million kuna, respectively. In the previous 2 years, €11.2 billion has been allocated from the state budget to encourage entrepreneurship, and in 2009 continuity is maintained and the incentive programme provides for a 5.1 billion kuna amount. Already in 2008, there has been a significant increase in the allocations for agriculture and tourism, strategically the most important branches of the Croatian economy, and in 2009 there is a high level of isolation, and the rebalancing does not represent greater reductions. Of course, due to the expected economic developments and the expected decline in economic activity in 2009, the fall in the revenues of extra- budget users is expected, which is why this proposal rebalances the total revenues of non-financial users planned for €5.5 billion, which is a reduction of €576.3 million and 9.6%, respectively, compared to the planned previous plan for 2009. The biggest reduction in business revenues was planned by the Croatian Roads and the Environment and Energy Efficiency Fund, one by 258 million and the other by 257 million kuna. At the same time, savings on the side of planned expenditure are also foreseen so that the total expenditure of extra budget users for 2009 are planned with a rebalance of 4.6 billion kuna, which is 8.4% less than previously planned or 420 million kuna in absolute amount. As on the revenue side and on the expenditure side, the minimum operating costs of the rebalancing were planned by the Environment and Energy Efficiency Fund as well as the Croatian Roads. In addressing economic problems and combating economic deficits, many economic experts view fiscal policy as more effective at theoretical level and monetary policy in practice becomes increasingly publicised and more effective as a tool against the economic crisis. It is evident that countries affected by the recession have reached for instruments and fiscal and monetary policies and many countries in the European Union have established so-called governments. monetary committees, but not affecting an independent monetary policy, already represent its correction and encourages central banks to radically participate in addressing their countries' economic problems. It is not surprising, therefore, that the reference interest rates in these same countries range from 0.5% to 2.5% and effective interest rates are lower than ever in history. Only a higher supply of money and thus a lower price of money, or lower level of interest rates, will boost demand for loans, stimulate investment and revive economic conukture. The HDZ Club supports this proposal to amend and supplement the State budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2009. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-30-0.u30974	Thank you. We have a correction. Ms. Representative Vesna Škulić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-30-0.u30975	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I believe in Mr. Maric's expertise, but I will only list some items where people with disabilities are badly damaged with this budget. Annual fee for the use of public roads and tolls for disabled people minus 14 million and 700 thousand kuna, social empowerment of persons with disabilities in minus 25 million 980 thousand kunas, affirmation of the right and improvement of the policy for persons with disabilities 475 thousand, approval of financial support for programmes and projects aimed at children with disabilities and adults with disabilities in minus 10 million kunas, the Professional Rehabilitation and Employment Fund for Persons with Disabilities at minus 4 million USD 265 thousand, reliefs and incentives for the employment of persons with disabilities in minus 3 million kuna, commission review for the identification of mental and physical status of children, then the National Strategy for the Single Policy for Persons with Disabilities for Persons with Disabilities in the Ministry of Education, Child Care and Youth with Disabilities in Disabilitation in Minor and 700 000 Health Care in Health and Health Care, EUR 730 million, EUR 730 million in health care and 730. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-30-0.u30976	Thank you very much. On behalf of the SDSS Club, Mr. Representative Milorad Pupovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-30-0.u30977	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues. About three months ago when we discussed the budget, we were aware of the budget's proposal that we had a very fast budget rebalance. At this moment when we are discussing the first budget rebalancing, we can say with greater certainty that we will probably have to discuss another budget rebalancing after the local elections and at the latest after the tourist season. I hope that this budget rebalance will be a more adequate response to what we as a state are in, to what we as a society are in because this is not an answer to a third of what the current deficit of the state budget represents. I hope, Mr. Minister, that you are right that with this we will increase the credibility of the state in front of international and other financial institutions, and I would like to believe that that is the case. But I have to admit, I'm not sure since the key items, the key deficit generators with this rebalance have practically not touched. All that is divided by the right hand by plenty, not since yesterday, with the left hand which is weaker in most people than the right hand, and then the country can hardly be returned. And that's why I think this should be an opportunity for us to strengthen this right hand on one side and change its function. The change in function must be that the right hand for the state should be served to take, not to share, and traditionally the left hand with which it is shared in both the political and every other sense of that word, and we, Mr. Minister, have not yet come to that. The budget can be cut because it has to be cut but the budget has to be charged. And the answer to how the budget is going to be charged at this point for all of us is, as for you, you know that better than I do, is more important than how we're going to and where we're going to cut. When we see how we can fill it, then we can make a decision about where and how to cut it. And about how the budget is charged and what is the efficiency of filling the budget through tax mechanisms, of course you know better than I do. On the other hand, which are mechanisms through which the state can stimulate the preservation of jobs, the liquidity of businesses and, at the same time, how it can provide funds for such development in circumstances that are unfavourable for development, we should have this. That should stand as a policy behind this budget rebalance. If we do not have this, then the budget rebalance is a temporary measure until the next interim measure. And I'm sorry that we as coalition partners didn't get a chance to talk about it. I know my ability to contribute to that is very modest but they are loyal and are not in the function of producing deficits. Now I'm going to say something about that segment of deficit production. By 2007, until the last elections for this Parliament, agriculture incentives served to bring something to this society and its market. Now it is still happening that the incentives in agriculture serve to cover social mechanisms and serve as a mechanism of social assistance and at the same time serve, and many of us sitting here rightly doubt it, as a mechanism for obtaining voting support. Why? Because the budget would serve that function, and in that amount of 2 billion and 800 million kuna, should it serve that function? We know, of course, that most of that money goes away for large agricultural systems and trade chains. And can they also participate in what is called budget rebalancing and what is called belting or belting or if you want joint responsibility for common destiny? Our colleague Milanovic spoke here about proctationism. I don't mind protectionism if it's good for the state and its market, but I have against the monopoly of the price that this protectionism is used for. So when I come to the store, not just me, but anyone else I meet at the store, can ask why there are no cheaper products than the ones we need to consume as ours, and until yesterday there were them. Such protectionism I cannot support. Especially if there's big budget money behind it. Which, for the budget that I'm raising my hand for, is calculated at the price of an increase in the price of the one that comes to some store to buy tomorrow. That kind of policy, Mr. Minister, I'm quite certain you can't support it either. And you know you can't hold out with her for long. Now, Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues, if we have decided, I am now speaking more as a representative of a specific group in our society. If we decided to cut the budget and the budget deficit by about 5 billion kuna. Well, Mr. Minister, should 10% fall to those categories that we're trying to help there and have a house, have electricity, have a basic access road, and have an elementary infrastructure, and unfortunately so is. By reducing the items of the Ministry of Regional Development for the items of regional development, for the items of reconstruction, for the items of people who have settled or returned there, we are actually for the items of the housing programme, we have included that these categories of people, the most vulnerable categories of people, in the most difficult conditions and in the most underdeveloped environments living, as said one chief, one of the Korenica Lika municipalities, instead of seeing 100 kunas every morning because they live in such environments, we will now take away the minimum on which to say, tomorrow I will get what belongs to me. Should that category of people be involved with 10% in reducing the state budget? It's not exactly her. And on the other hand, a reduction in incentives in agriculture that we don't know what they're all for, as I said, 69 million kuna compared to 2 billion and 800 million kuna. Well, somebody explain it to me. Someone explain to me how these areas are going to come back to life, someone explain to me how these people will finally be able to live from their work and become useful to this society and to their family if we approach in such a way? I will not talk about these segments being an integral part of the criteria for the negotiating position – 23. And I do not know how you intend to give an answer to us who, less than 10 days ago in the National Committee, unanimously supported this negotiating position, and tomorrow we should defend it in order for it to be accepted by the European Union and the European Commission and that this negotiating position should be accepted as crucial by the European Commission if you, just one week after that, are having sex with the means by which these negotiating positions should be realised, i.e. those criteria need to be realised. And that's exactly where it is. Is this very unfortunate 200 million crucial whether this budget will bring this desired deficit reduction or not? Or I won't say it here, because I'm a member of the ruling coalition, and from respect to myself and other members of the coalition, I'll keep what I say to myself. But there must be solidarity. Selfishness won't get anyone anywhere. You'll see it in local elections. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-30-0.u30978	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, we'll be working today without a break. There are many reported and today we will hope and end the debate, so that the amendments will then be submitted by 12 o'clock tomorrow 31. so that we can decide on them on Friday and bring rebalancing. We're approaching an individual debate. She is the first female representative of Milanka Opačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-30-0.u30979	Mr. President, Mr. Finance, colleagues and colleagues. Today here on several occasions it was said that until a few months ago there were unpredictable economic movements and that it was not known what things would look like, so here we are now after three months we are much smarter. This is definitely not true because the whole economy was on its feet already in the budget and almost three months were shouting and saying that the crisis had arrived in Croatia, that the situation was becoming more difficult, that they simply needed the help of the state. I, when I spoke here as well as you, Mr. Shucker then warned that if you would not listen to us, if we are already talking something that does not stand, do not hold water, that I would ask you to listen to the businessmen who every day feel the crisis that has come on their backs. Unfortunately, you did not listen then, you did not then create a real budget, which is in line with Croatia's economic prospects. Unfortunately, here even at the beginning of 1 month, or rather at the end of 1 month when Mr. Sanader made some statements, he said, for example. There's no reason to call on budget rebalancing right now, that everything is under control, that we can repay the debt, that we can pay the wages. Unfortunately, only 15 days later, he claimed that preparations for the budget rebalancing move immediately and a new budget should be adopted in the second half of March. He then claimed something else and said that the funds saved by the rebalancing would be placed to help the economy. That's not true. In this budget rebalancing, there is not a single June that the economy will receive from these 5 billion kunas. So, simply something that was incorrect and the economy won't get any of it. 2. The 3rd Prime Minister says no matter what 10.15 billion, it's a rebalancing between one and three billion kuna, now it's a rebalance of 5 billion kuna. Therefore, gentlemen, this is just one small indicator, one wandering and unmistakable, unfortunately the price of this wandering and inconsistencies and insubordination, not only here the debate and the proposals made by the opposition but by the people of the economy, unfortunately the biggest price of all of this is paid by our citizens because they remain jobless every day and each day have an increasingly difficult and uncertain existence. It has been said here today that the global crisis, therefore, is the only reason why we are in this situation, is also incorrect and that the businessmen themselves say simply in the last five years there has been no orientation towards economic projects. Many reforms that were necessary and needed were stopped, so there is no decentralisation, it was stopped as soon as you came to power in 2004, there is no public administration reform that we need, there is no order in tax policy. What SDP insists on is not introducing new taxes, but taxing those who are systematically rich at the expense of the population without paying even a few taxes. It's something European countries have arranged. And indeed when you talk to people from outside, you cannot explain to anyone that what is possible in Croatia is simply not possible in any other European Union country. Therefore, all we ask is that those who earn or sell real estate or any other sales and speculative rebates remain untaxed. We have taxed, i.e. you gentlemen and pensions and wages, but unfortunately one category of people who live very well in this country who will not be affected by the crisis is left without making their contribution. There's no such thing as... nor reforming social care. It doesn't really go to you, Mr. Minister, but unfortunately it's referred to you and your system, and you need to know that in that system for five years, no one wanted to move their fingers, that nothing happened and that you have a system where you give an extremely large amount of money and it's a question for one part of the people whether those funds go away for a reason. There are a large number of people in this country who have remained completely uncovered by social aid. You have entire areas of Croatia where when you come and ask children what is best for them at school, they say food. That means, Mr. Minister, that we have hungry children, that we have people who really do collect change at the end of the month to buy the last kilo of bread. These are people who are invisible to the state, invisible to the welfare system. If order were to be made, it could therefore reach out to these people and give them the necessary and necessary assistance that the state must provide. But on the other hand, we would certainly remove those who act like such a vulture because they take money from that system that they simply don't need and have no right to. But for that, order has to be done which unfortunately in the last five years no one in the welfare system wanted to do. Croatia is unfortunately in debt for a full five years and at an extremely high rate and what is worst we are in charge of mostly consumption. So you're going to go into the world now, you're going to re-indemnify yourself for wages and pensions, because there's no money in the budget to pay off, but you're going to re-indebt, and you're going to spend that money again, so not in the economy, not in the development, but again in consumption, and that's the key problem of borrowing, so, state. So a policy where you don't want to see certain facts, but when the water comes to your throat, then what we're doing today is we're doing this one budget rebalance where you're just fucking some items. However, this rebalancing should have experienced you know structural changes. But to get Croatia out of the crisis will need much more than this rebalancing. Unfortunately, we haven't seen anything out of it, what's much worse, is that neither the businessmen nor those who earn and make new profits have felt anything, therefore, from that anti-recession package of yours. We have therefore proposed a package of anti-recession measures, we have proposed some very concrete laws that go to the disbursement of workers, to the unloading of the economy, but to the additional burden of those who can indeed bear this burden. Unfortunately, you refused all this at the beginning you didn't even want to consider. I'm afraid I'm saying, the price of your behavior is paid by citizens by losing their jobs and endangering their own existence. The other day Mr. Sanader said a sentence that caused great fear in people, which is that if we can't manage public finances, then we know what's going on in our system's bankruptcy and collapse. When a prime minister says that we are followed by bankruptcy and the collapse of the system, then it certainly causes a very big alarm among our citizens. Citizens should not be intimidated by the prime minister but also created by themselves, but simply seek solutions, if you don't know that, then step aside, there are certainly people in this country who know how to solve citizens' problems. It should be said that during this adoption of the 2009 budget, you made a lot of promises, unfortunately, now you can see that none of this can be done. What I would tell you in the end, Mr. Minister and all of your government people are very sensitive when you tell them something that isn't true. The other day, you were like... in the government boasted that you gave your parents compensation with children with multiple damages. But you know those parents got, is, your colleague Kosor boasted about it, but you need to know that these people have reductions in rights, so, you've been transferring them from one system to another by reducing their income by 10% because they've moved from one base to another. And people know that and what hurts them the most is that you're not just telling the truth, that you're bragging about the things you did in one month, in the second month you've already taken those rights. On the other hand, citizens are sensitive to having double criteria. One is allowed everything, the other is not allowed anything. Indeed, on the one hand, spending a large amount of money, on the other hand asking citizens to tighten their belts and save is something that citizens find very difficult to accept. If we really want to get out of the crisis, then Croatia needs major changes, painful changes. The citizens of this country have brought much out on their backs, ready to do yet, but not so that one is allowed everything and the other nothing. Some don't pay anything and get rich, and poor people pay their taxes till the end of June.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-30-0.u30980	Thank you. Corrections to incorrect allegations. First Mrs. Zeljana Kalash.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-30-0.u30981	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Here I want to correct two allegations, but at the end of my presentation, I'm going to say one agreement with Mrs. Opacic's statement. As far as the allegations are concerned, I'm correcting the first assumption that the government has not consulted the businessmen in anything she's done so far. That's just not true. Not only have they collaborated with the economy, and the government has also contacted employers, including unions, and I will remind them that they are the same unions from the 2000-2004 period that have abolished all rights one move overnight. Today, these same trade unions are being negotiated and negotiations are being reached. Another incorrect correction is a vulture's seduction of money. I guess you're thinking about the same period again because this particular government is returning what your SDP government in 2000-2004 took from births through their extras, child allowance, through defence rights. And as I promised only for the end, I only agree with one single sentence, which is, "People are very sensitive when you're saying something that isn't true." Now, I absolutely agree with that, so please don't say anything that isn't true either.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-30-0.u30982	The second amendment. Mr. Representative Boris Matkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-30-0.u30983	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Here I would correct the same two allegations, incorrect actually allegations, incorrect claims by my colleague Opacic. The first claim is that the government has no idea and responsibility. That's not true. You don't have ideics and responsibilities in the SDP. Every day you blur people's eyes, you've got populist suggestions. Your proposals are unreal and unsustainable, even though they are not legally justified. And now it's you who's laughing over there, fellow Stazic. And you've carefully timed it before the election campaign, but it won't help you for sure because citizens won't fall for your cheap provocations that you're trying to express. Another incorrect claim is that the government does not have any social sensitivity. The government is very sensitive and this shows this budget rebalance, as among the priorities is retaining the same level of pensions, maternity benefits, social rights and wages, and raising the unemployment rate by 10%.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-30-0.u30984	Third Amendment, Mr. Representative Ivan Bagarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-30-0.u30985	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Opacic, allow me to correct three of your incorrect allegations. One of them is also when you said that what you were saying was an indicator of the government's wandering and not finding, and what you were saying, you said that the prime minister was saying for a time that the rebalancing would be this much, the second time so much, etc. It's just not true. So it's not true because the situation is what it is, objective and changing from time to time, and it is adapted by both the prime minister and this government and all together. On the other hand, you said reforms were stopped. Here's one of them, among other things... And I was at the presentation just like that, so it's incorrect that.....everyone speaks out loud.... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-30-0.u30986	Gentlemen and colleagues, please don't throw away and try the speaker... You disagree with the speakers' statements and then try to distract him and confuse him by throwing away. It's illegal. Everyone's talking in their voice. Nothing, we can't have two standards, I repeat.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-30-0.u30987	So it is not true that reforms are not being implemented. Let's say one of the very successful reforms that is currently under way is health sector reform where health spending is controlled, and better services are given. And thirdly, I would say more dangerously, I believe it is incorrect, you said there are hungry children in Croatia. When the chairman of the Committee on Family, Youth and Sports says it's time to intervene. So it can't be estimated whether there are hungry children, it's incorrect, based on the survey, but based on objective indicators. If what you say is true...
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-30-0.u30988	Thank you!
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-30-0.u30989	Then we all need to stop this debate and really see what this is all about.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-30-0.u30990	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-30-0.u30991	Or apologize.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-30-0.u30992	Ms. Representative Nevenka Majdenic. Please don't paralyze each other.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-30-0.u30993	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Representative Milanka Opacic said there has been no investment in the economy in the last five years. That's an incorrect claim. In this particular time, funds to promote entrepreneurship and the business environment doubled. I'd just like to say if it's hard to read the budget, see these items or if you don't know, then you need to get out of town a little bit and see a number of business zones, areas of the economy, industrial zones or already what they're called, over 250 that are either built or in phase. Therefore, much has been invested in this economy in these five years.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-30-0.u30994	Third correction, Ms. Representative Sunday's Klaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-30-0.u30995	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I will correct the incorrect allegations of MP Opačić who says, "A large number of people remain out of the social care system." That's not true, Mrs. Opacic. The budget rebalancing remains what was planned in the 2009 budget, which is 12% more funding from social care centres compared to 2008, and 16% more funding is provided with social care rights. In addition, 22% more resources are provided for the health care of people on the islands. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-30-0.u30996	Next correction, Mr. Agent Anton Mance.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-30-0.u30997	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President. Here's a colleague who's elaborated a lot of these areas, some of them fixed up, and I'd stay on this part where she says there's no support for the economy. I cite it out of specificity because it looks at the budget that part of the reduction it wants and wants to show to the public. However, as you can see here, support, for example. For the wood industry, they stand here. I'm also saying that because in 2001, as local leaders, we asked for support for the wood industry. But I would remind you, I remember for a long time, that was when your board was gentlemen, let's sell it for 1 kuna and that's how the sale started. That's how that sale was with me too, so it didn't even respond to whether those people who bought it for one kuna or whether they were investing. Therefore, you cannot argue, and when you look at the budget, open the pages, then you deliberately avoid it and will not mention it. So your quote here is completely, completely incorrect.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-30-0.u30998	Next correction, Mr. Representative Davor Huška.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-30-0.u30999	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I am correcting the incorrect quote of my colleague Opačić, who said that the SDP has proposed very concrete laws for discharging workers and the economy. Yes, the laws may have been concrete, but not in a way, it's not proposed how to finance these projects, these anti-recession measures, and that would all together lead our budget to a deficit between 15 and 20 billion kuna. You can imagine that these measures have been adopted in what situation the budget of the Republic of Croatia would be today and how it could be considered to be in charge on the international market. And finally, by commenting on this concern of the SDP for the economy, attention, monitoring the economy, we got the best confirmation for it this morning from the presentation of SDP President Mr Milanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-30-0.u31000	Thank you very much. Don't comment. We won't comment. Let's stick to correction.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-30-0.u31001	I am correcting the assumption that they are taking care of the economy because the economy must be known, and it is a shame that the president of the SDP does not know that shoes and furniture are produced in Croatia. So much for knowing the economy.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-30-0.u31002	Madam Representative Carmela Caparin, next correction.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-30-0.u31003	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I'd like to correct the quote of a colleague who says she doesn't have any social care concerns, which is completely incorrect. At a time of low economic growth, this government has shown concern for the elderly, the powerless, the patient, the socially sensitive and which is targeted, concrete and really intense. The allocations to help socially sensitive populations have already been increased in the 2009 budget compared to the 2008 budget by 275.8 million kuna, from 2.7 billion kuna to 2.9 billion kuna. And the other thing, if he's making a colleague say it's not true, he says if you don't know, step aside. Neither did she set us up, nor will she move us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-30-0.u31004	Mr. Representative Krunoslav Markovinović, next amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-30-0.u31005	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, here's an esteemed colleague who claims, says the people shouldn't be afraid. I agree, but that's exactly what they do for countless false allegations. One of those false allegations is definitely this about food and school. I have to say because I often go to schools, not one or more schools, no more food is to be thrown away than in schools. And now we're hearing about boots, rats still in order to strengthen. That I believe exists here and there, but colleagues don't need to generalize a number of things.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-30-0.u31006	And Madam Representative Bozica Šolić.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-30-0.u31007	Thank you very much. I'd like to ask you, Vice President, to calm down this left-hand side a little bit. Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Here, MP Opacic said in her debate that this government is socially insensitive. That's not true because we have a series of facts that don't stand. For example, this government has returned maternity benefits to families with three and more children and raised the maternity benefits that you abolished when you led this country, this Croatia. She also paid the pensioners back this government, you said there was no debt. Third, that's what you said when you ran the country. Also, this government has raised the unemployment benefits. You didn't do it when you ran Croatia. And Mrs. Opacic, it's not true that this government should move. It will be decided by the Croatian people. If it were going the way you think, then you wouldn't be sitting here.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-30-0.u31008	Let's leave it all to the election. Let's leave it to the election. No, it'll be in one drama. Minister of Finance Ivan Shuker. It'll be in your comedy.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-30-0.u31009	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. So let me just look at some things because it won't be necessary to repeat them during the day, but I think the facts are facts and we can discuss them whether they would do it in one way or another, but we simply can't escape from some things. Some things we can look at differently, we can approach them differently, but we need to see what the goal is. You see, Mrs. Opačić, I, as the man at the head of this resolution ministry, have one personal satisfaction, which is that we made a budget at the 11th month, which today, when all the experts look at it and how it drinks water according to all its principles. Wait a minute, wait a minute, so let me say so and then correct as much as you want. So, even then, but today you don't have the guts to say so much about wages. We just couldn't make a deal with the social partners. We just didn't make it. That's what I said and today I said it. The second thing, you see, unlike you, I in the 10th and 11th months couldn't cobble people into the counters of Croatian banks to clean up Croatian banks and cause a banking crisis. Unlike you, I've sent a clear message that the government, me as a resolution minister, and the government is that, at least don't do this myself, but look at it as a resolution ministry, so the government will increase at the worst moment, that was 10.10, Friday, ask all bankers what happened then. So, we sent a clear message that the secured savings would increase to 100, to 400 thousand kuna and it was clearly a signal to Croatian citizens that the state guaranteed them for deposits and then, therefore and then, gentlemen from the SDP, as I said that Croatia has one of the most stable banking systems in Europe, which I say responsibly today, and I say, you liked it or you didn't like it. Croatia definitely has one of the most stable banking systems. Well Mr. Dragovan, if you're going to tell me what tone to speak, then...
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-30-0.u31010	Okay, please, no special specialties like this.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-30-0.u31011	Okay, okay, sorry, I'm gonna lower my voice level a little bit. So, but again, Croatia definitely today has one of the most stable banking systems in Europe, someone liked it or someone didn't like it. I am pleased, and I think we are glad to all that certain measures of fiscal and monetary policy have preserved the banking system as they have. No one has ever said that what results from the financial crisis will bypass Croatia, no one has ever said. The answer in the first month that it's not the time to rebalance today's indicators clearly show that it was smart to wait. We're part of the expenditure side we've been keeping under control, and we're rebalanced at the moment when many indicators are much clearer and tell us what we need to do. As for taxation and tax policy, I will say something that the Croatian public may not know or pay so much attention to. Look, I'm sorry to be back in 2003, but just one piece of information. The income from profit tax was 2 billion 300 million kuna but you had one very interesting thing and that's the difference between your policy and our policy. You had one very interesting thing and it's a possibility so-called. One-time code, and that's how those who have money ironed the balance and instead of paying the state taxes earned great rights. And you know what the profit tax is today? Either you're going to admit to us that we've raised the economy to some level or you're going to admit that we've had the right tax policy, you're going to have to admit one thing because today's profit tax is over nine billion kuna. So he didn't fall from the sky. Either it was a proper tax policy or it was more economic growth. Winning only works for whoever has it. Social care. So I think when we look at the budget, then when we see how much social care resources are, then I just don't think it's appropriate to say that these funds aren't enough. I can see there's gonna be a lot of corrections, which means it's gonna be fun. ... Of course. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Public finance management. You had 300 accounts and a few hundred million in those accounts, you had very strange loans with HBOR, you signed loans to those who were doing the work, and you were guaranteeing that you would repay those loans, and they were orderly public finances. And today, when there is one giro-account, when HBOR is not a parafiscal institution but an export investment bank, today public financial irregularities. And that's what the Croatian public does. Deployment. Look, this house has adopted all the calculations over the past five years. You know exactly what the deficits were. The deficit can only be financed from the sale of assets and from borrowing. Your last need for borrowing in 2003 was 12 billion kuna, our last year was about 3 and 800, 3 and 900 as much as the deficit, for this year is projected 4 and 900. So that's what the government needs to be in charge of. The second thing is that both the business banks and the economy that were in the expansion were directly in debt outside. But you can't say that by reducing the fiscal deficit, the debt needs have not been reduced. This year, loans raised in 2002 and 2003 are reprogrammed as loans raised during this government will be reprogrammed in two, three or four years. So don't think I'm coming at you with the charge, you're in charge, but it's just the cycles that are coming. So, the complete reprogramme this year 80% refers to issued bonds and... loans from 2002 and 2003. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And one part of the Paris Club and those 2001 samurai bonds. This is what we need to owe a billion euros this year. And now someone says you're in charge of it. Same story, I say why you're in charge, now we've got to get it back. Unfortunately, such is the cycle of all countries that have deficits, such a cycle, and we cannot escape from it. We'll be able to escape from that moment when we have a surplus. So much for that borrowing. And let's not throw these irresponsible passwords and then say no, we didn't say it in one way or another. The president, when you rip it out and you like to do it out of context and so does this bankruptcy of yours, then it turns out so scary, and when you look at a sentence before and a sentence afterwards, you'll see what he said and how he said it. But whether you want to or not to admit at this point the profit of money on the international financial market is extremely difficult. The Czechs tried twice, they gave up. Slovenians barely made it last week. Therefore, if you want to get money from someone, then you have to send a clear message that you are able to manage processes, make progress and manage public finances. If you won't do it then you won't even get the money. And I no longer owe, I said at the end of my opening presentation which are the most important items of the state budget. So if you're already talking about not doing this or that, so tell me what positions you think you should take and what position you should put it in. Then that debate would be correct. And one more thing. You suggested that your classic way of funding HBOR. We thus cannot accept or want to turn the HBOR into a parafiscal institution. We are to HBOR through institutional banks, to repeat 250 million EIBs, 100 million World Banks, 50 million KFEs and 100 million more agree with the World Bank. You need to know that these are the most favourable loans that can be obtained in the world at this time with a fairly large greis period have provided over 400m euros to finance small and medium-sized entrepreneurship. The second thing, HBOR has the exact same credit rating as the Republic of Croatia and cannot be charged under more favourable conditions if the state has a bad credit rating. Therefore, if 450 million funds that will be in far more favourable terms than would be given by commercial banks that will go through HBOR at this point are not sufficient, then 300 million more is planned, then I do not know what should be done. And another thing, to introduce these taxes that you're talking about, you need to have a pretty good record. If you wanted to do that while you were in power, you would have introduced something similar to what we did with the OIB. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-30-0.u31012	At 13.30, the Health and Social Care Committee, the "Ivana Mažuranić", the chairman of the board Mr. Andrija Hebrang scheduled a session of the committee for the time and place. Seven rectifications of incorrect allegations. First, Ms. Representative Milanka Opačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-30-0.u31013	The first quote I'm correcting is that no one from the government said there would be a crisis. That's not true. Ivo Sanader said 12.1. this year: "The recession in Croatia is gone and I hope it will not be there. So, in the first month, the big crisis was already in Croatia and people had already begun to run out of jobs. As far as social care is concerned, Mr. Minister, I said big funds are being allocated, but I said there's a mess in that system, because you have one number of people who aren't covered by your welfare system, who are poor, and you have another part of people who have no right to do anything. But you know what, Mr. Minister, you need to get out of the armored cars together to see that poor thing around you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-30-0.u31014	Mrs. Representative Gordana Slobol. Correction.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-30-0.u31015	Mr. Vice President. It's incorrect, I'm going to make a scandalous claim, the minister that some of them here last year were lulling people into banks. And that's what our tragedy, Mr. Minister, is, that you have all been alerted, so whatever side it comes from, you've identified it as a hacky one. And as far as the crowds are concerned, Mr. Minister, there's no match for you in HDZ for that, you proved it anyway.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-30-0.u31016	I listened very carefully, Minister Shuker didn't name you or any party as a hoof. You don't need to be recognized, where there's no room for recognition. Mr. Attorney Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-30-0.u31017	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister said in his statement that he had gained satisfaction, because the budget of the 11th month proved to be good. I have to correct the incorrect assumption that there is no budget from the 11th month, but that the budget came into procedure at the 12th month and was adopted at the 12th month. And the paradox of Minister Shuker is to say that with his first month statement that it is too early for the 2009 budget rebalancing, it has led to absurdity. It's amazing that someone after a month after the budget was passed says it's too soon. It's too early in the third month, but he was just misplanned from the beginning.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-30-0.u31018	Mr. Representative Zoran Vinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-30-0.u31019	Thank you. Mr. Minister, no one can admit to you either that you are good at running tax policies or that you are helping the headship. Regarding the profit tax, the fact is that he rose but only because you took all the income tax from the local self-government units and transferred it to the state budget. That government programme that this Parliament adopted no longer exists, since the announced decentralisation was nothing, and as far as this budget is concerned. Nor is he the budget for preserving jobs, but he is the budget for preserving your chairs. And you will change this budget on Friday when national minorities do not want to raise your hand for such a change and budget rebalancing. We're not even in a banana anymore, we're in a serious situation where the state is threatening bankruptcy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-30-0.u31020	Mr. Representative Slavko Linic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-30-0.u31021	I am correcting the inaccuracies of Mr. Minister, who said that the coalition government had a small profit in companies or vice versa because we made 2.5 billion taxes on profits, and that is the current government of 9 billion. No, Mr. Minister, for four years it was supposed to be covered by the economy in the '90s. until 2000. Profits are used to cover losses from a previous period, and only afterwards are taxes paid. But you see, that's what Mr. Minister knows, he cheats on the public and, unfortunately, he goes back in time and again. And that's why? Because there is no answer for the present, no answer for six years of unsuccessful politics, no answer for how citizens and businesses survive.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-30-0.u31022	Ms. Representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-30-0.u31023	Mr. Minister has incorrectly determined whether we have improved the economy or we have led a good tax policy. Neither, neither is true. In fact, it's true that since you came to power, every year you've spent several billion kunas more than you've provided. Thus, budget expenditures increased 80 billion kuna in 2004 to the incredible 123 billion you spent at the end of last year, planning to spend in 2009. So, this is true, that every time Croatia is harvested out of a hole, HDZ makes sure that it is dumped there again. That's how it was in 1999. Unfortunately, it was 2009.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-30-0.u31024	And Madam Representative Dragica Zgrebec, correcting the incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-30-0.u31025	I am correcting Mr. Minister's incorrect quote when he says that our proposal, or decision to invest in HBOR, actually means treating HBOR as a parafiscal institution. No, Mr. Minister. The HBOR law says HBOR should have 7 billion kunas of core capital. We were just asking to make a one-time payment of the difference up to 7 billion kuna, because now a little more than 4 billion are being paid. And the same HBOR and state credit rating is precisely because HBOR is financed by the annual amounts from the state budget and does not have the treatment of the bank, but rather by the fund.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-30-0.u31026	Mr. Attorney Gordan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-30-0.u31027	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President, Minister, Deputy Prime Minister, colleagues and colleagues. Today in this Visko home, we may have the most important debate in this congregation. Today we are discussing what our future is like as a country, what our future of our economy is and what our citizens' future is. Not whether Croatian citizens will be part of the EU or that Croatia will become part of NATO. Today we are discussing how Croatian citizens will live in a year, two or maybe even another decade. So we must be aware that today all Croatian citizens listen with greater interest than ever. That today Parliament wants to hear, and by making a good budget, we have the strength to take hold of our future and to give them hope that we will not leave them hanging in these difficult moments of recession that exists today in Croatia and in the world. Today, there is no person in Croatia who does not feel the effects of recession. If not personally in the form that she lost her job, apartment, or part of her salary, as happened last week to government officials, then surely in a way that she has in a family or among her friends a few people who are directly affected by the recession. Today we are not talking about how many people we are going to hire, how much wages will increase in Croatia next year or this year, but whether we have the strength to stop this negative trend that we have set out in Croatia. How many jobs we will save, whether we will manage to maintain the standard of Croatian citizens and whether we are offering young people in Croatia a perspective that is seriously at stake today. And that is why this debate and this item of the agenda is the most important debate of this Assembly. And it is a shame that today the prime minister of the Croatian government is not here and has shown his indifference at this session that it does not give sufficient importance to the perspective it offers to Croatian citizens. No debate on NATO, no debate on what we will answer to Slovenians is more important than the standards of Croatian citizens, their future, the prime minister had to be here. But where are we today? For two years, we have had a slowdown in Croatian economic growth that was negative in the last quarter of this year, for the first time since 1999. We have a situation where every working day 500 jobs are lost, 500 of our fellow citizens are out of work every day. We have a situation where the standard of Croatian citizens is being hit by an increase in interest on all possible loans that banks in Croatia give today. The economy is in deep recession, planning minus 2%, and I personally believe it will be twice as big between 4 and 5%. We have a situation where we have a great internal indifference, where no one pays anyone anything. And in that, unfortunately, the country, its public enterprises, too. We have a situation where banks have no money to lend to the Croatian economy and when they give them, they can be given in small amounts and interest is large that we don't even know what business such interest can bear. Money is missing in Croatia, banks do not have it, new loans are difficult to approve. The Croatian economy's blood flow is blocked, under terrible pressure, its pressure is high and this pressure is produced by this government and this administration. This government has led us to bankruptcy, there is no further, and there is no one to bear this burden on you gentlemen in the government. Croatia is over-indebted, foreign debt is for the first time higher than GDP, nearly 40 billion euros. Every citizen of the Republic of Croatia owes almost 70,000 kuna. In that long, great share is also the share of the states. And tell me, who in your opinion should all be returned, gentlemen, to whom should the burden of this crisis fall? We're talking about how the state needs to take care and that the state should plant its back in this crisis year. As an example everywhere in the world, look at the deficits and see what other countries give their subsidies, from Western Europe to England, America, etc. The state should stand behind its economy and its citizens, but this is not in Croatia, the government is hiding in Croatia, not taking responsibility but hiding behind its employees, civil servants, cutting their salaries and saying that this is the most important measure that can save us in this crisis year. The Croatian Government leaves this budget to its citizens and tells them, you pay for this crisis, through what? Through a pay cut? Through what, losing jobs? By reducing your standard? You pay because we don't have the money, we've spent everything in the last five years irresponsiblely running the country. Tell you the truth, we haven't been reforming for the last five years, but on the contrary, we've created an even more inefficient and expensive administration. We're not prepared for this crisis, tell the citizens. We filled the budget on imports, on consumption from imports. We don't know what to do to make budget revenues, to make budget revenues more stable, you pay because we don't know. And that's the message we get by reading this budget. The problem is, gentlemen, that for the past five years, we haven't made a single reform, in the state administration and in the state in general. But it's a disaster in this budget that you can't see through it that we're going to be doing anything in the coming years. You know what reform means, tax, state administration, health care. Reform does not mean, as the minister said earlier, that we would immediately benefit from or save in the budget. Not exactly the opposite we may have bigger expenses, but that means gentlemen that in the next few years, 5, 10, we're going to benefit more than that's going to cost right now. It means reform, and that's what this government has been doing or been doing for the last five years. Croatia has not had any serious reforms since 2002 when we implemented the peace reform. Croatia also wanted to take that pension money, the Croatian government also wanted to take that pension reform money to cover its costs and to somehow take the money that Croatian citizens are saving for their pensions. And ultimately, for 20 or 30 years, there would be fewer retirement cuts from the pension budget, pension subsidies. There is no reform and the Croatian government wanted to undo this one that was correct. There is no measure in this budget towards the economy. I'm looking at the budget, the economy is all down to a billion kuna as far as the ministry's budget is concerned, or 976 million kuna. Like two Peljeka Bridges, two Peljeka Bridges equals an entire economy. The measure towards citizens also does not have any new measures, where they would be relieved of their tax duties and allow them to get away with it as easily as possible this year. Let me give you an example, in a rich America of one. 4. every American employee will have benefits that the state will allow him to be taxed. There is no such thing in Croatia, of course there is not when we have spent all the last five years and now we are not ready for this crisis that should be. There is no measure to help these 100,000 Croatian citizens who are going to be out of work this year, there are no measures, new ones that were not there last year. Itd, etc... So no measures against the citizens, no measures against the economy. There's nothing, just a certain cut of items and nothing else. A bang that probably won't be enough by the end of the year. And who's going to be responsible again when we talk again in three or four months about the new budget rebalancing. And what bothers me the most at this moment is what is not just in Croatia today. The minister says, not that HDZ's new taxes, will not allow new taxes and new burdens. But who doesn't ask for SDP burdens for Croatian citizens who are the poorest. The SDP is seeking burdens for those citizens who have, who are rich and who should contribute more in times of crisis. You've put the whole burden of the crisis on little people and you don't want to introduce those progressive taxes on those who earn... They're out. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Why every year in Croatia do certain people receive millions of bonuses in shares not pay a single kuna tax? Is that fair? They're selling stock on the stock market tomorrow whether it's up or down and making two, three million kunas. None of Croatia has any of that. We're talking about such taxes in the SDP, and you, Mr. Minister, and you don't want to introduce your government. You don't want to tax those who have to give to those who need it most this year. These are hundreds of millions of kunas leaving the Croatian budget, which should not be left. And in the end, I will end up with only one sentence, I don't believe and therefore I won't vote for this budget, I don't believe that the budget is real and that this government with this kind of budget can carry us through the crisis and the longer this government is in power, the harder the crisis will be, and the longer it will last in Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-30-0.u31028	Thank you. 10 corrections of incorrect allegations. First Mrs. Carmela Caparin.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-30-0.u31029	Oh, I don't know where I'm going because there's so much going on, but first. This government has no measures whatsoever. Well, my colleague, you obviously didn't even read this budget rebalance, because if you'd read it then you'd see that the pensions in 2009 increased from 4.9 and 32.5 billion kuna to 34.1 billion kuna, respectively. It is hundreds of millions of kunas in social care, so the rebalancing and maternity benefits and children's allowances are not reduced, and they stand out for the material and legal protection programme of the unemployed is increasing to 102 million kuna. You're saying this government is hiding behind civil servants, reducing government employees' wages. You are now in this term and you are young, a financial expert, but you remember in 2000 when you cut those civil servants' salaries, and since 2004, this government has raised more than 20% of the salaries to civil servants, and these 6% are not about cutting but are about stopping wage growth from 12 months 2008. And in this country, everyone is aware of this crisis and we all carry our own responsibility.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-30-0.u31030	Next correction, Madam Representative Jeljana Kalash.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-30-0.u31031	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Here I want to correct the three incorrect allegations of Mr. Maras who said that one, that the government is guilty of the crisis and the fall in economic growth. Now I could repeat that thesis that I've already returned to Mr. Caine today. It is not only a problem in Croatia, the problem is in Europe and beyond in the world, but I believe that you are familiar with it just want to let go as ink from the squid and today during this debate. The first problem with economic growth in the HDZ government occurred in 2009. If you'll recall, we're back in 2008, 2007, 2006, 2005, we didn't have that problem, and before that, you and your colleagues from your party were the ones who ruled. Another false allegation: "This government has led us to bankruptcy." In fact, the rebalancing of the state budget is a stabilisation document and is necessary to preserve macroeconomic stability. And I wouldn't go any further on saying the third quote, which is that the prime minister isn't here today and that the government is hiding. Well, in HDZ, he also felt a compliment to me that you actually notice that today is not due to his further obligations, but I suppose the man has confidence in his government associates unlike you in the SDP who don't have much sense of teamwork, so you've had problems with the first and second prime minister's candidate, but I can see that none of them are sitting right now, so he didn't listen to my debates, either, but he didn't listen to your colleague Maras. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-30-0.u31032	Mr. Representative Mario Zubovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-30-0.u31033	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I'm going to correct Mr. Maras' two incorrect allegations from the mass he said here. It is also not true that foreign policy is not important, it referred to its party president, Mr Milanovic, who tried to say the same thing in his speech today, foreign policy for Croatia is very important, especially at this time when we are entering NATO and when we are struggling to unblock negotiations with Slovenia. And another incorrect, incorrect, is that we haven't made a single reform in the last five years. Only if we take into account how many laws this House has passed and while you have not sat here in the past term and in this year, over 200 laws have been passed here in terms of the transformation of Croatian society into adaptation with the European Union. That's one big reform, Mr. Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-30-0.u31034	Next correction, Mr. Representative Frano Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-30-0.u31035	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, it's incorrect, as Mr. Maras' colleague said, that the government didn't stand behind the economy. She stopped. In this budget rebalancing, you will not see that the reduced funds of the economy, as you have heard from the minister, have been provided with 400m euros through HBOR for direct aid to the economy. Direct help. The subsidies remaining in this budget rebalancing remained at the level of the 12 month budget are the same, therefore, as the economy is thought of. Secondly, you said it did not matter that the prime minister is now in a meeting about NATO and Slovenia. It's very important. It doesn't matter in your time, so you traded in Croatian territory. Today it's very important and it's more important to be there than to listen to your lies, not to say stupidity.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-30-0.u31036	Ms. Representative Vesna Buterin.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-30-0.u31037	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I am correcting Mr. Maras' incorrect allegations that the state should stand behind its economy and that this is not in Croatia. This is absolutely incorrect because this rebalancing is precisely aimed at encouraging the economic activity of entrepreneurship, so this rebalance plans to boost exports by around 44 million kuna, then increase interest subsidies for loans and support of 10.5 million kuna, an increase in the development of crafts of 2 million kuna. In addition, the recapitalisation of HBOR by the state with over 200 million kuna is an extremely important measure to promote the economy and preserve the level of economic activity, which ultimately contributes to the preservation of jobs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-30-0.u31038	I just prayed to fellow Matusic and all the other MPs not to qualify the debates with inappropriate terms, to call nonsense, not to listen to it, let's not do that because it comes back as a boomerang then, then the other one will call you that your debate is like that. And then a little bit and others take us by tooth because we take ourselves. Ms. Representative Susana Bilić Vardić.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-30-0.u31039	Thank you very much, Your Honor, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. I'm correcting the incorrect quote of a fellow Maras who said that cutting a salary is the only measure to save a budget that simply isn't true. First, I will repeat what my colleague Caparin said and that is not to cut payments but to stop the wage growth that this Croatian government has spent continuously since 2004 and so far. And the second thing, budget rebalancing is one of the instruments for implementing anti-recession measures, which are primarily the maximum reduction of state spending with a view to ensuring macroeconomic stability and job conservation, maintaining the standard of living of the most vulnerable groups of the population, more efficient and efficient allocation of subsidies, increasing the competitiveness of tourism and protecting the domestic industry. Given the profession, fellow Maras as if you hadn't read this budget, and given the position of the party in the opposition, I must forgive you and understand you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-30-0.u31040	Mr. Representative Berislav Roncevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-30-0.u31041	I'm correcting two incorrect allegations from my colleague Maras. He said you've spent everything in the last five years. That's not true, colleague Maras. In the last five years of the HDZ government, we have been reducing budget deficits year after year. That says something about the opposite of what you're talking about. In fact, we also created conditions for creating new values. Let me remind you. The initial budget was 98 billion, last year it was 132 billion, and not a single new tax was introduced and the current tax rates were not increased, even moreover, they were reduced. Another incorrect quote, you haven't implemented a single reform. The other day we voted here, confirmed an agreement with NATO. Croatia has met the Copenhagen criteria. Stable democracy, respect for human and minority rights and a functioning free market. If it wasn't in Croatia, it wouldn't be in NATO. If it were in 2001 when you ruled this country, they would probably be admitted immediately to NATO. Unfortunately, we didn't.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-30-0.u31042	Ms. Nevenka Marinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-30-0.u31043	Thank you, Vice President. I'm correcting Mr. Maras' incorrect claim that I didn't seem to be able to read these measures because he says there are no measures aimed at citizenship. Retirements for pensions in 2009, Mr Maras, increased by 4.1% and from 32.8 billion, respectively, to 34.1 billion kuna. According to national population policy, maternity benefits and children's allowance increased in 2009 compared to 2008 and thus maternity benefits of 222 million kuna and 12.4% respectively, and child allowance for 26 million kuna and 1.4% respectively. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-30-0.u31044	And Madam Representative Bozica Šolić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-30-0.u31045	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Maras said, I will repeat, this government has no measure whatsoever for this situation. Comrade Maras, that's not true. It is precisely this budget rebalance that is based on an increase compared to 2008, on an increase in incentives in the economy, as well as an increase in socially sensitive groups' compensation. But I also have to say that a colleague of Maras should be included in all local units, especially I'm talking about the city of Zagreb where you are a representative, where you were a candidate. Why don't you make your party a SDP decision to take down the City of Zagreb 18% of the cut and to cut those bills, bills that send such a pile, to reduce at least this kind of pile. That's what you say. And one more thing, you're calling local competitions. You are currently looking for 40 drivers on the 4th of December and you need to examine the work inspection of whether the Public Procurement Act is being violated in the City of Zagreb. Where are your tanks? How much are you into that? Thank you very much. I'm running out of time.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-30-0.u31046	That's where he'll take care of it. Mrs. Representative Mirela Holly. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-30-0.u31047	Thank you, dear Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues, unfortunately few representatives of the government. The budget rebalancing we are talking about today is the most visible proof that the warnings and claims made by MPs and SDP representatives were made about 3 months ago, unfortunately they were quite accurate. While individuals were surprised at the fact that neither the SDP club nor any SDP representative or representative had submitted any amendments to the budget, it showed for a very short time that we were right when we claimed that such a bad budget could not save the amendment, and that the submission of the amendment would be agreeing to participate in the play of incompetent rulings. And SDP is a party that is responsible to the state and to all Croatian citizens and citizens to engage in such scenarios. Unfortunately, the budget rebalancing we are discussing today is no better than the budget we talked about at the end of last year, and this document shows that the government led by the HDZ and their main coalition partner HSS has no idea how successfully to deal with the crisis in which we have encountered only a small part because of the global financial crisis, and much more due to the inability, wastefulness and inadequacy of the ruling set-up of the HDZ over the past few more than five years. In other words, there is no talking about real solutions to the economic crisis in this document, and even less about a strategic vision for the real sustainable development of Croatia. That is why I cannot support this budget rebalancing because it is neither a rebalancing nor a strategic country development document as one budget should be. And this document is irreparable and in that sense there is no point in submitting amendments to it, just like the December budget. While rulings often accuse us of all the most absurd things that are unfortunately and real nonsense, in this sense, and with incomprehensible aggression, they have handed over to the HDZ all our proposals and solutions for exiting the crisis and economic recovery of the state, the indisputable fact is that the coalition government led the SDP 5 years ago to manage an economically stable and prosperous state, liquid with noticeable growth of economic activity and GDP, significantly reduced unemployment, constant wage growth, increasing production and growth of stock indices. And then what happened to us again today in almost the same situation as in the late 1990s? You don't need to be a genius to answer that question. This country has again happened to HDZ and instead of the pompous promises from the guarantee cap, today we have what we have, the budget rebalance in March, the GDP drop, the decline in industrial production in the last years alone 14.1%), the constant drop in living standards because the basket in 2004 was 5 600 kuna, and today it is 6 588 kuna. We have inflation growth, the country's enormous foreign debt growth to an incomprehensible 36 billion euros, an increase in unemployment, in the last few months every month, we have a new 10,000 unemployed, a drop in exports, an incomprehensible awakening of the state administration at a time when the government should move decisively towards reforming the state administration that implies reducing and parallel strengthening its efficiency, and not exactly the other way around. We have the renegotiation of the growth of the liquidity that exactly the most generated by the irresponsible state by not paying off its debts and dues we also have a collapse of the stock market, a decline in the credit rating of the state, we have a slowdown or a complete suspension of extremely important infrastructure projects, and this is especially about modernising the railway. Perhaps I would list it for hours because the fact that Croatian voters have been deceived because nothing, absolutely nothing from the famous HDZ guarantee card in recent years has been realised, and despite the enormous growth of the 2004 budget, when it was almost 85 billion kuna by 2009 and a budget of 127 billion kuna, which is an increase of 43.1 billion kuna or a 50% increase. Despite so much growth in the Croatian public, it is not known why it is spent so much on the naked state budget because the state does not make progress, it does not even stagnate but collapses and it is a sad fact. In particular, the sad attitude of the rulings towards the budget of the Ministry of Environmental Protection, which with more than 30% drop or minus 209 million kuna in the budgets of the ministries and belonging to it by the environmental and legal agencies and the intervention of real estate by the biggest loser of this so-called. the budget rebalancing. The Ministry of Culture did not go well either, at least in and otherwise thin items for the protection of nature that were cut by almost 4 million kuna, which is almost 7 percent decline. If this were to be added to the fact that the government this year is judging by the so-called. We see for HDZ, HSS, a coalition of all their fine beliefs despite environmental protection is literally the last hole in the play. That's what the figures from this so-called. the rebalancing which shows the shortsightedness, the lack of ideas and the lack of creativity of this government because instead of taking advantage of the crisis and dramatically increasing exactly budget items related to the protection of the environment, nature and space and the promotion of sustainable economic practices such as renewable energy sources, organic or organic agriculture, etc. the ecological industry because in these practices lies the future of the world, so Croatia does exactly the opposite, and so unfortunately it is not side-by-side by countries like the United States led by President Obama, Great Britain or by the Asian Economic Tiger of Korea, but by countries like China and thus enters a circle of countries affected by so-called ". Chinese recession syndrome. And while these countries are currently in restructuring the economy towards those branches that we call today so-called. The ecological industry is moving their way out of the crisis, opening up the possibility for new development Croatia is visible from this proposal in a round of countries that are announcing the mitigation of strict ecological standards and burdens for the weakened recession of a knock-out economy as one of the measures for exiting the current difficult economic situation. The German Chancellor Angela Merkel announced this way, but unlike Croatia, Germany, which for almost decades has been at the very top of European and world countries in terms of high environmental standards, can afford such measures. We can't, unfortunately. And unfortunately for me, it seems to me that I've only chosen the Chinese way to deal with the recession. And here's an example of Chinese dealing with the crisis I read about at the Washington Post. The textile industry... Just a year ago, she was one of the Chinese factories that paid for today's awakened ecological consciousness of the Chinese administration. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In February of last year, the "Fuan" factory was closed because in the nearby river it dropped extremely toxic wastewaters from which the river changed color and became red. However, when the recession winds of the Chinese administration blew over the fall, the administration of Fuana allowed the same administration that painted the river's toxic chemicals red under a different name and location to open a new textile factory with the same production technology and old machines. Obviously, the fear of firing and losing a large number of jobs outweighed the ambition of the Chinese administration to deal with environmentally questionable economic operators. Although Croatia cannot measure itself with China in terms of responsibilities for climate change and environmental devastation, in recent years China has become the worst and worst environmental pollutant in the world, and in doing so the irresponsible United States of America is also the fact that the domestic ruling political elite is looking forward to any excuse not to go so far. by easier route or by continuing to move along the free path of the line of less resistance. In fear of new layoffs and social unrest, the Croatian administration will be visible from this so-called the rebalancing of this crisis to behave in the same way as the Chinese. They will look through those industries that should have put environmental standards into their technological processes decades or more, because they will fear that by insisting on investment in environmental protection, they will have already disabled the industry over the edge of the sink. Unfortunately, the Croatian government will not follow the example of the Korean government and even we of the US administration, President Barack Obama or British Prime Minister Gordon Brown, and come up with a strategy for Croatia's future economic development. I'm not saying a new strategy because we don't have a policy of strategic development at all. And unfortunately, the recession we are sinking deeper and deeper into will not be an incentive and opportunity but will be an ever-increasing dig in the cold, dark and creepy mud we've been in for years. But it doesn't have to be that way. And Croatia could use this economic crisis to launch a whole new plate of economic futures based on clean renewable energy... and environmental industries. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Instead of trying to compete with the production of heavy and cheap products of poor design and poor useful value, we should encourage the production of small quantities of high quality products to be used permanently and added value of products whose production does not consume a lot of resources and does not create harmful waste. And finally, I would just like to quote Nicholas Stern, the former chief economist of the World Bank, who warned that if we don't take a drastic turn today, we will soon be in a crisis worse than the world's economic crisis in the first half of the 20th century. He pessimistically concluded that it would be difficult or impossible to reverse these changes. Unless governments invest in technologies necessary to create a low greenhouse gas economy, global recession could cut between 5% and 20% of the world's wealth. If such statements come from the mouth of former World Bank officials, there are a lot of reasons for alarming. Unfortunately, the Croatian government is either deaf to these warnings or completely unable to deal with the responsibility of managing the country, and I would rather say this another.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-30-0.u31048	Thank you. Five corrections. First Mrs. Zeljana Kalash.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-30-0.u31049	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Here, I want to correct the two incorrect allegations of Honorary Holly, and this is under the first that the crisis in the smaller part has conditioned the rebalancing of this budget, meaning the global crisis and in the larger part that this is about budget rebalancing for the sake of government's inadequacy. So I believe that at least that's what the MPs on this side of the assembly got on 396 pages of various ideas and I'm sorry it didn't inspire you. And I must point out that we are showing special progress in the ministry of spatial planning and environmental protection that you've been working in, so you may have had the opportunity to directly influence at the time of the coalition government with the SDP at the head. And the second correction to the incorrect allegation is that this country has been re-emerged by HDZ. I think you should have said that the Croatian people chose HDZ for the fifth time in a row and so far we have had six parliamentary elections in the recent Croatian history and that they may have been wronged only once. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-30-0.u31050	Mr. Representative Boris Matkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-30-0.u31051	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I'd like to say that the incorrect claim from a series otherwise made by my colleague Holly at the very beginning has been made. And she's this close to formulating her claim that the government doesn't have a strategic vision. I claim the opposite of my colleague Holly, which is that the government has it. Saving and fighting for each job, with a prominent social component is a strategic vision. And the proposal, in these measures that you were talking about, was also attended by your strategists, Dr. Jurcic and Dr. Greek. I am not surprised that you demean the people of the Government of the Republic of Croatia as HDZ, but you are demeaning your party colleagues, Mr. Dr. Jurcic and Mr. Dr. Greek. Which again and proposing all of this we can see today are neither present today nor present at this debate and I think that... I'll answer you wisely he's telling you everything, because it's obvious that they don't agree with your measures, and we could see that when you explained here your anti-recession measures that they weren't even there. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And once again, Mr. Linic, who is sitting here today, said publicly in the show "Open" to Croatian citizenship.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-30-0.u31052	That's too much already.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-30-0.u31053	That Jurcic's methods are not, or approaches, not SDPs. That says everything about you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-30-0.u31054	Okay. Let's go, a little less Latin sayings. Gold isn't everything that shines. That was too much. My colleague Maras isn't needed. ... And you can see that I reacted. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Right now, spotting. Like at 60 meters, 4.1 seconds. Mr. Representative Frano Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-30-0.u31055	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So in the SDP legacy list, the colleague incorrectly stated that the finances had been taken care of. Which is completely untrue. In that legacy, the SDP was minus, the country's deficit was over 6%, almost 7%. So it was the real legacy of the SDP. We've just introduced the arranged finances by introducing the state treasury, because in your time every minister had his own account on the side, we know that Cacic had his own, so he created the deficits that it broke and that he needed it at some point. Second, as far as environmental protection is concerned. So look out, it's up to 90 percent of the Agency for Real Estate Transport. So, it's not about putting up with environmental protection, it's not. That level was raised compared to last year. So, the level of environmental protection, the level of finance is higher than this year. Only the Realty Agency will have less resources. And third, the state doesn't fail. Maybe one of you would want it, I hope you don't want it anyway because the state isn't going down, we're in a crisis like the whole world, even a smaller crisis than the United States and the European Union, which they have to give out of their budgets to their banks. We don't have to.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-30-0.u31056	And Mrs. Representative Marija Buric-Pejcinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-30-0.u31057	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, here, I have to correct my colleague Holly's incorrect claim that there is no government-designed strategic policy for the development of the country. In fact, I don't know if my colleague Holly really doesn't know, she may be knowingly misleading the public, but in 2006, the government adopted a Strategic Framework for Development which is a basic document that is sufficiently comprehensive and shows everything that needs to be done strategically on the development of Croatia and covers the seven-year period. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-30-0.u31058	Thank you. Madam Vice-President Dom Zeljka Antunović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-30-0.u31059	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President, Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues. I'm listening here's this little strange debate that's probably going to go all day in this kind of relationship. On the one hand, it is debated, and on the other hand the incorrect allegations are corrected. Mr. Secretary plays the HDZ spokesman and listening to him, because it's the only thing I can hear because there's no actual discussion here, I listen to him and I wonder if he really believes what he said about this speaker. But good. Let's put aside whoever believes in this place. And I'm going to try very briefly to say just some essential things that I think you should not say here, but repeat by not knowing any more times. In fact, they've asked President Estonia recently, how will Estonia deal with this crisis that the whole world is entering? How will they, as one small until recently communist, socialist country with all the problems it has inherited come out of this crisis? And the man very prepared and very simple answered. We've been putting 30% of our gross social product aside for years, and believe me, we'll be out of this crisis for as long as it lasts, we're ready. We saved up when it was earned, when the years were fruitful, the ones that brought about the growth of the gross social product. From this example and from this answer, you are actually monitoring that I will say that in the last 5.6 years that have been pro-pulsing, which have been marked by the growth of gross social product, the Croatian government has acted exactly the opposite. He said just before in his correction of the incorrect allegations, counterpart Roncevic, that the HDZ government started with 98 billion budgets and that today we have 123. Well, I wouldn't brag about that. I'd be worried about so much growth. I think it's actually the strongest criticism that should go to this government. You said it to a colleague. Everything that was created, everything that was added value, everything that was of excess value in the Croatian economy this year, over the five years of your government, you have managed to spend. So what do you think the common state means? What do you think too much public spending means? Well, that's exactly what it is, the ability for the government to list everything that's extra in this country. Everything that went into that budget instead of, and it was filling up, afraid to fill the budget until the beginning of this year. It was filling up nicely. And the more he filled up, the more the country went to hell. As anyone remembers, as someone sets a request, without any priority, one needs a roof, the other needs a asphalt, the third needs a water line, the fourth needs, let's meet everything, please everyone, let's preserve power. Let's not think about tomorrow being harder. That in the economy as well as in life, we have ups and downs. And we're the country that started with inherited problems, the country in which you said just before your colleague, the most ecological, we don't have a problem with... We're not going to destroy the production and the economy, now we're not going to talk about old issues and old wounds. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Well, I guess someone who runs that country should have had enough visions to predict that difficult times would come. So what now? Now that the budget isn't charged, now we're gonna burn. And no matter how much sparring you can no longer sew up so much that you reduce the deficit that should now be smaller and no matter how much you cut you won't achieve that effect. And now I'm going to remember you. When we did this at the end of last year, the minister was telling his story. I don't think he believed it then, I don't think he believes the words he's saying now. When I had a debate a little less than a year ago about this House about a dangerous situation and I warned you, indifference increased 20% in 2008. Something doesn't seem right, it's a sign, it's ringing for an alarm, as far as we see it as a consequence of the excessive spending of the Croatian government, how simple it is to work on the misbehaving of the businessmen, and how much and what it takes to prevent it. Nothing seemed like it still doesn't seem right now. This rebalance is the first measure. He mentioned someone here, a colleague of ours from our club sitting there in the Economic Council. As far as I can remember, the Economic Council has brought some more measures, so where are these measures? Has any of these givings been released, the economy, has there been any regulation, any measure? Nothing but rebalancing. Well, the rebalancing, it is true, will welcome this and will raise this credibility among some international organisations, or preserve the credibility of the state. But what about the support of citizens, what about the support of the economy, what about the function of the budget to support development? So do you know that orders are for example. In the state industry, 50%. That in the textile industry, workers are fired daily, workers should also be fired in the wood industry, but at least the strongest ones are still somehow being sprayed. Well, it's hundreds and thousands of workers who will end up on the street because of various problems, our locals in the environment that have emerged. And how do we intervene on what we do to amortize these problems and difficulties? No regrets. We cut state spending, we have a reduction in public spending problems. Less trouble will be given to the Ministry of Finance. We'll have less liquidity or not the liquidity of the budget itself. But what about the rest of the indifference, what about all the people who'll end up on the stock market tomorrow? How do we help them? Well, that's exactly what employers are getting at, and they say they're keeping their jobs. Ma'am, employers won't keep their jobs, they keep either their owners' interests or profits. Someone else has to intervene. We of the SDP may not always be right when we talk about those measures we have proposed. But some of them are very real, some of them are on the trail of solutions that have to save jobs and real wages, that wages don't fall and that's real not to fall. Someone has to secure through state measures, so we have a state to intervene, someone has to make sure these people don't end up at the Employment Service, they'll be our burden again, it's less true. But there will be social cases, there will be extremely, extremely big problems. Cut the expenditures. You can't cut them overnight now, but now you get the wrong billing policy. And you know it very well, and I'll do it again because it's my job because I'm an opposition representative. You don't cut your spending like this, like you've now cut the budget. The only real expenditure is to change the structure, the waste structure of that budget. And that means that through this year, you've had to implement all the reforms you're carrying out, but that you only carry out on paper. As well as the anti-recession measures you have committed yourself to, which are suggested by experts and social partners, but none of that, an empty story, should have courage, should have the courage to deal with these problems, should have other priorities than today's Government has. Maintaining your position of power, raising still all the smart but less smart demands that arise from all the interesting, very broad spheres of society. It is important to know how to run the state, to lead the state firmly, to ensure the security of not only the banking system, which is not provided through fiscal policy, but a monetary policy in which the government does not have a very large authority, so it does not have much agreement with monetary authority always but simply to ensure the stability of that economy, at this point even instability, but mere survival. I would fear at the place of this government the armies of fired people, not because someone doesn't like them, but because they really come hard times for the economy and this measure actually just makes it easier for the government, facilitates the budget, makes it easier for the Ministry of Finance, but there is no relief for those who should be relieved of their business.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-30-0.u31060	Thank you. Three corrections. First, Mr. Representative Berislav Roncevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-30-0.u31061	I will correct several incorrect allegations, distinguished counterpart Antunovic. It is incorrect to be concerned about the increase in budgets. Mrs Antunovic's increase in budget was the result of Croatia's economic development. I said, no new tax, no increased tax rate. And we have used this increased state budget precisely to strengthen the Croatian economy, i.e. to boost its competitiveness. And in this sense, all these money that has been issued on an incentive, a variety of support for the economy, should also be seen in this context by building 400km of highways that are indisputably the best incentive to resuscitate certain parts of Croatia in terms of its further economic development. In this context, more than 500 entrepreneurship zones opened in the mandate should also be seen in this context as investments in education and in particular higher education. It was 7% highly educated, and now I think that number is double increased, somewhere around 15% highly educated. This is the result, this is the result of rational budgetary spending. You may be envious, but you will not correct this information.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-30-0.u31062	And Mr. Representative Krunoslav Markovnović.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-30-0.u31063	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, so here, if I hadn't heard it, I wouldn't have believed it, my colleague claims it's too much public spending. So I think it would be good for us to empower our colleague to negotiate with Mr. Ribic, Babić and others, let her grow in a way that quickly and effectively, based on experience clearly, can cut their wages by 30, 40% because it is precisely the SDP that encouraged and raised... Not to agree to go strike now and so on, to 6% reduction because before that they got 6%. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So they stay on the same one, so it's no good, and when the cut was 30, 40%, then everything was fine, right? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-30-0.u31064	A bit of a poetly-stricken correction of an incorrect quote Yes, but give this (a) correction of the incorrect quotation, (b) content of the correction of the incorrect quotation, (c) justification of the correction of the incorrect quotation [[I could've been in lines.]] Mr. Representative Frano Matušić. [[/Intruder: Can I say it again?]]
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-30-0.u31065	Thank you, Mr. President. a) Correction of an incorrect quote, a colleague said that nothing was done for the economy, that nothing was done for the economy. That's not true. It's incorrect that nothing is done for the economy. Why? Because here is a concrete 400m euro for medium and small entrepreneurship, it is for the economy. The investment that the state is leading, here I am now going to tell the Pelješki bridge that someone here was talking about this morning, so that's an incentive for the Croatian economy. Croatian businessmen will work that bridge. Who's gonna work that bridge? Maybe Martians or someone else. Croatian economy, Croatian companies will work Pelješki bridge. And another thing, when you talk about an army of unemployed. There's no army of unemployed. She may have been at your time when you reduced up to 30% to government and public officials' wages, when you fired the officers we returned thanks to the court's decisions, etc. It was an army of unemployed people that you were supposed to be afraid of, but we're not afraid of any army of unemployed because we're not working in that direction that you were working in.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-30-0.u31066	And Madam Representative Nevenka Majdenic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-30-0.u31067	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I wanted to correct this allegation that nothing seems to protect jobs, and there was a really textile industry mentioned there. That is not true, MP Antunovic. The government does do a lot on interest subsidies on loans and support. That's what Mr. Matusic said already. But then I will correct each other's allegations when you said that insurance deposit from 100 grand to 400 grand that it wasn't the government but the Croatian National Bank, that is, through monetary policy. On the contrary. It was proposed by the Government, this Croatian Parliament did, therefore...... Yes, it is, you mentioned that it's not the result of this government, and I'm telling you it is. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Therefore, it should also be considered.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-30-0.u31068	Mrs. Representative Gordana Sobol. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-30-0.u31069	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Gentlemen of the government, colleagues and colleagues. I'll start with a statement from your Prime Minister Sanader. The other day when the government adopted a budget rebalance on the remarks by President Mesic that it should not be constantly returned at the time of 2003, 2004, that the SDP should consider what it had inherited in 2000 from the former HDZ government. Then the prime minister said that we should then consider what we inherited in the 1990s, but he added one sentence and said, but I agree with you, Mr. President, that after five, six years of HDZ rule, we should no longer return to the past. So let me put it this way. Croatia today. Internal liquidity, budget deficit, production decline and living standards, inflation growth, unemployment, budget not with a huge hole, with a huge gap, crisis tourism, European integration stopped, consumption-based budget and social peace purchase. Unfortunately, this budget rebalance we are discussing here today reflects all the tragedies of HDZ's rule and HDZ's notion of power over the past few years. In fact, all these years, it's been shared, it's been spent, it's been shopping, and when it's done, it's been taken out of that other bath, it's been a bit of a turn back tomorrow, it's been taken out of some third cup, and when there's been any criticism and objections, then it's the easiest thing to do is to scream like you're saying today that you're telling the truth, that you're uninformed, that you're scaring the people, we've heard today and that the people are being tough. And when advice is offered, when some others warn you, then they are blatantly rejected because, of course, HDZ knows better. But it's actually really fantastic how you managed to stop all the positive flows by taking power in 2004, you start reforming everything. But of course it's no wonder, because reforms if they're serious then they're painful, then reforms don't cause applause. And you, colleagues and colleagues from HDZ, your coalition partners, and especially your prime minister, above all, love the applause, to applaud you. I especially stress this "your prime minister", because I will repeat him as my prime minister. Because if that were my prime minister, then today, at least in the morning when it comes to need and why going into budget rebalancing, he'd be sitting here and we're fighting here where the prime minister is today, whether he's a little bit less or a little bit more Protocolary. We might think of it as being at a used car show, because there was a decision, but someone told him it was not decent, even though it was not polite to drive in these difficult times in such a expensive car. In early March, that same prime minister of yours spoke of a rebalancing, somewhere between 1 and 3 billion, said of the crisis that it was not a Croatian crisis, we did not create it as a government, but that it was a global crisis. He said that, he stays alive and sits in his blind. Just a few months ago he spoke Croatia was immune from this same crisis, the fact that around Croatia is not going to hit it, we are stable, we know how we will deal with this crisis. To this day, unfortunately, and this rebalancing shows it, this government still doesn't know it. He also said a few months ago that no one could predict what was going to happen that was simply not true. The second question is whether the prime minister and the government wanted to see and hear it at the time, and the various sides were spoken, not just like this from the opposition benches. I especially stress the warnings that came from economic experts, but also directly from our businessmen. But of course, when it's thought that you're the smartest person to listen to others, and now we actually see where it's leading us, and where it's caused us this kind of thinking and that kind of mind. In some of the previous discussions, recently, because in the last month we have been mostly discussing the crisis, the recession, anti-recession measures thanks to SDP's bill proposals. In one of those discussions, I said that when we were asking questions a month or two ago, even before, that you guys were laughing here, especially your colleagues and colleagues sitting in government, we were declaring us uninformed, and then of course I'm asking, there's no Finance Minister here right now. I remember about a month and a half ago, so not even a full two months ago, we were talking about a two-billion budget hole. So how is it that, suddenly, in these two months, this budget gap has grown to an entire 10 billion kuna? They laughed at me back then, and today it seems like there's no reason to laugh anymore. Of course, there is another, perhaps the saddest fact that for the state we have today in state finances, of course, it is at least the government and the prime minister. As recently in December, the finance minister together with the prime minister and then with all the other members of the government claimed that the 2009 budget is stable, balanced, social, developmental. Well, I don't know what actually happened in these two, three months. Recently, as the Prime Minister put it, we're in the middle of bankruptcy. How could this happen to us if this 2009 budget was exactly what I just said? It is now the same, both social and developmental and balanced and well distributed, and I don't know what we're saying about this budget rebalance. I really don't know why gentlemen. I didn't get any arguments from Minister Shuker who represented the government here today. What kind of jobs does he invest in? What jobs are these kept? Another, perhaps more important question, for how long? A month, two or three? What's next for us in a few months? Mr. Minister, I'm glad you're back. Tourist season? A tourist season that we all know in which way and how we welcomed it. Unprepared. I argue unpreparedly because in other countries the beginnings of the crisis that began to see them have forced them to do things connected to their tourism. We're talking about some kind of plan. I still, I must say, have not seen one, or has not publicly announced any concrete plan of the tourism ministry how and in what way to save, so to speak of this season what is being saved. Or maybe we're waiting for the local elections to pass? It kind of seems to me, let's just hold out until the local elections. After the local elections, this crisis will definitely be transferred, not to mention spilling into local city, municipality and county budgets, but then taking care of it from local levels. I claim that for several months it was irrevocably lost because the government headed by Prime Minister Sanader refused to listen to warnings. She did not want to listen to warnings, and of course, she did not want to take action in time. Unfortunately, I've said recently, I wouldn't care if it hit only you here or members of the government, or I don't know any others, but it affects Croatia's largest population. I am afraid, I repeat, that in a few months we will come back with some new budget rebalancing because of the reduction in items per individual, which has been reducing the amounts according to certain paragraphs of our ministries, I will repeat that, and I say that only partially cut it, to say so far waste, but actually they are making changes in behaviour within the state budget, or in the structure of the state budget, we have not seen this budget rebalance.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-30-0.u31070	Thank you. 7 Correction of incorrect allegations. First, Mr. Representative Emil Tomljanović.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-30-0.u31071	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. So in a number of incorrect allegations, a colleague literally said this, and I quote, "This government has stopped all the reform that has begun." Inaccurate, trendy, wrong and cheating on the public. This government has just continued and continued all the reforms that have not been completed in the fields of justice and health and justice, so if you want foreign policies and all other areas where these reforms have started and end up on the one hand. And this particular budget rebalancing is the answer in financial terms to the crisis that we are in, to a crisis that has spread from global proportions to our country, and right in this rebalancing, we have answers to those questions that are now emerging to us as problems and the rebalancing is rightly responding at the right time to these things. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-30-0.u31072	Second correction, Ms. Nevenka Majdenic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-30-0.u31073	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, sobol said that the HDZ, or our party, likes to clap on us. That's not true at all. What we love is knowingly and responsibly running the state, and this government does. And as for what we have stopped, we have stopped what is extremely important for Croatia, and that is your poorest policy. Unresponsibly, when you reduced the child's allowance, when you abolished your three-year leave and put all those families in one difficult position. That's what we stopped and we're glad.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-30-0.u31074	Third Amendment, Mr. Representative Boris Matkovic. Listen calmly even if someone doesn't like it, but let's hear it.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-30-0.u31075	... May I repeat, Vice President, I didn't turn myself in. [[The speaker was subsequently turned on.]] I want to correct the claim that the Prime Minister is unwarrantedly absent. So that's incorrect. The prime minister was absolutely justifiably absent and he was there, fellow Sobol, where at that meeting this morning, the event and the meeting gave recognition to all Croatian defenders and all Croatian soldiers on peacekeeping missions, all previous governments, etc. Therefore, justifiably absent. Because he is not your prime minister, you insult the citizens of Croatia because he is legally elected from the same citizens. And he's here. And your president, he's also my president, not just the prime minister. And your president, I'd say that maybe he's somewhere in a doctor's office today waiting for what's wrong with his groins of pain and sitting in the Assembly, as he said himself.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-30-0.u31076	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Mrs. Representative Gordana Sobol.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-30-0.u31077	I'd just like to ask Mr. Vice President, given that Article 209 has been injured. Rules of Procedure to warn your colleagues, let them report to the replica, no problem. We'll answer. But this is how you correct through the corrections of incorrect allegations, and then add, and then a little bit more insult, so that's already a little problematic. Guys, you got a yellow tile, yellow.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-30-0.u31078	Ms. Nevenka Marinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-30-0.u31079	Thank you, Vice President. It's not exactly Mrs. Sobol's suggestion that we're unprepared for the tourist season. At the end of last year, anticipating the crisis has been adopted by a series of measures, even at the end of last year and before that in the past term, to preserve first what is based on tourism development. Significant funds and significant measures have been directed to help strengthen and promote and increase the competitiveness of Croatian tourism. And that's why we don't stand badly at the beginning of this season but we've made the most valuable, we've preserved tourist destinations one of the most desirable destinations in Europe. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-30-0.u31080	Mr. Agent Anton Mance.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-30-0.u31081	Mr. Vice President. A respected colleague when she spoke about what was important in this rebalancing process, then she only uses what was being reduced. However, the items relating to the economy, which relate to the aid of certain branches of the economy, have been incorrectly cited and have been introduced for the last two years. You're avoiding them. Why not take page 141, page 197, page 355 and page 108, and you will see that this is not true. And it is not necessary to speak to these areas of the economy that the government does not value them, that the government does not give them support when it is just giving them support. And if they need it, we'll see about that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-30-0.u31082	My colleague, I return everything to that formula a, b, c. Say it by saying correcting the incorrect quote, the content of the correction of the incorrect quote and the explanation. So now that you're not saying it, then you're raising the sticks for the violation of the Rules of Procedure that you've given up. Please. Mr. Representative Krunoslav Markovnović.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-30-0.u31083	Thank you. Fellow Sobol, saying that we are not going back, says, quote under a1: "In 2004, you did not continue any of our reforms." Under a2, there were no reforms, no health care, no tax system, and not even a judiciary, except for a few novels that one other colleague constantly mentions. And the only reform they've made in record time would have been that they've been in expensive cars since they first arrived at the government of bicycles and old stadiums in a month. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-30-0.u31084	Mr. Representative Berislav Roncevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-30-0.u31085	I'm correcting the inaccuracies of the distinguished Mrs. Sobol that Dr. Ivo Sanader is not her prime minister. That's incorrect, Mrs. Sobol. He is also your prime minister, if you feel like a citizen of the Republic of Croatia, he is also your prime minister, regardless of what you have not voted for the political option he has presented. The behaviour of the Prime Minister by Mr. Dr. Ivo Sanader is the result of a democratic process no matter how you define yourself in it. He's your prime minister, get used to it because it'll take you a long time.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-30-0.u31086	Ms. Representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-30-0.u31087	Thank you. Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary, the Honorable Deputy Prime Minister, the Honorable Other Ministers, colleagues and colleagues. This budget rebalance is actually a paper structure that will be cut up as long as there is a budget. In fact, the question or debate on the composition of the budget and now the budget rebalancing is actually one story, a sad story from European stars to Balkan thorns. Namely, there's no Prime Minister. And again, he does what he does best, when he gets stuck at home, when the budget goes down, when the unions threaten to strike, when negotiations with the European Union are blocked and everything goes to hell, he goes under his feet and disappears. European integration has been halted, production declines and living standards. How it was in 1999, so it was 2009. The prime minister is already making a theatrical and political goodbye to the European future. The famous fifth speed, which was obviously intended only for display and for European needs now can be inserted into the first, can be in lar, can also be reverse, maybe save us this invention so that we patent. And the reverse with us seems to have speed. When the European path is clouded, there is no obvious reason for this government, nor to play reform. And so far, they've been carried out unsuspectingly, slowly, somehow bypassingly, fictitiously, in any case completely dishonestly. The negotiation block is mixed with the economic crisis, strengthens people and citizens with a sense of hopelessness in society. And that the state's revenues will not be nearly as much as the government wished and with which it has calculated but much less shows data on the current state of the Croatian economy. Imports are reduced, VAT revenues are reduced because there are no funds. Internal liquidity, budget deficits, production and living standards, inflation and unemployment work, blockade companies are not often paid but also wages, external trade deficits are growing, foreign investment stops, credit rating falls, tourism is in crisis, European integrations are halted as I have pointed out, consumption is increasing, or consumption is being reduced, and it is clearly how it wants to buy social peace but it is no longer going. So it was in 1999, so it was in 2009. At the same time, the government is undecided, better to say unable to take drastic cuts or to change the whole concept and the whole philosophy of the budget or budget rebalancing. Today, just like the late 1990s, there's no money to borrow, there's no cheap capital for the economy, because everything takes the state to patch holes. Internal liquidity and payment delays have risen again to a worrying scale. There are no credit ratings on the outside or they're already terribly expensive. Citizens are getting harder and harder to deal with, employment is dropping, investments are stopping. Of course, decent... It is necessary to be honest, and this has been given by the global financial crisis, but Croatia has been in the hint for years, and two years ago in an obvious indication of the crisis. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It's been spending more years than it's earned. And that once came to an end. Although Ivo Sanader in the famous guarantee card before the election promised to quote "Unlike others, I will not bring Croatia into bankruptcy". As this is now called, I called it bankruptcy. But he's not giving up on the Peles Bridge. How much does that cost? 250 million euros. Obviously, this shows that he doesn't care about the government, he doesn't care about social sensitivity, because this expensive and expensive long-term investment will bring and can bring results, but at this point we need some kind of investment that will quickly return the investment. And that's what everyone's telling you. But he's not giving up on it. So it's really justifiable, for what? Instead, that money could be used even for 20,000 new jobs. Unnecessarily unnecessary exhibition, which apparently serves the rulers there to buy votes, can build 40 schools, 100 kindergartens, and nearly 30,000 new places in student homes. A galloping crisis that has come as a grizzly, visits our homes, takes gifts and brings only misfortune. The citizens are being punished, but the rich are not having hair on their heads. The government has persistently refused to tax the rich, the interest tax, and recently here we have had the opportunity to hear that our legal proposal to amend the Penal Code, which we wish to incriminate non-payment of wages as a criminal offence, has been rejected by rulings, noting that it is not yet time for that. So here, with this bill of law, it's not a question of whether we're on the side of workers or businessmen, but whether we're on the side of thieves and who we're protecting? If we don't want to incriminate the one who won't pay the paid worker, and even when he can. 12. The first year Sander spoke Croatia is not in crisis. Soon thereafter, he wanted to rob the second pension stake, but the people rebelled. The International Monetary Fund literally says, have ready answers to deal with the possible withdrawal of money from banks. Now we're told it scares people. This literally stands in the warning of the International Monetary Fund. Which also states that just now not knowing or any delay in decisions or non-applicable decisions can result in further intensifying the negative effects of the crisis as later as it reacts, less and less room for action. Two-thirds of households are missing on average 2 thousand kunas to survive the month, says the GFK Agency, which thus presented devastating results and figures for a country in which its government continued until recently claimed there was no crisis at all. So the crisis was first denied. Finally, some of the measures were more verbally expressed. But these measures are still more intentional than concrete measures. But in any case, in any absolute disproportionate to the weight of economic trouble. Apparently, the power of the bride is manifested by this rebalancing, to deal with this weight of the task standing in front of her, because she was also in good years, let alone now in these dense fogs to steer, and in which part of her guilt brought us by her inaction. What would be saved in non-productive consumption should have been transferred to the real sector, but therefore clearly there is no knowledge and no vision. But there's plenty of excuses. That's how an incompetent government works. Anyone incompetent to seek justification, they are able to offer results, or offer solutions. Maybe we're asking too much. But something must be recognised by this government, especially the prime minister. It must be admitted to him only in one sphere, that all these years he has been consistent in creating an illusion that he is the one who saves all this. But here's what you always expect from ruling. That's why it's not a surprise for us, I believe, for a great deal of citizens, to hide something, that someone else is always guilty, someone third, to humiliate one or another citizen, especially arrogance. So, not to be socially sensitive, credible, transparent, it simply cannot be expected from this authority, and whoever is asking for it is indeed in great error. Before, Minister Schuker begged unions not to cut wages. And let's remember when you put the budget together, you'd say exactly if that money was needed to avoid deficits. Now it is seen that this hole is not from a billion and a half, but that it increases to 5 billion. So, what does the government offer people? Let's move on, follow the situation, literally quote "reaction preparedness", until then the black hole spreads and threatens to swallow us all. A little over a month and a half ago, according to the ruling party, there was no need for rebalancing. It was an unnecessary thing, and today it is the most important document in history since the Croatian state. So here they are, instead of the government offering solutions, to find what other countries are doing, they don't need any special handicraft.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-30-0.u31088	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-30-0.u31089	Here's half a sentence, relying on the naked hope, so what in Croatia under HDZ thinks didn't work out, so I guess neither will this crisis.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-30-0.u31090	Thank you very much. We have six corrections. So get ready. First Mr. Representative Boris Kunst.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-30-0.u31091	Thank you very much, President. Well, attorney Marinovic said a whole series of incorrect allegations. But I'll just quote one of these. She said this government isn't capable of drastic cuts. So this particular budget we're talking about is one drastic cut, but the cut is such that it doesn't touch any social rights, that in fact all social rights remain all social categories. And the cut is that when all the arguments about the negotiations with the social partners were exhausted, they went to this cut. And I'll remind you that your government at the time, nor did it negotiate with the unions when you cut their wages, nor did you respect their rights under collective agreements, in 2001 you had two budget rebalances, a more difficult social and economic situation than you did today, in elections, you promised 200 thousand jobs, normally you had the highest unemployment during your era, 400 thousand unemployed. Itd. You know, the problem is when a man doesn't have the ability to look in the mirror of history and remember his actions and speech, then he'd be ashamed of what he said.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-30-0.u31092	Thank you. Mrs. Carmela Caparin, correction.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-30-0.u31093	Thank you very much, Mr. President, a series of incorrect allegations, I'll start in a row. This government is indecisive, indecisive, this government is looking for justification, not co-workers, this government is really capable and determined, and in this crisis it went into budget rebalancing. He's asking for an excuse. He doesn't ask anyone for an excuse, let alone an excuse in front of you. Another false allegation, she doesn't care about social sensitivity. Now, you've really misstated that, because from this rebalance, it's obvious that this government is socially sensitive, and it hasn't touched the pensioners, and it hasn't cut pensions. And social isolation has increased if you haven't read it then I'll tell you that the allocation to help socially sensitive groups of the population has already been increased to the 2008 budget by 275 million kuna. And hundreds of millions of kunas in social care. And you were the ones who were socially sensitive, so you took off your maternity benefits and took off your salaries to the public service officers.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-30-0.u31094	I'm Mrs. Zeljana Kalash's representative. Correction.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-30-0.u31095	Thank you, Mr. President of the Parliament. Here's what I would do is correct an incorrect quote that the distinguished representative gave in her debate, which is that the authorities don't care about social sensitivity. It seems to me that we do not have the same document, on the basis of which we participated today in the debate, but if the MP had read it, you might see that the benefits for the unemployed and the allocations for the active employment policy did not remain at the same level but were increased by a rebalancing rate of 10%, or 103 million kuna, respectively. It is also worth an additional 100 million kunas to increase social care allocations, from which 30 million kunas relate to an increase in compensation for the assistance and care of 27 million kunas, an increase in the individual disability, and 40 million kunas for the protection of military and civilian disabled wars. I would not be surprised that today, between us, it is not the Deputy Prime Minister and the Minister of Intergenerational Solidarity who is actually one of those who influenced that this rebalancing of pensions and maternity benefits and child allowance not only remain at the level of the former, but rather remain at the level of the original budget for 2009 which is an increase compared to 2008. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-30-0.u31096	Thank you. Correction Mr. Representative Boris Matkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-30-0.u31097	I thank Mr. President, here's my correction, so the correction refers to an incorrect assumption related to the same, so, as before, that the government is not socially sensitive. And as an example, a colleague took the Peleski Bridge. You see, colleagues, so that's, that's a claim as a first incorrect. And exactly something else you should know, which is that the effects of building large infrastructure projects are currently seen and thousands of employees on these projects will receive pay immediately. If it's not social sensitivity and it doesn't mean that every employee is being taken care of, and in construction there's about 150 grand, then I don't understand anything. And I'm not talking about cooperatives who also have jobs when it comes to these big infrastructure projects.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-30-0.u31098	Thank you. Correction by Mrs. Marija Pejcinović Buric.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-30-0.u31099	Thank you very much, Mr. President, so here, indeed a number of incorrect allegations, fellow Antičević-Marinović, to paraphrase my colleague Markovanovic, I could go A, B, C, D, but we wouldn't be enough alphabets, I'll say only four. I quote: "That European integration has been stopped, that the fifth speed can be reversed, that reform work is being done quite dishonestly, that everything is the same as '99.". In fact, it is not true that European integration has been stopped, we are working on it at the fifth speed and everything that depends on us is and will be done. It also testifies that we did not change what the Croatian Parliament adopted at the end of last year, which is the harmonisation of legislation. If we're not in the same place where we are in 2009, I think each of us knows, I'm just going to say that we're entering NATO in 2009, that it's already enough to indicate that we've gone far from that year you're calling on. And that work is done completely dishonestly. It's completely untrue. We are doing this job of European integration, which is primarily reform work, we are doing it for ourselves and our citizens.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-30-0.u31100	Thank you. Correction of Mrs. Ljubica Lukačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-30-0.u31101	I thank Mr. President, so here's a colleague of mine said, as my colleagues say a series of incorrect allegations, here's one thing I'll mention. That this government doesn't care, it just doesn't care about social sensitivity. Well, that's not true. My colleagues look only at the rights of the welfare system, they remained intact, although they were increased. Personal disability, aid and care allowance, child care allowance, etc., so I don't count now, but you can't talk about the social insensitivity of this government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-30-0.u31102	Thank you. Madam Representative Dear Zgrebec, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-30-0.u31103	Thank you, Mr. President, Madam Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. Says a colleague, if we're going to go into big infrastructure work, then it's the employment of thousands of people, so he'll get paid right away. That a colleague, if the government will pay for these works, then the workers will probably get paid. But if they're going to pay them like that. Building sports halls, then they won't win. But let's let it go now. If the state budget is defined, then one of the definitions could be that it is a certain redistribution of a country's social product, thus achieving less or greater justice towards different social groups in the country. Then it's done through the tax system. The finance minister said that HDZ is against increasing taxes and tax burdens and he says no, and we say that HDZ says that high labour taxes, therefore, are the highest payers and we say not and we say that it should be taxed according to our constitutional provision according to the economic power of taxpayers. And that means that there's something more to tax capital and property. Let's say for example. as it taxes real estate in Germany, the first two real estates do not tax but when you already have a third real estate, you pay 25% tax. So it's some kind of social sensitivity and tax justice. And since we've already brought the budget in December in the way we've brought it, as if nothing in the world and around us is happening, as if in Croatia rose blooms, then I wonder what order should have been in the budget rebalancing when we found that we were in crisis, that we had problems, that our incomes were not coming true. At that time, we probably had to discuss the anti-recession measures first. At one of the sessions, the government accepted the so-called. A package of anti-recession measures, defined at 10 points and there. And it only came to the first point, she told us it was a budget rebalance. If we had discussed these anti-recession measures or if the government had seriously discussed them, then we would have had some legislative activity here before the budget is rebalanced. They would have changed some of the laws, so if not the others who are referring to the second government measure, which is an analysis and reduction of certain non-tax revenues, our law on similar issues has been standing here for three months on the agenda, not yet under discussion. So these are the direct costs of the economy and citizens who are manifested through the state budget that through the local budgets. Therefore, the second measure was not taken at all seriously, because if it had been taken it would have been here through a certain legislative amendment discussed, such changes would have been adopted and would have already been applied in the budget. So, since the minister says the budget is based on a package of government anti-recession measures, there's actually nothing. And in short, just a few sentences that bring us this rebalancing. It changes certain macroeconomic indicators and is said to now be planned on a GDP basis of -2%, an inflation of 2.6%, and then there is a deficit of 1.4% or 1.6% as we already calculate it. However, it is obvious that this is the current situation. In the last quarter of last year, we achieved GDP growth of only 0.2%, a quarter before that of 1 and some percent. If it's this trend, then it's not going to be -2%, it's -4 or maybe -5%. Inflation, first month over 3%, second month over 4%. At the annual level, we plan an inflation of 2.6%. What happens next? What's going to happen to that deficit? If last year we ended up with some previous data from the State Statistics Institute, with GDP growth of 2.4 to 2.9%, then what is the deficit in last year? They say about 4% somewhere. It's one thing we're planning, the other thing is that we're accomplishing and really all the warnings and all the criticisms that are coming to the government should be taken seriously and accepted because nobody in the state doesn't care about being bad. We all care about being okay because it means good to both us and our families and to all our citizens. Citizens understand the crisis and are willing to bear the burdens of the crisis, but we should be aware of the need to share the even burden of the crisis. Those who have more bearers and greater burdens, who have little they cannot bear a little burden, and this rebalance of the budget does not show. Well, then somehow we come to the conclusion that the rebalancing is made at this time because it has long been refused to mention the possibility of rebalancing at all, that the "edit" could be "edited" to make it easier to finance the lack of income in these first months. We haven't seen a lot of moves to ease the crisis that would come from the government. It has been denied for months, instead of ringing all the alarm bells and already having a package of anti-recession measures, not just intentions. Now they're scaring us with bankruptcy just so certain social groups can settle down and perhaps accept in a easier way certain savings that they want to make through the budget on their backs. How is none of the anti-recession measures operationalized? We brought in only one measure on Friday, which is the law on wage cuts or wage cuts in public services. So this is the only measure that is not true in a package of government measures, which is legally designed and which is applied in this state budget. And when I say that this won't be the final figures in the 2009 budget, then I kind of support it with the following data. In early 2009, all macroeconomic indicators talk about the decline of all activities, but also all indicators of the citizens' standard of living. Industrial production recorded a significant decline of around 14%. Entrepreneurs don't have new orders, so that means she's still going to fall, and the question is, where are they gonna stop? The World Bank at world industry level is planning a 15% drop. What will be in Croatia? Relations in foreign trade are getting worse, so imports of over a billion and 300 million dollars were recorded in January, and exports are half as much as that. The negative trends in business influence employment, and around 263,000 unemployed were recorded at the office in February, and the unemployment rate was at 9% with which we boasted, reaching 14.5% in that month. Trends of redundancies continue because entrepreneurs are pressured by high costs and small production cannot endure this level of employment for long. At the same time, prices do not stop. Growth prices, the annual inflation rate was 4.2% for February. The trade records a decline of more than 14%, just talking about a drastic decline in citizens' standard of living. The fact that 68% of employees have incomes that do not satisfy even the minimum cost of the four-member family’s lives really talk about a complex situation in our families. And that's why even this budget rebalance, like it wasn't a budget, is not real in the income side, and that means that the spending side needs to be changed even differently, not only linearly or in certain segments, but more seriously. If that wasn't the case, I'd only say one example and that's the last sentence. The 12-month government regulation in agriculture has increased support for corn, which should provide an additional 240 million kuna in the budget. With this rebalancing, we reduce production incentives, in agriculture by 150 million kuna. Now, that tells you enough how this budget, or the rebalancing, is made up. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-30-0.u31104	Thank you. We have a replica, Mrs. Vesna Škulic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-30-0.u31105	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, aside from the question that the prime minister is being written today except for Ollie Rehn and the Slovenians, I think that fellow Zgrebec should be present, if not, then at least to be published in writing. However, the visual impression of social sensitivity from the HDZ ranks really impresses me. This is what was said here about incentives for employment, but I don't know if you read that the very Fund for Professional Rehabilitation and Employment of Persons with Disabilities has been reduced by 4 million 265 thousand kuna, and the reliefs and incentives in the employment of people with disabilities for 3 million and 900 thousand kuna. Otherwise, 2008 reduced the number of disabled persons compared to 2007. Also, the annual fee for the use of public roads and tolls for the most disabled has been reduced by 14 million 700 thousand kuna, about 40 percent. Social empowerment of persons with disabilities 25 thousand, 980 thousand kuna. The affirmation of rights and the promotion of policy for people with disabilities 475 thousand. And so on and so forth, but caring for physically and mentally damaged children for 10 million and 730 thousand kuna. The welfare system isn't working. Last year, Mrs. Dorica Nikovic said a law would be drawn up by the end of 2008 to add to the most difficult disability. There's no sign of that. It has been said that this year, a law on a personal assistant will be drawn up, but the working group is still working. So much for social sensitivity. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-30-0.u31106	Thank you. We have one correction to the incorrect allegations, Mr. Representative Boris Kunst. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-30-0.u31107	Your Honor. Zgrebec said the budget was not based on anti-recession measures. Well, that's incorrect. You just know, and you should know that the economic advice in which your two members of the Social Democratic Party have just proposed to cut wages to civil servants and tenants. I don't know if they've consulted the party, but they're basically proposing it. So that is not true, and that is exactly the reason in some way that they have been respected and some of the measures proposed by this economic advice. As far as this economic taxation is concerned, it's convenient to hear it, but you could have done the same in 2000, and why didn't you? Why didn't you? But be careful, today that concern for workers is terribly unconvincing. You'd be more convincing then if you weren't in power, but when you were in power, your masks were taken off, and now every new mask with your social sensitivity is inconclusive.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-30-0.u31108	Thank you. Let's move on. Mr. Representative Igor Dragovan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-30-0.u31109	Mr. President. Mr. Kunst, of the 19th year of the new Croatian state, 15 years has been HDZ in power. In the 1990s, you were some union leader. I remember, there you hit the barricades when it couldn't be on the Upper City, which can't be protested again, but now you've banned along with your colleagues. So this story that you've been doing since you were 15 years old doesn't drink water. And enough with that. What were you doing in those four years? All the doors opened so that they could join this NATO alliance at all, so that they could access Euro-Atlantic integration at all, but unfortunately Croatia was 4 years away from the European Union in 2003, and now in 2009 again 4 years away from the European Union. The adoption of the state budget, the country's most important financial document that determines the quality of life of Croatian citizens and citizens, i.e. the document in which we should see all the luxury of the government's promises marked the delay of a month. It has already shown that there is no strategy, that there is no consistent financial policy and that we are expected to have a budget that will not solve the accumulated problems that have affected the Croatian economy and society as a whole. At that time, everyone in Croatia knew, except for the prime minister and his incompetent finance minister, that it was only a matter of time before the same government came with the rebalancing we are discussing today. It's been four months between Eva Sanader's two famous statements. November 20, 2008, no drama, we're hanging from a thread, colloquially, we're in a banana. The moment the prime minister said that, they did everything possible to make it appear that the statement was not made. By March 24, if we can't manage public finances, then we know what's coming to us, the bankruptcy and the collapse of the system. Among them were a bunch of irresponsible statements that denied each other. Prime Minister, Prime Minister. Only Mr. Prime Minister who isn't here because he has much more important work to do, citizens are looking for solutions and results, not delusions. And of course it is known, if HDZ continues to manage Croatia, we are certainly followed by bankruptcy and decomposition of the system. Comparing the 2004 state budget of 85 billion and the current 127, it has been shown that the militias have been spent over the past five years. There was a lot of promises about that money, and nothing was done. She's collected food, she's collected electricity, she's collected gas, people start saving on food and personal hygiene to survive from 1st to 1st. Research suggests that nearly a fifth of Croatian citizens in this year have already felt a significant deterioration in the financial situation of their own household, and more than a third of citizens claim that their financial situation from month to month is worse, and the fall in living standards is the most felt on daily consumption. It is unfortunately a picture of Croatia as this government draws, a picture that no one, not incompetent ministers or sweet-talking prime minister can embellish. The SDP has been responsible for constantly offering legal solutions here in the Croatian Parliament, not on the street. We proposed that the law increase employees' rights to help them survive the crisis. On the other side of the assembly there was laughter, laughter, and the fates of the fired workers and their families. This is so far an unprecedented pride, social irresponsibility and social insensitivity. I'm gonna do it again, social irresponsibility and social insensitivity. Because to reject all proposals was a dozen laws that would relieve wages, reduce contributions, reduce VAT to basic living needs just because it was proposed by the SDP that cannot be called otherwise than what I called it. Therefore, this rebalancing offers what HDZ is expected to offer, which is a reduction in health expenditure and a reduction in wages. That's a hell of a brain. This is proof that there are no people with ideas, knowledge, labour and vision in HDZ. The SDP is against such a reduction in salaries of state and public officials in which there is no agreement with trade unions or guarantee that this cut will be paid to workers when the crisis is over, and to those of our citizens who will be lucky to keep their jobs because every day 300 workers are out of work, 10 thousand a month while the prime minister is saying: "The recession in Croatia is gone and I hope it will not be there either.". And where's the hardest? In Slavonia and Baranja. Since the full mouth of the regional development of the ruling Slavonia and Baranja knows only one thing. That's where the crisis doesn't stop. With this rebalancing of Brod-Posaviska, Vukovar-Srijemska, Požega-Slavonska, Virovitica-Podravska and Osijek-Baranja County will again be the poorest Croatian county. With this rebalance, the difference in gross social product between developed Croatia and Slavonia and Baranja will almost certainly not remain for three and a half times at the expense of Slavonia but will grow unconstitutional. Who does the government care about if they don't care about those most endangered of their citizens? And according to the 2007 statistics, almost a million of our citizens live in the danger of poverty and social exclusion. The hardest is in Požeško-Slavonska, Brod-Posavina, Vukovar-Srijem County where it is also a very low gross social product, 40% lower than the Croatian average. When an average of 300 workers are out of work in Croatia per day, the number in Slavonia is even higher. Unemployment rate Vukovar-Srijem County 29,4, Virovitičko-Podravska 28,7, Brod-Posaviska 27,6, Osijek-Baranja 24,2, Požega-Slavonska 20,1. That's a great situation. Tell that to the people of Slavonia and Baranja, at least that's what I tell these colleagues of HDZ representatives from Slavonia. The responsible government would be able to find ways to help its most vulnerable citizens. It could open space for new jobs or at least save existing jobs. The responsible government would know that children in one part of Slavonia must not go to school just because their parents have no money for a bus. The responsible government is the Government of all Croatian citizens. This government is definitely not because it cares for itself and only the ones they chose, at least that's how the prime minister claimed in this assembly. Therefore, citizens should be reminded that the government of Ivo Sanader has as many as 69 state secretaries in 15 ministries, three and a half times as much as during the coalition government. That is why citizens should be reminded that although the number of ministries in the ministries still has 125 assistants or directors of the administration, just as many before the cuts. Citizens should be reminded that with 45 state bodies such as ministries, state offices and state institutions, Croatia has as many as 154 state agencies, institutions, institutes, funds and other institutions, and the government has established as much as 60 advisory committees, commissions, councils and committees. All this costs, and each of these bodies is looking for a certain amount of financial resources. The public for some of them doesn't even know they exist, but they still pay for them and they'll pay for them with this budget rebalance. This HDZ government only cares for its own citizens and not for all Croatian citizens. Of all the promises and the famous project 3 times 7 which was supposed to be 7% growth, the unemployment rate of 7% and 7 significant projects remained only one project of the bridge "peljesic", one BMW week and 7% inflation.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-30-0.u31110	Thank you. First of all, we have one application for a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Mrs. Carmela Caparin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-30-0.u31111	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I think my colleague hurt Article 204. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament say that the Minister of Finance is incapacitated and I think he is neither competent to speak of his ability or incompetence because someone else should talk about it, and I think that the statement deserves a warning, with one more warning saying that this government cares for its own and not for all citizens of the Republic of Croatia. This government is the government of all citizens of the Republic of Croatia because it has been chosen as such.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-30-0.u31112	He delivered an opinion on the minister's ability to do so. ... I'm more concerned that the Prime Minister isn't here because I see he's gonna miss these important debates, so I'd better still sit there, but I hope the vice president will pass it on to him. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Correction of the incorrect allegations Mr. Representative Boris Kunst.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-30-0.u31113	Agent Dragovan didn't say anything exactly, but I don't have time to fix it all afternoon, so I'll just have some. He says, "HDZ's government only cares for itself and not for all citizens."and he says, "This government has no strategy," etc. So she's socially insensitive. Well, you know, the strategy is that this government negotiated with the social partners and negotiated it as long as possible, and your government and your government's debts paid for this government somewhere a billion dollars. Mr. Dragovan, I see you're pretending to be deaf even though you're not. She even paid a billion and a half for not respecting collective agreements, you've voluntarily broken your wages, etc. Well, you know, someone who can, you could have done more harm and done more damage in four years of government than this government in 15 years. Those are your indicators. And you know, let me remind you of your concern since you're so interested.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-30-0.u31114	Thank you. There's no time.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-30-0.u31115	... [[The speaker is not enabled.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-30-0.u31116	Thank you. There'll be an opportunity.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-30-0.u31117	... [[The speaker is not enabled.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-30-0.u31118	Please, let's be patient. Let's be patient because this is the first of 11 corrections. So now it's Mr. Ivan Bagaric's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-30-0.u31119	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, a colleague said, among other things, that Mr. Secretary is incompetent. It's absolutely an incorrect claim. And I agree with my colleague Carmela that it is actually the violation of the Rules of Procedure, because he has not qualified some procedure as a minister as incompetent, but a minister as a person. And that claim is incorrect because one incompetent minister does not get recognition at the World Bank's highest level just for the area of activity in finance. One incompetent minister does not edit the state treasury as this minister and this government have arranged. One incompetent minister does not introduce a personal identification number to actually control finances and to actually soak up as much funds as possible. One Minister incapacitated and the Government unable to provide savings roles in Croatian banks, then financial stability of the Croatian state, repay debt to pensioners, secure pensions and secure all payments, etc.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-30-0.u31120	Thank you. Correction Mr. Kresimir Gulic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-30-0.u31121	Well, Your Honor, I would only correct one of a series of incorrect allegations. Obviously, colleagues from the SDP have been given a hint that they have to bang on the rebalancing today, so here we have to try to correct these incorrect allegations and untrues that they bring up. Mr. Dragovan said this government is not socially sensitive. So again, we have to say for a hundred times that this government is socially sensitive, that it will not touch pensions, that it will not touch children's allowances, that it has provided funding for pensions and for stock market workers 2.9%. Unlike gentlemen of your government, which in 2000 promised 200,000 new jobs, and at the end of your term, there were another 55,000 more unemployed than when you came to office. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-30-0.u31122	Correction, Mr. Davor Huška.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-30-0.u31123	Thank you, Mr. President. Correction of an incorrect allegation. I'm afraid 11 of us will be a little bit to correct all the incorrect allegations of fellow Dragovan, but here I'm going to make an effort to make a contribution to all these corrections. First, he said the government expects the rebalancing to solve all problems. That's not true. This is just one in a series of anti-recession measures and such a differentiated approach in the making of rebalances where funds are held to encourage small entrepreneurship, funds to promote agriculture, tourism, means in a word of the economy, allowing this rebalancing to actually do what is expected of it. And finally, I would like to say that, in the list of Slavonski counties, my colleague Dragovan also wrongly said "the most difficult situation in Požega-Slavon County", and not in some others, and since 3 years ago there has been revolutionary changes in power in Požega-Slavon County when the government took over the SDP since then, the state in the county has completely changed. She came from 4th, 5th place back to the last place in all economic indicators in the Republic of Croatia, but we hope that will end soon. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-30-0.u31124	Thank you. I apologize to my colleagues for one little lapus. Correction of the 5th, Mr Emil Tomljanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-30-0.u31125	Thank you very much. Well, the esteemed colleague has said that repeatedly. I'll quote him "The government is not socially responsible, this rebalance doesn't have a social component." That's not true. So we're just going to quote the exact data that's being read from this rebalance. First, unemployment benefits have increased by 10%, 103 million kuna, with an active employment policy. For an additional 100 million kuna, social care issues have been increased, of which 30 million kuna refers to an increase in the issue of aid and care allowance. 27 million kuna to increase the issue of personal disability. 40 million kuna for the protection of military and civilian disabled wars. As far as pensions and other social benefits are concerned, there's a lot to be counted on, and I'm going to do that on another occasion, because there's no time now.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-30-0.u31126	Thank you. Correction Mr. Krunoslav Markovnović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-30-0.u31127	Thank you, Mr. President. So here's colleague Dragovan incorrectly states, says the government is socially insensitive, it's not accepted SDP's laws. Which is actually pure spin, because if the SDP laws were accepted, or if we had as much money as they cost, then we wouldn't have anything to talk about here today. Like spin, citizens are also looking for results, not deception. So I'm asking, what result do you expect from the SDP, given that you've been cheating on people all along?
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-30-0.u31128	Thank you. Correction Mr. Mato Bilnjic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-30-0.u31129	Mr. President. I would correct my colleague Dragovan's wrongful order when he said this rebalancing would make Brod-Posavina County the poorest. We know very well why Brod-Posavina County is one of the poorest, and in this budget no funds for supporting the economy, support for agriculture, compensation for the unemployed, social care and pension of the Croatian Army and members of the Croatian Defence Council have been touched. I also have to say that this government has put in the development and economy of Brod-Posavina County for the past three years more than any government in the 1990s. Thus, when building municipal infrastructure, i.e. industrial zones in Kopanice, Slobodanica and Novi Gradiška, we also support the Pelješac bridge in Slavonia because it will be built by one part and "Djuro Đaković" and so that there will be money from the bridge on Pelješac in Slavonia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-30-0.u31130	Thank you. Correction Mr. Stjepan Milinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-30-0.u31131	Thank you very much, Mr. President. My colleague Dragovan made several incorrect allegations, but I would only mention one. When he said the government was cutting health costs. That's not true. Compared to 2008, around 2.5 billion of the health ministry's budget is higher. Health reform already shows the results very favourable in terms of financial consolidation, of course and further availability of the quality of the health system, but of course those working in this health system. So does it need to be reminded of 2003 when a work obligation was introduced to doctors? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-30-0.u31132	Thank you. Correction Mr. Borislav Matkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-30-0.u31133	Thank you, Mr. President. So I would correct the claim that the government is irresponsible. No, colleague Dragovan, this government is very responsible. And that confirms this rebalancing that is based on two essential components. And that's a first, a struggle for every job, and the second is a prominent social component. And the truth is you're also irresponsible, because you're the ones who offered your own measures something that, often we've heard that here, only one little thing you might have predicted, cost, or be an additional 15 billion. This is irresponsible to the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. Not what we see in this rebalancing now.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-30-0.u31134	Thank you. Correction by Ms. Nevenka Majdenic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-30-0.u31135	Thank you, Mr. President. Here's representative Dragovan said kids in Slavonia don't go to school because kids don't have buses. Mr. Dragovan, that's clearly a lie to both the public. We should know that all the kids who go to primary school have free transportation. Also the first, second grade high school, and the third and fourth year co-finance units of local administrations and self-government. So, it's a pure lie, don't do that because of your political points, you put us in a position to be illiterate. I'm sorry, you can't do that.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-30-0.u31136	Thank you. Mrs. Ljubica Lukacic. Correction.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-30-0.u31137	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, here's a colleague again incorrectly said that this government is socially insensitive and irresponsible because it did not accept SDP's proposals. Well, that's simply not true, so thank God that this government and this Parliament didn't accept any SDP proposals, because just last week, or your proposal, we passed and discussed here last week a proposal to amend the law on unemployment, which, by law, you are in an unfavourable position, would put the category of unemployed people in an unfavourable position. So, on, compared to the time remaining without a job. Well, this government is far better, it increased unemployment benefits, so you can't talk about the government's social insensitivity when you just wanted to be socially insensitive.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-30-0.u31138	Thank you. Here's 11 corrections we heard, now it's Mrs. Romana Jerkovic's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-30-0.u31139	Honored Mr. President, Madam Deputy Prime Minister, colleagues and fellow MPs. One part of the public voiced doubts about the fact that the SDP club refused to submit amendments to the budget. That's when we said that the budget is so unrealistic, so wasteful, so unreformative, so undeveloped, undeveloped that even a thousand amendments can't save it or fix it. And I'm not happy at all, but I really hope that now all the faithless Tomes are clear how right we were when we claimed that the budget with its own content, or its concept, does not correspond to the current economic moment in which Croatia is located. We said then to bring the budget in both manner and model as usual, as if in the country the regular state was socially and politically at least irresponsible and unacceptable and all of this also applies to this budget rebalance. We warned that when the Croatian door is knocked by an external crisis, when it connects with that domestic one, which you yourself produced by your own ineffectiveness that there will be no money for wages or pensions in 2009. We warned then that a hypertrophied bureaucratic apparatus would simply no longer be possible to aliminate from the state budget. We said then that this is not the time for unreal, for expensive projects, for ministry spending, for new expensive cars and equipment and that it should be made easier for entrepreneurs, for economics, for investment in development, in science, in production, but everything was in vain. If not before then, at least during the adoption of the budget, so in December 2008, it was necessary to recognise what would happen in Croatia and then it was necessary to prevent how someone said the unrealistic appetites of individual resolutions, i.e. ministries through the budget. And what did you gentlemen do? In December 2008, you planned to grow 2% of GDP and on this unrealistic growth you created a basis for the increased appetites of all those living out of the budget. How long did it take you to ask for spending cuts on the departments? Isn't that what we should have done when we were doing the calculations? It's bad, I really think it's bad that for you neither was the budget nor the rebalancing is dynamic and in the function of development. Development as the only option that can and should get us out of the crisis. Cressing on the items of the budget was of course necessary, it should have been done long ago, although that is not what will ultimately get us out of the crisis. However, given how long it took you to realize that the crisis and what is not left for you, such a static relationship to the budget means only one thing, and that is that you do not have a clear, consistent, short-term, neither long-term nor any other strategy or vision of leaving the crisis. What do you think the solution to getting out of this crisis is anyway? The government is obliged to answer these questions. The government is obliged to give answers to key social, social problems and issues. It's her key job. And the responsible government, as my colleague said before, would know that without economic growth, can't get out of the crisis. In time, the responsible Government was to cut budget expenditures and funds where it was necessary, therefore, into entrepreneurship, development and science. Science is a loser again. It was also in December, when the budget was passed. However, we can balance both income and expenditure, but what then. This does not mean that this will solve a fundamental problem at this time in the Republic of Croatia, foster development, new technologies, investment in the real sector, foreign-owned banks, etc. And you can't find a solution, because in fact to know a solution, you have to be aware of the problem, and you've only become aware of the problem recently. So, Minister, you're laughing a little bit, so it's kind of like you're not listening, but you're an example. January 22nd said it wasn't time for rebalancing. You also said that the budget rebalancing will not bring about any pay. Do you remember that? You said that, Minister. You said the rebalancing won't put the pay on the table. And if his colleague Markovanovic were here, I would tell him you see Mr. Markovović who deceives the Croatian public. It's not us, it's you. You even had to deny yourself for believing it wasn't easy, but that's politics, too. Instead of sitting down with the unions at a table earlier and talking about a collective contract, you're doing it now that the water's come to your throat and it's actually another proof that you don't actually know what you're doing. And, gentlemen, I don't think anyone knows what this government's strategic goals are anymore, and even less how you plan to achieve it. For months you have offered no solution or answers to the most important questions in the country. There are so many examples that talk about the considerable disorientation of this government, and I'm going to give you a few examples. There are no artillery logs, so we introduce work on Sundays, so we cancel, then budget rebalance, it's under control, and then it's not, and then we won't touch the wages, and then we will, so Europe is a priority without which there is no future, and suddenly it's not like that, and not to mention statements about bankruptcy, bananas, etc. And there's a logical question, so who else can trust this government at all? No wonder politics became a despised business. You reject all SDP proposals aimed at helping workers, the economy, socially threatened as if it were a matter of straining between the SDP and HDZ, as if it were a matter of pre-election overskilling or politics, and the issue of preserving jobs and social peace, the economy, these are issues of vital interest for this country and its citizens. It's sad that this government doesn't understand, as my colleague Zgrebec said, and that she can't see. It would not be a problem for citizens to bear the burden of the crisis because this is not the first crisis, this people have become accustomed to the crisis. Citizens would agree to give up and frozen salaries if you told where Croatia would be in 2010, '11, '12. And to have a vision of what's waiting for us in two, three or four years. One thing in all of this doesn't surprise you, not really two things. The first thing is that you have a problem for every solution, absolutely for every solution you find a problem, that's the first. And secondly, all the bad social, economic movements of import or domestic, however, you are always somewhat surprised and you are not told by trends and do not mean anything to you. This government is like Alice in a wonderland. You've been surprised by the crisis as soon as you're likely to be very surprised by what might happen if some trade unions stay with their intentions. You'll probably wonder then what's wrong with the people. I hope the people will tell you what is first in his local and then in the parliamentary elections. Minister Shuker, you keep asking which positions to take this from, from which positions to take what, I hope that the people in the elections will put you in that position you deserve. In opposition. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-30-0.u31140	Thank you. We have a few corrections. I pray we stick to the real correction, as I always stress, mostly in vain, but I will keep saying it over and over again. First Mrs. Representative Neda Klaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-30-0.u31141	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Here I will correct Mrs. Jerkovic's incorrect quote that says, "Rebalance is not in the development function." On the contrary, Romana Jerkovic, because the budget rebalance offers the financial credibility of the Republic of Croatia, provides fiscal capacity also for the Republic of Croatia and represents one of the instruments for the implementation of anti-recession measures. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-30-0.u31142	Thank you. Correction, Mrs. Susana Bilic Vardić.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-30-0.u31143	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Correcting the incorrect, my colleague Jerkovic made several incorrect allegations in her debate, but I will correct the following. My colleague said instead of the government sitting with the unions earlier. It is completely incorrect and my colleague Jerkovic is fully aware of it, as I am colleagues Jerkovic is aware, i.e. I remember that the SDP did not have any objections to the budget. So you should remember, not to deceive the Croatian public, that in the 11th month of 2008, the Croatian government offered unions both state services and public services to stop wage growth or to stay at the level of 2008. Therefore, such untruths are in the interest of some of your policies, your party's policies are not fair to the Croatian public.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-30-0.u31144	Thank you. Correction, Mr. Davor Huška.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-30-0.u31145	Thank you, Mr. President. I am correcting two incorrect allegations from my colleague, Jerkovic, who said that the SDP said when the 2009 budget was adopted that the budget did not correspond to the current economic moment, and that there would be no money for salaries or pensions in the state budget. I don't know how the SDP said that when we didn't have any amendments to the 2009 State Budget, and they also predicted that the government wouldn't dare go into rebalancing before the local elections, here they were. And thank God and wise Croatian citizens for not winning the elections because the question of where would your forecasts and estimates lead Croatia? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-30-0.u31146	Thank you. Anton Mance, correction.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-30-0.u31147	My dear colleague said it's no time for expensive projects. Well, the government thinks that projects should be done that have already been mentioned today by colleagues here, because that's what keeps jobs. And we learned years ago when there was a major economic crisis since '29. Until '33. for that famous new deal, the new division in America, so that's when someone remembered, and I think now we should work exactly and that's the way out. The other blames the allegations of social sensitivity. You see, no one's mentioned a lot of colleagues today, but nobody mentioned reform. In its programme, the present minister introduced intergenerational solidarity. And of course, if you are looking at the budget of the first item mentioned by 12 million, and now it is returned, again when you compare the budget in 2008 and 2009, the increase is 5 million, for a programme in general very well accepted, regardless of who is where the authorities are not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-30-0.u31148	Thank you. Correction, Mrs. Bozica Solic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-30-0.u31149	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Here, MP Jerkovic said in her debate, says this government does not understand this situation. Well, that's not true, you know that's not true, it understands very well, it's an indicator and the foundation of today's budget rebalance. But respected MPs, I find it very strange that, in the rebalancing today from the SDP, your president Milanovic, who absolutely does not understand the economy, and you are a doctor, and you speak at the same time as your president. Why aren't there any of your economic strategies here today? Where's your little girl? Where's your Greek? They're gone. And you're talking, politicizing all day, and you didn't say anything in the end.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-30-0.u31150	Correction, Mrs. Carmela Caparin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-30-0.u31151	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I'd like to correct a colleague who said this government hasn't spoken to the unions before, which is incorrect. She has spoken before and now unlike the SDP government that has never negotiated with the unions. It is an incorrect assumption that this government has found a problem for every solution. I'd say this government finds a solution to every problem and it's incorrect that this government crisis has surprised her. The crisis didn't start in the Republic of Croatia, we know where on Wall Street.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-30-0.u31152	Thank you. Mr. Representative Nenad Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-30-0.u31153	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The budget is the government's identity card. The calculations show what the government is like. Managing public finances from year to year, from budget to budget. Let the government show which direction it's going. And then society is either progressing or not progressing. If citizens are getting better, they have more and more, if their salaries are growing, if they do not lose their jobs, it means that public finances have been managed well and that such a government is a good government. If not, however, if citizens live worse, if they lose their jobs, then such a government is no good. As citizens live in this country, opinions are shared. The citizens think they're getting worse, and you 66 think they're living better and through the corrections of false allegations try to get it into their heads. That they live better and that their better life is due to a brilliant government. What's going on with governments that aren't good? What they're seeing with missing the goal, that they haven't fulfilled their promised, that life under their administration for citizens is just... We have two solutions again. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Responsible governments step down, and the irresponsible buy armored cars to increase the prime minister's safety. The prime minister obviously feels insecure. The prime minister obviously doubts himself, which is a shame. Isn't it enough for everyone else to doubt him why he should be on their side? How do you understand the role of the ruling? You've been chosen to run this country. But how do you understand that role of yours? And you understand it so that ministers buy apartments, that they move to bigger and bigger spaces, that workers, citizens, teachers get paid at the same time. That's how you understand your mission and expect citizens to understand, you expect citizens to be patient. I'm listening to the morning of Minister Shuker speaking, so look, it's normal for you, the world crisis, you have to understand, you need to know, let's not be surprised and so on. Well, look, the salaries of teachers, professors and doctors, nurses, museum employees, theatres, at all in culture, customs, police, officials, tenants. Now you tell me, what would happen to one Sarkozy to cut everybody's wages like that? What do you think the French would look at it... /The speaker was turned off and turned it back on.... What do you think he might as well turn to the French and say and listen, look. That's right, the crisis is, what we can, you have to understand, you have to understand. What Minister Shuker was telling us here. I doubt it, I doubt the French would have that much patience. I don't know a single European country that faced a crisis like this has pushed on its citizens like this government has. I don't know any country that's pulling itself out of a crisis to cut wages to workers and endanger their existence and have the prime minister buy her a armored car. I don't know, I didn't hear that. And I'm sure I won't even hear it because the governments in the world are still more responsible. So when they can't solve the question, then they step down and step down in Hungary, the Czech Republic, they show people they're responsible. When this budget was now rebalanced, we did not submit amendments to it. We came across a little bit of understanding of the media, we couldn't stand the amendments because we claimed that it was impossible to fix with amendments, that he was unrealistic, that he would have to change very quickly. And then you corrected the wrong allegations, and then you appeared a million times to correct the quote. No, no, no, no, that's not true. Well, the budget's real. Well, that's not true what you're saying, so the budget won't have to change. Well, the budget's stable, and he's balanced. We weren't correct, we weren't wrong. Unfortunately, we weren't wrong. And now you defend this budget with endless corrections of false allegations. 10, 15 answer you for a word, and as they say unto thee, God deliver me. Mrs. Solic says it is not true that this government should move. That's the rectification of the quote. Mrs. Caparin is making a business remark and says the breach of the Rules of Procedure is because a colleague said the minister is incompetent. It's as if the Rules of Procedure says the minister is capable. It's your defense of this budget and its rebalancing. That's the level you're talking to about state finances and these state finances are about citizens, about their lives, about their salaries. We said that this budget is not realistic and that it will not happen because you planned it on a 2% GDP growth. We knew already then that no GDP growth of 2% can be and will not be because this government simply does not know how to produce conditions for GDP growth to be 2% but it is not just what we have been telling you. That's what Governor Rohatinski told you. You weren't listening to him either. You know for yourself because you don't know, so you don't know, smarter than you're gonna listen. And then what can happen to you than what happens to you. You're gonna have to, you're going from rebalance to rebalance. And this budget will have to be rebalanced. This one will not come true to you either. Well, there's no money, they're scratched at the bottom, so that's what you can see. This won't last you till the end of the year. And once you're rebalanced and we tell you again that you didn't know how to do it, that you didn't know how to rebalance it, then again a million times you'll be correcting the allegations and again you'll be saying the famous sentences I've already quoted. There's no Prime Minister today. It's normal he's not here. I'm not surprised he's not here. If he were here, he'd have to face his statements from two months ago. I don't pay, there's no crisis, the crisis's gonna get us if it just comes up to a patch, but we're prepared for that crisis. Rebalance is unnecessary. Those are his statements. What do those statements show? That he can't handle the situation at all. That he has no idea what's waiting for him or what's gonna happen to him. He's not here today, so clearly. How to answer those sentences, not mine. On your sentences from a month or two ago. Now one question is whether this government can do something to help Croatia. I say he can. We need to stand down as soon as possible, the sooner the better. It will help to be more efficient, stronger and welcome. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-30-0.u31154	Thank you. We have seven corrections. Before I give a representative to the government, Mr. Davor Huška is the first. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-30-0.u31155	Thank you, Mr. President. I would like to correct the incorrect quote of my fellow Stazic, who, in another moving and exotic performance, gave a lesson to all listeners. The quote is: "Paid by public services has been cut off.". That's not true. The salaries are not cut, but the salaries in public services will keep the level from 2008 and I will remind you that from 2005 to 2008 there has been a rise of more than 20% for the same and the salaries of public and civil servants. Also, the incorrect assumption is that 66 MPs are giving support to this government. The government of Dr Ivo Sanader gives support to 82 representatives of the Croatian Democratic Union and the coalition partner. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-30-0.u31156	Correction Mr. Ivan Bagarić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-30-0.u31157	My colleague has just corrected it, and I'm actually withdrawing my correction so I don't repeat and delay.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-30-0.u31158	Thank you. Mrs. Dubravka Shuica's correction. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-30-0.u31159	Thank you, Mr. President. And my correction applied to 66th, but here's a different explanation. It's not just 66 or 82 MPs, it's half the electoral body that went to the polls and gave confidence to this ruling coalition, and it's still in force. And another correction of the incorrect allegation said everyone still doubted him was referring to the prime minister or was referring to a whole series of your incorrect allegations to the prime minister where you say that it was simply incorrect for me, that everyone was still doubting him and that in some way you were calling it to the French who would not have patience, you are calling on the Croats but as you can see the Croats obviously have patience and from all the statements that we have followed these days people are willing to submit and lower wages but to remain in force of the collective contract that they are doing. Well, I don't think people should be disturbed by these statements, but in a way, they're solidarity.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-30-0.u31160	Thank you. Mrs. Carmela Caparin.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-30-0.u31161	Thank you very much, Mr. President. It's incorrect to think that people live better in this crisis. It wouldn't even make sense because it's a really difficult crisis, and if it continues, we'll all live worse together. But you thought in your time that people lived better just because they weren't aware of it. It is incorrect that this government is jeopardizing the existence of those paid by it. The existence is not threatened by doctors or nurses or judges in the judiciary. And as far as this incompetence is concerned, I would never tell you that you're incompetent because it's a matter of home-schooling but I believe your colleague would tell you that.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-30-0.u31162	Thank you. Correction by Mrs. Bozica Solic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-30-0.u31163	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Here, Stazic said this government doesn't see how people live. Mr. Stazic, then you've listed all categories of society. Of course that is not true, it is not true because it is true that you would want to impose your parole when you led Croatia and when you said that people live better it is the only thing they are not aware of. That's what your vice president of the government said today as a parliamentary representative. You insulted the entire Croatian people. The Croatian government never, under the leadership of Dr Ivo Sanader, said that the people live well. It's always something to do with living better than living very well. You're allowed and you're doing a game from the assembly and you're practically not offering anything good in this rebalancing.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-30-0.u31164	Thank you. There's still a correction. Mrs. Susana Bilić Wardic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-30-0.u31165	Thank you very much, Mr. President. A colleague of Huška's mostly corrected the incorrect allegations, but I'll quote a fellow member of the Stazic. You cut your salary to teachers, doctors, nurses, museum workers. He fixed his colleague Huška. So, it doesn't work, we didn't cut them, we kept our salaries at 2008 level. And a fellow intern I know understands that very well, but today, I guess he needs all the public service workers here to count. The museum workers are the only ones who work in the state museums who can have their salaries reduced but the others who are at local level because cultural institutions are the largest work at local level do not belong and do not belong to this part of your debate today. And another incorrect allegation, it may have been a figure of speech, because a fellow member of the Stazic is prominent, and this is the prime minister not today. He has a colleague, Stazic, prime minister, also yesterday. Today, it's going to be tomorrow, it's going to be a long time, no matter how much you want it to be different.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-30-0.u31166	Thank you. Representative Boris Kunst. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-30-0.u31167	... Representative Stazic traditionally said a series of inaccuracies that sounded quite deadly and inconclusive enough to kill Count Munich himself if he could hear them. [[The speaker is not enabled.]] And now, as far as these inaccuracies are concerned, he says, he doesn't know a country that has fallen on its people like this. Well, my colleague Stazic, I suppose it is clear to you that if the government that has used all the means of the negotiations has offered a rebalancing that does not affect any social rights, it does not reduce it but increases them further. As for the unemployed, as far as retirement is concerned, it doesn't touch them, etc. I don't think that suits you. Second, you say smarter than yourself they won't listen. That's not true. So both the government and the economic council experts themselves said they were pleased that the government had accepted all their advice offered to the government to come out of this recession. And there's your two representatives, so don't talk about your colleagues like that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-30-0.u31168	Thank you. On behalf of the promoter, Minister of Finance Mr. Ivan Shuker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-30-0.u31169	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I sincerely hope to say that there will be no correction from the SDP. Offered by what Mr. Stazic said, that this government has come upon its people, that it has never heard anyone behave and reduce wages. I will quote to you the letter of intent to the International Monetary Fund since 31 January 2001, signed by Deputy Prime Minister Slavko Linic and Finance Minister Mato Church. You can laugh, but here you'll see that you haven't been able to run any kind of policy on your own, and some of you are criticizing today. Well, among other things, in that memo in point c you're standing, income policy. And large in paragraph 18. "In order to achieve a 10% reduction in the wage mass provided for in the 2001 state budget and make it sustainable in the period from 2002 to 2003 and then there was no financial, global economic crisis at all, the government will implement measures detailed in Appendix 9 which will lead to a progressive reduction in salary expenditure during 2001. The basis of the monthly salary will remain frozen to a thousand 425 kuna and employment will be reduced by 10 000 or 5.5% over the year. The two new laws of the Law on Public Services and the Law on civil servants and tenants, which will enter into force at the end of February 2001, will replace the private systems of the paying classes so far, with a unique range of coefficients that the Government will determine by its regulation for individual posts. This will lead to a net wage reduction of 6% to 7%." Now listen to this "regrews for overtime of 2% of the salary will be replaced by additional free days at the end of the annual vacation, anniversaries and gifts for children will not be paid in 2001, and the justification for granting transportation fees will only be tested in view of the income of individuals expected to receive an annual savings of 0.3% of gross domestic product. And says the government has already made a decision to reduce the number of employees in the interior ministry, etc. Reductions in the number of employees will be announced at the end of March 2001 and implemented quickly on the basis of a new regulation reducing the cost of severance. Until then certain savings can be achieved by sending extra employees on leave with full pay, but without paying fees. During 2001, we intend to keep average salaries off Christmas Day, vacation regress and gifts for children in enterprises in which they are partly, wholly owned by the state. And now he says that a large part of the fired employees will not meet the conditions for retirement we intend to apply the active labour market policy with the financial assistance of the World Bank." And as for reform and privatisation, just so you can see what independence was, this is the official document of the Republic of Croatia. So we can talk about him whatever we want. These are notorous facts and this is a document that is stored in the Croatian National Bank as well. It says "The government wants to privatise most of the public enterprises, and only in some it retains a minority share. the reform of the energy sector and its privatisation is applied in close cooperation with the World Bank. A total of 5 laws will enter the parliamentary procedure by the end of February 2001." Finally, he says "it is expected that at the end of 2001 the privatisation of JANAF will come as well as some parts of HEP and INA and if necessary to achieve privatisation revenues in this year's budget." So many colleagues and colleagues on fiscal policy-making. So many colleagues and colleagues about public enterprises. I said at first you can read it in a phonogram, I wouldn't want to have to read it to you. And I'm sorry that I had to read to you, but everyone just has to be aware that there are times when difficult decisions are made. And it's very hard to pull them out of context and talk about some things. That's how it is today. So, Mr. Stazić, you were then a representative and you knew well about this letter of intent that Linic and his colleagues did not sign because they wanted to, but simply because it was such a situation and I was thinking whether to read or not. But listening to all these discussions today, I think you just have to read this too to see how you had to function in certain times. And you can't tell my colleague Stazic, I think I can tell you that, because we've known each other for so long, you can't say that you've never heard of a pay cut in one way or another. And not to say that regresses and goddesses aren't paid to... court disputes paid off somewhere around a billion and 600 million. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I repeat, it is certain that colleagues of Linic's fellow churchmates were not comfortable signing such a letter. But since I continued the same negotiations with Stan by arrangement, he knows well how Slavko was. So, my colleague Stazic, I'm sorry you made me read this.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-30-0.u31170	Thank you. Here you go, Mrs. Milanka Opačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-30-0.u31171	I'm looking for a break on behalf of the SDP Representatives' Club for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-30-0.u31172	Please. According to the Rules of Procedure, you need to say some reason.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-30-0.u31173	For a reason, I will give you consultations on our further work and participation in the further debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-30-0.u31174	Mr. Andrija Hebrang, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-30-0.u31175	We're asking for a break too.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-30-0.u31176	No one's given a break yet. You're looking for a break, too? Five minutes. It can't be less than 10. So, 10 minutes off and we'll continue the session at 4:00. Here. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, let's get back to work. On behalf of the SDP club, Mr. Representative Slavko Linic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-30-0.u31178	Mr. President. Mr. Minister and Associates, colleagues and colleagues. The SDP club estimates it is regrettable when representatives of the government are ashamed of the state budget rebalancing proposals they gave to the citizens of Croatia. And by running away from the facts indicated by this rebalancing, which is insufficient concern for the economy and for the citizens, they try to cover up by running away continuously in the past. And they offer us, unfortunately, the finance minister, talks about the past rather than the present and the resolution of the present. The past of Ustasha and Partisans was once offered, and today when we need to discuss the crisis, the recession, the problems, we talk about Racan's government. We won't take your time in that government, but just so it doesn't turn out that we might be ashamed of something. You must know, what the minister read was not under the IMF ultimatum, it was a clear economic policy of Racan's government. We're clear and we're not ashamed of her. We didn't cry about the past, about the debts, about... And others who could handle the loans. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] No, we had our own policies. The policies we tried to get the economy and the growth and the truth, you had a growth of over 6% that no one ever made. We've had positive trends and we've solved the problem that is being created today with the minister's policy, indifference, non-payment. There's a spread of non-payment from the minister right now. Gentlemen, that was a difference and that was why it was the policy of Racan's government, no ultimatum. And what do we have today? Today we have a downturn in economics, a liquidity problem, and we have a lack of respect for workers. In order to make it clear, the document speaks of the total amount of salaries, that gentlemen, 14 billion kuna for salaries of state and public services without health was the limit that had to guarantee that they would invest in the economy. Today, the minister has come to 24 billion, but not to raise wages but to over 40,000 new employees. Newly employed 40,000 in many public functions. Workers' money is being spent because they pay taxes, pensioners' money is being spent because they pay taxes, the economy's money is being spent on hiring political-like people and raising red tape. And that's the problem. The SDP lost the election for its economic policy in 2003. He didn't get the citizens' trust, you got it. But it's not a finished story. For your failures, for your lack of politics, for your lost policy, you try to continue to open the story of the past. Open it, gentlemen. You won't solve this crisis. The minister who talks about Racan's government policy should talk about Sanader's policy. You should talk to Sanader. And you know why he's not talking? Because he's at a pre-election rally in Sisak. Mr. Prime Minister pre-election is giving a lecture, spending money on state budgets for local elections, and he's not here to explain how to solve the crisis. See, that's what we're different about. That's the difference between SDP and HDZ. We are not ashamed of our policies, and you gentlemen are just ashamed and we will again resolve your indifference and your waste. We know that and we're not ashamed of it. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-30-0.u31179	It's getting more interesting. The president of the HDZ Club... We have a correction before that. First, Boris Kunst.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-30-0.u31180	Thank you very much. First of all, everyone speaks out loud.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-30-0.u31181	Please! The point is, there's no correction. Article 223a: "No replica is allowed for the presentation of the President or Vice-President of the Club of Representatives and of the other representative of the Club of Representatives, if they are not present, but an incorrect indication can be corrected." This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-30-0.u31182	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Representative Linic said this government is running a shameful policy. I have to say that this is incorrect, but it must be embarrassing what I heard today, which has never been published in public, a secret agreement of the then government in 2000 with the IMF without the knowledge of the social partners, behind the back of social partners, which has been the consequences of both pay and non-compliance with collective agreements and all that has come at the expense of this government. And you know, no matter how much you talk here, and now you realize that you're socially sensitive when you're in opposition, you know who's ashamed of his past, his future is questionable.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-30-0.u31183	Thank you. Mr. Frano Matušić, correction. Please be precise.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-30-0.u31184	Thank you, Mr. President. It is incorrect that Sanader's government, according to counterpart Linic, hired over 40,000. This morning you spoke 30 grand, now you've increased to 40,000 new employees in state and public services. Eight thousand and 700 is a specific number, and where, colleague Linic, you have not wondered where he was employed. It was employed in education, so in science, education, and where we said we'd hire people because it's our employment strategy, not where you're talking. And secondly, it is incorrect that the prime minister is now spending the state budget on an expensive sort of in Sisak you mention at a pre-election rally. He certainly doesn't spend state money there. It certainly doesn't go on your behalf and it doesn't spend state money, so you don't have to worry about it. Another thing, to say that you had a proper policy towards workers, and behind their backs you told them and signed contracts that took their salaries off by 30%, which we had to make up for years. And comparing it with today's politics really has nothing to do with it.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-30-0.u31185	Mrs. Carmela Capara's correction. Please.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-30-0.u31186	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I would correct a colleague who said that this government employs a political likeness. That's really incorrect, because if it were true, many of your people would get fired, as you did in 2000 when you were in power to share your resignation and in one night 180 doctors expelled from the board and thousands of directors from other jobs. And I know 17 years is really hard to be in opposition. I understand.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-30-0.u31187	Thank you. Mr. Nevio Štić.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-30-0.u31188	Mr. President, I have to correct a quote from Mr. Linic who says this government does not respect workers. I'm holding it deeply incorrect because the whole performance was at the level of misunderstanding of the problem. There is nothing else in this country that can confront us with a real state and the government is in charge of taking action so that we can do what we have and spend. It's understanding the problem... In the way that the debate is being held here, we will never grow out of ourselves, but we will demagoguely bicker. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The fact is that the government is obliged to confront the citizens with what we have, and this is a crisis, you all know it well, and we are shareholders of a world crisis. So if we have a budget where the left and right sides are zero at the end of the year, then we'll all be upright. And if we just offer what there isn't, then we'll be drowned. That is why it is not true that this government does not respect workers, but does everything that we can to stand in power.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-30-0.u31189	Thank you. Mrs. Susana Bilić Wardic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-30-0.u31190	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Mr. Linic said several incorrect allegations. One of these is that government representatives are ashamed of their draft budget rebalancing, which is not true and accuses the same government of disrespecting workers. My colleague Linic, after what we heard from the document that Minister Shuker quoted here, I don't know who you can tell anymore and invite him to disrespect the workers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-30-0.u31191	Thank you. Mr. Davor Huška.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-30-0.u31192	Thank you, Mr. President. I am correcting Mr. Linic's incorrect allegations that the minister and government are ashamed of this budget rebalancing. It is not true that they are ashamed, but the minister is trying to reasonedally explain the individual items that are changing in this document that are in front of us and the objectives of this rebalancing. Since this fails to explain precisely to the SDP MPs, it is of course useful to the comparisons of not so long ago since 6, 7 years ago when this country led the SDP and finally, I am glad that you have publicly admitted the mistakes you have made and that that is why the citizens of the Republic of Croatia have already punished you in the first subsequent elections. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-30-0.u31193	Thank you. Mr. Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-30-0.u31194	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. I will correct only one incorrect quote from my colleague Linic where he claimed that the gross domestic product grew 6% during their government. Clear indicators indicate that it was 5.3 in 2003 and that the largest was 5.6 2007. Therefore, why speak to the Croatian people and to this House of Commons about the wrong data when clear tables show how this happened on the macroeconomic plan and how it happens today. And therefore, I am pleased that in addition to these inaccuracies you declare you clearly acknowledge that your policy has been a reduction in wages and 30%, a discharge and all that you have done during your term of office. We are glad that it was a SDP policy so that the Croatian people would recognize what kind of policy you would lead in the future.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-30-0.u31195	Thank you. On behalf of the HDZ Club, Mr. Representative Andri Hebrang. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-30-0.u31196	Thank you very much, Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. The HDZ Club is built on the way a constructive proposal for the rebalancing of the state budget is destroyed at a difficult economic moment that is here, also affected Croatia, not by our desire, not our will, and not our fault. All morning, on the very constructive proposals that the Government of the Republic of Croatia has made here, we have listened to such untruths that here we are, reaching an average of 10 corrections of incorrect allegations on each of your speeches. We're simply forced in front of these cameras where you're so unsuccessfully playing a constructive opposition, showing the truth to the corrects of false allegations that, I haven't said a single finding yet, you have nothing to correct me, but you'll only have until the end. I thank you for the great attention you're already giving in advance on this speech of mine, but I will continue to give you material for correcting incorrect allegations. So, what's this about? It's about the destruction that we've answered here peacefully and anxiously by bringing out the facts. Each of our corrections was supported by a data number from this budget. We didn't politicize, and we thought that this people needed to have this crisis time, something concrete, something tangible, not politicizing. But I understand you because it's really frustrating 17 years to be in opposition to 21 years of democracy, but I'm ordering you 17 years of age. There's one more time. Then what a frustration there will be, we'll see, we'll see, we'll be alive and we'll see. But what's incorrect and what I'm going to fix here is that when you came to power in 2003, you didn't look back on the past and you weren't talking about our period of rule. Not only did you criticize the first year of the day, but we didn't have access to the media then, so we couldn't answer, but you filed charges against us. So now please, deny, correct this quote of mine. You filed two charges against me. One very strict and very dangerous thing I did, which I paid back in '98. in the World Health Organization, the annual budget when the government decided not to pay membership fees. And the second time you reported me because I approved me as the minister of that time, as you said contrary to Parliament's decisions, of making a project for a hospital in Zabok that you are now so boasting about. 17 million kuna, I remember, was that project. And you know what was my saddest period of my life? When I was sitting in the waiting room waiting for an investigation, I met my friend, Minister Shkegru, Minister of One, Minister of the Other, during your period the ministers were sitting in waiting rooms waiting for an investigation. We didn't do this to you and we won't do it because we're a democratic and civilized party. So much for looking back. But no matter what, instead of a constructive contribution, you've destroyed here today. I will end up with a finding that adorns the Croatian Democratic Community "The more you destroy, the more we create.". Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-30-0.u31197	First Mrs. Zeljka Antunovic and vice president.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-30-0.u31198	Thank you very much. I want to correct the incorrect assumption that the SDP is obstructing the positive anti-recession measures of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. On the contrary. It's true that we're very argumentative, we're trying to point out that this isn't about anti-recession measures, it's about another attempt to push problems under the carpet and not solve anything. And it is also true that on the other hand we have a constant return to some alleged measures that are normally depicted entirely different from that of Racan’s government. It's true that Racan's government has made unpopular moves but we've saved jobs and sacrificed power and you're guarding power and you're sacrificing jobs.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-30-0.u31199	Thank you. Then Mrs. Milanka Opacic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-30-0.u31200	I'm correcting the inaccuracy of fellow Hebrang, who said that since this morning, the debate has been obstructed and that we've come to the point of having ten corrections. Corrections come from your ranks only because no representative of yours has applied for the debate, so it's much easier for you to react with corrections and replicas. And as for obstruction, I think all the time and all the morning not only with those corrections that you have, but not with the SDP club, you're obstructing and returning to the past. You know, when you don't have answers to problems in the present, then you go back to the past.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-30-0.u31201	Mr. Representative Slavko Linic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-30-0.u31202	I'm correcting an incorrect assumption that the entire morning of the SDP has been obstructing the debate. We haven't even gotten to the tenth individual debate. All ten SDPs and at the same time we have on each of those ten on average if we trust Mr. Hebrang ten corrections of incorrect allegations. Not the replica, the correction. Ten times ten is one hundred gentlemen. So, just ten debates from 50 of us to discuss. So gentlemen, it is your right to show the citizens how ashamed you are, how much you want to mess up, how embarrassing this house is, but we will hold all fifty debates, however much you try to distract us. And the biggest problem is if the debate isn't in the favor of a government that's ashamed of its proposal, the prime minister who's running away from his suggestion that we're telling the truth then. Well, gentlemen, you tell yourself we're lying, we don't mind but we'll talk because that's why we're here.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-30-0.u31203	Thank you. Mr. Representative Zeljko Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-30-0.u31204	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I'm correcting three incorrect allegations. Mr Hebrang's first incorrect quote "The crisis in Croatia is not the result of HDZ's guilt.". Another incorrect quote, "When you returned to power in 2003." And the third incorrect quote, "The more you destroy, the more we create.". As my colleague Zeljka Antunovic said, SDP saved jobs from 2000 to 2003, so he lost the election. HDZ today saves itself from losing power but that's why we're going to lose 60,000 jobs in 2009. HDZ is constantly returning to the past because there are no answers to problems in the present and that we destroyed and you created in 2000 we took over when there were 300,000 unemployed and 111 thousand workers went to work every day and paid no salary for 6 months. In our three-year term, the net salary has increased 17%. For the first time in 20 years 2003 there was a decline in unemployment, the government's beauty measures to encourage employment of 17 thousand people found jobs in six months and 40,000 jobs were opened in small and medium-sized enterprises. So we created and you destroyed all of this in six years and returned Croatia in 1999.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-30-0.u31205	Thank you. Ms. Representative Vesna Škulić. ... I know, but you didn't hold enough, I couldn't list you all in the same second. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-30-0.u31206	Thank you very much, Mr. President. A few corrections to incorrect allegations, even though I'd rather make it right. So I think this is the most frustrating for the citizens of the Republic of Croatia in general to listen to this level of debate. Secondly, it was a political budget that wasn't real and with this budget rebalance you're trying to buy again something you can't buy. You said you were creating and we're destroying. Remember the privatisation and all the things a colleague of Jovanovic listed. Otherwise, it's not frustrating in the opposition because we still make constructive proposals. It's frustrating to be in power and not to do absolutely nothing.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-30-0.u31207	Mrs. Gordana Sobol. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-30-0.u31208	Thank you, Mr. President. First of all, the correction of the incorrect assumption that HDZ is not guilty of this crisis. Gentlemen, it is common of you to listen all these years that you are neither guilty nor responsible for anything. I'm just asking you what you've spent almost 630 billion kuna of the state budget on since 2004, what you spent it in when we're in a crisis like this today, when there's a budget deficit of 10 billion and it's projected more. To talk about us destroying and you creating, gentlemen only for your own interests.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-30-0.u31209	Mr. Representative Luke Denon.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-30-0.u31210	I'm correcting Mr. Hebrang's incorrect quote when he said this was a serious rebalancing proposal. Well, unfortunately, this is not a serious proposal for rebalancing because after the fifth month of the election, there will be another one. We're going to experience another rebalancing because if it isn't a serious claim and the prime minister, your prime minister who says, "If the unions don't agree to a reduction of one billion and 800 and if they don't get paid, then this country and this government will be bankrupt, both this country and this government.". I agree that this government needs to be replaced, but this country won't be replaced by any of the HDZ's bad policies.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-30-0.u31211	Injury of the Rules of Procedure Mr. Andri Hebrang. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-30-0.u31212	Thank you very much. This Regulation shall enter Mr. President, six colleagues and colleagues misquoted me. They said I said they were destroying. No, I said they're eyelessly destroying. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-30-0.u31213	Mr. Representative Arsen Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-30-0.u31214	Thank you, Mr. President. I'd correct the incorrect assumption that we're the one who's facelessly destroying this debate. And that this fellow HDZ is trying to correct them with incorrect allegations. So it's not incorrect. We do not destroy the debate without eyes, we argue, and you correct false allegations. But it's a bit symbolic because this budget is one big incorrect allegation, and this rebalancing is just one small correction to that incorrect assumption that public officials and other citizens will pay. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-30-0.u31215	Mr. Representative Nenad Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-30-0.u31216	Two false allegations. First, the SDP submitted pointless reports due to the functioning or behaviour of the HDZ by 2000. They weren't pointless. The only thing that makes no sense is that they're not all prosecuted in court. The second correction is that the prime minister is in some important state business. The prime minister received a colored egg this morning, very symbolic of suckers, and then went to Sisak for pre-election activities. The prime minister's pre-election activities are more important than budget rebalancing.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-30-0.u31217	It's good to know where our presidents are. If we know. ... No, no. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] We still have a correction to the incorrect allegations, and everyone will get who sued him. Mr. Zvonimir Mršić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-30-0.u31218	Your Honor. I'm correcting an incorrect assumption that the SDP is obstructing this debate. This debate is obstructing. Uneyed destruction and obstructing and eyelessly obstructing. How many times did you use it facelessly? So it obstructs this HDZ debate because it has allowed us to be the only parliament in the world that has a debate on the budget and budget rebalancing that is terribly important, and that the prime minister has been successful all day as a cat over hot porridge, bypassing this building.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-30-0.u31219	Mr. Representative Zoran Vinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-30-0.u31220	Your Honor. Well, here's Mr. Hebrang said that the SDP came to power in 2003, where it was fortunate that it remained in power in 2003, so we wouldn't have to be in this deep cataclysm that's being prepared in front of Croatia. After all, the Prime Minister, who is now in Sisak, said at the pre-election rally, is a fact. Because he said either this rebalancing or bankruptcy. Now, instead of this rebalancing or bankruptcy, it's better if Minister Schucker goes to agree with the national minorities to see what their terms are, the demands, because obviously if he stays this rebalancing won't go away. Well, it sure as hell won't go away what he said about the budget swimming, how it's all fine, and now we finally see that a month after this, when nearly 10 billion kuna is missing in the budget, we have to bring this ridiculous rebalancing. And this is not a rebalance to preserve jobs, but, as I said by noon, a rebalance to preserve your chair.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-30-0.u31221	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-30-0.u31222	Thank you, too.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-30-0.u31223	Mr. Representative Joseph Leco.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-30-0.u31224	Is thank you very much. Well, I think the debate is meant to explain to the citizens without destruction. That the consequences of conversion and privatisation are still the strongest today. Therefore, if the product of privatisation was 400 thousand jobs loss, if the product of privatisation was just the sale of banks 2 billion kunas of our money, then it's destruction on this side, but I think citizens know it, so they'll know and appreciate who's destroying and who's creating it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-30-0.u31225	Is there still a representative and a representative who called without me registering them? There is. Here's Mrs. Borzan.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-30-0.u31226	Thank you, Mr. President. I would correct Professor Hebrang's inaccuracies that the SDP here today is being destructive. That's not true. We use our capabilities as an opposition to point out some of the things we've already talked about, and you haven't listened to us. And now it's probably gonna be the same thing. But in return, we got corrections from incorrect allegations that consist of 90% of you going back to the past. So, I wonder who's constructive here and who's destructive? And I find it fortunate that the SDP, or coalition government, was the 4th year from 2000 until almost 2004 in power. Because if it wasn't, who knows where we'd be today after we fixed a lot of it in those four years, which you destroyed for 10 years and were destructive. And I wonder what you might have to talk about today, because you obviously don't know how to talk about the future.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-30-0.u31227	Thank you. Mrs. Ingrid Anticevic-Marinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-30-0.u31228	It is incorrect that fellow Hebrang claimed that we were obstructing anti-recession measures. You're discussing anti-recession measures, that's exactly what you're doing. You are obstructing the lead with a prime minister who has turned up and moved to Sisak to take advantage of what I think is precedent in Europe and the world, while discussing these issues whether or not to be, that he has escaped from Parliament, or he has not shown himself here, to move to Sisak so that the crisis, the state crisis that he himself has brought us into a good deal of his own inaction, has used for local elections and for raising the party leadership between HDZ, or the HDZ coalition and HSLS. But please, can we expect otherwise from those who were so turkeyed on the Split coast, and as soon as they got out of the opposition times, and as soon as the authorities got their hands on it, they extradited the generals. Did those who said in 2003 that they would not give up on ZERP to give up immediately after a month and a half.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-30-0.u31229	I have to say, Prime Minister Sanader didn't run away because he wasn't even here this morning, and this isn't even his job. Unlike some other presidents we see every sinister month. Next, we have a correction to Mrs. Dragica Zgrebec's incorrect quote.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-30-0.u31230	Thank you, Mr. President. I'm going to correct two incorrect allegations, the first is, as fellow Hebrang said through the breach of the Rules of Procedure, that we should unearthly destroy the debate. This is incorrect because we only point to problems that will arise after this budget rebalance and that we will soon have to rebalance the budget. And you're actually trying to show your corrections a condition that isn't really what it is and you're blaming someone else for everything. And with this faceless destruction while the SDP was with the coalition in power, we irrevocably destroyed the social gross product by minus zero percent in 99 years at 5.3 at the end of the term. And you've done a lot of things from 5.3 to 2.4 last year and you're planning minus 2 this year and I think it's going to be minus four or minus five. It's construction.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-30-0.u31231	Thank you. And Mr. Marin Jurevic, as far as I could. Is there anyone else?
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-30-0.u31232	Thank you. My colleague Hebrang said this is a constructive proposal from the government that the SDP is obstructing, which is not true, he probably didn't have time to listen to the radio this morning and what the citizens and the largest union headquarters say, minus Boris Kunst who hit this so-called. a constructive proposal from the Government. Besides, I'm not even so critical of not having Prime Minister Sanader here, because this is just an inter meco, and I think we're going to have rebalancing every month, so we're going to have time for one of the next 20 times to come to that rebalancing. And otherwise, without being wise, whether or not it is good for the citizens, ask them, it reminds me of those who argued as much as anyone who had teeth instead of opening his mouth and counting those teeth.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-30-0.u31233	Thank you. We'll also see President Sanader if they're rebalancing. But then we have one great and deep hope that we'll see your president as well. Mrs. Romana Jerkovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-30-0.u31234	My colleague Hebrang said this is a constructive rebalancing, I say he's just not a constructive rebalancing. For what? You have a drop in industrial production by 6% per year. Will this rebalancing change that? He won't. You have a standard of living, life is more expensive by 18%. Is something going to change in that sense? Not a colleague of Hebrang's. You have an inflation that's growing, is something going to change? Not a colleague of Hebrang's. You have an increase in unemployment, will this budget change that? He won't. You have an external debt growth, is this budget going to change that? He won't. What the budget was, that's the rebalancing. It's neither constructive nor constructive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-30-0.u31235	For the record that we're tracking further developments, 17 corrections now. So you can't say that corrections are only on one side, I see you've completed the average well. Thank you very much. On behalf of the promoter, Mr. Minister Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-30-0.u31236	Thank you very much. I hope again that there can be no correction to the official statement of the International Monetary Fund at the time of the conclusion. Can I?
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-30-0.u31237	Well, no, no, no, please nice, there's been a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-30-0.u31238	... We asked after the Minister's inauguration. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Why is the minister speaking again? It wasn't a debate. It was a club break.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-30-0.u31239	Like this. There were two club representatives... correcting incorrect allegations, after that. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] And when we exhausted all those corrections of an incorrect allegation, then now the minister got his word. If you think it wasn't a debate that you debated as a representative of the club and that Mr. Hebrang didn't debate as a representative of the club, then we will now give the word, forgive the ministers, if your colleagues consider it that way, I think it was a debate, and you say it wasn't, I accept your interpretation, and now Mr. Iron Flego will speak and then Minister Schuker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-30-0.u31240	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, three points, I will be relatively brief so that Mr. Minister can say his own, I consider this budget to be old and after the situation we've come to, and I've expected a new budget. The crisis is a word that stems from the old Greek word crisis, which, apart from difficulties, also means decision. So the crisis is a situation in which it can be done and what has not been done so far, and it should have seemed and in fact a kind of privilege to come forward with different measures and with different instruments than it has seemed so far. This rebalancing which has remained in the structure of the old budget, which we believe is not adequate, especially for an adequate situation, and so it seems to me that it is completely inadequate for the difficulties that have hit us. Secondly, in situations that are extremely difficult and burdensome, we believe that strategic thinking and strategic action are necessary. I'm going to say a whole series of reasons why I find this budget rebalance extremely non-strategic. It's about how we can have different political programs, different orientations, different sets of values, and then we can make different contracts and coalition agreements, but it's only really on the budget that we see where we're going and what we really want in real life. So when we're in crisis, we reach out to those measures and those instruments that can get us out of the crisis. We have, in a whole series of declarations, documents, programmes, government decisions and the Parliament's decision, focused on recognising sciences and education strategically and perhaps the first strategic place. We are all together, almost consensually determined to build a society of knowledge. We were on the verge of believing that we understood and decided to act in the direction that knowledge and science would only draw us out of the situation we are in and actually lead to sustainable development. For example, I'll tell you how it doesn't work at all. Compared to the planned 2009 budget, science and health suffered the most. They were taken most of the money from the planned budget. Education and science practically 900 million kuna. In this science and education gift with gifted students and students is reduced to 47% of the planned funds, and they are actually the strongest locomotives of development. School addiction prevention was reduced to 61% of the planned funds. Libraries, at a time when we've been pursuing a knowledge society, for several years now, both primary and secondary schools are practically zero. What we will do if we do not improve and develop the knowledge society through books and magazines, colleagues and colleagues. Teachers' education at a time when they are conducted or wanted to implement a whole series of school reforms. So teacher education is reduced, making new programs at a time when we're running new programs, when we've brought new standards, when we expect a completely different approach to education is 50% planned. It's a similar situation for science and technology. Science and technology is at 88% of the planned resources, so two extremely technological programs. One is called "Hurry" at 78%, the other is called "Vicro" is at 0% compared to what was planned for 2009. And the hit was also reduced significantly below budget cuts and to 90%. National Foundation for Science and Higher Education. In fact, there should be an inauguration of what is called excellence is reduced from the planned 5 million to 1 million kuna compared to the 30th and 50 million kunas that were once invested in the National Foundation for Science and at a time when the National Foundation for Science should take on a completely different function. Scientific research projects are at 87% of the planned, and we are actually coming to the edge of a situation where we will become scientific and technical illiterate and we will not be able not only to produce our own scientific production, but we will not be able to transfer technology anymore. The centres of excellence, which has been a legal obligation since 2003, at a time when we are tense to establish and expand cooperation with European scientific funds and with European scientific institutions, and cooperation between the centres of excellence are completely abolished. Scholarships for postgraduate studies, and in the doctors of science Croatia is far the most senior, are reduced to zero. And finally, universities, so the greatest concentrates of brains, not only in Croatia but everywhere they are, are actually experiencing a very specific destiny. For the sixth time, colleagues and colleagues from the ruling coalition, you discriminate against the Zagreb University that is most developed, which is the most scientifically productive and which is, in fact, the most powerful in the country and whose functioning and existence depends on a whole series of programmes at local universities. It falls the most compared to the planned funds, unlike some that are almost left at the planned levels. The world today is fully recognised and realised that science and scientific and technological development is the only solution to sustainable development. One of the first measures of the new president of the United States was to double and perhaps more so, to increase the funds for scientific research in the United States. New technologies are developing, new knowledge is developing, it is working intensively on new products. We eliminate a whole series of scientific funds and thus cut out the potential development or potential development branch that we are sitting on. Therefore, this budget is inappropriately adequate because it is necessary to invest in what is the most adequate and secure situation in which we are located. Thirdly, I'm not going to say that the rebalance is socially insensitive, but I'm going to say that social sensitivity with this rebalancing has been significantly reduced. The main pay in our sectors is personal income, so also public employees and public sector people, which is not what you mentioned on several occasions, about stopping wage growth. Let's not pretend we don't know Croatian. Salaries have increased and several months of salary increases will be paid, and then they will return to the 2008 level to teachers, teachers, nurses, doctors, so people who need to maintain the standard of life and who need to introduce us to a better future. I don't know if you realize that it's not possible for a model, structural, psychological teacher to raise a happy and contented student or student. And that fall will lead to a whole series of sequences that we'll feel in the future. I think it's quite dramatic, but I'm sorry if we can't share that dramaticness, the more the pay raises to teachers, the more it's actually just the return, the agreed and agreed debt repayment from 2006 and will happen again... Your government that highly educated people in education and science will be 15% below the average of the country that has 11.5% of highly educated people. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So, teachers are more and more highly educated, so teachers, teachers, teachers are all highly educated and their salaries will fall 15 percent and more below average, and I think that's something simply called a lack of social sensitivity. And finally, colleagues and colleagues, all the countries in the world come out of the crisis by State intervention. The state intervention will be as the statesmen will manage, and I fear that the current authorities have, on several occasions, witnessed well, and we, together with them, what kind of efforts and what kind of people they are talking about.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-30-0.u31241	Thank you very much. The constructive criticism has yielded results. No one's reported for a correction of an incorrect allegation. You see how far we go forward. Now Minister Shuker, on behalf of the promoter. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-30-0.u31242	Thank you very much. Since this is about the quote of a report, I hope there will be no correction of incorrect allegations. So a few days ago, Romania made an arrangement with the International Monetary Fund and the International Monetary Fund announced it and is a risk indicator for all countries in the environment. So for Croatia, the risk from 460 fell to 380, and 20 days ago, it was 580. What is far more important to us, however, is far more significant that lower risk indicators for the Republic of Croatia are from both Hungary and Bulgaria and Romania and the Baltic countries, i.e. They have a far higher degree of risk than the Republic of Croatia and this best shows what creditors, which those potential financiers who are considering to give the Republic of Croatia the responsibility, think about the current situation in the Republic of Croatia, then compare it with what I'm saying.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-30-0.u31243	Thank you. It's Mr. Representative Arsen Bauk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-30-0.u31244	Thank you, Mr. President. I hope my debate won't be characterised as faceless criticism, destruction, and I don't know what else it is. So, Mr. Minister, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. This is the first of a series of budget rebalances we have expected this year. The SDP warned that, and it's not a big surprise to us. Personally, even in the debate on the first draft budget, I mentioned an amount of 5 billion kuna, though at the time I was thinking about redistributing within the budget, but since there is no revenue then there is no redistribution, but only a reduction of those 5 billion. It's kind of symbolic that it predicts an economic growth of minus two, but unfortunately this rebalancing doesn't deserve that assessment either. But let's remember, last year we had a budget rebalance which increased the budget by about 3 billion kuna and then paid for by Croatian citizens. The most from the price of gasoline that was, let's remember, about nine and a half kuna and whether the budget is going down or going up, whether it's a crisis or not they're always paying citizens. And the government always finds such a solution for citizens to pay, and that's why it's someone else's fault. When oil is expensive, the world market is wrong for high prices, when the recession is blamed by the United States, and when oil is cheaper then the gap in the budget needs to be reduced. So, any crisis, any prosperity, citizens always less. But if it is the fate of citizens to pay, it would be fair to pay those who have a lot, not those who have little. In order to illustrate who besides state and public officials pays the burden of this crisis, I will mention some more items that are shrinking, which are particularly interesting to me. First of all, it's an interesting one. I quote: “Building and modernising the fishing fleet in the ZERP brackets.” Whatever that means, ZERP. "It was reduced from 2 million kuna to zero kuna." Then, the promotion of construction, reconstruction and modernisation of the fishing fleet, again ZERP, was reduced from 13 and a half to 5 and a half million kuna. Then, connecting the island to the mainland with 100 million kuna executions from last year, reduced to 67 million kuna. Then, the restoration and reconstruction of sub-building and upgrade facilities in ports from 60 to 37. So rebuilding the “Jadrolinia” passenger fleet from 30 to 20. So the development of Adriatic islands from 88 to 46, so coastal development and infrastructure projects from 69 to 28. So building municipal and social infrastructure on Croatian islands from 56 to 30 million kuna. Thus, in these few items directly dependent on life on islands and coasts, the total amount of $400 million in 2008 fell to 233 million in 2009. That's a 45% drop. At the same time, the budget is lower by 0.8%. So the proportional budget reduction on the island-related items and the island is smaller 56 times, 56 times. 56 times as many islanders share the burden of crisis. The islanders are said to be able to save, but now this government has outdone them 56 times and then it is no wonder that the director of the island administration left Zagreb for a local election campaign, when there is no money left for him in Zagreb anyway. There are still many examples of unwarranted reductions in items that should not have been reduced and leaving high items that should have been reduced. In my first appearance in the Parliament, I called the government a ugly ship, but I can see that her more expensive cars are still more passionate. The same author has a number of useful sentences, and the most accurate one would be if we were to go on this rebalancing trip for nowhere, because the government doesn't know where they're going, but it's an even bigger problem that they don't know where they are, because if they give different statements every week, so today there's bankruptcy, there's no crisis yesterday, and yesterday we're in a banana, then it's obvious that people who listen to it fell from the pear. My colleagues and colleagues, by the end of the year, I expect at least two more rebalances, and until then we have the SDP's proposals of law, your corrections of allegations, and the poverty of the people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-30-0.u31245	Thank you. Mr. Representative Mario Habek.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-30-0.u31246	Dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Minister, colleagues and colleagues. This budget rebalance shows great disorientation and incompetence of the Croatian government in order to respond to the situation in which Croatia is currently in place. Last December, when the 2009 budget was passed, we talked about the budget ignoring the crisis in which Croatia is, and that the budget is unreal, unreal, and that the government wants to show itself to the better managers of this country than it actually is. And of course there's no money now, because that kind of budget couldn't even happen. The government has not done anything through this budget rebalancing for workers, or it has done so that it has taken down 6% of its salaries to teachers, doctors, police officers, social workers, and thus must have broken collective agreements with trade unions. But that's why HDZ bought its employees a new BMW for 4.2 million kuna after the pay cut, while only the casso at the annual level for this car costs 167 thousand kuna. It seems that this crisis does not affect everything equally, the crisis affects teachers, doctors, teachers, but HDZ does not. HDZ has over 4 million kunas in its budget to buy Sanader a new car. The SDP strongly opposes such wage cuts and state and public officials, without guaranteeing that this cut of wages will also compensate workers when the crisis is over. I expected the government to display methods and measures to encourage the development of the economy, to create new jobs, to reduce the level of corruption in areas that have a bearing on public money and to increase the efficiency of the judiciary. In contrast, such a budget is increasingly reducing the purchasing power of the population, directly jeopardising the standard of citizens, and budget money is spent on large infrastructure rather than investing in industrial production. A typical example is the Pelješki bridge from which the government does not give up at any cost. I wonder why. Maybe it's because someone close to the government is behind a Dutch fund that bought over 4 million square meters of debris and masculine in a place where the bridge should be built. The same company buys land in Istria, and recently you passed the Golf Courses Act. You are only doing this, you are allowing someone to earn millions of dollars and then take it beyond our borders without paying no taxes to Croatia. And when you're short of money, then run into the workers, and you cut their wages, so you're going to patch up the budget that you've ruined yourself. We have been warning for years about the spent economic policy led by HDZ and which has led us to this difficult situation, inflation, low economic growth, the country's growing debt,... Citizens and non-transparent spending of money from the Treasury, the consequences are, in fact, the poor economic policies this government has led over the past five years. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The HDZ has announced great achievements and goals in the previous elections, but instead of these fairy tales, it has been achieved that 10,000 people remain jobless every month, living standards drop, industrial production falls, GDP declines, credit rating, the Zagreb Stock Exchange index, but that is why inflation, imports, unemployment, indifference and external debt currently amounting to almost 40 billion euros. Of course there is no economic policy, it is not socially sensitive, which is not just and... The country cannot lead, and this has proved to be true now, and since Croatia's strong launch, it seems that only the prime minister has managed to launch HDZ in a pre-election campaign for local elections that has already started where HDZ with its satellites in power. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It is also totally unacceptable to ask citizens on the one hand to save, to agree to a reduction in wages and on the other hand to give up some expensive ones, the government does not give up some expensive infrastructure projects and cars worth several million kunas are purchased. The government's budget policy obviously has no answer to these challenges, but has persistently called for a global crisis that seems to have fallen from the march overnight. That is why we felt that some moves should be made and we proposed a series of laws that we believe would help mitigate the fall of standards and preserve the real value of workers' salaries and increase the rights of the unemployed. Since the economy is such that we cannot secure an increase in wages from it, we have suggested that there should be a reduction in some contributions, so the economy or entrepreneurs would not be additionally burdened but certainly the state could find some new funding choices. You'd be free of room for an increase in workers' salaries. But faced with this crisis, the government first proposed to freeze wages in 2009 when the government proposed to adopt a budget, then caved under the pressure of the union, decided on a deficit. But at the same time, she blamed the unions for that deficit, as if they were responsible for this crisis situation in the country. Therefore, the unions were not, were not the cause of the deficit and it is quite clear that the deficit was due to huge government spending, an increase in bureaucratic apparatus, the employment of party people and relatives. And of course that red tape costs someone to pay. You rejected all our proposals, you claimed they weren't good and that they weren't good, and as much as yours is worth, it proves that you're cutting wages to the workers today. But obviously you don't care about those people. And since you've been calling yourself to Racan's government so much since nine years ago, here's some data for you. During Racan's government, there were 19 ministries but with 3.5 times less bureaucracy than today in your 15 ministries where you have 63 state secretaries. During the coalition government, you screamed out loud that every citizen in Croatia is in charge of 3 or 4 thousand euros, today after five years of your rule, every citizen is in charge of 8 thousand euros, so much about the quality of Racan's government and the HDZ government. You led the country to bankruptcy in '99. years, and after the coalition government managed to resolve your failure, you ruined the country today for the second time in 10 years. I hope that the citizens have finally seen and seen through you and that in the next local and parliamentary elections they will give a voice to the SDP, who, unlike HDZ, has solutions to get out of the crisis we are in today. Because some HDZ colleagues have admitted themselves here in Sanader today, that Prime Minister Sanader never said that the citizens of this country live well.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-30-0.u31247	Thank you. One correction. Two. Mr. Representative Frano Matušić, first.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-30-0.u31248	I thank Mr. Vice President, it is an incorrect allegation, and I would say rude insinuation to say that the purchase of some land 15-mile away from the Peljesk Bridge is linked to the construction of the bridge four years after the SDP-led county's spatial plan is included in the bridge. And while you're talking about the bridge, then I'll just read it here in front of the Croatian public, which is why I'm reporting because it seemed unnecessary to correct you. But at the end of last week, the Danish Parliament approved the construction of a 19km long railway and road bridge that would connect, so the Danish island... and German,... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The bridge is worth 33 billion kuna. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And that's what the Danish Parliament does, obviously you've got something rotten in that Western world, Europe. We could say that famous Shakespeare's "something rotted in Denmark". But colleagues, so come to your senses, funding the bridge means financing the Croatian economy. That's where the Croatian workers will work, no one will take it away from us. Secondly, we will connect Croatia, of course it is a historic decision. Just as it is a historic decision in Denmark. We are joining Croatia, is it possible that you from your county are going to Zagreb via Slovenia, as we are going from the Croatian South across another country? Is that what you do every day?
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-30-0.u31249	Thank you. Please don't mention it, that "something's rotten in the state", I'm the reason something rotted in the state got 13 months per paragraph 133. Only then did I say that something rotted in the state of Yugoslavia unlike Denmark. ... Yeah, he said a cop, I remember, like now. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Mr. Representative Ante Kotromanović. He's gone. He's losing his word. Mr. Representative Dino Kozlevac. He's gone. He's losing his word. Mrs. Representative Nadica Jelash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-30-0.u31250	Dear Vice-President, ministers, colleagues and colleagues, I will firstly say that the 2009 budget was supposed to be an anti-recession budget. What does that mean? This means that the budget was meant to provide 4 things for Croatian citizens, therefore, fragileness, health, education and security. This is, therefore, the budget as the country's basic financial document and as a policy instrument, the ruling coalition, accepting, of course, the circumstances in which it was adopted, should provide its citizens who, in the future and fill that budget. And what exactly was the 2009 budget? The income side, we know very well, was projected on an economic growth of 2%. It was at the same time that other countries' governments in the environment were already talking about a zero growth or a decline in the economy. Of course, the picture and opportunity of the income side and the expenditure was complicated as in the land of prosperity. Huge state spending, Pelješki bridges, expensive cars, local projects that bought election victory in the upcoming local elections. Unfortunately, in just 3 months, 2% growth has become a 2% decline. The ruling coalition, there, on the laurels of the well-led monetary policy of the CNB and Governor Rohatinski, which is to a certain extent, we must recognise this, amortised the negative effects of the financial crisis, persistently denied and the existence of recession and the need for budget rebalancing. Unlike them, the SDP as a responsible opposition was aware that there was no need to wait for the crisis to come because it was long ago in Croatia as a consequence of years of accumulated and not solved problems. Just like that, the ruling didn't want to be aware of it. Because, in fact, according to their criteria, the crisis and recession couldn't even be recognized. For them, it was actually a regular condition. The global financial and economic crisis only strengthened our chronic crisis in the country and the 2009 budget was supposed to offer the concept of solving all these problems. Therefore, when the 2009 budget was adopted, the SDP did not propose amendments. As serious politicians, we were unable to redistribute something that was known in advance that could not be realized. Instead of the amendment, we have proposed a package of anti-recession measures that have suggested a completely different budget concept adapted to the current circumstances, a concept that would ensure the preservation of the endangered standard of citizens and the redundancy of the economy in order to continue economic activities in these crisis conditions. And then after the global institutions opened their eyes to the government, the prime minister invited us all to understand that we are in crisis and that we have to act rationally because otherwise we will go bankrupt. A few days ago, I listened to one of the Međimurje entrepreneurs, and your Međimurje entrepreneurs are very rational, which commented on the prime minister's mention of bankruptcy. So, our Međimurac said that entrepreneurs are confused, and their logical reaction is the tightening of investments because we will all, invest in a country that is threatened by bankruptcy is the same as buying a ticket to Titanic. The capital is as sensitive as mimosa, and the first man's statement of government is like a spring frost, destroying as it was from a short time ago that the second pillar of pension insurance is something unnecessary and that statement has caused us to know what, so the Zagreb Stock Exchange earthquake. It is clear and obvious that the prime minister's statements have a very different effect than talking about the same thing to those pensioners on the park bench. So entrepreneurs not only stopped investing. They also stopped with regular payments, paid on a drop, squeezed money, and awaited further developments because the non-payments started from the state, indifference, colleagues and colleagues enormous. It's spreading like an infectious disease, causing a general contraction in the economy and predicts actually huge losses. Some of the big losers are already famous. Here, we know for INA that her loss in 2008 is over a billion kuna. We'll find out about the others when the annual financial reports are processed. Why am I saying that? Large losses are always and without exception a threat to the survival of the company, and the failure of the company will generate new unemployment and this is a very, very serious problem and should be feared by people who have lost everything. But let's get back to the Prime Minister's call about the need for savings. In order to show what, you better say who he meant when he spoke about the need for saving, the prime minister certainly came from himself. He bought a fantastic BMW, and the BMW has always been a status symbol, a symbol of wealth and prestige. The Croatian prime minister can afford it, while citizens are barely making ends meet. And the justifications that this car wasn't bought out of the state budget, but by party money, that's something that doesn't hold water at all. Citizens know perfectly well that as much as 75% of the political party's money is coming from the state budget. So this car is bought by Croatian taxpayers' money. After all, one can't help but wonder why the Croatian prime minister needs such an armored vehicle, such an expensive car? Who does he really have to protect himself from? We do not want to believe that the prime minister wants to protect himself, or that he is afraid of his citizens. And just for the conclusion, as we did not support the 2009 budget, so we cannot support this rebalancing which is essentially composed of a mere reduction of budget items, not of a substantial adjustment to crisis circumstances. The savings-based rebalancing is hypocritical because saving is actually a permanent commitment from the government, so something that is meant to be. In a very short time, as the prime minister requested the savings, it was saved by the ministries of 4 billion kuna, and we all know that the reserves have much more. However, savings alone are not enough, colleagues and colleagues. Government is expected to do a lot more than that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-30-0.u31251	Thank you. Two corrections. The first is Mr. Representative Frano Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-30-0.u31252	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, it's an incorrect and trendy statement from a colleague that the prime minister bought a BMW. In fact, HDZ did buy BMW, HDZ from the money he received from the budget. That's an exact finding. But HDZ, not the prime minister. First of all, we're not asking you how much you've spent on the local televisions you're starting right now. We're not asking you for posters, you want to walk around our county a month ago, no matter what the campaign isn't, you're going to bet on. How much did they cost? They cost millions. You get 20 million kuna from the state budget. What are you spending it on? On the peas? On local TV? For what? So come on, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-30-0.u31253	Second correction, Mr. Representative Franjo Lucic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-30-0.u31254	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, here's the thing. I'm going to fix just one incorrect quote from a colleague who said she bought a car from taxpayers. Well, I don't know why you cheat on the public, when everyone knows the party bought it. Secondly, I'm asking you, where in the world is the prime minister driving in a regular car like every citizen is driving, that's what I'm asking you? Secondly, you have to order a armored vehicle at least a year and a half before, if you didn't know, and a regular car if there's only a little extra equipment you have to wait three months. Secondly, out of 4 million kunas as much as you mention that the car plan is 85% and there are more fees for these special vehicles, which means that more than nearly twice as many as 2 million kunas have returned to the state budget. So please, what are you talking about? Two million kunas have returned to the state budget.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-30-0.u31255	Mr. Representative Jerko Roshin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-30-0.u31256	Mr. Vice President. The previous two speakers said the essence of what I was going to say about the car, but I would only say as a correction to the assumption that everyone in their own way spends the money they get, only if others spend the money of someone else who isn't from the budget, because otherwise everyone else in the budget is getting the parties. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-30-0.u31257	Ms. Representative Sonja Simunović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-30-0.u31258	Thank you. Mr. Vice President, dear ministers, colleagues and colleagues. Here's an important document in front of us, a document that should guarantee certain security, protection, give optimism to our citizens in these little times of ease. A document that should send a clear and strong message: "Citizens, don't worry, you're safe with us. The government knows what he's doing, he has a clear vision, he has a clear strategy, he knows how to solve the situation where we've all met together. It's under control. After all, budget rebalancing is one of the government's most important anti-recession measures.". But is that really true? Let's take it in a row. Each strategic document and budget should be based on sound and thorough analysis, on real knowledge of the situation. The most likely future developments and developments in the economy should then be taken into account, to calculate potential risks and then to make the most realistic projection of the budget possible. Sounds simple. However, what was happening with us and what is still happening? Just three months ago, the government brought a budget that was so unreal and so fairytale that it could be seen from the plane. Everyone saw it, but not the government. The SDP said, "Our budget is unsustainable, the situation is more than serious. People are gonna lose their jobs, quits are gonna rain all over the place.". The government says, "Don't be ridiculous and paranoid, there's no crisis. Don't panic, don't scare the citizens.". Three months later, we have the next situation. Yet the rebalancing goes, 300 people lose their jobs a day, we're more in charge than ever, the prime minister says we're in front of bankruptcy. Is it possible that only the government wasn't aware of the situation and that they lived in some shifted parallel pink reality, or they were aware but deliberately crossed the truth and deceived the public because they simply didn't know what to do. And the local elections are ahead of us. It's better not to wave or mutilate water, there's too much dirt beneath the surface. The SDP persistently offered solutions from day to day that my colleagues had talked about earlier. The government even more persistently rejected and ridiculed them and offered one great nothing at the same time. Then, less than a month ago, they admit that there is a need for rebalancing because they've changed a little, they've played. The situation isn't as great as it seemed at first. Citizens are getting harder to live, they're tightening their belts to barely lift, but they're still out of work. Food is becoming more expensive, more and bigger, and credit wars are growing inexorably. However, some anti-recession measures need to be implemented here. The government has sobered up, arrived, now they will do something when the prime minister says there will be enough rebalancing between 1 and 3 billion and no more swearing. Three weeks after that, so today, the rebalancing goes two to three times larger than announced. Again, an incredible ignorance of the true state of affairs. One of the measures to protect workers from an ever worse standard of living is to cut their wages, thus reducing their salaries to doctors, teachers, teachers. It was likely that they were very resourceful and resilient people. After all, they proved it. They have managed to survive for so many years and survive in Croatian healthcare and Croatian education. If they survived, they would cope with several hundred kunas less per month. On the other hand there is a grand project "The Pelješki Bridge" by Croatian pride and pride. It's a great honor, but it won't be pride to feed the hungry mouth, pay for the electricity and the heating, put the kid on for school. But they could certainly have done 4 billion kunas designed to build one. Logic is strange and inexplicable to us on this side and I trust the citizens. Finally, I want to get some facts naked to the end and let you think. Let's look at the qualities of this government headed by Prime Minister Sanader. First, non-reality and denial of reality, second lack of self-criticity and rationality. Everyone's wrong, and the opposition and the businessmen, only they're right. Third, there's always someone setting them up, some kind of affair or something. It's called paranoia in medicine. Fourthly, by their actions, they harm the people around them, causing them pain and suffering. So, the inability of compassion with others, emotionally cold and depriving. What do I mean by this? If a woman or a man with such traits and symptoms came to a doctor at the same time, she would be hospitalized and subjected to serious psychotherapy aided by medication. It would temporarily be deprived of the ability to decide on others and on itself because these wrong decisions directly harm the environment and cause severe trauma. I think the message is more than clear, gentlemen, step away from power because what you're doing is really unsustainable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-30-0.u31259	Thank you. Ms. Representative Tatjana Šimac Bonačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-30-0.u31260	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. This budget rebalance was expected by our citizens as measures to get out of the crisis. After so many of my colleagues who discussed it, I will probably repeat myself in my discussion, however "repeated by the sixth mother studiorum". Therefore, I will repeat that Prime Minister Sanader and his ministers are not able to identify the problem, let alone offer a solution. That's exactly why this rebalancing isn't the answer. A few months ago, public requests for budget rebalancing emerged because the situation was complicated. However, the government rejected the idea of rebalancing by pretending that everything was fine. They did not pay attention to the ever-increasing crisis that affected the state and by making bad moves did not stop financial problems in time. As we know, the World Bank and the IMF have pointed out, however, that Croatia needs a budget rebalance. The rebalancing we have in front of us today is not a rebalancing but a cutting, and this is not a balance but a kidnapping from those who do not, and every idea of ours, ours as an opposition, no matter how good it is and how much help the government has immediately refused out of fear for its authority. The SDP has proposed a set of laws to help reduce the implications of the crisis in the country. All proposals were of financial or practical character and could now be fought by the crisis. But HDZ turned them all down, believing they didn't matter. They certainly showed the laws they considered important, the laws on golf courses, the laws on agricultural land. It certainly won't help us fight the recession. The SDP wants to protect citizens because the government is proposing laws that are favourable to others, not Croatian citizens. Let us also remember the case of Luka Rajic, selling Pliva where Croatia's citizens are directly damaged. Therefore, when we see an average Croatian man taking a look at the current situation, it is easy to conclude that our country has fallen into the fungi and deep in all areas. All of this is being broken over our citizens' backs from wartime disasters, privatisation robberies and all the other political economic failures of the ruling political elite. Some have returned to the past, I don't like it, but I will mention at least some corruption affairs. "Brodosplit", "Sun-Hvar", "Liburnia Riviera", "Hotels Kim", "Imostroy", "Bechtel", "Chamen-Ingrad", "Calmeth's Driver", "Hotels Maestral", "Hotels Silver", "Hottle Watches", etc. The government's main excuse for the catastrophic state in the country is a global crisis that they have no influence on. However, countries around us that had clear development strategies and policies that protect all their citizens survive the crisis more easily, and have already adopted anti-recession measures that work and are sustainable. This crisis will show the government's work, but most likely at the expense of the entire state. The easiest thing to do is to take money from the obedient and the poorest who are too weak to rebel. The reduction of the basic salary to civil servants only precedes non-payment of salaries which could easily happen in the near future. Today we remember, we actually know that the budget was made for GDP growth of 2%. Tourism is also the most counted branch to contribute to the growth of GDP. However, the crisis in tourism is already felt in the German, British market, on the Polish market, which due to the devaluation of their pounds, i.e. their currencies and the purchases of Croatia by 18% do not want to share risk with tour operators anymore, but focus on their key destinations. Tourism Minister Damir Bajs is raising funds for the 17m kuna promotion, equally the government's rebalance expects a lower budget for 2009. The Ministry of Tourism's cost programme is unrealistic in many items and will definitely not give the expected results. I'm just going to make a few observations from the rebalancing of this budget. So it is visible that the days of Croatian tourism stand out 2.5 million kuna. However, these are the commercial days for participation in them, tourist operators pay quotations and all other costs of accommodation, transport, nutrition, etc. Then 23.2 million is set aside for incentives. It is a very stretching concept and enters the field of activity of other ministries, education, agriculture, the economy. Why would the tourism ministry subsidize farmers or schooling? Don't students for tourism and hospitality call fall under regular education and belonging to the ministry. The very undefined area is small and medium-sized entrepreneurship, which is 61.9 million kuna. Isn't it also the development of small ships, floating hotels for which only 50 grand are otherwise foreseen? The incentive for success, which makes up the biggest point of development of small and medium-sized entrepreneurship, would have to define which programme will be encouraged. It would be logical to give something recognizable and consistent with our tradition, which is better than small shipping. And the tourist promotion I mentioned is the most easily darkened bite. An employee is a tourist witness. He says, when I was the director of our tourism representation, in another country, one day I saw jumbo posters on the highway between two cities. He was a little surprised and invited by the authorities in Zagreb to report what these are places where he can see those jambo posters. However, he got the answer to mind his own business. We wonder if such a tradition will continue, I can already say that no one answers for anything, because the evaluations of the success of advertising campaigns do not exist and for their failure no one bears any results. And we'll be wondering who will be responsible for the possible collapse of the tourist season? The first results may already be seen for Easter holidays. If we don't come to our senses by then, good luck to us. And she would say something else that my colleague Flego said when he mentioned the Croatian Knowledge Society. That reminds me of a guarantee card. However, it is evident that with health care, science has the most cutting. However, the Zagreb University is mentioned as a university that has a great tradition, and I would also mention Dubrovnik University which is in development and cutting of 21% sure to work, that we will have to actually stop in the further development of Dubrovnik University. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-30-0.u31261	Thank you. One correction, Mr. Representative Frano Matušić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-30-0.u31262	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, I'm sorry that I have to fix a colleague who's from Dubrovnik who should know there wasn't a privatization affair at the Maestral Hotel because the hotels haven't been privatized yet. They're still owned by the state. So there was no affair in that sense. But speaking of affairs in Dubrovnik, then I thought you'd mention the affairs of the sale of the Excelsior Hotel, the Bellevue Hotel, the Kompas Hotel and the other hotels that your co-chairman of the government had sold to a friend at that time. And speaking of this affair, let's say for the Croatian public an interesting piece of information. Let's just say I think he's the honorary president of that hotel group. Lord Taylor of Blackburn who is recently in England read in the media accused of major corruption scandals. So then you have to ask yourself, who did they actually sell them to? From the fact that they were bought by companies operating in some Channel Islands. I don't know if any of those who listen to us now or here in the assembly know where the Canal Islands is, to the fact that they represent some of the Shore companies. And these people were sold hotels. And you don't find it unfortunately a privatisation affair.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-30-0.u31263	Did you say "Canal Islands"? ... What about Canary? [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Or channels.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-30-0.u31264	Chanel Islands, this is the Canal Islands.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-30-0.u31265	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Representative Slavko Linic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-30-0.u31266	Article 209, I'd like to ask you to give a warning because the gentleman insults the counsel. If he calls me and talks about crime, then it's an insult, and I'd like to see it that way. He made it very clear that Slavko Linic, the vice president, sold the hotel to criminals. So, I'd like to beg, if it's allowed to insult the MPs, I don't mind. I don't really mind, but it's just an insult, especially since the state's attorney said there's no irregularities. It was bought at the competition, unlike the fact that Mr., my colleague, supports racketeering, stealing, racketeering and dealing with bribery and corruption. ... Unlike my colleague, he also supports the Sun Croats, Orco and more. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] But, my dear sir, just don't call your name 'cause I'll be back. Especially if I won't be protected by the president, because at least we said there's no right to be offended.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-30-0.u31267	It's not a breach of the Rules of Procedure, you weren't offended by your colleague Linic. You weren't offended...
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-30-0.u31268	Am I called?
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-30-0.u31269	Yes, you were apostrophe, but not that you were in crime. It's not that you're connected... Not cayman, channel, but it didn't get you, you took it temperamentally wrong. [[Everyone speaks out loud, they don't understand.]] You're excited, so you've got it all wrong. ... You're not told you're a bandit. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] You weren't told... That's not... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] I'm going to take matters into my own hands. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Don't give me any more, you see that I took matters into my own hands. (Laughter)
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-30-0.u31270	I'm begging you because he's a colleague, I didn't call him a criminal, the second that he felt called for a crime. I didn't call him. Everyone's talking in the same voice. My colleague said I support the racketeering that could not be concluded, nor did I ever support the racketeering. So, my colleague Linic, I said it was sold to a company... It's true. ... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And I said who sold it, right. [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-30-0.u31271	Order, please! .../Speakers speak in the same voice./... You can't... Gentlemen, calm your passions. Gentlemen, you can't take this the wrong way. Now you've picked up the plate. Now you're talking. Let's calm down. You know that's a bad influence on... You picked up the board, I gave my word, so you were already talking about hurting the Rules of Procedure. It's over now, it's over, it's gone. Well, you can't do it twice in a row. Let's go, gentlemen. Mr. Representative Marin Jurjevic. Slavko, I gave it to you, please don't. Here you go. Well, I did give you my word earlier for breaking the Rules of Procedure. Well, you can't do it twice after each other, so it wasn't... He didn't rehearse. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] So what do we do again? Now we're going to do it again, see that you're getting it all wrong. You accuse him of being a racketeer, he's not accusing you of being a criminal. Why is that now? ... What's the breach of the Rules of Procedure? [[Everyone speaks out loud, they don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-30-0.u31272	This Regulation shall enter into My fellow parliamentary representative made it clear that the crime scene in the conversion of Dubrovnik hotels... /The speaker has been shut down./... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I repeat, my fellow parliamentary representative for which times I don't know, and now after my intervention, the injury has repeated that the criminal acts in connection with the conversion of Dubrovnik hotels to Mr. Goran Štrok were conducted by Slavko Linic. He's trying to say that my problem is if I feel called, and I'm calling you by Article 209 if that's not the issue of the state's attorney's office, and it doesn't lead, that for every such insult, you choose to intervene. I'm saying again, you're not going to tell me that, Mr. President, I'm going to make a noise about myself, unmanned behavior, whatever you want, stop it. I have the right to protect myself. I'm sick of thieves calling me a thief. You want me to say that? Well, that's your fault, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-30-0.u31273	Order! I'm wrong. I've given you three injuries to the Rules of Procedure. He hasn't offended you once, he hasn't personally apostropheed you about...
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-30-0.u31274	What do you mean, it's not?
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-30-0.u31275	It's not.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-30-0.u31276	Name and last name.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-30-0.u31277	Enough! Comrade Marin Jurjevic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-30-0.u31278	Thank you. Here's where we come in when simple things are... When it comes to simple things... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Everyone's talking in a voice. [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-30-0.u31279	Please. Please! Everyone's talking in their voice.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-30-0.u31280	So, as far as I can see, every time there is a kind of mess and a difficult controlled situation when it comes to the fact that the situation in Croatia is not good. And listen, I hope that even Frano Matušić will accept what is the exact fact that the growth of gross social product in Croatia today is at a level that was eight years ago and that it is an indicator of the difficult, bad, tragic, how you want the situation and that our goal should be to change that. Here when you say that citizens live badly, then they attack you that they have lived even worse during the Mljetjans, Turks and Leiras. I have no idea where we're going to come all the way back running. And the purchasing power of Croatian citizens according to what was published the day before yesterday in research in 40 European countries, we are in 30th place, and last year we were on 27th. That's clear information. So I don't need that bit of sociologist, but elemental logic says when you were 27 last year and now you're at 30 that you have less purchasing power because you have less money, which is harder for you to live. After all, when we accepted the SDP budget, he really didn't go with the amendments, counting on how he couldn't, as my colleague Stazic said in his fairy tales to make amendments. At least serious amendments. I'm sorry that Minister Schuker may have gone to Sisak, too. I can see he's gone.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-30-0.u31281	Doesn't mean he went to Sisak if he's not here.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-30-0.u31282	It's good, it doesn't mean it's a fact. We can only find out he's gone. So it's actually about simple facts and the fact is what a rebalancing is. If you enter the word etemologically, you have balance or balance. Today, this country is not, to say, balanced in quotes, so it's trying, that's why there's a rebalancing, an attempt to create a balance. She's actually acting like an acrobat on a wire, so she's doing some equilibristics. How successful it is or not is one fact, but it is certainly clear to an average intelligent and reasonable being called human being that it will not improve your condition if you spit on someone who tells you that the situation is bad. It's like hitting a doctor in the head with a fist when he tells you you're sick. Well, I think it's best not to go to the hospital. And it's even worse if you get there and beat up the doctor who found out that you're sick and you need to be treated. There's a doctor who's treating you. ... I'm surprised. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Otherwise, at 3 p.m. because of some of the obligations of others, I came to the Parliament and driving from Split from Zagreb listened to Minister Shuker who said that this government would not introduce taxes and that it would not in this budget rebalancing on the basis of taxes affect what I know about the lives of citizens, etc. But you see, and I'd like to ask him, I guess he can hear me somewhere where it is if we say that some cat has dropped $5 million in a Split market, so that's what's left of it? Who's paying for it? Citizens. Let's not call it tax. Let's call it a harachus. It's all the same to me. But it'll be paid by the citizens. And that cat has become my cat to God, I can barely walk, I think, but if you taste it still. What about sunny Hvar? What is it when the citizens of Hvar lose what is theirs? What if tomorrow it happens that, besides that cat, someone in France is getting fat and people down there are out of work, so they can be hungry. Then I wonder, well, let's not call it tax. We can invent some other euphemism and say again that in the heroic tradition of our people otherwise where they are... And the hidduces and the Blimeys and all that, they call it the hijacker, so the heroes are those who take, and not who is robbed. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And you see, I call it taxes. Taxes. I won't count, my colleagues have listed a lot of things here, but I don't think even the biggest animal lovers would protect that cat that eats anymore, not the cat papilla anymore, but the cat's. They wouldn't protect her from what some protect her from. And I won't last much longer, I'll really finish. It's very strange to me. This is where you heard, here's the armored vehicle. Well, that's more, I mean, you can't live off a blinded vehicle. And here were the arguments that helped the budget, bought a party called the HDZ-blinded vehicle, donated it to the government, so the government doesn't have to. And you know what, gentlemen? You know what the worst thing about this country is? What no laws apply to some. HDZ couldn't buy that car. Not because there's no money, I know there's 700 cars like that. He can't buy it, sir, except the Department of Defense, the Ministry of Police or an authorized security company. No private face... He can't and he can't. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It's just like buying a tank. You can't. You can't even register it. Well, I'm here now asking you publicly, and how did you manage to register it? Do you know you can't even give it to the government because you couldn't even buy it? But you bought it. It just says that some are subject to different laws, but other citizens. And all that together when you add it up, so let's not be surprised. This rebalancing, and these miracles that are happening is just a crumb in a pile of trash that can't be mixed up.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-30-0.u31283	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect allegation, Mr. Representative Boris Kunst.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-30-0.u31284	Your Honor, Vice President. Says the MP we spit on someone who says the situation is bad. Well, that's not true. Well, we don't spit on someone so that someone can say they spit on them. Then he would first of all have to see what his contribution is to making such a situation as it is today. Because, you know, you will soon welcome the adulthood of the 19-year-old parliamentary authority that you are participating in, all four of you have been in power, and now you have 17 in opposition. Here's another year and you'll be an adult.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-30-0.u31285	Madam Representative Jeljana Kalash.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-30-0.u31286	... Here, let me get on with it. [[The speaker is not enabled, it is not understood.]] Dear Mr. Vice President, here's what I want to replicate to my esteemed colleague Jurjevic from Split, although there was a lot to be corrected. I think it's most impressive that his last claim is to buy a armored car for a protected person, and in that category there's a Prime Minister, just like he bought a tank. I think that, especially after this SDP convention of yours on Saturday, which talked about blinded heads, there was one mistake or confusion in your perception because the fact that SDP's mayor of the Croatian capital bought a tank, and together with the Prime Minister, as well as the President of the Parliament and the President of the Republic are protected persons and if you are well aware of the practice so far and now is the practice of driving in protected vehicles. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-30-0.u31287	Thank you. Ms. Representative Nada Calovic Smiljanac. There's no colleague of Jurjevic's. There isn't. So you fell apart with that cat.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-30-0.u31288	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, representatives of the ministry, colleagues and fellow MPs. So when the 2009 State budget was adopted, it was clear that the budget was not realistic, that budgetary revenues would not be realised, that the budget as such was unsustainable. And that was precisely why the SDP did not give amendments to such a budget because how to fix something that could no longer be fixed. If we were right, there's evidence of this budget rebalance. We will not support both this and this budget rebalancing because budget expenditures are reduced in the same way as income cuts. It's a rebalance that means deficit plus cutting funds. And it is now clear that this will not be the last budget rebalancing because the proposed budget will not be realised. As early as the first month of this year, the finance minister said that the state budget is well charged, that tax revenues are not at all questionable, and primarily value added tax. But suddenly, in the third month, there was a sudden turn-off, and this is the very tax revenue that has seen the biggest changes. Thus, the rebalancing plan plans to achieve a lower VAT than in 2008. It is also clear that the reduced VAT whose revenues are planned in the amount of 40 billion kuna will not be realised primarily due to the fall in personal consumption caused by job losses, as well as the reduction in wages to workers on the one hand, and the decline in the production activities of entrepreneurs on the other hand, i.e. the poor situation in the economy, as well as the failure of VAT due to the decline in imports. Why didn't the government start taxing capital gains, taxing dividends? Why is it that in the Republic of Croatia those who earn large profits from capital are exempt from paying taxes? Why does a worker whose net salary is 3 thousand kuna have to pay income tax from that salary he can't survive anyway, and the rich who win the huge dividends of the state don't pay a dime? Where is this respect for the principle that each person pays taxes according to his economic power, that is, what is the justice in paying taxes? I remind you that the SDP offered legal solutions that could help both the Croatian economy and Croatian citizens. All the laws that came here in the parliamentary procedure were by the will of the ruling majority rejected. At the same time, this budget rebalancing is stated in the explanation of the State budget proposal, one of the instruments of implementation of anti-recession measures, and one of the first measures is the reduction of staff expenditure, i.e. the reduction of the salaries of civil servants and temporary staff, i.e. public service employees. The government's irresponsible behavior is also seen on this example because what policy is it first to give a 6% salary increase, and then take it? However, Croatia's citizens have always had to tackle all the bad moves and bad policies of the HDZ government in the 1990s, I will remind only, because of the transformation of privatisation, the recovery of banks and others. The problem is that the party in power has hired too many people in the state administration over the past five years as well as public services. Now that the water has reached the throat, why is there a revision of management contracts in public enterprises? How is it possible that HH who has been showing losses for years has over 400 managerial contracts where so-called. Managers who are not responsible for this irresponsibility are richly rewarded? So how did the government only now remember to ask that question? Wasn't it supposed to be saved when there was still money because now that the whole system is in crisis, it's hard to achieve something through these savings? And how does the government now propose to adopt anti-recession measures when the recession has already hit the Croatian economy deeply? Today, Minister Schuker here in the Parliament said it was a budget for the preservation of jobs. Since 1 month 2009, however, about 300 workers have been jobless in Croatia daily. What about the jobs of those workers who were out of work by the 3rd month? Businesses, i.e. the economy, expect concrete measures. Here I will highlight the example of Virovitica-Podravska County from which I come which is an export-oriented county where about 50% of the total income of our county economy is made by the processing industry, namely the wood industry, the food industry and the non-metal industry. The economy of my county is in an extremely difficult position and concrete measures are awaited by this government. The wood industry works with 50% capacity, wages have already been reduced. The question of how long will it last? The same situation is in the non-metal industry, which is hit hard by the first energy crisis and also by cancelling orders on the foreign market. Businesses require emergency measures by the Government through HBOR, subsidies to exporters, by reducing labour prices, as well as interest on loans that in the last 3 months have increased from 6% to 12%. I must repeat again that the SDP Representatives' Club in this Assembly has proposed a series of anti-recession laws and that there was will, but also responsibility, the laws should have been adopted and the concrete measures needed for the Croatian economy were already in place. And finally, this budget rebalance is a fire strike that currently solves the lack of money in the state register and will probably serve only to re-indebt the government. And we see where this government's policy based on credit, excessive public spending, large imports and non-investment and strengthening domestic production that only our country can get out of this severe crisis. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-30-0.u31289	Thank you. Mr. Representative Zvonimir Mršić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-30-0.u31290	Dear Vice President, Your Honor. When we discussed the budget, I said the government pushed her head into the sand, and at some point when she took it out of the sand that she wouldn't like what she was going to see. That's exactly what's happening. Unfortunately, there is no answer in this budget rebalancing to the questions I asked in the budget. This budget rebalance is indeed the budget in which the costs are cut, but cost cuts have never provided for development. Fortunately, even in this obstructive debate that was here today, and apparently by HDZ, there was not a single shred of debate because then they would appear with replicas or report for debate and indeed we would face arguments in this debate. We've only had obstructions with powerful corrections of incorrect allegations. But these powerful corrections of incorrect allegations have helped me to come to some knowledge, and these insights are next. So, a year and a half ago, an armored BMW was ordered. Before the blinded BMW that ordered the HDZ came to Croatia, there was no way to declare a crisis in Croatia. Since this blinded BMW obviously had a lot of additional equipment he's... /The speaker's turned off and turned it back on./... Don't shut me down, I'll be persistent enough. So before he arrived in the first month, then Minister Shuker said it was early for rebalancing. Well, of course, you can't register a new blinded BMW and immediately declare and go into the rebalance of the state budget. Anyway, it's only after 3 months when journalists discovered that this BMW had arrived at the party centre, then it turned out to be a blurring of the government's many successes. . /.41 But there are still a few other things. So, you really can't drive a prime minister in a car that's not in protective custody. Someone said no one in the world is driving in a car like that. But nowhere in the world is the prime minister driving in a party car while he's prime minister. We're the only country in which the prime minister drives in a party car. And I'm asking you to clear up a few more things about social sensitivity. I think no one can question the social sensitivity of HDZ anymore because who can question the social sensitivity of a party that has talks with social partners, who breaks a collective contract or adopts a law to reduce wages to workers in health, education, social care and afterwards the president of that party sits in a car that costs 4 million kuna and 200 thousand kunas, and thus lays down in that space and protects them from the outside world talking about how it will help the unemployed, how it will help those who can't pay the directors, how it will help those who have to pay the additional health insurance now and on the other hand you're cutting their salary by 10%. And indeed in that almost laboratory atmosphere separated from the outside world you can much better understand the difficulties of an ordinary man than to ride in a car where your noise, your buzz, where the trams buzz, where you have holes, feel the holes and you have rain, and you feel it. So I fully understand that precisely because of excessive social sensitivity it was necessary to obtain such a car. Now that it's cleared, Prime Minister Sanader has made one great sacrifice. That car party will sell and he'll be driving in a car that sees wonders is once again BMW is only no longer a metalic blue but in this case a metallic black. I don't know if it'll help him or help him be more or less sensitive in that situation. To make things worse, probably the laboratory social atmosphere created within that BMW has and dropped the decision not to go what would be fair to break up a collective contract with public services but rather to go to something that resembles almost dictatorship, to go with the law on reducing the pay base so that trade unions can't exercise their right to protect labour rights. So, the unions can't sue the state because there's a ruling majority in this House to cut their wages because if the government broke a collective contract then, as it could be done in the past, the trade unions would sue the government and exercise their rights and get their rights on this. Comrade Kunst, I know there's no TV transmission. I don't speak for television in this House. Unlike you, I speak in this House because I represent the citizens. And unlike you, I'm not hiding behind a party list, I'm putting myself out to the citizens' elections, and I recommend that you finally see what you're worth. I'm going to re-expose myself to the citizens on May 17th, so you'll see how much I'm worth regardless of television or non-television. And unlike you, I don't change my attitudes and unlike you, I didn't drive in the prime minister's BMW. Maybe you were driving when you signed the access card. So even the government didn't have the courage to break a collective contract so that workers could exercise those rights. And here we are talking about protecting jobs in the public sector. Gentlemen, we're missing a thousand 200 doctors, we're missing several hundred nurses, we're missing a few dozen or hundreds of professional people in primary and secondary schools. Have We threatened them with the loss of jobs by reducing their wages? Instead of motivateing us to have seniors enroll us, for example, teaching professions or teaching professions, or to go to the PMF to get professors of natural sciences who are disabled in primary and secondary education. What message are we sending them? Don't even happen to go where you'll be working in the public sector because our will depends on when we cut your salary. How are we going to improve the personnel structure in public services? The second is the public sector, so the one relating to the state administration where indeed without a party card in the last four or five years could not have been employed, but it would have been good for you to consider your police contract and see from the coalition agreement how expensive it is for you. I'll only tell you on one example. So in 2003, the Management of the Croatian Forests had one director, the Director-General was one person. From 2003 to 2007, this was to be done by three persons. So she was the Management of the Croatian Forests with three people. Today, the Croatian Forest Management has five members because you had to pay two members of the administration to a coalition partner. You're reducing your salary to nurses and teachers today so you can pay for a coalition contract with members of the board. So it is in the woods, so it is in your waters, so it is in HEP, so it is in Croatia insurance, so it is everywhere because you must pay very expensively for the coalition contract. And in order for you to be a member of the board, you have to have a nurse who works four shifts, you have to take a teacher. There is no answer in this budget rebalancing to one of the key issues, how many jobs we will keep. And the answer to the second question, how many jobs we're going to open. I'll tell you what we did in Koprivnica. So last year we bought land worth 50 million kuna, we utilityd it, we motivated investors to come to Koprivnica to have investments in the private sector of more than 50 million euros this year and to create 300 new jobs in Koprivnica. We didn't expect any jobs to disappear, but we hope 300 new jobs will be more than they will disappear this year. In order to be the biggest Green Field investment or the only Green Field investment this year in foreign production in Croatia, we have reduced the municipal contribution by 50% in Koprivnica. And today, the only foreign investment in production in Croatia takes place in Koprivnica to expand the capacity of Kañi brewery where the investment of 23m euros, where 30 jobs will be opened, is indirectly another 50 new jobs. So I expected the budget to be rebalanced specifically, that someone would save us so many jobs, and in that way we would open up so many jobs, that at the end of the year the balance would be like this. So this is just a budget rebalance in which someone took the scissors and said we're going to burn a billion and 800 million on workers, and in the ministries we're going to remove what's really not necessary.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-30-0.u31291	One correction.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-30-0.u31292	Well, Agent Mršić said I was driving in a party BMW, so he said he was hiding behind the party list. Which is all incorrect. But one thing is, you resold the resort from Podravka and cheated on your fellow citizens who, if so, would vote for you again, if they wanted you to cheat on them, and made money on it, and the question of how much did you personally earn on it?
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-30-0.u31293	Mr. Representative Dragutin Bodakosh. Here you go. And please, what is it now again? We're going to re-injure the Rules of Procedure by correcting an incorrect allegation. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-30-0.u31294	I would ask your vice president to protect me. I had a debate here with my colleague Linic. I didn't doubt morality and you know I don't think it's right that you're letting someone here in the Parliament that, that any agent, took a commission on any transaction. ... [[The speakers speak in the same voice, of course.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-30-0.u31295	Okay. I heard you, thank you very much. We're not going to double-arshine it. You're in your exposure constantly on edge, on the verge of insult. On the edge and constantly walking along the edge, around the edge, under the edge. At the edge of an insult, and when a representative Kunst answers you that your claims are not correct, then you report and seek protection from the chairman with the breach of the Rules of Procedure. It's not about hurting the Rules of Procedure, it's about correcting an incorrect assumption. It's about hurting the Rules of Procedure on your part. We will not force or violence on our fellow Linic. You won't defend yourself. ... Only you will allow yourself to call other thieves. [[The speakers speak in the same voice, of course.]] You will allow others to call them thieves. ... You don't. No, you don't hear yourself. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] You can't hear yourself. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] The Bloody Parliament of the Cross. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] All right, peace. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Let's calm down. Calm down. Okay. Mr. Representative Dragutin Bodakosh. Here you go. ... All right, Slavko, please. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Well, you can't throw it away when you don't get the word. ... So why do you say that when you say that you will go wild, how can I? ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Do you need protection? [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] A man this serious. ... So why do you call other rackets then? ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] You always call the rackets. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] And no one called you a thief. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] If it's a fantasy and it's a vivid imagination when a man recognizes himself in something why no one calls it. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Here you go, buddy Bodakosh. ... Well, you didn't. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Well, give me the record. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Okay. A fellow Bodakosh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-30-0.u31296	Dear Vice President of the Parliament, Mr. Minister of Staff and colleagues. I would say that by following up on so far the emphasis from exposing the most responsible people about budget rebalancing, I have heard or read that let's say Prime Minister Sanader said either good rebalancing or bankruptcy. If Minister Shuker had said, this rebalancing may also be the most important document since the beginning of the Croatian state or, again, Prime Minister Sanader, who is telling the people, that if we do not prove with the budget that we can manage our finances, we are being threatened by the bankruptcy and decomposition of the system. I mean, those are our senior officials' statements. And now, respected MPs and MPs, I ask myself the question of how mine, and I believe in your work in this House, are working on these messages. One word I think very stressful, as Professor Hebrang would say. But I ask myself, how do these statements affect the people? Let's say a farmer from Slavonia, a maid of honor from Dolco, a working man in a textile or wood industry or a professor at a university. How do they, and we understand these messages before the debate in this Viskom House on budget rebalancing? Why do I ask myself that? Well, because these sieves were full of praise for the budget they proposed 10. 12. In 2008. And as we can see, he hasn't lasted more than three months. Unfortunately, I don't think there's any difference between what happened at the end of last year and this proposed rebalancing. In addition to cutting costs and reducing the total budget with a further deficit, there is nothing new. However, it is even worse that there is no difference in the understanding of the prime minister's team that the solution to changing the way we've done and lived so far is that the state needs to be covered with what it has, to stop doing too little work and spend too much. I think it's the matrix of today's moment in Croatia. It is safe because Croatia's external debt is for the first time in history greater than GDP per year and amounts to almost 40 billion euros. Unfortunately, our country's divide from a bigger consumer than an economy that indicates exactly the time of the global economic recession. However, the lack of work and spending too much is not the result of the global crisis, but rather the matrix of the government's work in the last six years, which has given and built unsuspected and with the aim of maintaining power. As a result, the wall facing it is difficult to overcome with this kind of budget rebalancing. Why do I say that? Well, because this rebalancing is about saving from those who are the most drained so far, and these are usually citizens of this country. Those who have become rich in their account are well protected or legally protected, there are plenty in Croatia, or they have taken their money away from this country to whose account they have earned them. The government in these years when the annual GDP growth of 5% was, it saw as the potential for a 10% rise in budget. But who did the budget grow for, and who was it spent on? Unfortunately, not for increasing production, but for expanding the state administration. We are here to witness in this House that after the adoption of every new law, new agencies, new institutions and institutes would be formed. Look at fellow MPs, why you voted, and also why all the opposition was against and pointed out that these were all new and unproductive costs. That's why so much of the budget goes to the administration's expense today. What about production? To whom this rebalancing is given, and to whom it takes. I'll just say one thing, it's not banal, but one example from the Ministry of Agriculture, no more incentives for new production, for multi-year crops, fruit. There is no incentive for the construction and development of cattle, pork, meat, meat production. And we know from the import balance that we import the most of these goods and that we don't have enough self-production in the country. So an example last year when meat imported is worth 780,000 tow pigs, a row that would be, as MP Koracevic said, not to Belgrade but to Sofia, suggests that we should still improve the production rather than reduce it. However, when we look at this Ministry of Agriculture, part of the budget for the introduction of production, there is no longer an item of that budget, but for the Register of Agricultural Economics the increase is index 538, that is, compared to 2008 in the budget or in the rebalancing sector, something has been reduced and this index is 471 or about 35 million kuna compared to 2008. I don't know what's going to happen to those 35 million kunas, and what's going to get our farm with that register that's going to cost 35 million kuna. But here's an example of what is given for production and what is given for the administrative part. Next. The SDP in the budget three months ago indicated that root changes were needed, that the savings discussed and opposed public service trade unions with farmers. And then from the union says you need to cut the farmers' grant to leave their salaries. That part and what our Minister Shucker always emphasizes and mentions who to take, and who to give, I don't think that's a good policy of this government. It's not about taking inside the budget and giving, it's about creating. But it doesn't seem to be the top priority of this government and this rebalance. Finally, however, I think it would be bad and difficult for the opposition to get a task after this rebalancing, if you do not vote it, that it must do the same job as in 2000, which means that Croatia is forming according to its capabilities. This means that the bills this HDZ government has made with its coalition partners will have to be paid through wasteful behaviour. So know, there's either a quality rebalancing or a new government ahead of you. So try to make it, raise all votes and stay in power, because we certainly won't vote for this rebalancing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-30-0.u31297	Thank you. It is up to the honourable representative, Joseph Leko. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-30-0.u31298	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Honorable ministers, colleagues and fellow MPs. I think it should be examined, asked who is using the economic policy HDZ has been pushing through the budget since '93. To this day. To whom she brought security and profit, and to whom the uncertainty and loss of employment. Since '93. For years, we have the same concept of political and economic policy as today. What is it based on in general? Well, it's based on conversion and privatisation of what conversion and privatisation was. The conversion and privatisation destroyed 300, 400, some say 500 thousand jobs. The following is based on this economic policy since '93. To this day, it's imports. Imports of goods from abroad, therefore, commercial economic policy. How did these imports occur? So by taking credit outside, by taking expensive loans. And so we came to 40 billion euros in foreign debt. It's the policy HDZ has implemented so far. Can this policy change the relationship and position acquired in the conversion of privatisations? He can't. It can't be changed or it can be cleared up, say, "Sun's Hvar." Sunny Hvar as an example of one policy. So we have a policy based on the allocation of other people's profits and the borrowing of peoples, states and all who are in charge. And then Mr. Minister initially says it's no problem if the International Monetary Fund comes to us, as a policy coordinator. That's what's said, because we're doing what the International Monetary Fund is looking for. That's what the ministers said at the beginning. At first, check what you said. If that's the case. That's what you said, Mr. Minister, in writing. Check, twice. If so, and very prominent world economists, even Nobel laureates claim that the interest of the International Monetary Fund is not the fate of the population in the country in which it comes. His interest is not the protection of the population, but his interest is the protection of creditors and multinational companies. If that's what this government's policy is, we've come to a confession quite suddenly. It's completely sudden. I don't think that in the context of today's concept and this budget you can come out of this maze of import economies, of raising credit because we can't even get more spending as a drunken American billionaire. The concept of this no longer endures the state in which we came as a state and as a people. But what do we do through the budget, which we policy through the budget rebalances we offer? I'm going to mention very important to me, I could say fatal. As Government, we are committed to creating a knowledge society, and the government budget or budgets reduces nearly 9 hundred million for science. This policy is not based, therefore, on the calming and retention of existing positions, but rather does not take care of the future either. If science is diminished in the training of Croatian society, the Croatian economy for competitiveness and life in the European Union and life in the future must be said that this proposal for rebalancing is indeed at the expense of the future of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. Looking from the position of investment in science. Is it possible now, without deep cuts and changes in the structure of the budget, but also change and responsibility to the future of citizens, to talk about only the imported crisis due to the global crisis? Just about the recession for the reason of the global crisis? It's possible, but then it's clouding reality. Well, then it's eye-smoothing to others, if we know ourselves. In fact, we did not have 40 billion euros in debt due to the global crisis. We created this debt before the global crisis. I think he's even deliberately offered to us. We did not retain or have a million people in the Republic of Croatia who have a maximum of 2 thousand kunas per month, nor did this create a global economic crisis for us. It's our product. It's our product and it can't be changed by one rebalance, no matter how much we try. It's the continuity of one policy. The global economic crisis has not created 250 thousand workers for 15 years who are looking for a job can't find it. And we will not regrettably solve the International Monetary Fund unless the Government accepts responsibility and undertakes reforms that must ensure development, development, development, and that development certainly cannot be if the Ministry of Science is denied 900 million kuna. As for sensitivity to social sensitivity in this budget. Well, I wouldn't even talk, I'd say it's a more important matter of security than social sensitivity. Indeed, it is inappropriate for social partners as equal negotiators to conclude the contract, then one of the social partners concludes that he is weaker in this negotiation and calls for the help of the government as a force, as a power. Then it's not a partnership, it's not a bargaining, it's a power play. Political power. But we must not abuse that power in the Croatian Parliament, and we have done it. We passed the law, where we legally eliminate the provisions of the contract. Is that a continuation of one policy? This is why it really makes no sense, nor can a draft budget be changed to amendments, especially if the draft budget rebalancing fully follows its failed concept. Budgetary concept and public spending policy. That's why I really think it would be necessary for the government to analyse who's using this kind of policy? Who's the winner and who's the loser? To whom does the sure future provide, and to whom does uncertainty bring? I hope it is familiar to us here, and even more familiar to Croatian citizens, and I hope that they will recognize it and that, based on this policy, they will know and sanction that policy for 16 years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-30-0.u31299	Thank you. We're continuing the debate. Honorable representative of Luke Denon. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-30-0.u31300	The facts are facts and should not be closed in front of them. The budget is realistic, social and developmental and serves to preserve jobs and develop the economy. That was said when we adopted the budget. What now happened when this budget was both developed and social and served to preserve jobs and develop the economy. If only, if he had been well-conceived, if he had not saved his jobs in just 3 months after that, and had not contributed to the development of the economy because we are now talking about the crisis of the economy and we are talking about, how much, 150 or slightly less daily unemployed in these 3 months since such a social, development and preservation of jobs tended to, the budget has been adopted. But that's what we've heard now when we need to adopt this budget, the budget rebalance, it's also clear what the economic situation is and it's only added that the recession is stronger than expected, but that this same budget will go towards keeping jobs and starting the economy. So now I'm wondering how is it possible that in the last few months a billion and 800 million kunas have brought us into such an awkward and very unpleasant situation? If I remember correctly, then there was talk that it was up to these unfortunate billions and 800, that's those 6% of those who were stubborn, they didn't understand, but then they didn't have to understand because then no one had even admitted that the crisis was in front of the door or at our place, they didn't want to give in and now these billions and 800 that they had given in, then the budget deficit would be 0. Zero budget. Now it's 2%, and now we're talking about some lack of 10 billion. Well, very, very much, very, very surprising to me that this recession has hit us harder than expected. I think this, as I said somewhere in that replica, is just cosmetics in this rebalancing, as if we've become models of Revlon, Vichy and Chanel, these houses that deal with cosmetics and we're trying in some way to continue to claim that social benefits such as pensions, child benefits, maternity benefits, and the rest will not be touched, will not be touched safely. But look, two months ago, we said no pay would be touched, so we touched them. How do you believe now that when, Mr. Minister, there's no more money in the register to pay your pensions or when there's no money in the register to pay your regular salaries, what's it like to believe you won't even touch this? Of course, when the real serious reforms come and the water comes to the throat, then this too will be justified, because there is no money, and then those givings that we heard today were proud of, but we were proud when we defended the Prime Minister's position that the wages would not be taken off. So then my sister and my brother-in-law, I lost my whole... The day is that it was rain, trying to convince them, working in health care and one and the other, not less pay, how their wages were the same as they did last year and didn't cut their wages. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And I couldn't convince them at all. That 6% I can't prove to them that those 6% didn't even deserve it because by collective agreement and then finally they told me, but look, we're 12% cut off because we both work in health care. Not 6, 12%. And as much as they probably listened to this argument on the other side, I'm not sure that you convinced them that their salaries were equal, that nothing was coming down on them and that 12% was like that, just the thing that happened to them, but it's going to save the state in some way, so they're trying to understand, and I don't think they're going to go on strike or strike, we're going to see what happens. There's been a lot of talk here about the Peljesac Bridge. I wouldn't even say a single word if we were building a Peljesac bridge. We build it when we have money for it and when we're capable of it. But they're an excuse for building the Peljesac Bridge, he says, so space will be opened for building operations. Great. But then why don't we hire the builders to work for us. If I remember correctly, a thief who's in a story, there's no place in prison, and it's a building, and it would be a job. But we also took down 180 million builders to build, look at the wonders of what? It's a clinical hospital center in Rijeka. So that's where the builders could have worked, so I think the Dubrovnikers would understand that then it's a 6% reduction, or 12% of those who work twice in health, either in a way at this point solidarity greater than that at this point going to build a bridge that the notes should wait for some other time. Also, when we didn't already know what we were going to do and how to convince that the crisis is really at the door, I quote for those corrections of incorrect allegations, so the morning list, www, tra la la la, at the beginning of the session the Prime Minister said that the finances are under control, which is seen from the draft budget. In quotes, I further quote, this is extremely important because with the budget the government is falling, and the state is falling. He warned Sanader about writing. Can you understand what that means if I as an SDP officer said the government was going down and the state was going down? Well, look, the government can fall and should fall if it's wrong, but because the government is falling and the state, the state we've dreamt of for centuries. Do you think the state is so unstable and weak? Do you believe so little in the Croatian people that they will allow the state to fall if the government falls? Well, I mean, this is a catastrophic statement, so if it's from the prime minister, it's too much. I'm surprised the defenders didn't check in and say they were defending that state and now that country has no chance of falling if the Government of the Republic of Croatia falls. And now we say, there's not enough money. I'm saying there's enough money, so I'm going to quote again that because of the correction of false allegations, we don't have the lead to fight the recession. Croatia can overcome the crisis with the right anti-recession measures. But we lack a strong leadership that can bear the burden of crisis. The current is not able to take responsibility for the necessary but painful moves, so instead of decisive and responsible moves, it comes to stakeholders. Read by Luka Denon, said Ivica Mudrinic, and published by business.hr. So much for these corrections of incorrect allegations. Now, it's obvious that Mr. Ivica Mudrinic, former or current HDZ member, knows you better, knows you better, knows you better when he says this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-30-0.u31301	Thank you. And now it is the honourable representative Zeljko Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-30-0.u31302	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Here, the river is famous for its Carnival. This year, 100,000 people on the Rijeka Korz told all of Croatia: "The Emperor is naked, we are all in a banana.". The message is that it has taken a great picture of Croatia today. For weeks, Prime Minister Sanader has been telling Slovenian counterpart Pahor that there is plenty of play and play, while he himself has made a big circus out of Croatia in which he is the main star of the great delinquent Sanader and his apprentice Polancec and Schuker. However, their hat is empty, even all the rabbits and pigeons escaped. The only thing I can do is stall the completion of the traveling circus until the local elections, hoping that the people will continue to travel the tickets to their sale of fog. Pablo is actually the greatest ally to Sanader because he gave him an alibi for all the failures that would make us not enter the European Union in time anyway. The fog sale began with a coalition agreement, continued with ZERP and peaked with the 2009 budget. The budget is like an X-ray, one look at the experts and the diagnosis is there. In the HDZ case, and I won't mention coalition partners at all anymore because they're a fig leaf for Sanader's failures. Well, my people, all decisions are made not in the government, but in the HDZ presidency. So, in the HDZ case, an X-ray is like it's from a broken machine because every time it's a different picture. I said the other day that Sanader's vision of Croatia was 3B visions because in three months, Croatia passed from country of prosperity across the country in bananas to country in bankruptcy. One of my Riverains in the section The voice of the people "The Morning List" upgraded that strategy to policy 4B with well-being, bananas and bankruptcy was added by the BMW of course. And the other asked me to ask the Prime Minister, and since there are no Prime Ministers, I'm going to ask Minister Shucker how many such BMWs could fit on the Pelješke Bridge, did you calculate because such cars and purchases from a commission related to the Peljesca Bridge or the Peljesac land. Another example of the sale of fog is health reform. Rebalance at the Ministry of Health is the best example of the sale of fog because under the cover of reform, an unspeakable hack is carried out on patient pockets with the aim of patching up budget holes and now a billion kuna is taken from the same health care facility. Health rates saw the biggest increase in 2009 and 14.4% in the month. The price of health at the annual level has increased by 20% while the availability of healthcare has not increased. Patients go to their own harm less to the doctor and HZZO after a historical statement: "Some patients must die." continue to prove this thesis in practice. So let's say 20 days after the death of a seriously ill 16-year-old girl, the Ministry of Health sends a solution to the right of her treatment abroad at the expense of the state but for that girl, unfortunately, it's too late. Although many citizens have joined in helping her family, the Ministry of Health has not been appropriate to make a decision in time for treatment abroad. But that's not all. A few weeks ago, a family doctor from Zagreb who wanted to help her patient with metastatic kidney cancer, seeking to settle his travel expenses to Rijeka where he was receiving treatment with a modern and more effective medicine, HZO decided to punish. When the Zagreb doctor's patient asked for the cost of 13 trips to Rijeka, the Croatian Health Insurance Institute refused him. Fortunately after the intervention of the Croatian Patients Association HZZO agreed to pay travel expenses but therefore an unpleasant surprise was experienced by his doctor because HZZO sent a solution that will take away the travel expenses of 3 thousand 49 kuna. The solution explained that the doctor was not allowed to write and sign travel orders for her patient. Thanks to the "inadmissible" behavior of his doctor, the patient's practically saved life, the metastases were withdrawn. So what does the patient say? The cure saved my life and HZO didn't spend a penny on my treatment. Namely, he was in a protocol that was treated in Rijeka for free. I can imagine what it would have been like to ask for my medicine when the problem is and these 3,000 kuna travel expenses, the patient said. So, you can see that the aim of the health reform is, and what kind of reform it is, because we only saw the written trail at the Power Point presentation that our minister said, presented in a debate with 6 thousand people none of whom should have asked any question because they were told so before the debate began. I'd say it was one monologue. And now a few weeks ago, we had the opportunity to witness the successes of the reform shown in this same form of Power Point presentation, at least saved it, didn't spend on new slides. It is incomprehensible that health costs are being cut, that the fund of expensive medicines is being reduced even though the minister boasted when the 2009 budget was adopted that it was an increase such as this state has not seen yet and I am responsiblely pointing out that there is not enough money in the expensive medicines fund if patients are being prescribed therapy. He's got money if the treatment's being denied. And I repeat, responsible hard patients are deprived of treatment and this saves money in a fund of expensive medicines. In October 2007, then Minister Ljubicic at the Round Table of the Croatian Rheumatological Society declares that all rheumatological patients from 1 January 2008 will be entitled to treatment with biological therapy. Today we are on March 30th 2009, patients with rheumatological disease do not receive biological therapy and on my representative question, our doctor Milinovic says his obligation is not to keep his predecessor's promises. So, for a statement that was clumsy, "Some patients have to die." The chief of HZZO then, Dr. Buble, has been removed. At the same time, however, a minister who does not provide funds and who actually confirms that some patients must die continues to boast of its reform. If we look at the budget on page 40 for the prevention of drug abuse, the amount of 8 million is reduced to 5, on page 292 of the welfare centres is taken out 11 million kuna, side 294 care for children without adequate parental assistance minus 3 million kuna, side 295 care for children with behavioural disorders minus 2 million kuna, side 96 care for adults mentally ill persons minus 6 million kuna, side 298 care for physically and mentally damaged children, well listen, minus 11 million kuna. At the same time, 300 administrations in the health and social system plus 26 million. I wonder if the Minister of Health ever speaks to the Minister of Social Affairs. Namely, it's about the same person. I don't think he's even aware that he's the Minister of Social Affairs. And you see what categories of funds are taken, children without adequate parental help, children with behavioral disorders, adults mentally ill persons, mentally damaged children, mobility insurance for people with disabilities minus 2.4 million. Social policy towards young people. 407 million kuna was secured, now 365. What can be done 407,000 kuna was secured, now taken 365. So what can be done with 40,000 kunas? The past monitoring of suicide in young people, provided in budget 149, is taken in 139. remaining 10 thousand kuna. The damage reduction in addict 130,000 is taken in 105. The Croatian Institute of Mental Health million kuna is being taken, and a million and 900th are actually not going to work this year either. Early detection of malignant diseases 7 million kunas less. So, from just this few data, and there are still some we can conclude that this budget is not only not developed, it is not even socially sensitive. This budget is a failure like this government that sent us back to 1999 in 2009.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-30-0.u31303	Thank you. And now we have four corrections of incorrect allegations. The first is Commissioner Dubravka Shuica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-30-0.u31304	Here, I'd like to correct the incorrect allegations concerning the Peljega Bridge, commission and possible purchase of a car powerful from that commission. You've seen that I haven't called in much today, but you've really come across the measure now. Your imagination is very lush or conceit to call it. You see, we're determined that the Peles Bridge will be built and I have the impression that you've given up the Dubrovnik area. The truth goes to me, but one recommendation on my part. Don't go against the Peljek Bridge anymore.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-30-0.u31305	Thank you. The second is the correction of the incorrect allegation, the esteemed representative Frano Matušić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-30-0.u31306	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I'm correcting the same inaccuracies that my colleague said. To be more precise inaccuracies and harsh insinuation. That the Prime Minister's car was probably bought by a commission of works on the Peljesk Bridge. A colleague like that not only is it incorrect, but it's really a rough insinuation. If you have experience with commissions, and apparently you have commissions, then remember what your government did when it gave private companies hundreds of millions of kunas from the state budget. Just reminding you of Victor Lenac, I don't want to talk about the Dubrovnik hotels because I see your colleague getting mad. ... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-30-0.u31307	Thank you. Third correction of the incorrect allegations, the esteemed representative Nedjeljko Strikic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-30-0.u31308	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, here's a doctor and a respected colleague of Jovanovic's, as usual, reading what suits him, what doesn't suit him, doesn't read. So he said that especially expensive medications were reduced. Yeah. Last year there were 350 million kunas, and this year there are 450 million kunas. Is it a reduction or is it not a reduction? I think it's an increase of 100 million kuna. Then you saw that the transplant in hospitals increased by 40 million kuna. Because that's not what we wanted. Then, transfusion medicine, increased by 200 percent. The prevention of malignancies, what you specifically said you didn't, so you could read, the prevention of malignancies was 3 million 800, and now it's 8 million 940. Is that a decrease or an increase? Then read and what is not right for you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-30-0.u31309	Thank you. And the esteemed representative Carmela Capara's correction of an incorrect allegation. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-30-0.u31310	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, a colleague doesn't seem to work in the hospital, like he doesn't work in the health care system, and if he does, then I wonder which facility he works in. Is it saying that there aren't enough drugs in this system and that someone has to die, it's really brave to say in a House like this, because every patient, I'm a fellow doctor if I'm spoken to, the medicine's got. In addition to this health care system, 2.5 million were more isolated than in 2008. Health system equipment has been increased by 30 million, from 91 to 123 million. You heard about the prevention of malignancies from 3 to 9 million kunas. for the Croatian Health Protection Institute 2008 programme 1.5 million 2009. 11 million kuna. And when I'm talking about caring for the physical and mental damage of children, so I'm asking you when you're talking about the lack of that 10 million, I'm going to remind you that in 2008, 311 million, 2009. 362 million. So do you think these $10 million won't help kids like that because there's 351 million left? And 2008. 311, so you're really not talking right.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-30-0.u31311	Thank you. I'd like to pray without throwing it away. There's no reason. Now it's time for the distinguished Damir Caine to be, but he's not. Then he loses his right to argue. And it's next, the distinguished representative Vesna Škulić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-30-0.u31312	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Minister with an associate. In any case, I admire my colleagues from Dubrovnik for their determination to the Pelješki Bridge. I hope that the people on Peljesc are also determined to do so. Otherwise, as for the list of expensive medicines and everything else, I sign, unfortunately, that some patients have literally become victims of the health care system because they have increased the Fund for a list of expensive medicines, but unfortunately the number of patients has also increased. So it's quite logical that you can't just narrow down that list and say, this year only for a number of patients will be medications, and for others you won't. Today, however, we are talking about the country’s most important document, which is the state budget, that is, its rebalancing. And I'm sorry Mr. Prime Minister isn't present. But he writes with Olli Rehn, Slovenians associate in pre-election groups and campaigns in Sisak, etc. Who should the Prime Minister write to and apologize for the policy he's leading? I sympathise today with you HDZ colleagues for persistently defending the indefensible corrections of incorrect allegations. That's exactly what you're spilling ink like a syrup. Stuttering water around, trying to convince the country's people that the rebalance of the crisis budget will go away. Please do not underestimate the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. I've heard the word, social sensitivity, and similar words many times today, but I thought I was misreading the budget and I didn't read the items that would suggest a socially sensitive budget rebalance. Is it socially sensitive to cut the annual fee for the use of public roads and tolls for the most disabled, no less or less by 50%, and I have already reminded you several times that you have abolished the right to release VAT on imports of cars to civilian disabled people. But the main thing is that the prime minister is driving in a armored car. Who paid him the VAT? Otherwise, 651 families could live off that money for a month. You've been giving me all kinds of solutions ever since. From the fact that this is not in line with European Union legislation and that some solution will be found, then that this right will be returned when the state will have the money. But the state seems to have got the money and bought the BMW. And of course the state will never find money to equalize the rights of all persons with disabilities. So you led by social sensitivity reduced the accessibility of objects to the needs of people with disabilities we give 605,000 kuna or almost 50% To show all the size of social sensitivity, social empowerment has been reduced by 25 million and 980 thousand kuna. So that everything would be in line with the affirmation of rights and policies towards people with disabilities, and that's where you started by 475 thousand kuna, because what we will be entitled to when we can't consume them in the entire territory of the Republic of Croatia. Then, following all this, led by a national strategy, a convention and already mentioned social sensitivity, you reduced by 10 million and 200 thousand kuna programs and projects aimed at children with disabilities and adults. In order for the matter to be logical, if it will not be socially strengthened, we will affirm their rights and then we will not support their projects and, of course, we will support the syntax of invisible people with that attitude. And quite logically, at the Professional Rehabilitation and Employment Fund, you reached 4 million 265,000 kuna. And then, to support such a situation, you reduced incentives and employment reliefs by 3 million and 900 thousand kuna. In the Ministry of Education implementation of the national strategy you took away 40,000 kunas, the Croatian Sports Alliance of deaf 2 million kunas. You HDZ colleagues can interpret this budget as appropriate, but the fact is that the child care item and youth with behavioral disorders are reduced by a million and 700 thousand kuna. Care for mentally and physically damaged children 10 million and 700 thousand kuna. In the Ministry of Health and Social Care at the insurance, mobility and accessibility of disabled persons, for 2 million and 400 thousand kuna. Removing architectural barriers in health institutions also for 2 million and 400 thousand kuna. So what do you say now? At the end of last year, the State Secretary of the Ministry of Health and Social Care said the government would pass a law on an add-on to the most difficult disability by the end of 2008. The Deputy Prime Minister said this year we'll get a personal assistant bill. But in this rebalancing budget, there's no trace of it. In order to avoid confusion, it was before this budget that the parents' rights were reduced to parents from a miserable 2,500 kuna to 2100 kuna. And after all, please don't show that much social sensitivity anymore, but take responsibility.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-30-0.u31313	Thank you. We have one correction to an incorrect quote. Dear Representative Ljubica Lukačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-30-0.u31314	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, here's a colleague who incorrectly said there's no sign of the personal assistant law. My colleague, you know very well that the working group is working patiently to pass as high-quality regulation as possible, so that all persons with disabilities in Croatia, who will exercise the right to a personal assistant in accordance with this law, will indeed do so. And another incorrect quote I'm going to correct, which is that this government has reduced social sensitivity by 10 million kunas as you said. No, my colleague. The disability-based rights are not reduced. What you're talking about are some projects. The reasons why something has been reduced certainly exist in the fact that some projects have already been completed, but such rights as personal disability, other people's help and help have not been reduced, but are, in fact, increased. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-30-0.u31315	Thank you. We're continuing an individual debate. Dear Representative Ratko Gajica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-30-0.u31316	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Minister. It is logical that this proposal for budget rebalancing came to this home because, given the state and economic and financial situation, something had to be done. There we are completely clear and of course what seemed to have to seem in some way a model of cuts. It is that the budget is a key instrument for managing economic policy. We've heard this a few times here as a professional lesson, but we've also heard that, which is also true, that the budget is also this rebalance, the instrument of crisis management. And I kind of point out that because I'm starting from the fact that this budget rebalance should be used to actually manage economic events and manage the crisis that we are in and that is likely to continue, and it's possible to deepen. Now, I hope we can agree that we should make a detour in behavior. And when I go from there, then I'm convinced that both this rebalance and the budget in general should be secured, it should be forced to reverse behavior, especially if this rebalancing should be served to achieve effects along the long run. And it's probably necessary to achieve effects on the long run. These days in the discussion on the board budget and here there was talk about it, the budget is just over 80% of the cost of rights acquired. It's probably true and it's something that's a limiting factor, which must be considered. However, when rights are acquired and these rights are financed, then it seems to me that we are now in such a state that what we do not cut today will have to be cut tomorrow, probably in some difficult form. And it's my impression that we didn't have the courage to deal with that particular need for the long-distance effect, let's face it. This isn't about cutting for cash, it's about cutting for an economic twist, it's about turning in our relationship with the situation we're in. I'm going to bring three things here that I think or that I am in a constant way unhappy with the solutions that are given in this draft budget. The first thing is this about acquired rights. It seems to me that we stayed in this holding-up, I'd say even lagging, I'd say even opportunism versus acquired rights, and I'm convinced that this thing has to go into reconstruction. Therefore, in the future, and in the near future, we will have to cut into the reconstruction of the acquired budgetary, acquired budget-funded rights. I will state here this example of social giving, and that of those classic social givings, no matter what the story is about it through social sensitivity, through the understanding of the problems in which people find themselves, uneasy talking about it. But we have to stop funding logic. I won't, I don't get paid to work for two thousand kunas, because I'm gonna get three thousand kunas of welfare, and I'm gonna keep my hands in my pockets. We did not first make a reconstruction of this total cost over the number of users, over how many people can make use of it, and in that matter at all, a cut must be made independent of what is a sensitive issue and regardless of what makes it the easiest to raise noises. Of course I know, Mr. Minister, that's not your job, but it is our mission. Our joint task. One more thing that applies to these acquired rights. I'll also say something that's not popular to say. We now pay from the budget in different ways and in quite a variety of forms, let's say so in the quotes of patriotism. Various forms of patriotism. If we didn't have the option now or if we did, but if we didn't have the strength to say enough now, then they'll probably have to say it much louder in a short time. No matter who gets mad at that thing. There are a large number of people who expect to be paid in advance for something that has nothing to cover first and which could be said to be questionable by the amount of money we give for it. And if we had a full wallet, and if we had a very plentiful wallet the wallet owner would ask for rational reasons let me see if it makes sense. You know, yeah. I'll make fun of myself in a cynical way. I know people by the name and last name that when I'm 32 years old, I dare say in my head they think I'm gonna live my whole life on Social Services. It's a disaster. The other thing is, I don't like here. Overcoming the crisis, I suppose one of the models of overcoming the crisis is investment in development. We've cut our regional development money very badly here. It's a good message, people in that instrument would use their resources and it's a shame we did it. Among other things, we've been complaining about it these days or these hours. And third thing, let me cut it short. Money was reduced for the needs of the most vulnerable categories, reelectrication, reconstruction, housing care, damage. Not only is it a shame, I think it's even inadmissible to these people because they're the most vulnerable and they're the weakest. And we as a state, regardless of the amount of power we have, we wouldn't have to train our power that way. That's because of those three things, that's all we're left with. I'm unhappy with these solutions in the budget, especially because we're about to get kicked out of the window tomorrow. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-30-0.u31317	Thank you. And it is up to the honourable representative Slavko Linic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-30-0.u31318	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, ministers, colleagues and colleagues. Let's try to assess the budget. We didn't bring it in on time, we brought it by the Rules of Procedure at the last minute, we delayed the adoption by reason of the Croatian Government, the situation changes from day to day, we need quality assessments, we need time to know that our budget is of quality. Did we use it usefully? We didn't. No employer was heard in the adoption of the budget, no institution of the employer's, no chamber, no opposition will be mentioned. So last minute passed, all the time assessing the totally wrong time. We also bring budget rebalancing today at the end of the 3rd month. Now I'm asking all of you if we have an estimate again? Did we in the debate today ask ourselves how many people were going to be unemployed at the end of the year? Who's going to be unemployed because of the recession? Because of the lower exports? Because of the indifference problem? We don't have that assessment at all, because if we did, I believe we would also know how to direct the budget to control that figure. Do we have any data on what will make indifference? How many trading entities are they going to throw on their knees? How many unpaid taxes are there going to be for that? Do we have those estimates? Gentlemen, we don't have any. Do we actually have an assessment of what will happen to the problem of exporting textiles, exporting wood? How many problems will they have with exports? What will be reduced from export branches due to demand in the world, because of our problems of not providing credit, not paying and not monitoring the production process? We don't have those projections. We really don't have any. So today we're talking about rebalancing, and we haven't done these projections, and we don't know what's coming to kill us. We're entering a rebalance after three months at the end of this quarter into something unknown. Probably because we're trying to figure out if it's going to be -2, -4, -5, but have we really assessed the tragic consequences of the recession on legal entities, on the citizens of Croatia? What do we expect this recession will bring, and how would we then budget? We don't have those projections. We don't have a projection. Then what are we talking about? What have we done to protect jobs, protect citizens, protect companies when we have no projections or know what this recession will bring us? What will our problems bring us? Do we even have a course assessment? Do we have a course assessment? We don't because if we had a course assessment, then we'd know what's going to be the problem with repaying debts, what's going to be the problem with the foreign trade? We don't even have that assessment. So, I'd say someone might have them for themselves, but we're probably going to part ways here, because we don't talk about it openly. And now we have a budget rebalance in front of us. Our minister's statement this morning was very clear. You add up the salaries, you add up the health pay, you add up the pensions, you add up the expenditures we can't work on, we get to 90% of the budget. 90% of the budget that cannot be touched, as counterpart Gajica said, simply achieved the standard of consumption achieved, to achieve expenditures that are not given to move. They don't let themselves be diminished, the problem is to reduce them. So what now? What now? Realizing that so many pieces are simply blocked with some acquired rights. How can we act? Well, you see, that's what we of the SDP have been saying for a year. Changes in tax policy. Changes in tax policy. Yes, gentlemen. We had to reduce pressure on the economy, reduce health care from the economy, reduce health from the economy for a simple reason, because we need to relieve the economy, we need to allow it to have less costs. That, possibly from that reduction, we try to solve the pension system. Yeah, we used to say all that. We talked about having too much VAT on energy, on the problems of citizens who buy for children, taking care of children. Yeah, that's what we were saying. So we were talking about taxes. We also said, let's disburse this year the economy of parafiscal duties, but the minister says I've written enough of them. Why would we cut them down? And it is evident that this should have been done at both national and local level and not only what we said water contribution, communal contribution,... rent, chamber, woods. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] No, probably... It was all supposed to be done. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Did we deal with the team? We're not gentlemen. And why is that? Well, that's our responsibility if we estimate it's a crisis, it's a recession. It was all supposed to be moved in 2009. Yeah, those are our suggestions. Gentlemen, it's a practice of European countries. In European countries, there is far less wage tax when it comes to health care and the worker is far less participating in the financing of health care than we do. Europe's citizens pay less VAT on energy far less, they have interdependences. Also, why don't we talk about a far lower rate, interdepartmental tourism? 6%, so minimum. It's all possible. No, we only had a message from the minister. You know which one? That's 15 billion. It's not true, Minister, it's not true. Are we saying gentlemen why we missed taxes on the first owners of Pliva? Why did we tax, forget to tax the other owners of the Pliva Bar? Why aren't we Tiffon at the sale? Why aren't we Luka Rajic? What about the Split Bank when the French sold it? So also, Diners is sold, so one-time transactions. Try to figure out how many of those transactions are. Try it. I just thought of them for a little while. Yes, gentlemen, that means if we can't change our mass of acquired rights, then we're doing redistribution, redistribution of tax burdens. Let's get off the payroll, take off the citizens who barely live on their salaries, transfer to those who live on property, who are rich in property. It's a message. We've been talking about this message for a year, but the minister won't speak openly how much money we had to collect. Had to pick, couldn't, had to. Do you have any clear messages today that Europe is ordering? The burden of recessions you choose to switch to the rich, they are rich in shares, in transactions, in virtual ones, they have enormous wealth. You can take your taxes from them. Yes, it is a message from the European Union. And when we talk, we say it's impossible. Last year was not such a crisis, and we first made a proposal about it in February last year, for the first time. Second time in the 11th month last year. So, I'm sorry, on time. But we're running away from it. We want to talk about Covic who took shares instead of pay. Did he pay his taxes? Did he pay his contribution? He didn't pay. But who gave it to him? We who sit here. We're letting him do it. But when we say it, it needs to be stopped. No, you can't. But it's a practice in Europe. Europe thinks that more than 20% of those taken are not enough, that they need to be taken even more. Even more. Yes, it's a message from Europe. Even more. And we don't want 20%. Are we gonna talk about... So everyone gets paid in shares. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] For what? Why? They don't pay taxes, they don't pay contributions. Well, don't take it. And that's what we're different about, gentlemen. But at the same time we say we go with interventions. Your message no, this government won't intervene, but the law intervened on salary. By law, not by breaking the agreement, but by giving us the choice to intervene here. But not according to these rich people. No, I don't. According to those who earn from the property, no. Are we going to talk about land transactions? How much is it sold in Istria? How much is it sold? All these people are going to make money on these transactions. It's a farm purchase, it's going to be sold under construction. One-on-one profits. Why don't we sanction the increased taxes. We don't want to, we don't want to. And that's the story. We are aware of how difficult it is to live and how enormous the burden on the budget is but the redistribution of the budget was the obligation of this government. Unfortunately, she didn't do it, and that's why we shouldn't support this kind of rebalancing.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-30-0.u31319	Thank you. We have one correction to an incorrect quote. Dear Representative Zeljko Turk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-30-0.u31320	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I will look back only on two incorrect allegations from Mr. Honorable Assembly Representative Linic. He concluded in his speech that the government had not consulted any businessmen or entrepreneurs. If someone listened to it, who wasn't in this country, then maybe you could believe it. We all who here both in the Parliament or in the context of the affairs we do in executive power or as... We are aware that within the framework of the Economic Council and various other associations is this one co-ordination in continuity from the Croatian Chamber of Commerce and not to repeat. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Well, I really don't know what country Mr. Linic lives in. And when we talk about all the major transactions and again one incorrect quote especially the one connected from agricultural, construction land. As part of that law, we've brought special donations for re-appropriation, I think the comment is too high. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-30-0.u31321	Thank you. We're continuing an individual debate. And as the last esteemed representative of Mile Horvat. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-30-0.u31322	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary. Before I look back on this budget rebalancing, I would say that my main regret is that this important document, like this budget rebalancing, we didn't talk in the coalition at least the way we did when we were making the basic budget. Perhaps if we had discussed it then or these past few days now we would have talked about the rebalancing in a different way, so not with some dissatisfaction or with a certain reserve displayed according to this text. I must say that we have received the basic text of this document quite late in front of the parent board itself, so there was no time for it to be read properly without a previous debate. So let me say why we took it with the reserve. Let me try to explain in the context of what my colleague Gajica was saying. For problems of socially endangered categories of Croatian citizens in return status, we think the modus vivendi is the next four things. And these are reconstructions of ruined houses, housing, raising the social threshold of life and self-employment. That's already been said, and I don't think I've said anything new, but I need to point it out one more time. So, the entire social component is content in the positions of the Ministry of Regional Development, Forestry and Water Economy and that ministry has been taken up with enough resources to question projects of importance for the specified population and individual local environments. I don't think we're even going to mention the context of some previously agreed priorities here when we've negotiated some things on the budget. I will refer here in this context to three key projects within the Ministry of Regional Development which I think the best way to confirm is what I'm saying right now. So, the family home reconstruction and housing program is a project that is primarily priority for us as coalition partners. In addition, the consistent implementation of these is evaluated and we believe that both the quality and certain negotiating positions towards the European Union are assessed. What is the current state of the family home restoration and housing program. Now in rebalancing we have in this position proposed 440 million kuna. We have information that so far the Ministry has arranged for works and has taken over, so not only has it contracted but it has also taken contractual commitments for this program somewhere around 490 million kunas. So the question arises whether any further work of this programme can be negotiated by the end of the year, or also one serious question of how a contracted obligation will be paid when we see that there is a certain disparity between what we have planned and what we have already taken on today through a contractual commitment. If this is now a little bit analyzed then we see that this difference is not so great and that a relatively small amount of funds is needed to honor these contracts in this programme. The second programme that is of our particular interest is the EIB2 programme. It's an integral development of the local community and it includes communal infrastructure, roads, kindergartens, halls, etc., not to count now, probably most of it and you know it. Now in rebalancing, we have 135 million planned for this project. But we also have information from the ministry that a commitment has already been signed for 309 million kunas in this programme. Otherwise, there are about 645 projects prepared, completed in the programme itself, which would mean that any local self-government could get such a single programme and I don't have to say what such a single programme means, or one project for some fiscally poor local self-government. The programme is thought to be the cheapest money for the Republic of Croatia because it is credited with the European Investment Bank's assets in a well-known 50%-50% model. However, some indicators also say that these allocation funds have their own costs to the same bank if projects are drawn over the agreed deadlines, so some deadlines from those contracts are exceeded. The third programme that is of our particular interest is the PSG, the PSG's programme of socio-economic recovery. The very rebalancing proposed to us envisions 60 million kuna for this programme. We have information that projects have already been prepared for values in some 300 million kunas. In total, the program was worth some 440 million kuna. Something's already been realized, etc. So it is important that this PSG if we enter its structure we see that it consists of five components that are very important for the population that we are talking about here, which are mainly demining components, small municipal infrastructures, new agricultural cooperatives, so already established agricultural cooperatives, and these are financing their equipment, machines, etc. If we are talking now we have an interest in protecting and preserving the number of employees and cooperatives in small areas are certainly one of the elements of some social security and work engagement, then we see how important this PSG program is to this component. The economy is certainly a component that is very important because it provides small entrepreneurs with certain grants through this programme. I can say here that from the sphere of the economy was signed somewhere around 163 such a contract. So there was some intention and there was some plan to withdraw funds from... and ultimately social inclusion that involves the work of certain associations to help older people. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But it is particularly important for small individuals of local self-government where certain people living in the municipality are employed through the help of older people. So, why did you bring this up? Because I think the budget rebalancing is exactly this ministry that I'm talking about now denied in relation to the basic budget somewhere around 300 million kunas that we think have significantly disrupted the realization of this programme that I've been talking about. The question now is basic. How we will honour the transport of these obligations by means of contracts, whether or not and who will be responsible for non-compliance with the contracts on behalf of the ministry, which is why the ministry took over on behalf of the state. The most important thing is when and how, with this kind of funding that we have proposed in the budget rebalancing, we will come to what all parties have agreed politically on by consensus, I think it is at least that way, and that is a balanced regional development, with a special emphasis on the development of the lagging environments. And finally, we at the SDSS Club suggest that such reduced resources be returned to the position of the Ministry of Regional Development, to the level at which they were defined, so when we adopted the budget, because we think it would be acceptable for us to develop certain areas, as well as in the context of consistent implementation of agreed programmes and some of our agreements that we had at the moment we discussed the budget. Otherwise, I'm afraid this kind of budget rebalancing for us for the reasons that I've just said to my colleague on the previous name of the club, my colleague Milorad Pupovac, is going to be under a big question and wondering if this kind of budget rebalancing will be acceptable to us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-30-0.u31323	Thank you. And on behalf of the SDP club final, 5 minutes, the esteemed representative Slavko Linic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-30-0.u31324	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues. The SDP club needs to give its assessment of this debate today and we appreciate that this important act, as it was said this morning, has remained important only to Minister Shuker. We have not seen any of the members of the government more seriously in this debate, nor have they felt the need to do anything about it. A special disappointment for the SDP club is Prime Minister Sanader himself, who has had no need all day to share the weight of the act, the seriousness of the crisis and the situation with MPs in the parliament. Therefore, it is apparent that it is only the minister of finance who seriously considers this act to be the one to be discussed. It is interesting for the SDP that we have not heard the debate of the Croatian Peasant Party on behalf of the club. We didn't hear. Although I think a lot of agriculture can be heard and, in fact, it was interesting to hear really what we think about agriculture given how important it is for food production. But there, the club also felt that this important document on the crisis should not be spoken. We also want to say that only SDP representatives and SDSS representatives participated in the debate. they are the only representatives who have prepared the debates for this document. Okay. But we also find that the correction institute was used by HDZ representatives, and thus created the impression of bickering and intolerance. But for the SDP club, the worst was the assessment of the HDZ club through our colleague Hebrang, which is that we have an eyeless obstruction in the debate. Therefore, the SDPs and the SDSS are involved in the debate, but we have an eyeless obstruction, a correction of an incorrect quote that is used is probably not obstruction. Well, at the SDP club, we all feel that each of us has the right to take part in the debate as he believes. I find that this was particularly unacceptable by the HDZ Club and that was the reason for me to think even 15 or I don't know how many 17 corrections. We really tried to show how ugly it is to judge a colleague who wants to tell his argument, even if it was hard. Finally, the SDP Club estimates that this rebalancing is neither the behaviour of the debate nor the real content outlines the depth of our economic crisis nor the depth of our problems, so this is why we did not find any measures in this rebalancing to recover damage from recession and domestic crisis, and at least we found measures to protect the citizens of Croatia and protect their standard of living, which is why we will not support it, and we will not give any amendments.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-30-0.u31325	Thank you. We have one correction to the incorrect allegations, the esteemed representative Frano Matušić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-30-0.u31326	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I'll correct two incorrect allegations. First of all, it's only Minister Shuker who cares about this budget rebalance. That's incorrect. So it's important to all of us, because it's a reflection of the real state we're in right now. Secondly, it is incorrect that Prime Minister Sanader did not consider it necessary to come. He sent almost an entire government here and had obligations that were equally important, we have already said regarding the response to Commissioner Rehn about Slovenia, border issues. And the third question is actually where was your president who was otherwise paid to sit in this pay phone and speak for those who chose him. That's the question. What was he doing, and where is he today during the entire debate?
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-30-0.u31327	Thank you. Does a government official want to take a word for it? Yeah. The Honorable Ivan Shuker Minister of Finance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-30-0.u31328	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. What I'm being forced into as a resolution minister at the end of this debate, I wouldn't want to, given that we're at the end, that we're spreading any bile and that we're accusing each other. No matter what we say about good wishes, have we really touched the fundamental problems that plague us in this debate today? I say responsibly, colleagues from the SDP, that despite all your discussions, look at them a little bit better and you will see that virtually none of the crucial issues that Croatia is struggling with at this time have been touched. With all due respect to all your discussions. Here it is simply imposed as if because of the government's incompetence, some things happen to the government's ignorance. You can criticise certain processes, it's your political right, and it's none of your faults, nor forbids it, but it's the normal action of a political party. Have we heard anything today about the problem of state funding, the problem of financing the economy? No, we're not. Have we heard what we need to do to get in the position that Croatia has better status on the international financial market? We didn't. Today, when I read the IMF report when a stand-by arrangement was made, no one even reacted, even asked well what it meant for Croatia to reduce that level of risk from 460 to 380. And another thing, that no matter how hard we try to show how desperate the situation is in Croatia, we are still better rated from international financial institutions than most transition countries. Perhaps two or three, although members of the European Union, are better rated than we are. So, with all the problems we've got, no one's slow or running away from them. We're talking about an indifference problem. If I'm not mistaken, the second point of the government's anti-recession programme is the liquidity problem, and that's exactly what the government can influence. There we have defined exactly what measures we need to take. We can discuss whether it's an adequate measure or not, but we can't say it's not a problem that's put on the table, which isn't recognized as a problem. We just can't say that. And that's what the government official was talking about, and I've been talking about the past few days. So you simply can't say that it's something that wasn't discussed or talked about and something that was put under the carpet. Export. Look, we can work as hard as we want, but certain economic branches simply got the red light on the markets of our strongest external and trade partners, Italy, Austria, Germany because they simply want to exploit the maximum and potential of their industry and then just import from some other countries. What would the Slovenians say when the French now practically transferred the complete production of Clia from New Place to France the other day? Or the Czechs whose almost complete production of Citroena was transferred to France. Say a document like this is done without any projections, forgive my colleague Linic, but that's offensive. If you're already insulting me, please don't insult the honest and dedicated people who work at the Ministry of Finance. I'm asking you nicely. Because what you're saying is simply offensive because whoever's doing the budget and who's proposing that document can't suggest that he hasn't made a projection. I am earlier, I am speaking because I am personifying the Ministry of Finance, I have carried out a series of consultations and discussions with leading economic analysts in the Republic of Croatia, which is also how to do at these times that we do not publicly argue about how much should or should not be growth or inflation. Change of tax policy. Everyone has a right to their views, but I have to tell you. I don't understand why you're repeating two things, and you know it's not true. First of all, the stock you get as a bonus isn't taxable. That's just not true. A small child who reads the Income Tax Act will see that it is a receipt that is taxed. I ask you nicely, don't, for various political reasons, first of all, you're an expert man, and then you can't say for any political reason that something isn't taxed. That's just not true. Look at the Income Tax Act, and you'll see. As far as VAT is concerned, differentiated energy rates. That's what we talked about here at the High House when it was your proposal and I read you the European Union Directives. Therefore, neither the Directives of Ivan Shuker nor Eve Sanader, nor anyone but the European Union Directives, which clearly state that the differentiated rate of energy cannot be introduced. These are European Union directives. And you're talking about doing it again, even though you know very well that it shouldn't be done. Turning agricultural land into construction land. A colleague, Pankretic, has been at war with this law for the past few months just to prevent that speculation from buying or obtaining agricultural land, to turn it into construction and to earn a lot of money in one way or another after a few years. Two taxes are paid. One is actually a fee for re-use of agricultural land in building land, and the other is a profit tax given the changes in balance sheet. So, you see, I've looked back on some things myself because you were the last one to talk about it. I wouldn't want to look back at everything that happened today. We're in the situation we're in. We can fight as long as we want. However, one who passed the road show knows well when you go out to issue securities to read all the statements of responsible people. As rating agencies come to one country, they also talk to opposition politicians, talk to various associations and chambers, as well as when securities are issued normally to value everything. I don't want to say that you're going to take it away in such a way that you don't want to chase me down again, so I'm going straight ahead. I'm just saying, in these difficult moments, we all have to pay close attention to our statements. There'll be plenty of time for political bickering as long as we want. But let's not, at least we who deal with the profession, because of certain political small points, and even to ignore that we know very well that it's not true, let's say it's among other things taxing these bonus shares. And when we pass each other over, there were sales like this, if I were to go into the story that's been going on since 2000, that just doesn't lead us anywhere. He simply doesn't lead us anywhere, nor will he lead us anywhere. Like all such infertile stories, there are some things that we're just going to have to do together, no matter how politically it seems impossible, but we're going to have to do together, if we want good to our country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-30-0.u31329	Thank you. We have three corrections of incorrect allegations. First of all, MP Željka Antunović, vice president of the House, is a respected representative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-30-0.u31330	I am correcting the imprecise statement by the minister that no one here has touched the crucial problems in today's debate. He counted them himself by the economy, export liquidity and others. Such inaccuracy or error can be given by my assessment for two reasons. One is that we, as far as the SDP is concerned, have spoken some foreign incomprehensible language, and the other could be that someone on the other hand, by the proponent of this budget rebalancing, or the finance minister is unable to face reality and the fact that this almost linear budget cost cutting cannot solve this crucial problem. We were talking about the economy, the threat of jobs, the threat of existence, that's what we were talking about. And we didn't speak in a foreign language, in an incomprehensible foreign language, but simply the minister is unable to accept the situation, face the facts and make the right moves.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-30-0.u31331	Thank you. Second correction of the incorrect allegations, the esteemed representative Zoran Vinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-30-0.u31332	Thank you. Here's where my colleague Antunovic started. It's not true, Mr. Minister, that we didn't even propose measures. Well, you've had a whole set of laws to improve the standards and citizens of Croatia and recover the economy, but this whole Assembly has rejected all these SDP proposals. It is not true that today we have not even talked about the difficult situation in the country, about the state of the economy, about the indifference and the great internal debt, the debts of the state, the ministries, etc. It's clear to me that you are now in an uninvited position that by Friday you have to persuade coalition partners, even those who weren't here today. That's where I think of HSS.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-30-0.u31333	This no longer falls under the correction of an incorrect assumption. You corrected an incorrect quote, you explained it. If you don't have any more, then that's it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-30-0.u31334	Let me finish. It's going to be very difficult.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-30-0.u31335	Thank you very much. And the third correction of an incorrect quote. ... No throwing, please. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Calm down. And we have a third correction to the incorrect allegations, the esteemed representative of Gordan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-30-0.u31336	Thank you very much. Since the minister has twice pointed out that taxes are paid in Croatia when you get a bonus in shares as a salary in nature, I will only mention that it is not true. It means you when you win. Yes, yes, ministers, only taxes are paid on the difference between, because when managers of Croatian companies get shares they get them as a gift from the company they work in and only pay taxes on the difference between the real price of the stock and the price at which the stock was acquired. And that way, I won't mention the banks now, but two bankers who thank God successfully ran their banks in 2006 and thus were adequately rewarded. I don't mind. They've earned their money fair and square. They were rewarded with 40 million kunas in shares. The state took little or nothing from them, and if they had declared the prize as salaries, the state would have collected 32 million kuna, and if they had been taxed, as is the case in Slovenia, the state would have taken 8 million kuna and that is the truth. So don't let the Ministers do that when you make honest money, you have to put some money in the state budget, if you've earned it fairly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-30-0.u31337	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. The deadline for the amendments is Tuesday to 12 o'clock. So tomorrow, 12 o'clock. We'll vote Friday. We'll vote on Friday.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-30-0.u31338	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs and counsellors. I warmly welcome you all. We are going to vote on the debated items of the agenda. The first is the proposal to amend and supplement the State budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2009, the proposal for amending and supplementing the 2009 financial plans: (a) Croatian Waters, (a) Croatian Roads, (a) State Deposit Insurance and Bank Rehabilitation Agency, (a) the Croatian Privatisation Fund, (a) the Environment and Energy Efficiency Fund, the Proposal for amendments and additions to the State Budget and the financial plans of extra budget users for 2009 (consolidated). The debate on the text of amendments and additions to the State budget has been concluded. Ladies and gentlemen of MPs and MPs, we are going to vote on the 2009 amendment and addition of the State Budget of the Republic of Croatia. You've been assigned a review of the amendment to the bench. We're going to vote on the amendments. Mr. Milorad Pupovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-30-0.u31339	Mr. President, on behalf of the SDSS Club, I'm looking for a break of 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-30-0.u31340	Okay. I'm setting a break of 10 minutes. We'll continue at 10 o'clock and 50 minutes. Ladies and gentlemen, we will proceed with the session. On behalf of the club Mr. Milorad Pupovac has requested a break of 10 minutes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-30-0.u31342	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues. On behalf of the SDSS club, I asked for a break of 10 minutes so I could explain why the SDSS club would not support this budget rebalance. We are the reasons for the instructions here during the debate, we have instructed them at times when the interest of the Croatian public existed, but I am obliged to do so to you colleagues and colleagues with whom we are especially with those with whom we are coalition partners. And with whom we have committed to cooperating and sharing responsibility for the fate of the government that we have formed and to which we are participating. First, the SDSS club as well as those who, on behalf of the SDSS, consist of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, were not able to see what the budget looks like, nor were they able to discuss, let alone participate in what it will look like in the final. It was not possible until the moment when the decision on the budget was to be taken by the Government, which means the day after we representatives in the Croatian Parliament. No one told us that's why there's a higher interest. If he'd told us there was a higher interest, we might have understood him. But to this day, we don't know if there's any higher interest in this kind of rebalancing and that kind of budgeting. I don't know how other coalition partners went in that sense, because we don't have the practice of talking about such important things as budget. The budget and trust of the government are the two most important things that MPs have as their obligation. Especially those who make up the ruling coalition. The fact that the direct motive of our dissatisfaction was that the Ministry of Regional Development had the biggest budget cuts. And the fact that inside that ministry, the biggest shaggings went according to the items concerning areas of special state concern. Only so much about how far these areas are, areas of special state concern. They represent the problem, but they are no longer a legal problem. The main problem, colleagues and colleagues, is that it's not just money anymore. We could have agreed on the money, but we didn't. The main problem is can we agree on things that are of common interest? Can we share responsibility for things that are of common interest? And the main problem is that colleagues and colleagues, when it's a time of crisis, people usually behave in two ways. One is to fight, because there's not enough for everyone and run away if they acted together. That the family starts to dispute and argue and share with each other about something that is not enough for everyone. And the other way is that whoever takes the lead responsibility for that group, for that family, for that team, for that coalition, not only keeps the group together, but creates a team wider than that, so that he can overcome the crisis and get out of the crisis. I nominate my colleagues and colleagues, now I no longer speak only to my colleagues and colleagues from the ruling coalition, but also to those who make up the Croatian opposition. I plead for this second. If we just get into a fight, if we just split up, if we just start pulling everyone on our side, and if we narrow down in the decision-making system and don't start using everything we have in Croatia for what we're facing, and budget rebalance is just one of the phases, we're unfortunately in permanent rebalancing, we don't really know what budget we have. We'll vote one rebalancing today, but we're aware that tomorrow we should vote another. But I won't blame anyone for it and it can be a way of dealing with the crisis and the difficulties we face. What's a fundamental problem for me is are we expanding our capacity to deal with the crisis, or are we narrowing down our capacity to deal with the crisis? Do we use everything that Croatia has or uses less than it has? And that's why the SDSS will vote against this budget rebalance not only because of this direct motive, but also because of this fundamental motive.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-30-0.u31343	Thank you. We're going to vote on the amendments. Please, let's get on with it. I'd like the Minister of Finance, Ivan Shuker, to be made known about the amendments. Let's see the quorum before. 117 present representatives. We have a quorum. We have Mrs. Vesna Pusic's first amendment, the first amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-30-0.u31344	The government does not accept, for the reason we believe that budgets will be sufficient for the office to work. However, the second reason is very important and this is the Office for the Protection of Competition, one very important institution and cutting, has millions of funds and 50 million would question the functioning of this office and we all know when we talk about Europe, entering Europe how important this office is. Therefore, these are two reasons why the Government cannot accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-30-0.u31345	Thank you. Mrs. Vesna Pusic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-30-0.u31346	I thank Mr. President, therefore, neither I nor the HNS club have any illusions that the Government would possibly accept some amendments but we felt that, in order to protect or at least try to return to the Croatian Assembly in this regard, it is necessary to show these amendments at least in some ways which is the different direction in which this budget should go. So, the prevention of drug abuse is, of course, a project aimed at young people. In recent days, we have seen research and data from both public and public at the level of 15-year-olds what is a huge problem precisely with this topic, among young people and to what extent is one danger that is growing and that something else is done. As for the item from which our preparation for the European Union is taken, such as the white one, is somewhat slowed down from the budget, and in some ways a large part of the reforms, and especially regarding the incentives in agriculture where it remains in the old model and we all know that we will have to go towards a new model in the European Union. So all together is put slowly aside. At least for a while. So let us at least try to deal with what is our burning problem, which is the protection of young people. Since we have put aside the whole project for a variety of reasons, especially in the major reforms that we need and are related to agriculture. That's why I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-30-0.u31347	Please, let's get on with it. We are voting on the 1st amendment of representative Mrs Pusic, which the government does not accept. Let's get involved and vote. Score. The amendment was not accepted because it was voted by 48 MPs, 6 abstentions and 77 against. We move on to amendment of Mr. Zlatko Horvat's representative number two.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-30-0.u31348	The government does not accept, I can say with the same explanation as when adopting the budget. I am sorry, therefore, that the situation in which they were being saved, savings-credited cooperatives in Varazdin just so that the situation would not happen in the future, the government has changed the full legislation regarding such institutions. And I say for one reason it can't happen in the future anymore. Unfortunately, the people who invested in this savings-credit cooperative did not have insurance under the Saving Deposits Insurance Act. And the other thing, given the inaccuracy of the amendment, is the administration, you can't see from which position it would be removed from. And otherwise I have to say something for the public, unfortunately when these amendments were submitted, the MPs did not adhere to the provisions of the new budget law that came into force 1. 1. In 2009. So the government does not accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-30-0.u31349	Thank you. Mr. Zlatko Horvat. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-30-0.u31350	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, I know that you are aware that she has done business until recently this craftsman's savings-credit cooperative in Varazdin and that she has had about 150 active investors, mostly small craftsmen or pensioners who, with one tradition that this cooperative had and trust because a new law on savings-credit cooperatives has recently been passed and has tightened the business criteria and has predicted that regular controls have been carried out by foreign financial authorities. I know there's been some messy business in that community by the company's management. But I think it's very important to say that neither the continental control that was to be carried out regularly was done in time, and therefore there were these disorders that eventually opened up the bankruptcy. For this reason, I felt that because of these failures that were on the side of that financial control, the government should show one sensitivity and help these, therefore, small craftsmen and pensioners to come to their savings roles, which is unlikely to come through bankruptcy. I'm sorry it wasn't accepted and I'm asking you to vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-30-0.u31351	Thank you. Let's please get involved and vote on Amendment 2 to Mr. Gold Horvat, which is otherwise not accepted by the government. Thank you. Score. The amendment was not accepted because it voted 47 for, 3 abstentions and 78 votes against. I'm asking State Secretary Miljenko Pavlovic of the Ministry of Economy. Third amendment of Mr. Zlatko Horvat's representative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-30-0.u31352	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament. On behalf of the Government, we do not accept this amendment for the reason that just in the activities of the Ministry of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship, more than what is required in the amendment is already foreseen, meaning a little more than EUR 114.5 million is foreseen for the restructuring and development of the textile and processing industry. And as for the part of the wood industry, it does not fall within the jurisdiction of our ministry, but rather within the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Regional Development, Forestry and Water Economy. And they also have funds secured for the project.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-30-0.u31353	Thank you. Mr. Zlatko Horvat. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-30-0.u31354	Mr. President, I don't think we should talk about the position of the textile industry and we all know how, I know that the insured part, however, looking at the number of employees, looking at the situation as in that branch of the labour intensive industry, I think it was necessary to provide additional resources to those requested by the amendment. So, right away, we don't mind providing funds for the rehabilitation of the shipyard, but I think it's disproportionate to what is being provided for shipyards and for the textile industry. And I come from that neighborhood, from that city where this textile industry is the strongest in the country and I know what situations only in the city of Varazdin over 4,000 workers work for an average salary of 2,000 and some kuna. And I think that this amendment and accepting this amount would significantly help to maintain production, not to lose jobs, because, with the greatest effort, I have to say specifically and with the help of the city, when it comes to losing jobs... The largest textile industry is being held at this level which is now and about the wood industry not to talk. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So whether it belongs to your portfolio or not, we felt it was necessary to mention it and to make it extremely useful, it would eventually be seen in the future, that by missing the amount accepted that the textile industry would come into great trouble. I'm sorry he wasn't accepted and I'm asking you to vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-30-0.u31355	Thank you. Let's please get involved and vote on Mr. Gold Horvat's 3rd Amendment. Score. The amendment was not accepted, 37 for, 4 abstentions and 78 against. Amendment 4 to Mr. Goran Beus Richembergh's amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-30-0.u31356	The government does not accept this amendment for similar reasons as this one, because it is precisely that state aid for energy efficiency and renewable energy are provided for funds in the Ministry of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship where public competition for the allocation of these funds will be launched, so that the costs of production and project documentation and the implementation of a complete cogeneration project financed and from the Ministry where the funds are already provided, noting through public competition, and the funds are also provided for in the Environment and Energy Efficiency Fund.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-30-0.u31357	Thank you. Mr. Representative Goran Beus Richembergh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-30-0.u31358	My colleagues and colleagues, the biggest air pollutants in Velika Gorica are 14 heat systems of thermal energy production and distribution. Of these 14, only one does not drive lubricating oils. These devices have no sophisticated filters and citizens have been fighting for years. The only way to achieve an effective replacement of this type of heat energy production is to build a cogeneration device for which there is already an environmental impact study, as well as a faasisability study. In any case, we know that HEP Ecos highly recommended the construction of this device that would provide electricity among other things, and heat would be a secondary product. However, the whole project has stopped because of a lack of money. As the sixth-largest city in the Republic of Croatia is concerned, we believe that the state from the state budget should directly assist the project documentation itself, because this project is of exceptional importance for the entire Turkish region. I'm sorry you didn't accept the amendment and I'm asking you to vote. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-30-0.u31359	Thank you. Please join in and vote on Mr. Gorane Beus Richembergh's fourth amendment. Here you go. Score. [[Intruder: And when he didn't write.]] The amendment was not accepted, 42 votes for, 4 abstentions and 79 against. I ask Secretary of State Zlatko Krmek, on behalf of the Ministry of Regional Development, Forestry and Water Economy, to declare the 5th amendment of Mr. Goran Beus Richembergh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-30-0.u31360	Thank you, Mr. President. The government does not accept the amendment for reasons because activities on the county roads are not in the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Regional Development.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-30-0.u31361	Thank you. Mr. Representative Goran Beus Richembergh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-30-0.u31362	This is not the first time to submit an amendment when it comes to the county road which is one of the important roads in Sisak-Moslavina County and I will endure it until the state realizes that the County Road Administration of Sisak-Moslavina County cannot handle this important road itself, which is usually macadamic. And I would like you to join all who will mark this year's Day of Antifascist Fight in Bezovica Forest on 22 June where the political elite regularly comes and drives on this very road that is in catastrophic condition, which directly affects the quality of life in part of Lonjsko polje. I ask you to take this contact that goes to the banks of Sava, which is being destroyed by the trucks of state-owned companies because it's for the determination of the coast, yet consider it a priority and cannot be brought down on the shoulders of the County Road Administration. This is part of the total transport infrastructure between the Lonjsko polje and the Sisak-Popovič highway, i.e. the Sisak-Popovič fast roads. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-30-0.u31363	Thank you. Let's please get involved and vote on Mr. Gorane Beus Richembergh's fifth amendment. Here you go. Score. The amendment was not accepted. He was voted by 48 MPs, no abstentions, 79 against. The 6th Amendment of the same representative, Mr. Goran Beus Richembergh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-30-0.u31364	Thank you, Mr. President. The government does not accept the amendment and for the reason that the technical documentation is not in such a degree as to enter the water management plan, and we suggest that when the complete documentation is finished, you can run these activities for Croatian waters in the Water Management Plan for 2010.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-30-0.u31365	Thank you. Mr. Beus Richembergh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-30-0.u31366	I'm sorry you feel this is a problem that has nothing to do with Croatian Waters. Namely, it is a residential building with a water tower, but which it began to destroy the activity of a state-owned company called HEP Heat. In fact, the entire building is being driven by a chimney that releases extremely aggressive gases and smoke that bites the entire building's armature and it's about the operation of a state-owned company, not of a water-supplyervised person, actually jeopardizing the lives of several hundred residents in this apartment building. An intervention aid has been sought and it has been going on for several years, and the state is unfortunately deafening the fact that the operation of its company has put people living in the building at risk of a fall in the value of real estate and a number of other problems that citizens and buildings in Velika Gorica have. So please, I will continue to submit this amendment from budget to budget until there are enough feelings for the needs of citizens living in the Waterworks building in Velika Gorica. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-30-0.u31367	Thank you. Let's please get involved and vote on Mr. Beus Richembergh's sixth amendment. The result? The amendment was not accepted, 52 votes for, 2 abstentions and 77 against. Thank you. I would like the Secretary of State, Mr. Željko Tufekčić of the Ministry of the Sea, Transport and Infrastructure to indicate the 7th Amendment of Mr. Goran Beus Richembergh.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-30-0.u31368	Thank you, Mr. President. The amendment is not accepted. Namely, in accordance with Article 66. Law on public roads, county road administrations earn their own revenue from the annual fee for the use of public roads, and these funds are used for county and local roads in the area of the county in which they were made. In addition, the Croatian Roads budget continuously transfers 240 million kuna to the county road administrations and thus these two nines, regardless of the fact that the Croatian Roads budget is reduced and that their revenues are lower, will be transferred to 240 million kunas this year to the county road administrations.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-30-0.u31369	Thank you. Mr. Representative Goran Beus Richembergh.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-30-0.u31370	Mr. Secretary of State, I am sorry that your approach is somewhat different from that of Minister Calmeta, who has answered my representative's question that the ministry is seriously considering the need for emergency assistance to the county road administrations aware that the past winter has been unusually harsh because of the large amounts of ice on the stake where the surface of destroyed stakes has come to an extent that 25% of all county and local roads are now below safety standards and many of them should, if these standards were respected, be closed. You know for a fact that the county road administrations of the moment are shorter by 2 billion than they have, compared to what they need. Therefore, this amendment, which would assign to these 240 million more, is actually a drop in the sea, but something that would directly help the work of local construction companies in terms of preserving local jobs, increasing road safety and reducing the costs that citizens have due to damage to their personal cars due to severe damage. I am sorry that this obligation is not seen to take this problem seriously, and I believe, however, that Minister Kalmeta will keep his promise, which is that by June this year, he will establish a new system of financing of the county road administrations so that this will no longer come to an end, i.e. to urgently resolve this great damage. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-30-0.u31371	Thank you. Let's get involved and vote on Mr. Goran Beus Richembergh's 7th Amendment. Let's vote. The result? The amendment was not accepted, he received 44 votes for, 1 abstention and 79 against. And the 8th Amendment of Mr. Goran Beus Richembergh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-30-0.u31372	The amendment is not accepted. As in the previous amendment, it is a county road, which is in the jurisdiction of the County Road Administration and thereafter, its maintenance and editing should be carried out from the plan and programme from the funds of the competent ZUC.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-30-0.u31373	Thank you. Mr. Beus Richembergh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-30-0.u31374	Mr. Secretary of State, I fully understand the government's arguments, but in this case it is a damage done by building a new facility. Therefore, there is anticipation of those traffic routes that are being destroyed because of the heavy machinery that is being built by someone else, as in this case Zagreb-Vika Gorica-Sisak highway. However, the recovery of this county road that passes through a densely populated area is not foreseen in plans of the Croatian highways and citizens are each day exposed to a terrible death, not only because of heavy traffic, but because of the terrible catastrophic image and quality of this road. It's a few thousand people, one of the most densely populated parts of Turopoly, and I ask that this be reconsidered in any other way, and in this case I ask that the amendment be voted on. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-30-0.u31375	Let's vote. Please, let's get on with it. The 8th Amendment of Mr. Goran Beus Richembergh. Let's get involved and vote. The result? The amendment was not accepted, he received 46 votes for, 2 abstentions and 78 against. I ask Secretary of State Željir Janjic to be shown about the amendments. First of all, the amendment to the number nine representative of the Golden Horvat. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-30-0.u31376	Thank you very much, dear President of the Croatian Parliament. We cannot accept the amendment of the 9th Honored Representative of the Golden Horvat. The planned funds for this purpose are provided in division 0.80, chapter 0.5, science, education and sport. So they are secured at K579 041 titled "Building of the Tomislav Špoljar Building in Varazdin" and the design jobs have already been completed and a major projector's certificate has been issued for the new building. The Ministry will further, in cooperation with the co-financers, establish further dynamic activities in the construction of this building and fully realise the envisaged objectives in this capital project. If we accept, Your Honor, this amendment, it would mean that we would have 2 items for one and the same building. So I'm asking you to withdraw the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-30-0.u31377	Thank you. Mr. Representative Zlatko Horvat. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-30-0.u31378	Mr. Secretary of State, I thank you first of all for saying that part of the project was secured. However, the objective of this amendment was to focus more on orderly size because we calculated that this amount, roughly I think, is 100 thousand kuna, will not be enough to design and for those preparatory works. But anyway, so it's started, and it's already this first step because it's really about students with special needs, with developmental difficulties that work under really impossible conditions. I ask you to keep this promise in that sense and this promise that the city, together with the ministry, will continue to work and design and prepare work and finally build itself because the city of Varazdin has provided both the necessary land and the infrastructure for that building and it would really be necessary. I know it's supposed to save, but let's not save on the kids and especially this one who... So I'm withdrawing this amendment. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-30-0.u31379	This amendment has been withdrawn. Mr. Representative Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-30-0.u31380	The result doesn't change, I follow it when voting on these eight amendments. And that's how much I would really suggest in front of the club for expeditionivity, for speed to vote on amendments manually and normally on rebalancing or other laws electronically.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-30-0.u31381	A legitimate proposal acceptable. Please state the 10th amendment of Ms. Vesna Pusic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-30-0.u31382	Wesna Pusic, the 10th Amendment, cannot be accepted because the funds are planned in accordance with the National Programme for the introduction of mandatory secondary education. Therefore, respected MPs cannot accept this amendment because the funds are planned in accordance with the National Programme for the Introduction of Mandatory Secondary Education and this National Programme was adopted by the Croatian Parliament on 21 June 2007 and defined by the sub-cessional introduction of funding for the transport of pupils, first for first-class high school students in the school year 2007/2008, second-class high school in the school year 2008/2009. So this one, and since autumn, since 2009/2010. school years for third grade students and years behind that for fourth grade students. I have to mention here respected MPs that in addition to these funds that we have secured in the state budget for first and second grade students that the Ministry of Regional Development has provided funds for the transport of third and fourth grade students in areas of special state care and 16 Croatian counties have areas of special state care. Thus, there remained a small part of the third and fourth grade students not covered by this work. I have one more thing to add, that the Ministry must provide means to transport all students on our islands from first to fourth grade high school. This small part, which remained uncovered, remained with local self-government, municipalities, cities and counties. As they had previously allocated funds in a certain percentage for co-financing of student transport, their donations remained in fact much smaller and the largest number of our counties covered the rest. I can mention to you, say, Varazdin County, like Međimurska County. It's all covered 100%, so if you want to even the Vukovar-Srijem County that probably has the least income.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-30-0.u31383	Mrs. Vesna Pusic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-30-0.u31384	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary of State, it is clear that there is a difference in our concept in this amendment. You and your government say you're covering transport costs and you're not actually covering it. You're covering the cost of first and second grade. When we say that the transport costs for high school are to be covered, then that means covering the transport costs for high school students, so for the first, second, third and fourth grade. As far as the Ministry of Regional Development is concerned, he was cut off by more than 22%. As far as the island is concerned, unfortunately, there are relatively few people and even fewer children. As for state aid to municipalities, cities and counties, it amounts to 90 million kunas, so a negligible amount. So it's pretty clear here or we have to cover transportation costs for high school kids or we don't. We need to have our attitude because education is one of the main instruments by which we can get out of the crisis in the medium and long term. We don't need to have your attitude. Therefore, you stay with your attitude. Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-30-0.u31385	Thank you. I am putting this amendment number 10 of Ms. Vesna Pusic to the vote. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. We move on to the 11th amendment of Ms. Vesna Pusic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-30-0.u31386	The 11th amendment of the esteemed representative Vesna Pusic cannot be accepted. The planned means for this purpose are sufficient and secured in the division 080 Chapters 05 Science, education and sport through the activity of A577016 called Prevention of School Violence. I will remind the esteemed MPs that this is not the only item intended for this program. Every year, the ministry announces a tender for support to organisations engaged in extra-institutional education and education. It's about lottery funds. Our ministry for this purpose gets 4%, that's about 10 million kuna. Divided into four groups. One of the groups is the prevention of violence. So every year, we separate from this part about 2.5 million kuna by supporting projects and programmes, projects of up to 100 thousand kuna and programmes of up to 350 thousand kuna. The difference between projects and programmes is that we finance projects by one year and programmes by three years. Every year that competition is being held right now. During April, a tender and funding will be launched for this year. I must remind myself that we have over 5 hundred associations of 25 thousand that we have in the Republic of Croatia that are actually dealing with this problem and are helping us to implement these programmes in the system.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-30-0.u31387	Thank you. Mrs. Vesna Pusic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-30-0.u31388	Thank you, Mr. President. I have to work very hard to hear the secretary of state because the general joy prevailed in the assembly, although I don't think it's a good time to think about what kind of budget is proposed here and given the indicators that it's going to slip through the eye of the needle. As far as this amendment is concerned, funding NGOs is one thing. As we know, there are nearly 30,000 in Croatia. Therefore, the financing of government associations is one and in general the Institute of Civil Society is one project or approach to things. Government intervention in certain crisis sectors, and school violence prevention must be a crisis sector. You know there are schools where metal detectors need input, where teachers, teachers, teachers are afraid to judge students at all, where the situation is that people fight each other, so students fight each other, sometimes with tragic consequences. So this is obviously something where it needs to be and can intervene while there is still a problem at the level where to somewhat prevent his or her escalation, and it is obvious that this problem is escalating. On the other hand, money is taken from items that are otherwise conceived to mean the collapse of a whole segment of people in agriculture. In the short term, money is shared in agriculture, which will be destroyed by these small farmers with the reform of the European Union model, because they are now not helped to reform agriculture in this segment. It is therefore important both what is done and where it is taken. I ask the vote on this amendment, and I ask that those who shut down my microphone, rather think about agricultural reform.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-30-0.u31389	Thank you very much. My colleagues and colleagues, please, as long as it takes to hear what's being said at all, I'd like to ask everyone to quiet down a little bit. And secondly, let's not turn off the microphones, because it's kind of extending ours again, and it's not right. So I put the 11th amendment to Ms. Vesna Pusic's vote. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. I would like Secretary of State Branko Grgic of the Ministry of Tourism to declare the 12th amendment of Ms. Vesna Pusic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-30-0.u31390	Your Honor, Mr. President, Your Honor, MP. The amendment is not accepted, in the position of incentives to increase the competitiveness of the tourism market. The proposed amount of funding of 23 million kuna is sufficient for the planned activities and measures aimed at increasing the competitiveness of Croatian tourism in line with the Government of Croatia's programme. The programme of tourism education and training, incentives to increase tourist safety, the project is the financing of the hotel catering industry, the co-financing of investments in tourism infrastructure, the promotion of events in tourism and a programme to encourage the formation of multi-sectoral clusters. We note that the remaining funds have been redistributed to activities related to the global economic situation and the ministry's action plan.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-30-0.u31391	Thank you. Ms. Representative Vesna Pusic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-30-0.u31392	Thank you, Mr. President. Therefore, I do not doubt that the funds are sufficient for the envisaged activities. The intention of this amendment is to predict more activity. Because the entire ministry has a budget as one of the offices, for example in the City of Zagreb. So something over 200 million kuna for industry that is one of the fundamental crisis interventions of our industries. Therefore, even for one whole region, it is crucial. So, the intensity of the amendment is not enough for the activities you've predicted, but to ensure more activity and to predict more activity. I therefore request a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-30-0.u31393	Thank you. Who is MP Vesna Pusic for this amendment 12? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. I would ask Secretary of State Antu Zvonimir Golem to come forward with the 13th amendment of Mr Zlatko Korajevic's representative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-30-0.u31394	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The amendment is not accepted. The Varazdin County in co-operation with the General Hospital of Varazdin, according to the Public Procurement Act, has agreed to produce a project documentation for the construction and adaptation of the surgical building. It's the same made out of all the permits. The project documentation also plans to build an existing facility for the purpose of other medical content and accommodation of emergency hospital united reception. As on 21 October 2008, a loan agreement was signed for the emergency medical assistance improvement project and investment planning in healthcare between the Republic of Croatia and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development under which it was agreed that the Republic of Croatia from the domestic component of the loan would finance an increase of hospitals with emergency hospitally united reception, while the component will finance the equipment of the same. In line with the above, the Ministry of Health and Social Care and the Varazdin County will conclude an agreement on the financing of the General Hospital of Varazdin following an agreement with the World Bank on the ways and dynamics of the withdrawal of credit.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-30-0.u31395	Thank you. Mr. Zlatko Koračević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-30-0.u31396	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary of State, just learned and based on experience and the Varazdin County complete and the towns of the Varazdin County on the ratio of the state budget towards that end, and on the other hand the project documentation up to the level of the building permit was made and designed in the Varazdin County, normally before the shift that was made a year ago, shifts completely against the will of voters. With a very clear structure, the possibility of construction and aware that the central budget for projects when talking about the Varazdin County does not have that feeling, and the fact is the government's support for school building in the Varazdin County. The Varazdin County is the only one who has a single shift in security at the moment. And on the budget I had that amendment. Minister Milinovic said in the 12th month, we are ahead of the signing of a contract to continue rebuilding the Varazdin hospital. It's been four months, the whole story still revolves around the World Bank loan. And my wish and purpose of such an amendment, to send a very clear message to the county government, which will certainly change very soon, that from the central budget and this set will receive the necessary support for which the real citizens of the Varazdin County are entitled. I demand a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-30-0.u31397	Thank you. Who is Mr. Zlatko Koračević's number 13 amendment, please raise your hand? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. I would like the Secretary of State, Ms Tatjana Vučetic, to declare the 14th amendment of the representative, Ms Vesna Pusic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-30-0.u31398	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The amendment is not accepted. The Ministry of Justice planned funds in the 2009 State budget for the purpose of curbing corruption and organised crime at the following activities. The activity of 67800 combating corruption and organised crime on which the 2009 State budget of the Republic of Croatia was proposed to reduce the funding plan by a total of 5 million 155 thousand and 275 kuna. Of which the largest amount, 4 million 920 thousand 775 kuna refers to the reduction of the planned funds for the salaries of USKOK employees. As regards the proposed reduction of the base for the calculation of salaries to judicial officials and civil servants from 1 April 2009. The remaining lower amount of the reduction in the budget of 234 000 and 500 kuna was proposed on expenditure items for official travel, representation, insurance premiums, other expenditures not mentioned, and others to save in accordance with the recommendation of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The activity of 629258 anti-corruption strategy on which the proposal amending and supplementing the State budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2009 proposed an increase in the amount of millions and 80 thousand kuna, and a new plan on that activity of 3 million and 0,40 thousand kuna. Following that proposed funding plan on those activities, it is considered sufficient for these purposes to combat corruption and organised crime under the current conditions and conditions and conditions and assessments.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-30-0.u31399	Thank you. Ms. Representative Vesna Pusic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-30-0.u31400	Thank you, Mr. President, for reducing the money as the secretary of state has said to combat corruption and organised crime. I think it's quite clear what this is all about, there was a bad situation and a confused public at the end of last year after those tragic events and the focus was put on fighting corruption. Now the public's attention has fallen little, the whole European reform project is slowly being put aside and, of course, the fight against corruption and organised crime is being put aside. You say that mostly refers to wage cuts. Let me remind you, the first wage cuts can simply mean fewer people in the fight against organised crime and corruption. To compare with wage cuts and to reduce the number of people in the fight against corruption and organised crime, wages in the Government of the Republic of Croatia are growing by 5.11% according to this budget. The government therefore raises wages by 5.11% and raises 4 million and 900, as you said... No colleagues, lowers wages in the fight against corruption and organised crime. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] It's simply unacceptable for us. And while farmers and small peasants are being destroyed on the one hand with this way of unreformal approach to incentives and do not worry about their future, on the other hand, they are also reducing funds to fight corruption and organised crime. I don't see where it's going and the government's wages are rising by 5.11, I'm asking you to vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-30-0.u31401	Thank you. Who's for Amendment No. 14th representative of Mrs. Vesna Pusic please raise your hand? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. Thank you. I ask Mr. Finance Minister Ivan Šuker to show himself on the 15th amendment of Mr. Representative Zlatko Korakevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-30-0.u31402	The government does not accept this amendment for two reasons. One is that the funds of the Development and Employment Fund are planned in accordance with the guidelines and resources available in the budget. The second thing for economic incentives has several other instruments that are not here in the budget, which are HABOR and institutional banks that lend loans to business banks and thus are available to small and medium-sized entrepreneurs. However, it is very interesting that in most amendments of the HNS Club, it is proposed to cut the budget of the Ministry of Agriculture so that it is a total of 344 million and I don't think that Croatian farmers should be afraid with the reform of the support that will follow because it is simply not true what they say.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-30-0.u31403	Thank you. Mr. Representative Zlatko Koračević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-30-0.u31404	Thank you very much, and I am fully in agreement with this last sentence of Minister Shuker. But at the same time, I want and I'm glad, and I expected that explanation from Minister Shuker. When we talk about the economy, the fact is, support for the economy through the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development is definitely needed. Finally, and this recapitalisation or additional borrowing of the HABOR, the government has only fulfilled its commitment since 2005 in terms of increasing the core capital of the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development. But at the same time, Minister Shuker, it is clear to you that the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development is operating under the Banks Act. So, with very conservative, very conservative principles. Also... that the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development operates through business banks. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Therefore, business banks set priorities in monitoring the programme, not the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development and with funds through the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development, we raise the liquidity of business banks. My amendment is aimed at an economy that is in difficulty in an economy that has no option, and you know it very well, there is no possibility through business banks and through HABOR to restructure its balance sheets. Both the government and the economic council and the economic profession have been talking for four months about the need of a fund, an intervention fund. And it's precisely the Fund for Development and Employment that has that possibility already when we don't have the strength and the brains to form and set up a fund for, an intervention fund. And as far as agriculture is concerned, I want to visit you, Minister Shucker and you and the entire government for one of your commitments, which is the obligation of the 2005 Support Act, which says that users who in the calendar year receive support of more than 78 thousand kunas in order to reduce those support by 4%. Your government didn't do it and at this point 210 million paid more than prescribed by law. Therefore, I only call for compliance with the law on the one hand and on the other hand when we talk about farmers. My proposal for this amendment is exclusively focused on 4% of what is your commitment and is aimed at supporting 217 economic operators who have spent, literally spent 30% of the total fund planned to support it. So let's not deal with flosculas, let's not talk about something that doesn't stand, because agricultural producers get at least, and that's familiar to you. I demand a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-30-0.u31405	Thank you. My friend, you've extended your explanation a little bit. I am putting this amendment to Mr Zlatko Korajevic's vote. Who's asking to raise your hand? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. I ask the Secretary of State, Mr. Željir Janjic, to be shown about the following amendments. 1, 16th Amendment of Mr. Goran Beus Richembergh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-30-0.u31406	Thank you very much, dear President of the Croatian Parliament. The 16th Amendment of Honorable Representative Beus Richembergh cannot be accepted. Namely, the means of division 140, State Hydrometeorological Institute at position A 654021, titled "Articial action in time", that conto 3222, "material and raw materials", are intended for the acquisition of the means of action of the fighting defence system, ground generators and missile solutions against the fight, necessary for the implementation of the operational defence against the fight. In force, the Law on the Defence of the Fight and Transfer System under that amendment would not be able to implement the legal obligation of the State Hydrometeorological Institute and the obligation on the day following the completion of the Government under point 2 of 20 July 2006 to carry out the operational defence against the fight. On the basis of the competitions carried out under the Public Procurement Act, the State Hydrometeorological Institute has already created a contractual obligation in this regard and cannot be reduced from this item.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-30-0.u31407	Thank you. Mr. Representative Goran Beus Richembergh.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-30-0.u31408	I'm sorry, Mr. Secretary of State, that the government changes its mind every year. I would remind you that, in its conclusion of 31 March 2005, the Government has declared that the existing system of defence against fighting in the Republic of Croatia does not have a satisfactory foothold in science, and that there are no objective indicators of the effectiveness and justification of such a system. That is why, following the scientifically proven things, we are asking for funds to be rerouted in order to improve the activities of the departments in the field of weather forecasts, which would allow better and better quality work and improve citizens' information. Thank you. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-30-0.u31409	Please, who's for amendment 16, Mr. Agent Goran Beus Richembergh, please raise your hand. Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. The 17th Amendment of the same agent. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-30-0.u31410	The 17th amendment of the same representative also cannot be accepted, given that this amendment requires a reduction of funds from this position that I was talking about earlier. The explanation is the same as for the previous amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-30-0.u31411	Thank you. Mr. Goran Beus Richembergh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-30-0.u31412	I will remind one of the world's leading scientists in this area, Mr. Roškar, who says, "Through our government, we are trying to stop at the World Meteorological Organisation's position that there is no need to organise an operational defense, that it makes no sense, and that spending state money on these things is a complete loss or total waste of money through a window." So all these things are familiar to you, but the government still insists on spending money on something that's no use instead of focusing resources on these researches. Thank you very much. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-30-0.u31413	Who is for this 17th amendment please raise your hand. Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. And the 18th Amendment of Mr. Agent Goran Beus Richembergh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-30-0.u31414	The 18th Amendment also cannot be accepted. The explanation is exactly the same as for previous amendments.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-30-0.u31415	Thank you. Mr. Goran Beus Richembergh.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-30-0.u31416	In order not to make it up to me, here's the opinion of another world-renowned expert, Mr. Ud Gärtner, who says: "The meteorological service of Germany is not involved in any time modification program. We don't think it's worth it and there's no obvious results, I mean there's no result at all because you can't prove that it works well. So what people in the European Union think is not relevant to us." Unfortunately, I'm asking for a vote. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-30-0.u31417	Thank you. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. Thank you. I'd like Mr. Secretary of State Antu Zvonimir Golem to report on the 19th amendment of Mr. Goran Beus Richembergh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-30-0.u31418	Thank you, Mr. President. The amendment is not accepted. In fact, it should be noted that the State Plan and the programme of measures to protect against ionising radiation and intervention in the event of an extraordinary event were adopted in April 2008. Under this plan, sufficient resources are planned where there is no need to re-use funds according to this proposal.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-30-0.u31419	Here you go. Mr. Goran Beus Richembergh.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-30-0.u31420	Mr. Secretary of State, I believe that the government and state of taxpayers' money should not finance this scientific dubious activity. In addition, because of chemicals contained in rockets that eventually fall to the ground after spraying, the defence from fighting contributes to soil pollution by jeopardizing agricultural crops. I remind you that the defence against fighting is, in this way, actually under the State Patronate only present in countries with heavy communist heritage, and that the countries of the European Union have long since given up this spending of taxpayers' money. We think the funds can be used in a much smarter and more meaningful way and therefore I ask the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-30-0.u31421	Thank you. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs and MPs, we are going to vote on the 2009 amendment and addition of the State Budget of the Republic of Croatia. Please, let's get on with it. Let's see the quorum first. 142 MPs. Thank you. I am voting on the amendment and addition of the State budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2009. Please, let's get involved and vote. And make sure you have those little lights on. Because it doesn't work. The result? The proposal for amending and supplementing the state budget was accepted by most votes, 79 votes in favour, 2 abstentions and 59 against. Thank you very much. And in the text proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, in accordance with Article 35. Budget law. We are now going to vote on decisions to give consent to the financial plans of extra budget users We're going to the agenda as we have here, and we're going to get to that point on the agenda. [[Intruder: Mr President, I suggest we go to the judge's choice so it can count nicely then.]] I am voting in favour of the decision to give consent to the amendments and additions to the 2009 Financial Plan of the Croatian Waters. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? The decision was made by a majority of votes, 81 votes for, 1 abstention and 59 against in the text as proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Secondly, I am voting on the decision to give consent to the amendments and additions to the 2009 Croatian Roads Financial Plan. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? The decision was made by a majority of votes, 81 votes for, no abstentions and 59 against. Third, I am voting in favour of the decision to give consent to the amendments and additions to the 2009 State Agency's financial plan for the provision of savings deposits and bank recovery. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? The decision was accepted by most votes, 83 votes in favour, no abstentions and 58 against the text as proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Fourthly, I am voting in favour of the decision to give consent to the amendments and additions to the 2009 Financial Plan of the Croatian Privatisation Fund. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? The decision was made by a majority of votes, 83 votes in favour and 58 votes against, no abstentions in the text as proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. I am voting in favour of the decision to give consent to the amendments and additions of the 2009 Fund for Environmental Protection and Energy Efficiency. Please, let's get involved and vote. Thank you. The result? The decision was made by a majority of votes, 83 votes in favour, 1 vote abstention and 58 votes against in the text as proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The Legislative Committee proposes to the Assembly to conclude: The Professional Service of the Croatian Parliament is authorised to carry out, together with the representatives of the motions, a revision of the text of the amendment and addition of the State Budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2009 and to amend and supplement the financial plans before their publication in the National Journal. I am putting the table to the vote. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? This conclusion was reached by a majority of votes, 112 votes for, 6 abstentions and 3 against.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-30-0.u31422	That's where we finished our first act. We move to another point, which is - - Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the implementation of the State Budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2009, second reading, P.Z. No. 311 Proposer of Law Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. This law will be discussed in accordance with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to second reading. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate, Article 164. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committees on Health and Social Care, for legislation, for finance and the state budget, for the economy, for local and regional (regional) self-government, for the regional development of forestry and water economy, for war veterans, for the judiciary, for environmental protection, for space, planning and construction, for Croats outside the Republic of Croatia and for human rights and for the rights of national minorities. You received the reports at the session. The amendments were submitted by the Legislative Committee. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Dear Ivan Shuker, Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-30-0.u31423	I have to be very brief on the record that... Otherwise. [[Because of a loud announcement, the speaker does not understand.]] Therefore, what is being amended is Article 18 where we propose to exempt from the restrictive measures referred to in paragraph 2 from the units of local self-government for projects co-financed by the European Union so that those funds do not enter the debt quota. The third change is to change the amount to which the government can be committed due to the changed deficit, and these are all other technical changes agreed with, in fact, in line with the changes in the choice of the direct mayor and mayor, so certain provisions of the Law on the implementation of the state budget must be aligned and amended to those laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-30-0.u31424	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? As far as I can tell.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-30-0.u31425	I apologize, but let me just say that the government accepts the amendments of the Legislative Committee and that they become an integral part.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-30-0.u31426	That's good. So, the committees don't want to take a word for it. I'm opening a debate. The clubs are gone. The only person to hear from was Honorable Representative Zvonimir Mršić. He's gone. I therefore conclude the debate and we will vote when the conditions are met, that is, on Friday. Thank you. Tomorrow we'll continue at 10 o'clock for that because today was done without a break. Have a good night. Yeah, with point three.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-03-30-0.u31427	We move on to the Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Implementation of the State Budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2009, second reading, P.Z. No. 311. The debate is closed. The amendments were submitted by the Legislative Committee. During the debate, the proposing representative accepted the amendments and did not vote on them because they became an integral part of the final draft law in accordance with Article 169. Rules of Procedure. I am voting on the final draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the implementation of the State budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2009. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? The law was adopted by a majority of votes, 80 votes for, 2 abstentions and 57 against, together with the amendments adopted. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. We continue to work and move on to - Proposal for a Law amending the Customs Act, with the Final Proposal of the Law, an emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 312 The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Rules of Procedure. In accordance with Article 159, the emergency procedure combines the first and second readings of the law. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on European Integration and the Committee on Finance and the State Budget. You received the reports at the session. Does the proposaler's representative want to further explain? Yeah. Mr. Zdravko Maric, State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance. Here you go.
