ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-24-0.u39086	Thank you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished parliamentary representatives and parliamentary representatives. We have before us a draft Law on Special Tax on Receipts of Independent Activity and Other Receipts. This law includes all those other types of income that, in the first law of crisis, when we brought in and when we taxed income from non-permanent work, means wages and pensions and other incomes, so this law includes all other types of income. The period of validity of this law is provided for from 1 October and by 28 February 2011 the maximum period of taxation would also be 17 months as was the case in the first law. What is covered by this law? The independence of activities from crafts and with a twist of equal activities, the activities of free professions, the activities of agriculture shall be covered. So all those stand-alones who keep books according to the Income Tax Act. It is also intended to cover the receipts of business rents, rents, rent apartments, rooms and beds for travellers, tourists. It means income from property and property rights. Also income from interest exemption of assets and optional purchase of own shares. So the income from the capital and the height of the salary... life premiums from life insurance marked by savings, means income from insurance. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The payment method is similar for all types of income. In the first, it means, in respect of salaries and pensions, other than the income of independent activities which would still be paid in one specific and specific way and which must run their own accounting activities, they must make the accounts and must submit an annual tax application for each calendar year. So that advances for 2009 would be paid for independent activities, means 10.11 and 12 months based on applications for 2008, and for 2010 an advance would be paid in the first month based on the 2008 application and for the rest of the year, based on the 2009 applications submitted on 28 February 2010. For the period of those two months in 2011, advances would be paid on the basis of the first month on the basis of the 2009 application and for the second month on the basis of the 2010 application. In the case of craftsmen and free professions, the annual accounting would also be carried out, so that the payment obligation for 2009 would be worked on the basis of the 2010 application and, for 2010, on the basis of the 2010 application submitted in February 2011, it would be done in a way that these advances that were paid during the year would be adjusted with the application obligation. And if it was the difference for the payment, then the difference would be paid, and if it was paid more, then it would be the difference for the return. Two months in 2011, due to a short deadline, and due to the method of calculation, it is expected to pay the first month on the basis of the 2009 applications, and the second month on the basis of the 2010 applications, and that would be the final tax. In the case of rents, the lease means income from assets, would be paid on the basis of solutions obtained and reduced by 30% and reduced by tax and would be the basis for payment. I must also note that there is also a provision for taxation of self-employed activity. If they paid by the flat rate and paid in a way that reduced their receipts by 50% and the rest would be taxed. Also in the renters of rooms and beds in tourism, the same way would be paid for receipts reduced by 50% and this tax would be paid to the rest. The basics are also like in the first law, so over 3,000 to 6 or 6 and over 6 grand would be the 4% amount. Infringements are also foreseen as in the first law. So a fine of 20 to 500 thousand legal persons, while natural persons would be from 5 to 100 thousand kuna. Here, Mr. President. That's it.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-24-0.u39087	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? Yeah. On behalf of the Committee on Finance and the State Budget, Mr Goran Maric, chairman of the Committee. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-24-0.u39088	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Honored government representatives, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. At the 39th session held on 24 September 2009, the Committee on Finance and the State Budget of the Croatian Parliament discussed the proposal for a law on special income tax on independent activities and other receipts as a parent body. The introduction is that the reason for the adoption of this law is an economic situation in the Republic of Croatia in which, due to the economic and financial crisis, the revenues of the state budget are significantly less than the need for the normal financing of all public liabilities, including pension insurance. The proposed law and the Law on Special Taxation of Payments, Pensions and Other Receipts shall be paid by all sources of income taxed on income tax and by the Income Tax Act and by dividends and profit shares. The rates of tax rates are identical to the tax rates prescribed by the Law on Special Taxation of Payments, Pensions and Other Receipts by taxing at a rate of 2% the total amount of the average monthly income exceeding 3 thousand kuna to the amount of 6 thousand kuna, with a tax rate of 4% taxing the total amount of the average monthly income of more than 6 thousand kuna. The proposed law also provides for a special tax on income from independent activity and other receipts to be calculated and paid for 2009 and 2010 based on final accounting. The Committee also held the written position of the Croatian Chamber of crafts on the proposal in question against the introduction of this special income tax and, in addition, made two observations on such a law. However, the discussion on the board is not unanimously supported by the comments expressed in the written opinion of the Croatian Chamber of Commerce in respect of the provision of Article 5(7) which suggests that expenditure in the case of flat-rate taxation shall be recognised at least 70 % of the receipts and the basis for the crisis tax to be determined as the difference in income with the recognition of 70% of expenditure and the corresponding flat-rate income tax. It is also unanimously not supported by the observation that the penalties imposed on natural persons for non-payment of the tax in question are reduced. The Committee unanimously supported the Government of the Republic of Croatia's proposal to comply with Article 159. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament adopted the proposed law by an urgent procedure, and after the debate of the Committee on Finance and the State Budget of the Croatian Parliament decided by majority of votes, 6 votes for and 2 votes abstentions, to propose to the Croatian Assembly the adoption of the Law on Special Tax on Receipts of Independent Activity and Other Receipts. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-24-0.u39089	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the SDP club, Mr. Representative Gordan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-24-0.u39090	Thank you very much, Mr. President. My colleagues and fellow MPs. Mr. Secretary of State. The first thing I'm going to say is that SDP's club can't be for a law that additionally takes money away from Croatian citizens, and that the state hasn't taken first of all from itself, that it hasn't made almost any budget savings for this year, but has continued with its wasteful policy that has been at work for six years. But of course, when we have the law that we passed two months ago and that Croatian citizens have accepted under the name of a hack, of course they can't be excluded even by other citizens now. That is why the SDP Representatives' Club will vote abstentionally on this law. What is important to say and what we need to discuss today is what is the impact of the haraks on the lives of Croatian citizens after a month, two applications. In only one month, the Croatian government reduced the salary by 168 kuna to 3.4% by an average Croatian worker. Only in one month under reason and the paradox being bigger after the third budget rebalancing said we can save nothing, but we can take it from you. 3.4% in one month. That's what we look at when compared to the last year, the hacker returned the salaries from a year ago and a few days ago. When inflation is taken on, it is clear that the HDZ government is doing nothing, but the burden of the crisis is coming to Croatian citizens and we must say it here and the SDP disagrees. And this information that HDZ's playing as we're going to see next year might be better and we're going to shorten the duration of the Harras Act. Maybe it'll only be six, seven months. We must tell the Croatian citizens that none of this is happening while HDZ is in power. I can only take you, they won't take anything from themselves. And what's a blow to Croatian citizens is enough to say, not only did we take them I said 3.4%, not us, but the Croatian government and HDZ and coalition partners, 3.4% of the salary, but they also have additional costs that further hit the citizens' standards. In September, they had to single out several thousand kuna families for their schoolboys, for transportation, etc. So, we're not just talking about the fact that it's been taken directly from the salary, but that every Croatian family has been taken and extra for the rest of the expenses. And that's why every day there's more and more dissatisfied people who justifiably talk about why the government doesn't do anything at all. What is this anti-recession law and what are the anti-recession measures primarily directed towards the citizens of the Republic of Croatia? Harrač 2, as I would call it, which we have on the agenda today refers to those professions that are not covered in the first form of law, craftsmen, free professions etc. and from it is intended to be taken according to some calculations 120 additional million kuna. And the hack 2 we bring today is one of the reasons why Croatian citizens speak justly, the first law you have proposed by the HDZ gentlemen is not constitutional, we are not all the same. And now, after such ill-prepared legislation as Mrs. Kosor has been passed on a proposal for an ad hoc debate on the Economic Council where one part of the citizens is, a small part of the citizens are exempt and it is the citizens who make even more income in order than our pensioners and those who have been taxed already with 3,000 kuna. But citizens rightly say, if we are exempt from this law, if these people are excluded, that law is not constitutional because of what is under Article 51. The Constitution is each obliged to participate in the settlement of public costs in accordance with its economic opportunities. So, we're all in front of the state in this sense the same no matter who comes from and how you make money. And that is why I justifiably say Croatian citizens believe that this law is unconstitutional and justified, and I call on them to continue to appeal to the Constitutional Court, perhaps if the Constitutional Court has justice and to abolish this unconstitutional law. Unfortunately, the law will certainly not help anyone in Croatia to exit the recession because by reducing consumption, reducing the incomes that Croatian families make from their work absolutely reduces general consumption and the recession will have a greater impact than it should have. And then it's amazing that the government and policy makers, Mrs Kosor and Mr Schuker, speak budgetary policies, say that in the following year budget expenditure will remain at the same level. They're texting the citizens again, no, we're not gonna save you anything, so we're gonna take 3 billion kunas from your salaries. And then Mr. Shucker has the courage to say this, says Mr. Shucker: “Pessimism is the biggest problem of Croatia and those who have wider pessimism are the biggest problem of Croatia.” So Mr. Shucker is you who are spreading pessimism because of your incompetence and your politics Croatian citizens do not see a way out of the economic crisis. Yes, pessimism caused by the government's incompetence and government policy is the biggest culprit that is even pessimism in Croatia's government. And finally, we absolutely believe that the only solution that can bring back what Mr. Schucker is calling optimism in Croatia is the departure of the HDZ government from the government and the offer of a policy that will make fair distribution and public expenditure and ultimately give through savings in the budget to the Croatian economy to get Croatia out of recession. And you gentlemen at HDZ can be surprised, but believe me, every day more and more citizens don't have confidence in this government, but simply doesn't give this government a passing assessment of what is seen and from everyday steps even unions that are open against this kind of social policy of the government. But what is most important is that citizens no longer believe and demand that this government and this policy change. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-24-0.u39091	Thank you very much. We have a few corrections. The first is Mr. Representative of Andrija Hebrang. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-24-0.u39092	Thank you very much. It is incorrect that, according to a fellow citizen, the new Tax Law was adopted under the name of a harrassor. The name harac is maliciously imposed by the opposition, from some media circles and probably reminds of the period when during Racan's government's salary has been reduced much more than now. She's been reduced a lot more without a union deal, and then they call it a violent one, so I guess now she wants an analogy to a hack. This is a crisis tax that is indigenous to some European countries called the solidarity tax. The second thing that's true says pay tax is the tax crisis has cut wages to those of a year ago. Please www.hrvatski izdruženje zastatistica. There's a computer on your desk if you know how to use it says so. In the eighth month when the crisis tax cut wages by 1.1% where the salary is higher this year compared to last year by 1.8%, including this reduction. The total salary is higher regardless of the crisis tax is included in the eighth month, read the computer, pay is higher 1.8% and with June is higher 4.4%. And we are the only country in the region and in this part of Europe where the average salary has grown despite the crisis tax.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-24-0.u39093	Thank you. Correction Mr. Representative Boris Kunst.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-24-0.u39094	Thank you very much. So I'm going to do the same on this trail because my colleague Maras said that the hack was accepted as the name for the crisis tax by Croatian citizens, which is completely incorrect. I don't know if he did some survey with Croatian citizens, so he has such data, or if it's imposed by the SDP. But while you're talking about a SDP hack, at least try to figure out what a hack is. Harach was charged with every man's non-Muslim head as a kind of ransom for slavery. I don't know why you have a religion that is present in Croatia and these are Croatian citizens of Muslims you are so insulting through this story, you simply don't respect them Croatian citizens, because these people also pay this crisis tax and there is no need to insult them in this way, in an insidious way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-24-0.u39095	Yes, and in Croatian literature Mažuranić mentioned the word. In general, in former Yugoslav literature, Mihajlo Lalic wrote a novel titled "Hajka". These are similar terms. Yeah? Correction of the incorrect quote Mr. Zeljko Turk.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-24-0.u39096	Thank you, Mr. President. With respect and poetry, I will say only a sentence that Mr. Maras' incorrect comment, and thought of the Croatian government we can save nothing and the HDZ government is doing nothing. When we talk about savings just above all Government through measures both in the Government, as we do today through the Council's savings measures, and through public companies it is about a billion or two savings as such, so I ask that as such we accept it as a fact with respect that we are full of the mouths of Croatian citizens and of calling for difficulties in which we live exactly this way when through a system where the state or majority owner or can bring savings measures, then it does so in this way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-24-0.u39097	Thank you. Correction, Mr. Dragan Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-24-0.u39098	Well, unfortunately, I also have to correct this thesis that the tax we're discussing today and that we discussed a few months ago, that it's a hack. So it's about solidarity tax, crisis tax, and we can consider this an insult. Croatia is no Ottoman state, Croatia is a democratic state and uses all those legal instruments to get out of this current crisis, to preserve jobs, against what comes from certain political circles where chaos is called, where the street is called and HDZ will not allow it.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-24-0.u39099	Thank you very much. Let's move on. Now it's HNS's turn, and Mr. Representative Goran Beus Richemberg. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-24-0.u39100	Your Honor, Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State. At first, I'll say that unlike the SDP club that will be kept on this bill, the HNS club... I see you're not surprised and that's good. [[Because of the announcement, the speaker does not understand.]] This means that the HNS policy is more than crystal clear to you in HDZ. Why not? First of all, this is one paradoxical law, because it's primarily trying to level the burden, I'm not going to say it all, but a large part of the citizens, i.e. different categories with categories of workers, peasants and pensioners. But he's in his concept, he's profoundly absolutely unfair, and that's why he wasn't acceptable to us. The Act of Harach to a small paradise, nor do we accept this Law of Harach for a great paradise. It is simply a law that stems from the fundamental deception that is being served to us, first of all from the government, and this deception begins mainly with the mantra that the world has been affected by the global financial crisis that is being overrun then and in Croatia. Worse than the truth, it's only half-truth, and this is half-truth, because whoever knows what's really going on in the world economy knows very well that the heart of the global financial crisis is in the financial sector. And that it started all from the risky placements that banks and insurance companies worked and lost huge money, and then the state intervened from America to the Czech Republic in a whole series of cases to save the financial sector from collapse. With sound state money. Of course, this reflected the economy, because banks no longer had the means to borrow production. And what's going on with us? Quite the opposite. So we don't have the heart of the crisis in the financial sector. The banks are doing very well. In these conditions where their mothers' banks lose huge money abroad, they only record a 14% drop in profits. So it's for these conditions great business. Then where's the heart of the crisis? In the public sector, in the state. It is the state that has spent an average of 9 billion kuna over the last few years than it has managed to push. And now that's on the charge. When you spend what you don't have, you can spend some time, and then you go to the financial market to borrow, so you suck out the full cash offered on the banking market in Croatia at this time, you pay it at very high interest rates, and then we're surprised that the banks in Croatia don't finance production and current business. Well, they don't need that. They agreed with the state to attach their funds much more than their mother banks do abroad. They don't need to be messed with by companies, entrepreneurs, craftsmen, when they know that there's a country that's gonna suck up every free kuna from the financial market to lend its consumption. And of course, when the state doesn't have the money, and there's no concept of saving to reduce its appetites, then there's a growing need for it to take as much in all possible sectors as possible, and then it drains and dry wood, and that's exactly the concept of these two laws. Instead of leaving the citizens as much money as they have earned from their work, to encourage them to spend, to encourage them to buy to preserve jobs in trade and service services, it actually scares people and bad messages to create exactly what, as a miracle, Minister Schuker, is pessimistic. When people saw that the state had no instruments to stabilise financial operations in the state, when the internal debt grew to 18 billion kunas, they squeezed and they knew that no one could help them if they didn't help themselves, and that's why savings in banks grew drastically and spending fell. And what did we get? We received that by the end of this year, according to the Croatian Employment Service, not according to our opposition projections, several tens of thousands of people will lose their jobs. And when the government is in a position to assess what is smarter, that these jobs are lost in a public sector where no new value is created or in the real sector, the government of course says in the real sector, forgetting that a man who works in production and service activities is funding both himself and the public sector. So what do we get? Double negative effect. And that's why we need to drain the dry drenina so we can take the last lip if possible because we don't have the concept of saving. When you run the fiscal policy of this government in 6 years, and it's hypocritical, because let's not forget a year and a half ago, you mocked everyone who asked for tax reform and asked for some taxes to be abolished, that is, the introduction of some others who would be taxed on capital, so you made fun of them with all their voices, glued posters all over Croatia, and today. It's normal today. Today it's standard. And why is that? Because we have a finance minister who is a tax collector in his soul and according to his habitat. It's no secret. A man spent his entire working life more or less as a tax collector and his way of thinking is just take where you can, and not manage what you have, reduce spending in the public sector. The finance minister must be a top financial manager, not just a top tax collector, it's good enough for a top tax collector to have a head of tax administration, it's good to have top state secretaries, but the finance minister has to see over all these mountains of taxes. It must be the one that will bring fiscal policy into line with the needs of economic development rather than vice versa. Adjust the functioning of the economy to the needs of the tax that fill the budget. It's been happening to us for six years, and now we're miraculously surprised, they're the same people. This summer came public exactly what we're talking about today. And that's that a large number of people who make incomes in different ways, above all, of free interests, have remained outside the shears of the public harrass. And note ben, Mr. Kunst, don't confuse faith with the story of the harbinger. The Harac was not a religious tax and has nothing to do with Islam. Be consistent, the harrassor is not a religious tax and the claim that it has anything to do with Islam is actually you insult Islam. Harac was introduced in one of the then medieval states called the Ottoman Empire. Don't look for the world's brains on the Internet because there's a lot of half truth on the Internet, consult with experts about it, and don't get involved in something that doesn't have anything to do with it, if you really want there's another religious tax on it I'll teach you later. But when it comes to the harrass, don't object to that because it's counterproductive because you only irritate citizens who have already accepted it as a normal category. Deal with it, get back to the country, the fact is that people no longer want to sign off on HDZ's financial economic policy. And that's how it is. Therefore, the sooner you see the end of the HDZ government, the closer it will be for you to make peace with it, and the less you will extort yourself than it did in 2000. The government had a wide range of activities, above all, in the collection of taxes that are already prescribed and which are irregularly paid. The government had a large diapazon measure in curbing a grey economy that is a heavy billion kuna, the government had the opportunity to save on its expenses. Mrs. Kosor says it is a recommendation from the government that there is no new employment in the public sector. So HDZ mayors recently elected by a list systematize new jobs and employ new people without any consideration of what the government says. That's what your people do. It would be good for you to control that, too. And secondly, this law enters the savings zone for the first time. Which is an additional pension insurance than one form of savings, which is life insurance rather than a very important active form of savings. For the first time, the state has stepped into the space of savings and told the citizens, what you're saving is not good because if they didn't tax you well, now we're taking your taxes. It's just a step away from the government's decision to tax our savings in banks. Are you aware of the dangerous things you're playing with? And then when you lose power, you'll wonder why the people didn't recognize your vision of Croatia's development. The HNS cannot support such a concept represented by this government, as we did not support the concept that came to pass for a small paradise we will neither for this so-called. A big one. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-24-0.u39101	Thank you very much. Especially in the harachus lessons and stuff. All those who spent harachus were called hacks, and those who spent the hickeys were called hickeys, so let's spread out these concepts a little bit and connect them. Haikachi. We have one seven corrections, so we'll start Damir Cain first.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-24-0.u39102	Mr. Beus mentioned that the liquidity is 18 billion kuna, that term he used, I think you're wrong. On today, indifference exceeds 24 billion kuna, and by the end of the year, they should not be surprised if there are more than 30 billion kunas. Either the state will begin to settle its obligations at this time, or large systems such as Pevec, Agrokor, etc., will settle their obligations, or we will face a complete collapse of the financial sector in 2010. Either the INA, Croatia's electricity industry will stop undermining national sovereignty or the country as such will collapse, and that this will soon be witnessed and this cadation, not to mention our colleagues that they are connected to the supply of electricity, etc., let's let it be said more about it but surely what is happening or where the country is going is not promising. I can understand the government, in 2010, the state needs to refinance more than 18 billion kuna. 87%...
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-24-0.u39103	What is being corrected in the previous debate?
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-24-0.u39104	In the previous debate, I am correcting this false assumption that the internal indifference is 18 billion kuna, and I have added something else that I believe may further explain...
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-24-0.u39105	Thank you. Mr. Gordan Maras, here's your pass.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-24-0.u39106	Thank you very much. Mr. Beus you said, you said that Mr. Shucker which is true is a tax collector, but that he takes where he can. Which is an incorrect claim, because he very often takes his laws where he can't, where people don't have money. He, with his laws, took people who have 3,000 kunas pay 2%. One day a month he told them, this day don't spend anything, you're going to let me spend it on the cost of the state. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-24-0.u39107	Mrs. Dubravka Shuica's correction. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-24-0.u39108	I'm correcting two incorrect allegations. One is the quote Mr. Beus said that Minister Schuker is a tax collector in his soul. It wouldn't be an exact finding because you don't know what Minister Shuker is in the soul, it's probably just him who knows his closer. He's a good minister, he's great at running this country's finances, and you're obviously transferring your local animosities to this environment relative to Minister Shuker. Another incorrect allegation that HDZ mayors newly elected introduce systematization and employ new people, on the contrary, precisely the SDP and your HNS mayor in my city are hiring new people. Full of "National Journal" ads and total centralization, and one of the achievements of the development of local self-government in Croatia is just decentralisation, and he has carried out full centralised and intends to do so both with cultural and municipal institutions in the city of Dubrovnik.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-24-0.u39109	Thank you. Correction, Mr. Representative Boris Kunst. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-24-0.u39110	Well, my colleague Beus said, he says it's not good to use the Internet all the time because there's a lot of stuff there. Well, there is, I agree, a lot of things only when it comes to, when it comes to your exposure, then you can really read anything, but otherwise the whole written world is used on the Internet, you should know that, except you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-24-0.u39111	Thank you. Correction, Mr. Agent Ivan Bagarić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-24-0.u39112	Thank you, Mr. President. I'm correcting an incorrect quote when you called on a colleague of Kunst who said the hack was a religious tax. He didn't say that. He said... No, but he didn't say that, he said that the harbinger introduced one force in this space for the unbelievers, so he said, that, for the unbelievers, he did not refer to Muslims, and this tax of solidarity also applies to Muslims in Croatia. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] And then he said, don't insult people. And the other thing, when it comes to Mr. Schucker and the government, so they made sure that people had pensions, that they had salaries and secured with this everything you called a harachus, they ensured the stability of the system, and that's why people aren't on the street. Looks like it's your big problem, because you don't want to and that... Just because people go out to the streets, they wouldn't be invited to go out on the streets even though they have both salaries and pensions. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Therefore, your goal is indeed the street, and I don't know either, so I guess that's how you get to power when you can't be different.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-24-0.u39113	Thank you. Correction, Mr Dragan Vukic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-24-0.u39114	Thank you, Mr. President. The esteemed representative has repeatedly mentioned the word harachus here, the harrassor has been conducted by foreign occupation forces in these areas. A special tax was introduced by the Croatian government and this legitimate, legal parliament. It's a solid tax like Mr. Hebrang said. It is paid by the citizens of Croatia, and all of you who call this tax a harachus create a picture in the public that you see the Croatian government as an alien and a Croatian state, a state that is not yours. So we have a choice, we have a choice, we can call it a solid tax or a hack, choose. ... [[The speaker is not enabled, not understood.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-24-0.u39115	You've been here all this time insulting and giving a lecture. ... Every other sentence of yours has been an insult to this debate. [[Speakers not included, not understood.]] Mr. Stjepan Milinkovic, correction.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-24-0.u39116	Thank you very much, Mr. President. My colleague Beus has made several incorrect allegations, and I will look back only on two. One is that HDZ chiefs systematise new jobs with the list. That's incorrect. In an environment that I know very well about HDZ or Commissioners, the mayors of the coalition do not systematize nor speak, but in the given circumstances of the savings, of course, and try to improve the quality of life in their environment, which is a confirmation of the trust of voters they received in the past elections, and it does not confirm your thesis that HDZ will soon leave. Not a word, the latest local elections show what's going on, so HDZ gets trust and we move on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-24-0.u39117	Okay. It should be optimistic even if it is very commendable to be optimistic and mentioned from 21 years of age only one year and 2000. Let's move on, on behalf of the HDZ club, Mr. Representative Goran Maric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-24-0.u39118	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Honored government representatives, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. There is no more suitable subject, more suitable law for assaults, for criticism, for convictions, for political bickering than the law when a new tax is passed, but we still have to start from reality and respect both the facts and events and the environment that is around us. No matter what the proposal was on the subject of the proposal for a special tax on income from independent activity and other incomes, it seems to me that the debate so far has been most of the return to the Law on Special Tax on Salary and Pensions. The law was and came on the agenda and voted out, and then in public, and on both sides of the opposition and the professional public convicted both the Government and HDZ that it failed to tax those who are the richest in this society. So here's what we're correcting right now is what we've missed in these two months to do. So, in this situation where the economic crisis is undoubtedly everywhere in the world, doubtless and that in Croatia, it is against the taxation of those who earn the most, and you know that the entrepreneurs of the year are even declared lawyers, even though the attorney's office by no definition can belong to entrepreneurship, so dentists, doctors, public notebooks and all others, that they are excluded from a particular tax, from so-called A crisis tax. Here's the law that includes them, and this law corrects what we missed. Focusing only on the crisis in the world, as if there isn't a crisis in us, that's the wrong way. The economic crisis is fate, history teaches us, every generation. Now, unfortunately, our generation has hit the most devastating economic crisis in the world so far. Although many experts say it isn't, it will show, because this crisis has not yet shown its ultimate consequences. And it is not true that it did not spill over to the Croatian economy, so only if we included the psychological moment, then we can see how big the consequences are in Croatia as well. Well, it happens all over the world that banks fail, factories fail, workers are fired, and that affects the psychological behaviour of Croatians and Croatian citizens themselves. Well, I can't imagine only if there are 10 plane accidents in the world today, how much this will affect both air traffic and Croatia, regardless of what happens in Croatia. But the modern economic society in which we live has shown all our weaknesses, has shown the lack of full employment, continued growth in production, and this around the world, the neoliberal economy, an arbitrary and unequal distribution of wealth and income, has come today to collect and charge from Croatia. Unfortunately, in such a situation, we are forced to make unpopular measures publicly unpopular. But regardless of the unpopularity, we must also say the fact that the special law excludes a million and a half citizens of the Republic of Croatia, and covers cca million. This Proposal for a Law on Special Tax on Receipts of Independent Activity and Other Receipts provides for 110 million kuna of income, and for a special salary and pension tax of 755 in this year and 2 billion and 100 million kuna in the following year. And no matter how publicly it was shown that a major failure was made, although when it was calculated to be 110 million kuna a year, it was not some large amount from the state budget's income point of view. And why is that? Because many already who can choose, and have an independent activity, have chosen to pay taxes as a payment of income tax rather than income. They took advantage of that possibility, and most of them already pay 20% of the profit tax. This law, regardless of what we have heard and differing opinions, still respects the principle of payability and benefits, for those who can, but also the principle of both horizontal and vertical justice pay. Why horizontal righteousness? It includes handling equal treatment with equals. And why the vertical righteousness? It implies different tax treatment with different income levels. Therefore, a rate of 2 and 4% was applied compared to that provided for in the special salary and pension tax. And it includes all income, all income from independent activity and other income, but also the estimated duration of 17 months. However, I hope so, and we all believe that this law will not be maintained as far as is predicted. The most credible measure of the economy of gross domestic product. Gross domestic product decline in the first trimester was 6.7% and in the second decline was 6.3%. These are indicators that show that they are positive tendencies. The third quarter I'm sure will be an even smaller drop in GDP. And if, in addition to these publicly unpopular measures are parallel, and some are already being brought in, some are already in preparation, there will be no longer as far as I can hear from the companies that were in the blockade, those directors who took the company into bankruptcy will no longer be able to open new and jury accounts and companies, and as amended several years ago, so it was allowed to bring anarchy into a business world. What should be strengthened is that we heard financial discipline here in the Croatian economy absolutely and then these measures will be more complete. But it also does not need to be ignored that economic policy is not just a fiscal policy. It's also monetary policy. And that many countries in the world have primarily reached out to monetary policy instruments to speed up economic growth, increase production and reduce unemployment. Why? We heard right here how business banks behave in Croatia. But why has tens of thousands of apartments been built in Croatia for a year and more unsold? Well, because it's the same reserve rate for the National Bank on housing loans and the same reserve rates for stock purchases. If there were a reserve rate for the purchase of apartments, for the construction of factories, for the construction of new technology 2%, and what is in all European Union countries, then the interest rate would be lower, and then the sale of apartments would begin. And some rate of stock purchase reserves, first of all, should ban such loans in today's situation, but if it were 50%, we wouldn't be banned in HDZ. Therefore, by selective approach to reserve rates, monetary policy instruments would achieve even greater effects, and only through the harmonious action of fiscal and monetary policy can the ultimate national objective be achieved. I must also point out that employers' behavior is not responding to today's moment. Although we hear daily what we need to do, what we have to do, but the very fact that 31.8.2009 was 251 thousand unemployed persons, or 31 thousand more than in August 2008, and that in the period from 1.8, the average unemployed were 256 thousand, which is 16 thousand and 887 more than in the same period last year, this means that unemployment increased by 7.1% in the same period when the gross domestic product fell 6.5% on average. This suggests that the unemployment rate is significantly higher than the GDP drop rate, and economic legality suggests that the rate of GDP decline of 2% is optimally causing the unemployment growth of 1%. So how did 7.1%) increase unemployment in such conditions? Because mass employers fired employees and those who had no reason to do so except to increase their astronomical profits anyway. And who took precedence in firing employees at this time in the Republic of Croatia when on the greatest trials is the Croatian economy? It's the ones that got the most. It is those who make such a profit rate that is inappropriate for the market economy, which generate a profit rate of 25 or 30% on total income, which is nowhere in the market economy, and Croatia should be a market economy. Such are fired by thousands of employees, and it is not even written in the media. And it should be taken into account that it also makes the current situation worse. They also worsen some big companies that close huge deals, and then what we heard here when it comes to indifference, then they don't pay their cooperatives even though they've charged their business and contract as a whole. This then reflects negatively on the overall economy, but also on one mistrust and one psychosis negative that is ruling in the Croatian economy. For this reason, this is a measure by which we correct what we have failed to tax and those who have earned the most and the HDZ Club will vote in favour of the Proposal for a Law on Special Tax on Receipts from Independent Activity and Other Receipts. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-24-0.u39119	Thank you. First one notice. The 29th session of the Committee on Economy will be held today at 14 o'clock at the Josip Jelačić Hall. And now we have several corrections of incorrect allegations. The first is Honorable Representative Goran Beus Richembergh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-24-0.u39120	counterpart Maric said several times that this proposal corrects what the government failed to do with the July law. This implies that the government did not know anything, and here is the living and healthy Secretary of State of Youth who will confirm that my colleague Anticevic-Marinović and I were just talking about this speaker and asking how it is possible that lawyers, notebooks, doctors, dentists and all other free professions and occupations are not in this system. So we're told no, not at all, they're in a system that taxes their incomes and at a rate of 45%, as if at that rate not all citizens who report income tax. Another claim, counterpart Maric is in favour of abolishing credit for the purchase of shares. I'll remind you, the HDZ government introduced this very practice in the 1990s, and it was based on full privatisation in Croatia when mortgage loans...
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-24-0.u39121	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-24-0.u39122	On the property to be bought...
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-24-0.u39123	Time!
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-24-0.u39124	Buying without a single kuna of cash.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-24-0.u39125	Thank you very much. Time. The second correction to the incorrect allegations, the distinguished representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-24-0.u39126	On this very trail of what my colleague Beus said, I am correcting the incorrect quote of my colleague Maric, who argued that this bill corrects what the government has failed to do in that first bill of law that was later passed as a crisis tax. It's just not true. The government didn't miss anything. The government normally runs its own policy, and this government policy is to pour those whose cup is already full and over the top, and the national losses and losses of those associated with it to pay. It's usually the logic of the government itself, and the only one that's pressed and disgusted by the public this is what the government had to do. So, not what she missed but what she was forced to do. Because how do you explain it today that the government refuses to protect workers and treat wages as a criminal offence. How...
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-24-0.u39127	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-24-0.u39128	How do you explain today that you don't pay...
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-24-0.u39129	Time.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-24-0.u39130	Or the ant got fired, he got a million kunas, and he won't pay anything.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-24-0.u39131	Time! Time, Your Honor. I'm asking you to stick to your exact time so I don't have to warn you. The next correction of the incorrect quote, the distinguished representative Nenad Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-24-0.u39132	You claim, colleague Maric, that the government has seen that it is unfair for the law to cover only some, and not all of you are now acting more justly because you are expanding the scope of this law into everything. It's not only incorrect, it's illogical. The basic law is unfair and can't be less unjust if it hits more people. Injustice can only be increased in this way. So, you can do this, it's unfair for a hack to hit only some, and that others are excluded from the hacks, so it's much fairer for him to hit everything. You see, your people are, I mean, it's not the opposition and the press, it's what the citizens called a harachum. They called it a harachus because the hack was an unfair tax and they feel this tax is unfair. That's why they call it that, and you're just expanding that injustice by this new law.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-24-0.u39133	Thank you. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, distinguished representative Goran Maric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-24-0.u39134	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I refer to Article 209. The Rules of Procedure on the work of the Croatian Parliament and I would point out that if a fellow representative corrects an incorrect quote, he should quote what I said, not commenting and extracting from the context, because I did not say what he said I said. It wasn't like that. I didn't say that. And you should finally really quote what someone said and say exactly what it is, and that's not true. This kind of behavior is unacceptable.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-24-0.u39135	I must tell you, it's not a breach of the Rules of Procedure, and this is how everyone corrects incorrect allegations. So when all the clubs make a decision to really stick to it and then we stick to it. Practice is an integral part of the rules to be implemented, unfortunately. Correction of the incorrect allegation, the esteemed representative Marin Jurjevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-24-0.u39136	Thank you. My colleague Maric said: “Neoliberal economy has come to Croatia as well.” This is not true because the neoliberal economic model in our country was established far earlier, long before this global or European crisis occurred. In fact, we have a society of privilege and a kind of social Darwinism where under the password of success they declare themselves to be the most capable. Those who are privileged are successful at such perception, and those who find it most difficult to find it incompetent. It's a coincidence of a neoliberal, ruthless economic model that de facto grinds everything in front of it, bringing benefits to individuals alone. This was for good in Croatia before this crisis occurred already.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-24-0.u39137	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, distinguished representative Goran Maric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-24-0.u39138	I apologize, Mr. Vice President, for the intervention, even though you have pointed to the practice used here. But what my colleague was quoting, I didn't say at all.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-24-0.u39139	Thank you. We can take a look at the phonogram. I would ask that we really stick to the Rules of Procedure when it comes to all other matters, including correcting an incorrect assumption. Dear Representative Dragutin Lesar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-24-0.u39140	A colleague, Maric, said the gross social product was the most realistic measure of assessing economic developments, while counterpart Maric, say, is the most credible. It is simply not true right now because these European Commission experts have found that the 19th-century methodology of gross social product does not correspond to today's economic situation in the world, that it needs to be changed urgently and that it should be included in this methodology in any of the social criteria it does not have so far. Because, based on an analysis in 15 European countries where GDP growth was between 1.3 and 7 and a half, they found that there was a decrease in the number of jobs and a high drop in the purchasing power of the average salary.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-24-0.u39141	Thank you. Dear Zgrebec's distinguished representative is coming. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-24-0.u39142	Mr. Vice-President, I would refer to the incorrect claim that employers are firing workers while making extra profits and that they are actually guilty of it or they are doing as counterpart Maric said profits that are not suitable for the market economy. It's not the employers' fault if they make such an extra profit. It's the government's fault that doesn't run such a tax policy that extra profits are taxed. Employers form their own company's policy, and they don't create state policy. It is therefore the government that should react in such a case and tax such extra profits in particular.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-24-0.u39143	Thank you. And the correction of an incorrect quote by the esteemed representative Gordan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-24-0.u39144	Thank you very much. Mr. Maric called at the end of his presentation employers who paid extra profits, and on the other hand fired workers and said they were making the situation worse. The claim is only partially correct because for these extra profits the framework created for them by this Croatian government. Who gave these companies the infrastructure paid for decades by Croatian citizens? We're talking about T-Com in command. Anyone with Croatian banks has the biggest business interaction this year when we need money than the Croatian government. For the profits of these Croatian companies, these companies that have a Bench brand much higher profits than it is anywhere in the world the most agreed is the Croatian Government, not... Thank you. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-24-0.u39145	Thank you. We're going to continue to discuss clubs. It's on behalf of the IDS Club, the esteemed representative Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-24-0.u39146	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor, Mr. Representatives, Secretary of State. Yes, a man asks himself how that state in this first round a month ago forgot about around 150,000 people who may have the best standard in the Republic of Croatia. While we understand each other, even though they are covered by this law, I don't mean craftsmen because craftsmen are often in this country in a difficult situation and from the workers themselves who work with them, if for no other reason because one craftman corresponds to his entire estate. So by generational property, the worker responds clearly to his work. If they lose their jobs one loses everything, the other loses his work. Clearly, when I talk about those who may have the best standards in this country, I mean lawyers, notebooks, bankruptcy managers, dentists, and free journalists. This law also includes income from retirement, lease, so as Mr Beus said, for the first time, a certain fee will also be paid on interest. I think we should not forget those in this country who receive millions of severances in public systems. Actually, no, they shouldn't be taxed. They should have lost everything. What is also a question in this country is how every law in Croatia changes after two, two or three months of application. Those laws that may have been most frequently mentioned are, for example, the Act of Work on Sundays. He changed I don't know after six, seven months. But after many small merchants have done great unmistakable damage. The same situation today is the Smoking Act. The damage seems to be to the caterers. Here, we will probably change this law during the next days or weeks, the Law on Insemination, which seemed to harm many couples in the Republic of Croatia. But this harbinger law either doesn't matter to a crisis tax or vice versa, a crisis tax or a hacker is definitely a recordman. After one month of application, there is a change in these laws. A man asks himself if this is why someone in this country should answer. Many before me talked about the pessimism that is spreading through the earth and behind this pay phone. But I argue that the greatest pessimism is sown by those who act irresponsiblely and who thus play with the credibility of the Republic of Croatia. And once again I will say this is irresponsible behavior towards the Republic of Croatia. I dare even say that a tax burden was fairer at a time when these harrases were harassed by not knowing Bosnia, etc., and even by part of Croatia, but today. Back in the Middle Ages, I don't know, one tenth went to church, one tenth went to power, one tenth went to the king, 70% remained to farmers or paradise. But today we're talking about that crowbar. ... Okay, but now that we're at that hack and our tax system today, we, well, we've seen one analysis, one plate. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] We have the highest tax burden on the globe. And likewise, when it comes to this notion of harassers, anyone who mentions it certainly does not offend Muslims, but by that tax, these unfair taxes are equally offensive to Muslims, and Catholics, and atheists, in one word all those who live by their work, and they are insulted by those who run these unfair taxes. As of today, you can say, we have a hack for small people and a hack, under quotes, for big people, although often they are small people, bigger people, and than these great people. Here, in this law, an economic one, under quotes, was given in an explanation amongst other things. So it is said, let me quote, that the reason for the adoption of this law is the economic situation in the Republic of Croatia in which, due to the economic and financial crisis, the revenues of the state budget are significantly less than the need for the normal financing of all public liabilities, including pension insurance and not to list further. And it is not far from the truth. What is Croatia really? In this country that has 4.4 million inhabitants, today we have about one and a half million employees, the number of pensioners is 150,000. Unemployed in state services plus local self-government somewhere around 280, this number of state service employees is about 280 thousand. By the end of the year, the number of unemployed will be around 290,000 etc., etc. I said the tax burden is the highest in Croatia, up to 57%. We have the highest number of parafiscal duties. Someone mentions a 240 number and something. Of the revenues paid for the Chamber of Commerce, where around 6 hundred people work, which generates revenue at an annual level of about 300 million kuna, which is more than the budget of the County of Istria or the Primorje-Gorski County. Or income for ZAMP. And don't let me count on it. We have a situation with these public enterprises. These affairs that break out every day seem to have introduced the principle that anyone can take if they're there as much as they need. The union movement is unfortunately inert. We have a country together. Turns out every fool in this country would want to work fair. No small twists, etc., etc. To return to this crisis tax from the bill. I agree with all those who say it's a deeply unfair tax. I called him an old-age tax and a job tax. It is clear that the reason for the introduction is just to cover the budget, that first sentence I read from the reasoning of this bill. For the first eight months, the state was revenueing about 6 billion kuna less than in the same period last year. In the same period as the first 8 months, we have a spending side cost of 3 billion more than last 2008. That's the shortfall of nine billion kuna. And in 2008, in the first eight months, we made three billion kunas more, even from the planned funds. What's the point? Croatia is normally mature for one serious tax reform, clearly and for one controlled public spending. I would start as I said from these parafiscal duties and clearly from one VAT that needs to be fully reformed, and among other things consider introducing a 10% rate for food. What food? Produced in the Republic of Croatia, because it is the only way we can fight imports, and the biggest importers are those who declare that we buy the Croatian "Agrokor", "Krash", etc., who say you are sitting on your home chairs, and we will sit in the chairs of the Mercedes class S and so on. However, let me now quote one reference to Dr. Barbara Jelcic, Professor Jelcic, who also says that the special tax on salaries, pensions, other receipts, the one we're talking about. First of all, it doesn't ensure equality, it's not proportionate, it's not fair. She says that this law is severely violated, and I agree with that, equality in tax treatment, respect for this requirement assumes that in matters of taxation, the same must be treated equally, which is clearly not the case in the Republic of Croatia at this time. What does that come from? First, by special tax means not all categories of people are covered, they will not be covered by this proposal that is today in force. I'd really like to take care of that, too. So we've put in craftsmen, people who do free jobs, incomes, I don't know if it's here that comes from agriculture, forestry. It seems to be excluded, etc., etc. Another thing to say is that the system, let us now as complicated as it is, is not even the most important how many citizens belonging to three of those groups carry out their own activities and is not, for example, covered by the obligation to pay a crisis tax, certainly and after this proposal these people will not be small, but is from the point of view of the assessment of the constitutionality, the principle of equality of the primary and only important fact that the legislator has made them not guilty or obliged to exempt from the obligation to pay that tax. But not because it was justified for certain social, economic reasons. Finally, in this tax system, there is an institute of liberation and relief, but as it is now explained, that is, because it covers these categories of citizens from the tax position, as it has been said, complicated, and now we see that it is no longer complicated. Second, the right to equality, as well as tax treatment, has not been achieved by all persons concerned, i.e. those covered by the Law on Special Tax on Salary, Pensions and Other Receipts. In fact, according to the letter of the law, a crisis tax is added to very one, under quotes the original way of taxing only amounts to more than 3 thousand kunas. This provision, in practice, means, that it results in the fact that two of which each has 6000 kunas will be taxed completely differently when one of them planned to receive from two payers of 3 thousand kuna and another from one of the payers of 6 thousand kuna. The first will not pay the crisis tax, gentlemen or June, because up to 3,000 kunas are exempt from paying that tax and the second will pay the same tax at 2% and at a total amount of 6 thousand kuna. Now the question is whether it is an attack on the Constitution guaranteed equality is quite clear to all but there remains a vague logic which was managed by the proponent of the tax and managed at the moment. Then, the law also does not cover taxpayers who earn income from property and property rights, and now we see that some category of people is being inserted but not all, and there is also a constitutional right to equality that is not listed further. The Law on Special Tax on Payments, Pensions and Other Receipts also shows an unusual understanding of equality related to taxes excluded 3 thousand kuna. It also raises the question why the legislator, the legislator, has opted out of taxing a certain amount in this case of 3 thousand kuna. If that tax is determined not to tax certain amounts, that is, those 3 thousand kunas, then the reasons why it was done would have to be valid for all taxpayers and that means that taxation by applying that tax should only have been affected above the tax exemption of 3 thousand kuna in all tax-related taxpayers. Thus, the solution by which the subject of taxation of individual incomes in practical application to the ground is brought down the constitutional principle of equality as well as the principle of paying taxes according to economic power. In one word, once again I will say there are there, enough of these constitutionally likely "unconstitutions", we will see how autonomous the Constitutional Court will be at this moment, we will see when this case will come to a phase of debate before the judge, it is certain that this second legislative proposal has fixed this unconstitution but certainly at this point we do not need crisis taxes but we need Croatia a full tax on reform.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-24-0.u39147	Thank you. I shall inform you that Article 207(2) is in accordance with Article 207(2). The Rules of Procedure expired time to apply for 10 minutes, at 10 hours and 48 minutes. On behalf of the HDSSB Club, distinguished representative Boro Grubisic. Here you go. Excuse me, we have one correction. Dear Representative Arsen Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-24-0.u39148	I thank Mr. Vice-President, I would like to correct just one incorrect quote from my colleague Caine, who said I quote "there remains a vague logic by which this tax was introduced". So that quote is not true, and the logic was “Take what you can, whom you can, as soon as you can and as soon as possible. ” Only this can be explained that some of the illogicalities created in this Law that are now being corrected are now being taken even more because they did not remember it when they passed that Law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-24-0.u39149	Thank you. It is up to the HDSSB Club, the esteemed representative Boro Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-24-0.u39150	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, gentlemen of the government, colleagues and colleagues. Here I am not an economic expert but Goran Maric said here directly or indirectly that this is one ball on the service racket where it can really be shown in terms of not saying the criticism but of the proposal, in connection with this proposal of the Law on Special Tax which these colleagues on the left, are running with their first name they have brought here, thinking that this is something interesting for our citizens and proclaiming the hack. Then the discussion of the very concept of the word harachus, the very academic meaning, or the religious meaning of the word harachus, opened up. I'm not going to talk about the academic or religious meaning of the harrasic noun, but I'm going to say that the appropriate one, unfortunately, said Turkish citizens at the temporary work in Germany were traveling on our highway A3 and traveling through our Slavonia and Srijem, seeing how nice and once rich that end was, and they said that if we hadn't introduced the harras maybe even today, we should have just said a contribution, and today that if they had introduced a special tax maybe they would have been here today, they were a little smarter with a special tax. In the first debate when it came to a special tax on those groups of citizens who have 3 thousand kunas and 6 thousand kunas, I also used a little Turkishism and called it "the violence on the villa", an impose on the public. I would suggest to all of us that we call this, given that the word 17 is often mentioned in these materials and that we call it "seven months' tax", because it is really a special tax. Here is a handsome term to be “seventeen months of tax” which will be remembered in the citizenship of the Republic of Croatia as something that has indeed hit them negatively. You see, from year to year, although I wasn't, like, a year and a half ago, a parliamentary representative, but I was interested, and I listened, I followed political developments, and I see from year to year when the budgets of the Republic of Croatia are being passed, the government deficit is being planned, and this is the planned government deficit. So I thought about how the state planned its own deficit, but it was constant, it was year after year. And this year the government budget deficit is planned, this year 2.5% from what I heard, read. Now the state can never in this 17, 18-year-old history and adulthood have ever been able to balance that we don't have a government budget deficit. That means you plan to spend more than you can pick up, I'm like a layman economically looking at it. More than money can be obtained by taxes and all other customs duties, excise duties and all that belongs to the state. Or the public sector will not be cut and the costs of the country that are enormous, which are high, for a country of 4 and a half million inhabitants, so clearly there must be a deficit of the state budget. And then we have these situations where it gets in the hands of the citizens, as I said last time, slapping in the pocket is the worst, so here in this bill, there's a special tax on craftsmen, so those who deal in free interest, those who deal in agriculture and forestry, those who rent, have something in renting and renting apartments, rooms and beds to travellers and tourists, and even those who, or even those who rent camps. A special tax also belongs to those who earn from copyright, industrial property rights, those who exercise interest rights to exempt property and what is most interesting, so those who pay life insurance premiums with the feature of savings. Well, someone said here, is that one step ahead, is that the lobby from which we're going to enter a room where we're going to tax and save citizens? Once upon a time in England, I said before, someone introduced it to me, it seems to me at the time of Cromwell and the chimney tax, and then taxes on windows, as long as the state as the biggest debtor and incubator of indifference is going to hit the citizens' pockets? And not only is the state in debt, there are still debtors, but it seems to me that in this country, I am not going to name some, manage and give myself the right to govern this country, and the believers are still silent. It is true that we discussed, and also in the pre-election campaign a year and a half ago, so in November 2007, before the world of Katu, there was a very strict debate between HDZ and others regarding dividend taxes, taxes on one-off profits, so it is said that it will not be taxed and there is no way to tax, but here we are now slowly coming to it. Where's the credibility? Is there credibility in HDZ policies and attitudes towards this segment? Apparently not. Someone noticed that at this time of crisis, and I would say a crisis that would produce a storm, accelerated and increased employment at local and regional self-government levels. And not only that, everyone in their county, everyone in their municipality knows very well, regardless of the authority and who behaves it whether HDZ or someone else, that it is done speedily in all municipalities, counties or institutions owned by counties, commercial businesses of cities etc. Expecting, quite possibly expecting an even more severe crisis, then those who are similar should be taken care of, those who bring votes. And it is done regardless of what I would say to party membership, and since, it must be recognised, most of the municipalities, cities and units of local self-government and regional self-government, as you said here on the HDZ side, in your hands then it is clear that this applies most to you. For this reason, I was the first time here when there was a law for those, for that ordinary paradise of 2 and 4%, also made an amendment asking that the principle of one solidarity be respected, so that if the net income per household member does not exceed 2 thousand kuna that there is no tax. So if one family of three members has a income of 6 thousand and 100 kuna, so husband, wife and one child, then they don't, or then it's their or two children, then if their income or wages and everything else goes beyond 2 thousand kuna per household member, that this measure, this tax, does not apply. At least this would alleviate the poor social situation especially in young families. Especially in young people who started their own marriage. Where she works one thing, and sometimes not one of her couples. Unfortunately, that amendment that I put into that debate about a month and a half, two days ago, that amendment was rejected with some reason that we in the HDSSB do not understand tax policy. I don't see what you need to understand. That's why, and the first time this 17-month tax was voted for by the ordinary regiment, we were against it, we were against it then, and now for principle reasons, even though this is about another group of people who, I say, are more fortunately, and this time we're going to vote against such a bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-24-0.u39151	Thank you. That's what ended the club debate. We move to an individual debate, the first in line is the distinguished representative Dragan Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-24-0.u39152	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. In fact, this law is literally due to the principle of justice, equality, and proportionality. Just as stated in the proposal for a law, it was necessary to adopt. It equalises them in paying taxes of solidarity and doctors and workers in the plant, but also lawyers, dentists, journalists, craftsmen, singers, scientists, auditors, pensioners, writers and all other free professions, and all of these means categories and university professors that we covered in the first law of pensioners etc. The message is clear that at this stage in the stabilisation of state finances, all citizens participate. As income separation will be calculated for the groups for which we are making the law today, it is a purely technical issue and it would be good if we had done it immediately in the first law in order to avoid those speculations in public about some lobbyes, restraints and to God's privileged groups. But I do believe that it has reacted quickly enough and that, in particular by setting and equating deadlines, these 17 months that have been given both for the duration of one law and for the duration of another law, this thing has been brought into order. It is clear that no tax is a popular measure, but it seems to me that when we remember the first debate in the Croatian Parliament, the citizens still had more understanding than the policy for the situation we are in and all those moves that need to be taken in this situation of the economic crisis. Because above all, it is a key goal to preserve our jobs. We want to believe that we have reached the bottom of macroeconomicly this summer and are entering a period of economic recovery. In a period when we will discuss both this and the previous solidarity tax and set an early date for its abolition. I hope deeply and long for these taxes to be abolished even earlier than the prescribed legal deadline, and that would primarily mean that the time of crisis is behind us. The fact that in the second quarter of this year, the decline in gross social product from 6.7 fell to 6.3 in the Republic of Croatia, is the fact that I said yesterday which encourages and gives us the right to believe that the situation is going well. With such an increase in gross social product compared to the first quarter, we settled alongside Greece, France, Germany and Slovakia, so several European Union countries where they either feel stagnation or we have this slight growth of the gross social product. Which means that the crisis in most of these countries has stopped and the trends have stopped. Why am I bringing this up? In fact, we must not at any time, and we cannot interfere with the idea that this crisis is not our product, that it is the result of the global crisis. But what happened with us, this crisis has in some way encouraged and contributed to some of the things that I consider to be the structural problems of the Croatian economy, to surface, and here first of all I think about the relationship and the ratio that do and those living on the state budget. It should be made clear this time that all of us Parliamentarians who move among people, we know that citizens are extremely difficult to live and that at least these 500 kunas that some had to be singled out according to the solidarity tax, for some is huge money. Maybe it's a war of housing credit, maybe it's a ride for school kids, for directors or something. And that is why it is particularly important, with the 2009 budget, to send a good message to both our economy and our citizens. There is no room for any deviation from the reduction of state consumption. Expensive, even this trend of halting the decline of the gross social product, i.e. this slight slight increase, must not encourage us in that poor sense, that this is a sign that this framework should now be questioned again by reduced state spending. The expenditure party should keep the existing framework, and economies and support in entrepreneurship should be a priority. And there, too, needs to be clearly entangled beneath the surface. In fact, not all the incentives that we have paid for so far have been in the function of developing the economy or agriculture, as some incentives have simply put to sleep structural reforms in certain sectors and economies and agricultural production, which could come in a very rough way by getting into the European Union, where clear support and incentives will be paid in a different way. The best proof that there is a high awareness among Croatian citizens and a willingness to solidarity is also a wave of union protests held throughout Croatia that have experienced their debacle. Citizens, by not coming to the protests, clearly sent a message to the organisers and to all those forces in the country who called for the collapse of the government, new elections and who wanted to further sharpen this difficult and crisis situation, that they believed more in the government and that they believed more in the system, than some catastrophics and forecasters expected the message is clear, today no one in Croatia believes that the street can change the situation, and neither are our citizens naive to expect some rescue and unrealistic solutions overnight, so as an expression of some day-to-day policy. But that is precisely why it is a huge responsibility for the government to show citizens and the economy the perspective of the 2009 budget. Therefore, the budget must not be an expression of the ratio of the strength of some lobbys, of some groups, of interest groups etc. It simply needs to send a clear unambiguous message in which the state is heading economically and socially. Because there will be the greatest satisfaction for this patience that citizens have and who, together with the Croatian government, are taking part in the burden of this crisis. Everyone in this state is aware that at this moment, by bringing these unpopular but necessary laws, we are fighting first and foremost to preserve jobs and economic recovery. And that is why I support the adoption of this law, but unlike all the other laws that we have passed in this Croatian Parliament, I want it to meet its purpose very quickly and to end it as soon as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-24-0.u39153	Thank you. We have two replicas, the first distinguished representative of Stjepan Kundić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-24-0.u39154	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Kovačević, you have encouraged me to reply to your optimistic visions. In fact, you all know that in our people, I read that in one columnist there was so-called. Women are narrators. For a decent fee, they used to narrate at funerals. It didn't matter because they were objective, but they knew how to do it. Why did I actually say that? Today also there are narrators, but now they have a much more sophisticated name, called... I've heard a lot of experts today who have a vision of futuristically bad. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] They're fighting to show the people what's up there. We have an example of the tourist season. Experts claimed the season would fail by 30%. Now they're disappointed. They've already announced the 2010 budget, it's already going apocalyptic, because we're still going to need someone who's going to support our fear of the future with scientific documents, who's going to declare our cowardice a sober view of things. It doesn't matter to them that they're playing ball, but they'll still care because there are elections to show that HDZ has the right policy and that it's well in this situation it's managed. Thank you very much. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-24-0.u39155	Thank you. And another replica, the esteemed representative of Gordan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-24-0.u39156	Thank you very much. Mr Kovacevic, I really don't know where you're getting these fairy tales of optimism that should suddenly prevail in Croatia. I'll only remind you of one thing. Last year, you planned a budget that was supposed to be planned based on 2% of the economic growth points, and the year will end at -5.5%. So that's HDZ planning and that's what you have in mind, what you're offering. And it's worrying that you're saying there's no room to reduce state spending, especially when you're comparing the year 2007, in 2008, where consumption is the same or even growing, and incomes are 5 billion less. And please tell me, what logic is that next year Croatia, which is in charge of 41 billion euros, I'm talking about the total external debt, we need to borrow another 7 billion kuna. And that's the policy of this government. Croatian citizens will have to pay for it again. And you're saying here that you're fighting to keep your jobs, and the other day your colleague, director of the Employment Service, gave you information that this year more than 50 to 60 thousand people are going to lose their jobs. So, you've made contradictory statements and really vaguely, I'd be happy to see what you're dragging those statements about optimism, growing next year, 3% in 2011 when it doesn't have any real basis. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-24-0.u39157	Replica response, distinguished representative Dragan Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-24-0.u39158	Namely, this isn't about any false optimism. Optimism is based here on clear figures, and I have already said in my presentation that the Republic of Croatia, along with four other European Union countries, recorded a slight increase in gross social product in the second quarter. So, we had a debate with both the one and the other rebalancing, where just from your bench came announcements catastrophicly, especially in this second part of the year where there was going to be one wave of layoffs, where there would be a terrible disturbance in the economy, and in some ways it was the summoning of the street. But now we have seen, when these protests were held, that they have no messages, it is not a protest, but a message from these protests, so the ones about the destruction of the government, about the summoning of chaos, etc., so that these messages do not come upon fertile soil among the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. And I also said, about this part, you mentioned the deficit, another colleague mentioned the deficit as if it were a planned deficit. So Croatia simply couldn't stop, it shouldn't have stopped its development. But you must know that in this deficit year after year, starting from the beginning of the Homeland War to the day, we have built a minimum of 10 billion kunas to which we have paid war damages and the consequences of war both in the economy and in people, etc. So, if we hadn't had those 10 billion each year that we had to set out to do, then there wouldn't have been a deficit like this, and we certainly would have had more money left to invest in economic development.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-24-0.u39159	Thank you. It's time for the distinguished representative of the Vesna Buterin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-24-0.u39160	Dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. In proposing this law, the Government was governed by the principles of justice, equality and equality. Thus, all those groups of people who earn income on any basis will be taxed by a special tax, each according to their income. Also, a special tax will tax all incomes, thus achieving equality. I must stress that this is not only about taxation of income from self-activity, but also about taxation of incomes from other sources. So far, complaints could be heard that the crisis tax only taxes incomes from work, and this law changes exactly that. In fact, the Income Tax Act defines exactly what is considered to be income and what are sources of income. Thus, the special tax will now cover income from assets and property rights, capital income and income from insurance. This achieves greater fairness in paying a special tax. In doing so, several more important facts need to be noted, whose false interpretation could lead to accidental or unintentional misunderstandings. In accordance with Article 4(4) of Regulation (EU) No 1305/2013, the Commission notes that, in the light of the above, the Commission considers that, in the light of the above considerations, the Commission considers that the measures provided for in this Regulation are in accordance with the opinion of the European Parliament and of the Council and the European Parliament and of the Council. The special tax will only be paid by the difference in the price at which the property was bought and sold. A special tax will not be paid if the property has been used for housing or if more than three years have passed from the day of purchase of the property until the day of estrangement. In addition, Article 4(5) mentions the receipts of interest. Clearly, I say, this does not refer to interest generated by citizens by savings or hand or interest on money held by citizens in bank accounts, savings banks, or savings-credit cooperatives. This applies exclusively to the interest that citizens earn on the basis of the loans given. The 110m kuna expected at the annual level will be the revenues of the state budget. This will finance both salaries and pensions and other social benefits. In other words, the special tax will contribute to a more balanced distribution of the burden of the global economic crisis to all citizens of the Republic of Croatia, with a share of citizens with monthly incomes of less than 3,000 kuna being exempt from payment. Although unpopular, the specific tax laws help reduce the deficits of the state budget. In this time of crisis, Croatia manages to manage its finances on its own, without help and without the IMF's interference. One of the factors of this success is the adoption of the Special Tax Act as temporary measures during the duration of this crisis. As with the previous Special Tax Act adopted by the Parliament, this law will also have a limited duration, and if expectations are achieved in the recovery of the Republic of Croatia's economy and state of state finances, these laws could be abolished before the deadline is set. At the end of the debate, I give full support to the adoption of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-24-0.u39161	Thank you. We also have one replica, the esteemed representative of Shima Luchin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-24-0.u39162	Thank you very much. Well, I think my colleague has elaborated this law very well. I liked the part where she said that this law would help divide the burden of the crisis more evenly and evenly in Croatia. But that's not what this is about, it's about the fact that we shouldn't have this law, or we didn't need it, and we shouldn't have passed it. I am not convinced that this law will be limited time or that it will only last next year. Why? Because there are no announcements for the next year neither the rationalisation of the central state nor the rationalisation of the state in a broad sense, without speaking of some shy announcements of changing non-logically expensive units of local self-government. So it is obvious that this tax actually buys itself a year of life. Unfortunately, not only with these taxes, but also with the increase in VAT, and I assure you that in the coming year, the government will have to impose some other burdens. And some colleagues are talking about development. No development if you have almost 90% of the budget just so that the state can live up to your pensions and salaries. What development? With what money? Therefore, it is obvious that the government is not ready and that the government does not have the courage to bite into the acidic apple of the state's reorganisation in order to make a smaller, more efficient state where officials will be paid better, where there will be fewer etc. etc. Therefore, this tax, as we have spoken, makes no sense during its adoption, and it will not solve the problem. He's just delaying the final solution to the problem.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-24-0.u39163	Thank you very much. The reply to the replica, the esteemed representative of Vesna Buterin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-24-0.u39164	Your Honor, I really cannot agree with what you have stated. It is known that the global financial and economic crisis has spread over to both the Croatian economy and the Croatian state and that the government has had to take certain measures to bring public finances into order and to actually reduce the state deficit in some ways. But it's also important, so we sent a clear message that we can manage our own finances without help on the side like some countries have taken IMF aid. When we talk about this tax today, it will bring 110 million kuna more into the state budget. The proposal for a special tax law that we adopted in the seventh month of 2009 will contribute to 755 million kuna and in 2010. 2.1 billion kuna. Of course, these taxes, or this introduction of taxes, are not easy for our citizens. However, I believe that we must all bear the burden of the crisis and what is optimistic in all this is that these taxes are temporary and that they will be abolished at the end of 2010, or in the second month of 2011.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-24-0.u39165	Thank you. We're continuing the debate. It's time for the honourable representative of Dragutin Lesar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-24-0.u39166	Dear colleagues and colleagues, Secretary of State. So in order to avoid any debate about the national-religious context of this tax, I will not call it a harachus like I didn't last time, but when it was... Because I really believe that every government has a right and deserves to get a new tax that introduces its own name. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] What doesn't point to a decision not to support this bill is four things. First, this tax is introduced on life and voluntary retirement insurance that has the character of savings. I'm asking now, Mr. Secretary of State, if that amount of money will not be taxed twice when paid and the premium of life insurance or voluntary pension insurance that has the character of savings is paid. Read the provision one more time, so I may have misunderstood. The second reading on this basis is based on contracts approved by supervisory committees that are very well supervised by the work of the administration on the burden of public enterprises, with premiums of life insurance policies, but not on 5000 or 50,000 but on millions. Who's gonna pay taxes on those premiums? Users of a policy or public enterprise that pays the premium. I didn't find the answer in the law, so you might be able to answer me. When the state is in crisis, the financial crisis then there are those who manage public finances two options: either to reduce expenditure or to increase revenues. The site was said by a representative of the World Bank in Croatia. We in Croatia didn't know until then, and I thank the World Bank for having such a smart man at the head of the office in Zagreb for telling us. The government has decided to increase revenues through taxes, new taxes. But it's interesting that the amount of funds that the state would receive from this tax-expanded VAT is about the same amount as you from the Ministry of Finance ask the INA. So I'm a little surprised that the state government on the one hand has to introduce new taxes, and on the other hand it has taxpayers to negotiate and turn them into partners instead of taxpayers. It's a bit of a weird situation. And last time I said, and I stress that this special tax violates the justice of the tax system, because unlike the income tax model where there is an untaxable part for all citizens there is no such thing here. That's not good. The main reasons for introducing this tax from all reasons are the crisis. Is the new tax, this or any other recession or anti-recession measure, that is, will this tax lead to increased or reduced consumption? The decline in gross social product is 6.7. The decline in consumption is over 14%. How's that? We've had twice as much consumption since the downfall of the gross social product. The psychological effect caused by inappropriate statements by those who led the government up to a few months ago has also caused what counterpart Maric said even unwarranted layoffs under the pretext of crisis and recession, let alone the situation that consumption has fallen twice as much as the decline in gross social product. And this tax will bear a psychological effect and craftsmanship and craftsmanship will also be resolved by what to this great public sector that it will be an excuse for non-payment, delaying payments, layoffs and when there are no economic criteria for it. Two more things. I'm not an expert on the tax system, but all the time, I wonder if Croatia, when you've already decided to increase income and tax, would be simpler in technical terms, fairer in terms of who will pay, and in financial income in that sense equally that instead of having a VAT increase to, say, 24 or 25%? Why did the government, when it was already increasing VAT by only 4 and a half percent, or one index point. Because many ask why I claim that VAT has been increased by 4 and a half percent. It increased by one index point, which is 4 and a half percent increase. And the government could immediately say we're going to a 25% VAT, so we're going to finance a lack of money in the government's register. And not a little VAT, a little new tax, so for some, yes, for some, not now, for everyone, or for saving up retirement voluntary insurance and life insurance. I don't think those who designed us to stimulate new revenues for the Treasury have consulted anyone who knows anything about it, because if they did, I'm sure the government and Prime Minister Kosor would come with a proposal just to increase VAT. One commendation at the end. I commend you at the Ministry of Finance and Government for not accepting the proposal of the HDZ Club's representative in the original law which, speaking on behalf of the HDZ, has been problematicd by the fact that these tax salaries and salaries are paid to the workers on sick leave, so he argued that they are now... the position of those who work and those who are on sick leave, alluding to the fact that a tax should also be imposed on sickness benefits. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I commend you not to suggest that sick workers, who receive salaries, do not pay this tax. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-24-0.u39167	Thank you. We have three replicas. First, she is a respected representative, Ingrid Antičević Marinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-24-0.u39168	What you're saying is that this too will reflect on small craftsmen, who are usually the most well-paid, while the great forgives themselves, no one forgives them. But this isn't a question right now, because first of all, it's a question that the government with these moves is making a war of economics and workers, pensioners and those who work, old and new pensioners. So mutual conflicts to protect themselves from all kinds of attacks and thus exist, i.e. to provide for government, and the basic reason is, that is, to call for them to do things themselves right now. Not that they are created by a conflict between individual categories of citizens. So the basic question is then to eliminate this unfair hack and tax, and to introduce those taxes, that is, a new tax system that will primarily tax those who earn the most, and also to destimulate those employers who pay for enormous sums. So can banks that can be limited to increasing interest rates. So the state has a whole instrumentation, right through the tax system. This way, through the introduction of the harrass on all god-aws under the ego of equality in essence of suspicion... This is one of the greatest injustices. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The only justice would be for this hack to be abolished as soon as possible and to introduce a new tax system that has been taxed primarily by those who earn the most.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-24-0.u39169	Thank you. The reply to the replica, the esteemed representative of Dragutin Lesar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-24-0.u39170	My colleague Ingrid, the Chamber of Commerce of Međimurje, publicly asked an interesting question yesterday, for which even I couldn't help answer. Are craftsmen and craftsmen, especially those small, in Croatia workers or employers? For example, in the tax system, we treat them as employers, but if he closes the store, turns and becomes an unemployed citizen, he is not treated as a worker at the Employment Office, because he has no right. Whatever law you take, we move them from category to category, we treat them differently depending on whether we take or give them money. So it may be one thought for those who run public finances, especially care about craftsmanship and craftsmanship in Croatia, to finally decide what they are. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-24-0.u39171	Thank you. Another replica, the distinguished representative Goran Maric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-24-0.u39172	Thank you very much. Comrade Lesar, I agree with you when you mentioned the manager's bonuses and life insurance policies, life insurance policies. I think that the supervisory boards should get out of the contracts they make with the managers, and I publicly order that it be introduced urgently in Croatia and that no re-practice is accepted, which is already repeated in America, because we haven't learned from the mistakes, so in the four banks that have been rescheduled for 569, the manager has already paid me $5 and a half billion this year. But it also bothers me a little bit when it's politicized about everything, because by politicizing, we're moving away from the essence of the problem. The INA problem, the debt of INA to the state is indeed a business big problem, but by politicizing from the essence, we're moving away. No one mentions members of the INA management who are in charge of the business of the company, who are representatives of the Croatian government in the INA. Everyone connects the ministers, the board of directors, the vice-presidents of the government, and in fact the INA pays disproportionately to suppliers, some pays in a day and some doesn't pay at all and precedes the state in that. So it seems that these members of the INA administration who are on behalf of the state are more concerned about the interests of private companies than the state interests should be changed in the same way. As everything concentrates politically in Podravka and the whole problem is that the president of the administration is to sign a contract that was not allowed without the consent of the Supervisory Board. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-24-0.u39173	The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative of Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-24-0.u39174	I agree with you fellow Marić, this "manager" behaviour in the public sector because they are managers only by means of contracts by nothing else, either in the way they are appointed or in the way they are responsible for their work. Through these life insurance policies, first of all, every border of tolerance has crossed the scales, and the second is deeply unfair in the situation in which the state is because they are simply making fun of the workers who work in these companies and all of us who are trying to help finance come. If that doesn't stop, I would ban it by law, it's embarrassing behavior, and it's embarrassing that we all know and tolerate that kind of behavior, and it would be good if we could publish the names of all these managers who have shelves on the burden of public companies. As far as INA is concerned, and here I agree with you, the INA administration has also not worked well, there is protectionism in payment, not only by deadlines but also by means, but by what is the problem. Supervisory boards in these companies, in the INA and other companies should monitor and know something, and that can be done if desired. I am therefore disappointed that the Prime Minister stood behind the supervisory committees I mentioned yesterday, so unfortunately I depolitize when I open the topic because if the Prime Minister had said they were not doing well, I would have blamed them.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-24-0.u39175	Thank you. And the third replica is the esteemed representative of Shime Luchin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-24-0.u39176	Thank you very much. I just think that INA's problem should be politicized because it's primarily a political issue and only economically, because if you pull certain economic and economic parameters with some other oil companies in our environment you'll see something's wrong. And why is it a political issue, because a good part of the people on the Supervisory Board has some possibility of saying something and being on the political line there. However, I am convinced that the INA problem is important why, because it is 2 billion, and we are talking for the third time or twice about the Law that is difficult on the first occasion 110 million kuna. My question is how many more companies do public, whether private, state-owned has what the state owes a large amount of money. And when you further calculate the indifference that for the first time, as far as I'm concerned, is growing so drastically in the heart of the tourist season, then there will be no effect with such economic moves at all. I will not enter into the righteousness and injustice of this Law at all, I enter into its essence that it is meaningless. Pointless until the moment until the Croatian government and this state decide to deal with the expenditure side of the budget, the Croatian state is not so rich it doesn't have so much money that it can have this kind of expenditure and there is the essence of the problem. We will simply get into a situation very quickly that we will no longer be able to seize from where, or the government will not be able to seize anywhere, in fact if nothing changes next year we will dare say in a situation that will no longer be justified by the world recession. And I'm afraid of one more thing, and I'm going to end up there, and that's just like we were late in the announcement of recession and crisis in Croatia and the world, and I'm afraid we're going to be late for a year and two days to announce that we're out of recession and crisis.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-24-0.u39177	Thank you. The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative of Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-24-0.u39178	My colleague Sime's problem with INA is for me a primarily financial tax issue. Because INA owes money to the citizens of this country. I will accept that this political issue is only on condition that it is proved true that this debt was created as compensation for former Prime Minister Sanader's policy, which voted I will defend the price of gasoline at 8 kuna, and the gas will not accumulate. So if INA is through tax debts, it makes up for the flow of 8 kunas or less, then it is indeed a political issue. I assure you in this case of INA as in the case of Podravka if what the public writes is true, so even some members of the administration themselves have publicly said that any state that insists on respecting the law and preventing such business would all participants on the same day that it came to the public would be arrested.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-24-0.u39179	Thank you. I'd like you to stick to the subject in your replica, please. It's the Honorable representative of Davor Huška.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-24-0.u39180	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Secretary of State. In front of us today is the Proposal for a Law on Special Tax on Receipts of Independent Activity and Other Receipts, I would say the second part of the Law on Special Tax already applicable from 1 August of this year, the Law on Special Tax on Salary, Pensions and Other Receipts. As in the previous case today, the economic situation in Croatia is due to the adoption of this Act, in which, due to the economic financial crisis, the revenues of the state budget are significantly less than the need for the normal financing of all public liabilities, including, of course, pension insurance. In order to minimise the impact of crisis movements, the Government of the Republic of Croatia has introduced a whole series of different measures that we already know have some results. The Ministry of Finance also acts on the revenue but also on the expenditure side of the budget with a series of changes aimed at bringing public finances into line with real opportunities. This law covers the taxation of all those types of receipts which are unfairly omitted in the first legislative proposal and these are receipts from independent activity and crafts and with a turnover of equal activities, receipts from real estate, property rights, receipts... rents, rents, rents, rents of rooms, beds, receipts from the time-limited concession of copyrights, industrial property rights and other property rights, receipts and transactions of interest, the use of services on the charge of income tax, and receipts in the amount of paid and tax-recognized premiums of life insurance, with the feature of savings and voluntary pension insurance, all in accordance with the Income Tax Act. Since the legislation previously adopted applies for 17 months, the proposal is, and I believe that this is fine, and that the time of application of this Law on Special Tax on Receipts from Independent Activity and Other Receipts, shall be a maximum of 17 months beginning from 01. Ten. In 2009. Of course, we all hope that given these latest indications that this law-processing will experience an expropriation much earlier. Of course I'm voting for this law because of all this. I want to look back here briefly and to the presentation of representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community club, the Doctor of Economic Sciences, I stress this, Mr. Goran Marić, exactly when the profession comes out for this speaker, the person, the people who know the problem of the area they're talking about, and it is also evident when people who deal with politics come out, or what fellow Stjepan called them the experts of narrators, who here scare us and the entire Croatian people with some blackness, bad indicators, all of those forecasts that they go out here at the pay phone and in the assembly. A colleague Maric specifically referred to the layoff of workers that many entrepreneurs have used in this crisis, but not mainly because of the crisis and the economic problems but because of increasing their profits and profits. A special reference to high interest rates in banks, although here is my colleague, I really congratulate you, the bankers are coming down on you every time after you go out here for a pay phone, but you are right to present information about high interest rates such as do not exist in Europe, interest-related Croatian money due to banks from the Republic of Croatia and should certainly continue to be warned about the behaviour of banks and bankers here in Croatia. At the end of the adoption of this Special Tax Act, we continue with our activities to increase revenue in the budget and these 100 million, slightly more than 100 million, which will be incomed from a vis-à-vis the introduction and introduction of this new tax will be distributed fairly and properly to all those needs at the level of the entire Republic of Croatia, all categories of population that participate in budgetary expenditures. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-24-0.u39181	Thank you. We've got replicas, the esteemed representative of Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-24-0.u39182	Thank you very much. Mr. Hushka, you've offered me a part of your debate to answer. You know the problem with HDZ and these governments? You say you wake up pessimism, you wake up on call. The problem is, Mr. Hushka, you think everyone but HDZ is a narrator. Those who complain, unwarranted by you, but the problem is that the only thing you can't explain to these people is that they live well and that what you do is fair. I invite you, as many HDZ deputies as possible, please come in and explain to the people that this is fair. Now they listen to you and explain to them that it's only fair that you take 4% from them, that next year the state won't save 200 million kunas from the budget. That's fair. Let them pay 3 billion kuna, and you will save 150 million kuna in development, and then tell Minister Schuker that 90% of his budget is due. It's really a development. So when you're given 90 percent, that's certainly the development budget. And I call upon all HDZ representatives to explain to people that they do not understand that they are actually living well and that unfortunately, they are on call narrators who do not understand the transparency of HDZ policy.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-24-0.u39183	Replica's response, the esteemed representative of Davor Huška. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-24-0.u39184	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, colleague, the forecasts you gave before the tourist season, the forecasts you gave at the beginning of this year where you predicted two figures... not only you, the double-digit decline of the gross domestic product, where you predicted the decline of the tourist season 20, 30 can't even remember how much. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Whether these are the black forecasts, whether it was justified, shows today's time. GDP and the second quarter are here this year among the 4 countries in Europe we are growing in Croatia. It's an extraordinary tourist season. Where were the arguments for your prognosis? Did you prophesy one black fate, frighten the people with those prognosis? Fortunately, the people still trust the Croatian Democratic Community, walk a little among the people, I am at work every day with a people who have difficulty living but believes in this government, believes in the Croatian Democratic Community, and in the end they have proved this in both the local elections and the last elections for Parliament, and I believe that will be so in the upcoming election for the president. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-24-0.u39185	Thank you. I must again warn you to stick to the subject, and the topic is the final proposal for a law on special tax on income from independent activity and other receipts. Please stick to the subject both in the replica and in the basic discussions. Dear Representative Goran Maric, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-24-0.u39186	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. So this law and the bill of law is the direct consequence of the economic crisis that has occurred around the world, and I am talking about the level of interest rates very often because of the knowledge of the importance of the cost of money for economic development and for maintaining employment. The real sector and the financial sector operate on the basis of combined vessels and there is no real health sector if it is not healthy and the financial sector, but also vice versa. And you sometimes attacks on me don't surprise me because our system of values, we measure social values with different meters and I will always fight and promote the economy, such a market economy where there will be room for a man, in which bread will indeed be a material question for me, but bread for another and material and moral question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-24-0.u39187	Thank you. The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative of Davor Huška. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-24-0.u39188	My colleague, you say that you will fight for these directions of your thinking, and I say that every honest citizen, economist, will be with you and, of course, in that direction and his behaviour in the economy, here in the Parliament, will try to act in his life. You mention the real financial sector. There is no real sector today that can return interest rates of 10, 12 or more. No such production, no such real sector. The financial sector simply does not monitor the real situation on the ground, the real situation in the economy and chokes the economy. We all live off the economy. And we here and our pensioners and our children in kindergartens and schools. The financial sector must adapt its behaviour to the situation in which we are located and realistically monitor finance with interest rates, with loans of production and economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-24-0.u39189	Thank you. Replica's distinguished representative, Ingrid Anticevic-Marinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-24-0.u39190	So you speak rightly and criticise banks and other financial institutions, especially banks that in these difficult times take advantage of this situation, hunt in a dim and for no good reason raise interest. It existes here on the agenda, but is constantly moving, but it is not subject to the government's obvious focus of interest, to discuss this legislative proposal, because the SDP club has sent a legislative proposal that would make it impossible for banks to detimise it. So I think it's a little hypocritical to criticize banks like this, not to do anything. Because the state, the government has all the instruments that the entire instrumentation is at its disposal to contain the situation. So, the government on this legal proposal that we wanted to protect citizens who took loans, especially young family housing loans, so that their interest doesn't fly to the sky, because in the morning they wake up with one interest, in the evening they lie with another, of course increased interest. So, that this would not be to introduce a special tax in which banks would be detimised to do so. So, to whine and invite banks publicly by top state officials, not to do so, and on the other hand to enable them, then it is, that citizens simply do not perceive it as serious to you, or the government's seriousness to really do something about it. And in the end, here you see. How is it possible that in our Implementing Law one unfair who is defined by Roman law as an unfair institution, fiduciary by which the bank does not enter into an executive procedure, but is taken away from a man's property, even for the smallest part of the debt, where he is exhausted more with these payments constantly increased, to pay. Even when he remains in debt, the smallest part and his entire property is seized. It's something that needs to be abolished immediately in these times.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-24-0.u39191	Thank you. Replica's response, the esteemed representative of Davor Huška.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-24-0.u39192	Thank you. Mr. Vice President, dear colleague. It is well known to me and you and all of us that interest is essentially on the market. The interest is on the market and the banks will get into a situation when they can't sell their loans, they don't have the demand for loans to go down with interest. To influence the regulation of interest from here to law, remember what happened to excise duties. What was the echo when excises were introduced? Of course, they were transferred to customers, consumers and again collected certain services. What would happen is that we regulate interest rates here with certain laws, although it is essentially under the authority of the Croatian National Bank and monetary policy. Who would pay such extra costs, some kind of regulatory instruments in the bank, but again to the businessmen, entrepreneurs and ultimately citizens. A brief review of this mention of fiduciary. It is only one in a series of elements, i.e. the insurance instruments in the bank. He's existing all over the world. And all of us, when we sign the loans, we read the contract, decide whether or not we take the loan under those conditions. It's a personal matter to anyone who enters a credit line. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-24-0.u39193	Thank you. And distinguished representative Krunoslav Markovinović, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-24-0.u39194	Well, here's an esteemed colleague who really explained this tax, but what's the strangest thing about what we're going through, what's the tax for? Well, the other day, I listened to Mrs. Angela Merkel, who also said that such a tax was in Germany and that other countries had introduced such a tax. So, crisis tax in times of crisis. And it's normal for the state to try in any way to cover expenses. Furthermore, funny stories, much of the budget is determined, so he's determined. We have no way of reducing it. Well, normally if we touched any of the categories, we'd be on duty again on the budget, so we'd say why you're touching the military, the police, why you're touching the education, the social. So it's obviously very difficult to make up for the state budget, but here's the government trying to do it. So we have a tax, a special tax adapted to this weather. It includes this category which is here because of the different interpretation in the first part is not. You've finally asked for it, and now you're attacking this tax again. And as for the disagreement itself, I heard just before here from the opposition ranks, to strive... with each other. Well, if that's the case, we're trying to create a situation that's currently in the SDP.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-24-0.u39195	Thank you. Replica's response, the esteemed representative of Davor Huška. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-24-0.u39196	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I'm not gonna comment on this one last time. Let each man take care of his own ranks, of his own men. In normal countries, Mr. Markovanovic, this tax that our people here call harachum, is called a special tax, is called the solidarity tax. Citizens in European countries, citizens in Croatia are aware of the situation their country is in, the situation our country is in, and they are aware that we must all contribute to the improvement of the situation as soon as possible. That is why such solidarity measures, solidarity taxes that go to the whole area affect revenues, the reception of all citizens of the Republic of Croatia. It's good to have this other part of the tax as I said some groups of citizens of entrepreneurs remain, not untaxed. And after the introduction of this income tax will be all groups just solid tax, we hope with the shortest life span. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-24-0.u39197	Thank you. There's an individual debate coming up. Dear representative Nevenka Majdenić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-24-0.u39198	Dear Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Representative of the Government, colleagues and colleagues. The Law on Special Tax on Receipts of Independent Activity and Other Receipts is, in fact, the addition of the Law on Special Tax on Salary, Pensions and Other Receipts, as it is, by its essence, of the same purpose and the same purpose and time of duration. By the same nature, I mean taxing the pure net personal receipts of all citizens, evenly, with respect to a certain social minimum and no exceptions. For the same purpose, it is considered to collect revenue from the state budget which is not filled with the necessary dynamics due to the financial crisis and the fall in economic activity. The same aim of these laws is to meet the basic and social needs that are financed from the budget, wages, pensions, health insurance and social benefits of society's most vulnerable layers. And when I first said that these laws are of the same duration, I mean that they are temporary, that they will be applied for 17 months but that they can be abolished sooner if budget revenues begin to be achieved by faster dynamics. This law extends the scope of taxpayers to the first, income obtained from independent activity, crafts and crafts of equal activities, free professions, agriculture and forestry activities. Second, income based on rent, rent, rent apartments, rooms and beds to tourists and organize camps. Third, income from estrangement of real estate and property rights, income from copyright, industrial property rights and other property rights. 5th, income from interest, exemptions from assets and the use of services on the burden of profit or share in profits that make up the source of income. And the sixth, income at the level of paid and tax-recognized premiums of life insurance and voluntary pension insurance. For the first three said incomes, the accounting and payment of taxes is a natural person, the taxpayer himself. For the other three mentioned receipts to which the obligation to pay taxes, the accounting, suspension and payment obligation is extended is the payer of the receipt. The proposal for this law detailed the tax bases for each individual form of income or receipt, the accounts on which the basis of which the basis, periods and deadlines must be established in which the invoices and payments of taxes are to be made. Such a detailed and extensive tax base processing is primarily necessary because of the diversity of the number and forms of receipts on this basis, but also because of the need to facilitate the business of accounting and avoid failures in the scope of taxpayers. Because the fundamental intensity of this law is the even and fair burden of all structures, i.e. that the burden of the crisis is borne by all citizens in proportion to their economic strength. Tax rates and ranges within which they are applied are the same as in the Law on Special Tax on Salary, so 2% per amount greater than 3 thousand and 4% per amount of more than 6 thousand kuna. Finally, I can suggest that this law be adopted by an emergency procedure, as it corrects the failure of the previous law. And my personal desire is that both of these laws last and apply as briefly as possible because this will mean that this is the end of the economic crisis and the beginning of the rapid development. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-24-0.u39199	Thank you. We have one replica. Dear Representative Frana Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-24-0.u39200	I thank you, Mr. Vice President. My fellow Members, you have rightly stated that this is a solidarity tax that will last we hope even shorter than is stated in this law and in the previous law that applied to all others. And if that were common in Europe, I will remind the Croatian public and those in the Parliament who say there are no such examples, so I will remind them that in the early 1990s, after two Germanys were united, a tax of solidarity was introduced in West Germany to help people living in East Germany. I can't say for sure, but a friend in Germany told me that the tax is about 5.6%. So, practice exists in Europe, there are special and certain reasons, and right now I'm calling for a case in Germany. So that tax was introduced in the early '90s. It was intended not to last long with them, but they remained with them until today’s tax because they still have problems today. After two Germanys united, they still have problems with the integration of areas called before East Germany and the DDR. Thus, such a tax and such solidarity exist in Europe and is highly justified and, of course, no one in Germany calls on the German governments to introduce a harrassor or to continue to maintain a harrassor. So it's about the solidarity tax, and that's how I personally understand this tax that's been introduced to all the receipts, of course by protecting, we always have to point out, protecting those who have received less than 3,000 kuna, and those are 900 thousand pensioners, those are almost 600 thousand employees. I wish the facts weren't such that their receipts were below 3,000 kuna, but they're protected. So most of the population that doesn't have large incomes is protected.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-24-0.u39201	Thank you very much. Time. It's our guest, Mr. Boris Kunst. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-24-0.u39202	Thank you very much, Your Honor. My colleagues from finance and fellow representatives. This proposal for a law on specific income tax from independent activity and other receipts corrects the inequality of tax return in relation to salaries, pensions and other receipts. The criticism of this inequality is being referred to by individuals from both opposition and position, so I really don't see any reason why we're critical of this bill because I can only take it as an unserious game for viewers. I also warned of such inequality at the meeting of the Committee on Labour and Social Partnership, as well as in the discussion of the adoption of the Law on Special Tax on Salary, Pensions and Receipts from the Second Income. Since one and the other laws are intervening laws which limit the duration, and one and the other are intended to increase revenues in a short time and reduce the expenditures of the state budget, and are based on the principle of fairness, equality and proportionality, which stems from the very Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, which each one is obliged to participate in the settlement of public costs in proportion to its opportunities. There is no reason not to include categories of citizens who generate income from independent professions and activities, as are now covered by this proposal by craftsmen, real estate owners, athletes, etc., means all those who have far greater income than the vast majority of workers who are taxing salaries or pensions to pensioners. This law, which has spread tax to benefits from independent activity and other receipts, will also generate additional revenue in the state budget that will be higher in the future than this income achieved under the Taxation and Pensions Act. So anyway, I support this inequality that is now corrected. I'm saying, it might have been better if one of the other laws in the package had been passed, but here's the better thing to do now. Better late than never. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-24-0.u39203	Thank you. It's time for the Honorable Representative of Silvano Hrelja. He's gone. He's losing his right to debate. Dear Representative Zgrebec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-24-0.u39204	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. That is, after a little over two months ago we brought in or less than two months ago we passed the Law on the introduction of a special income tax, i.e. wages and pensions, and after certain categories of income were not covered now, this law will actually cover all incomes covered by our income tax. However, this is not in line with so far in many discussions quoted in Article 51 of our Constitution as saying that it should be taxed according to economic power. We, our Income Tax Act, are primarily taxing incomes from work and part of it, so incomes from property. We do not tax a large part of income relating to income from capital and income from capital income or capital income. We've now symbolically introduced something to tax this special dividend tax. However, we still have plenty of space in our tax system that we have a larger scope. When we have a larger scope through tax revenues then, i.e. larger tax or more tax bases, then we will be able to reduce taxes and tax rates both on income and on profits and value added tax. He's trying to say through these discussions that this tax isn't a hack and I'm not going to call him a hack. I never said it was a hack, but he's not even a crisis, crisis tax, and he's not a solid tax like he's trying to rename. Why isn't it a crisis? There are no tax increases in crises. She's trying to go to savings and streamline costs. If a specific crisis tax is already introduced, then it must stimulate or facilitate the situation of those who create a new value. So, the real sector, and the workers are in the real sector. They create using capital to create a new value. It would be better instead, first of all, if the revenues were raised first to go into maximum rationalisation of the spending side of the state budget, so I will give just a few examples. Let's say intellectual services. If we have so many employees in the public sector, among other things, in that section relating to the Government and that part of the employees who should primarily work alongside the Government and with Parliament, there is no need to have more than one billion kuna of intellectual services. These people who do responsible jobs, who can't be ad hoc jobs, should actually be paid well. What about the cost of promiscuity? So there were also inscriptions that some films were made at some abnormal prices used as promiscuity instead of focusing such funds on education in other ways, perhaps in schools. Or, say, incentives that are huge amounts for our little budget. Nearly 7 billion kuna were in the 2009 budget, but there are no objective and normal criteria for who can get these incentives. They are often actually extinguishing fire either there in those companies or in those segments of the economy that are actually mature for bankruptcy, not for such incentives. So now we come to the law, and at the same time the previous law is on the assessment of constitutionality. And to say why there's actually a possibility that this law might fall in the Constitutional Court. Because it actually doesn't satisfy the basic settings that our Constitution says, so it needs to be taxed according to economic power. And we here, with this law, are taxing an existential minimum. If it is an existential minimum of what the state has found to be actually tax relief, then for example someone calculated to say our average four-member family with two children and one income has this existential minimum of 4800 and some kuna. In other words, these are tax reliefs that currently exist. However, if he receives just 4800 kuna, then he will pay 2% of the crisis tax. He does not consider these reliefs as a basis for taxation or as a deduction for taxation. So what is the minimum existence will still have to pay the tax. The other side is that we don't cover all the revenue. We now include income from independent and non-permanent work and one part of pensions or pensioners covered by this law. Why isn't that tax still in balance? I will tell you these days in the Slovenian Parliament I think that the debate has already begun to introduce special taxes and very high taxes on managerial incomes. I think 12,000 and a few euros gross if you cross the manager's salary is paid a 90% tax. At a certain level of bonuses that managers achieve, a 90% tax is paid. And a certain amount of severance over a certain amount of severance is paid 90% of the tax. It detimises the supervisory boards to conclude abnormally high rights to managers through management contracts. We are now meeting with such abnormal management contracts in our state-owned companies. We'd say private we might not care, but we have to be worried. Col. Maric here said that some make enormous profits, while firing workers. We don't do anything about it. That's all we're talking about. Let's introduce such abnormal profits that are not market-based, introduce high taxes, introduce extra-profit taxes, introduce taxes on abnormally high incomes, receive such managers. And what is the worst situation and why I think the effects of these, these two laws will not be achieved in what is said in the explanation, is an abnormal situation in the liquidity and insolvency of Croatian companies. It has been announced these days that at the end of July there are more than 18 billion kuna outstanding warrants. In just one month, between June and July, it is an increase of nearly 1 billion kuna. The company employs 38 thousand 631 workers, while another 34 thousand 198 individuals have been blocked. They are potential users, or potential participants at the Croatian Employment Service tomorrow. So that's something that's not a normal situation, you don't talk about it, we can't get as much data as the state is involved, as much as state-owned enterprises are involved, what can be done, because it's going to stop all of the economic activities actually. These are workers who do not receive salaries, when they do not receive salaries, neither taxes nor contributions, nor this crisis or special wage tax are paid. So the situation is not normal, and in situations that are not normal, they also need different moves. So I expect that the draft budget will still be different than it is announced. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-24-0.u39205	Thank you. We have one correction to an incorrect quote and two replicas. First correction of the incorrect quote, the distinguished representative Frana Matušić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-24-0.u39206	Well, it's an incorrect quote from a colleague that incentives are given without any criteria. Namely, the funds that are in the budget, as you said only in last year for incentives both in agriculture and in the economy, are very significant and mean and guarantee the survival and agriculture and guarantee survival and the economy, and are given according to clear and strict and certain criteria. It is completely incorrect not to give, to give without any criteria. That's completely incorrect. It is known that they must fill these businessmen in order to obtain these funds. And secondly, when you talk about salaries in public institutions, then you could at least admit that this government had the strength and that it reduced the members of the administration, their salaries and brought them to the level of what we today think is normal in these times of crisis, that such wages must be consistent with all others. And today it is clear that this government has managed to implement something many have not done before.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-24-0.u39207	Thank you. We have two replicas. First is Honorable Representative Miljenko Doric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-24-0.u39208	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleague, I want to thank you for your presentation. You, I would say, are the only person who has in the last three hours correctly, realistically, objectively assessed the state and significance of this bill in relation to that state. Croatian language is a beautiful language, but not always very precise and we often use synonyms and words that have dual meanings. Harach, I agree with you, it's not good to use. The Harac disappeared with the disintegration of the Turkish Empire and I think we can put an end to it. However, colleagues and colleagues talked about the solidarity tax. That's equally incorrect. Because solidarity is the case when someone who has help someone who doesn't. In this case and the one who doesn't, and someone who has 3,000 kunas home budgets a month, that's the poor one. He helps just as much as a rich patch clear what? The budget of this country. Third, crisis tax. Incorrect expression. Why incorrectly? We mentioned here, someone was talking about Merkel. Mrs. Merkel, with that crisis tax, is helping companies she knows will be able to get out of the crisis, so the budget is not being patched up, the economic crisis is being solved. This is a tax of salvation. Tax saving the budget, anything financed from the budget and saved by the Croatian government.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-24-0.u39209	Thank you. The reply to the replica, the esteemed representative of Dragica Zgrebec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-24-0.u39210	Well, thank you, colleague Doric, for actually saying in two minutes what I said in almost 10 minutes. However, I don't think it's good to say that crisis taxes are introduced to pay for salaries and pensions. Well, there can't be someone who needs to get paid and retired so he can pay his taxes to get it. I mean, that's not a good message. I don't criticise government or HDZ here. I don't want to discuss it this way, but I would like to say suggest something that should actually be proposed in a crisis situation, suggest reducing the liabilities to the real sector, and also to these craftsmen who, in addition to paying income tax, guarantee their entire assets for their business. And third thing, they pay all other obligations that other taxpayers don't pay. So, years of contributions and I don't know what all those 245 from the register published by the Ministry of Finance.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-24-0.u39211	Thank you. It's the turn of the replica, the esteemed representative of Shima Luchin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-24-0.u39212	Thank you very much. I fully agree with my colleague Zgrebec when he says that there is probably room on the income side where certain savings could have been achieved during the rebalancing. But I'm not sure they're very intellectual services. If you notice you have one proportion, which is the higher the number of employees and highly educated employees in the state administration, more and more intellectual services are growing. And given the dynamics and the way we make the laws, you probably have to pay two, three times a working group to write and fix some law. And then I'm not so sure that this billion kuna on that side of intellectual services will be enough to pay for negligence or, I don't know what, ignorance, I don't know what to call it, those who are obliged to serve those who need to pass the laws. I'm glad the government tried to bring some sort of order into the management salary of public, or state-owned enterprises, but it would be just as good if it solves the issue of severance. Because how are you going to assess which board manager in the public enterprise came up with a stronger political relationship? Because he's got more severance money. The greater the severance, the stronger the political bond when it comes to that place. I'm hoping the government will deal with that problem as well.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-24-0.u39213	Thank you. The reply to the replica, the esteemed representative of Dragica Zgrebec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-24-0.u39214	When I cited these three items that are significant on the spending side of the state budget, then I said that high intellectual work and knowledge should be paid for by people who work in the state administration, and such people are also underpaid. And if the law were to be drawn up more seriously in this segment of the state administration and less used intellectual services for some ad hoc groups, we would probably find the proposals and quality of the laws that come to Parliament better.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-24-0.u39215	Thank you. And now, as the last individual in turn, is the honourable representative of Nenad Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-24-0.u39216	Thank you very much. Why this Law is passed, and why the basic law was passed in the 7th month that is extended by this Law, because the Treasury is empty, is scratched at the bottom. Now, why is the cashier empty? It's empty because you can't manage public money. Your expenses are higher than your receipts, you don't know how to control those expenses, you don't have the courage to bring in a budget that you'd cut off that passport, then you're missing it in the act, so buy it from the citizens. That's immoral. First of all, it is immoral to charge your own incompetence to the citizens. It's immoral and because you don't take care of that public money, even in such a way as not to suspend your salary to former Prime Minister Sanader when he undercuts his tail and runs. On that day, he's receiving the Prime Minister's salary from the state budget that you're going to charge because it's empty for you with this hack. And how are you going to explain to the citizens now that it's moral, and that's fair? THAT an unemployed man who said I wouldn't do it, that he didn't explain to anyone why he wouldn't do it, went on to receive his over 20 thousand kunas high wages and you from the one who has 3,000 kunas, and one kuna, you take the duress. You take 60 kunas for him, how will you explain your honesty and morality. You should all be ashamed, you should be blushing with shame. When you dare to pay the unemployed, and to take the fugitive away from responsibility, and to take the workers. Why is your cash register empty? Because it's being stolen, who's stealing. We've been reading this all summer, stealing people from public enterprises, stealing people this government sent there. When they're caught stealing. And by the ministries, as it was in the Department of Defense. When they are caught stealing, he defends them, as fellow Hebrang defends former Defence Minister Roncevic, then he does not give up on them. Now, it's being stolen. Yesterday, a prime minister was asked by a colleague Jovanovic how much has disappeared in these affairs, how much money has evaporated there. She didn't answer him. It's billions, so if it wasn't so much stolen, it shouldn't have introduced this crisis tax. Because far more has been stolen than all this crisis tax is going to get in the way. What is the penalty for those who are caught? First, it is protected by the Parliament, not by the HDZ. And then when they get caught, they get severances like a colleague Lucin replied, a million kunas. It's their punishment for being caught stealing. And these million kunas, that's state money again, that you're going to give to those thieves that you're going to steal from the citizens with this tax. And now you speak of the righteousness of this law to you, and you do not know of any other justice. Because it's obviously fair for you to take away the poor so that they can make up for their thieves and that they can pay Sanader still pay. That's fair to you. What this Law is is the extension of an injustice which has been passed by the basic law, and why it is unjust. Here's an example. You have two taxpayers they have the same gross salary, one has three children, the other lives as single. The one who has three children, who has to feed, dress and school. He has some tax relief, because of that tax relief, his net salary is higher, and now he who, because of the tax relief when his net salary exceeds three thousand kunas, you rebate him with this tax. And whoever has no tax relief, his net salary is lower and will not reach the threshold of three thousand kunas, he is exempt from paying taxes. So there is, of course, no principle of proportionality and justice of the tax system. One who is in a worse economic situation will bear a greater tax burden, and that is just for you. Another example, let's take two taxpayers again. One receives a salary of just one employer, say 2999 kuna and the other receives the same salary 2999 kuna and will still receive a fee of 2500 kuna and again a fee of 2500 kuna, he will have 8 thousand kuna and will not have to pay taxes. The first one to have 3001 kuna will have to pay the tax. So the one who has less, just because he only receives from one employer but his total income is smaller, will pay this tax and the other, because he receives from more sources won't. And that's just for you. You really have no idea what the word "justice" means, that's a foreign word to you. Third example, two more. One receives 3000 kuna and 1 lip, and he will pay 60 kuna of this tax each month. The second takes 2 thousand 999 kuna and 99 lip and doesn't pay. Now, where's the injustice? The first one to pay, he doesn't pay for that difference of 2 June taxes but for the full amount, for the entire amount. It also means those 2 thousand 999 kunas and 99 limes as his colleague and for those 2 June differences. It would be just if it were some kind of basis, some kind of line, there's no under 3,000 kuna tax, and what is taxed? Income over 3,000, so let him pay on those 2 June taxes, but not on the full amount. When that amount enters the exemption of pay. I don't know if you understand that. Can't you think of that? Or do you really have no idea what righteousness is?
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-24-0.u39217	Your Honor, please allow me. I have the right to intervene when necessary, and that's why I'm here.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-24-0.u39218	Let's see what it takes.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-24-0.u39219	You can't call someone thieves without being tried with power.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-24-0.u39220	Can I be a lawyer? From the pay phone, I can.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-24-0.u39221	Oh, but that's not right, that you as a lawyer know it's not right. Secondly, you cannot address a group of MPs in this way and in this way pollemize with them. That's not right.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-24-0.u39222	And you can't waste my time scheduled to argue with completely unnecessary interruptions.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-24-0.u39223	Please, Your Honor, we know the order and we know what you can react to. Let's stick to it correctly in this assembly.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-24-0.u39224	But I don't spend this time arguing like you're wasting my entire unnecessary time, and other than that, if you have something to say answer for the debate, go out for a pay phone or go to your place and discuss it, and don't abuse the position of the chairman... /The speaker off, doesn't understand....
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-24-0.u39225	You can't de-polomize with me. You can't de-commit with me. You can't de-commit with me.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-24-0.u39226	You have to keep order at the session, and that implies when... [[/The speaker's off, you don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-24-0.u39227	You can't. Please, you can't de-commit with the chairman. Please continue the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-24-0.u39228	Why is this still unfair? Look, you're taxing now with this, you're imposing taxes, that hack, on all those who have over 3,000 kunas. And you live out of three thousand kunas. You buy food, clothes, shoes, school kids. So you get in, you take away people's existential minimum. They won't be able to live. We're a social state under the Constitution. With your taxes, you completely annul that social category.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-24-0.u39229	Thank you very much. Your time is up.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-24-0.u39230	Well, I'm running out of time because you took my time.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-24-0.u39231	Thank you. Your time is up. We've got a few corrections of incorrect allegations and we're going in a row. First is Honorable Representative Davor Huška. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-24-0.u39232	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I'm correcting the incorrect quote of fellow Stazic who said the cashier's empty. We have experienced another exotic and slightly metastasistic appearance of fellow Stazic who knows that the cash register is empty, but should also know that no pension in Croatia is late, that no salary in public institutions, public administration, schools, health care, police, that social rights are exercised from a state register that is empty, according to his allegations, and that this is the minimum solidarity that Croatian citizens accept through this tax and engage together with the Government of the Republic of Croatia, along with the Ministry of Finance in the resolution of the damages caused by this difficult economic situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-24-0.u39233	Thank you. There is a correction to the incorrect allegations, the distinguished representative Ivan Bagarić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-24-0.u39234	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Stazić spoke a lot and said a lot of incorrect allegations. One of them is and several times he's come back to him, as Andrija Hebrang protects the thieves. So, it protects the crime in Morh, protects this, protects that. On the other hand, he talked about protecting his thieves, etc. I mean, my dear colleague, not only did you make a mistake, but you have no right to say that because the investigation has not yet been completed or been conducted at all, so as long as it doesn't happen, no one here has the right to say that there has been something that has not been proven that it has been. On the basis of documents available to Andrija Hebrang, unless you had some special and your own, no one could prove or indicate any crime. So it's not true. On the other hand, there is no system, there is no state where people don't break the law, and in which people deal with crime. So you're working to stop him and bring him down to the lowest possible extent. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-24-0.u39235	Thank you. It is next to the distinguished representative Bozica Šolić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-24-0.u39236	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. You told your colleague Stazić in your debate, which was more hateful than the fact that all the people he appointed or appointed by the Croatian government were stealing them. I wrote that sentence down. This is not true, Mr Stazić, because when it comes to stealing, which is true, the biggest financial malfeasances and thefts take place in the city of Zagreb where the SDP has been leading the city of Zagreb for 10 years. And yesterday you didn't have the strength but you gave more support as a presidential candidate to the first man in the city of Zagreb because maybe if you pass by together you will steal even more.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-24-0.u39237	Correction of the incorrect allegations, distinguished representative Dragan Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-24-0.u39238	Thank you very much. I would like to correct the incorrect allegations where Mr. Stazic said that a gentleman in a public enterprise was stealing and receiving severance. In fact, first of all, I think that it is absolutely not only incorrect but it is not human or politically correct to call someone a thief if it is not proved and confirmed to him by a powerful verdict and it is not correct, especially because it is about a man who has passed through Serbian concentration camps, that he is here from a parliamentary pay phone where there is no way to answer or confront any arguments that you call it that way. When listening to yours, so much bile, so much hatred as you say that someone is a thief, that someone steals, etc., as if in some village bar a debate was conducted, not in the Croatian Assembly.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-24-0.u39239	Thank you very much. And the correction of the incorrect allegations, the esteemed representative Stjepan Milinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-24-0.u39240	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, my colleague Stazic said a number of incorrect allegations. But I'd look back at the one where he says it's fair for us to kidnap the poor and share it with the thieves. Well, that's not only incorrect, it's offensive to God. We're kidnapping. Well, of course, the social sensitivity of this government shows in the context of its social protection. And in the rebalancing we saw that 300 million kunas were in that part, and in that part, obligations are being made. And second of all, as far as this part of the thief is concerned. Well, there is in this society in our home country an institution that does their job and you know who a thief is, when it happens to him by power, etc. But you dear fellows insist on heating up some sort of thieving atmosphere. Well, we can get involved here in a variety of ways, but there's a fair debate for God's sake.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-24-0.u39241	Thank you. We have one replica, and it's the esteemed representative Goran Beus Richembergh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-24-0.u39242	My colleague Stazic, you said the register was empty, and I would say that it was a miracle, and even the art of the end of the 125 billion budget on this GDP, so that the register would be empty. But how it won't be empty when whoever comes to it is waving. It's enough that we have a ticket. I'm not going to tell a card or a guarantee card right now, but it's close enough to be close to that company to take it. God wouldn't rest as much money as they could take from you. Second. You're wondering if the government understands what this is all about and understands the concept of righteousness at all? I wouldn't underestimate the government. My colleague, Mladneo, last time, explained that law in July, he made it clear and loud that it was a concept. Don't take from some, take from others. So the government knows very well what it's doing, but unfortunately it doesn't have its own attitude, but it's about to correct it in view of the state of the public, and then it comes with these suggestions after that bitter reaction this summer. And further, you mentioned these severances. If you look at what the financial effect will be of this law. That's 110 million kuna. So, share this and you will come up with that only for the payment of severance fees to HEP members, who have been removed because they are not doing well and because a criminal application has been raised, all Croatian lawyers, notebooks, lawyers, private doctors, dentists, all members of the free professions will have to work for a full 15 days just to pay what they are scheduled to pay by severance.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-24-0.u39243	Thank you. And to the reply to the replica, the esteemed representative of Nenad Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-24-0.u39244	Comrade Richembergh, you're absolutely right. I was wrong to suspect that the government didn't understand what this was about. The government, you're absolutely right, the government understands what this is about. It does so on purpose and is not only done by the government, but obviously also by the parliamentary majority. We also see this by the nervous reaction of the chairman and by all the corrections of the incorrect allegations that I have been given. That's one concept. So, by barb's method, Luke, bring in your man's public enterprise, empty out there the public firm's cash register. So when it gets out in the media, then yell at the Parliament and you can't even talk about it, because until it's decided by power, it's fine. And he will eventually be sentenced to justice in six years, as our judiciary does. And now all of us would have to give up our own minds and keep quiet about how in the state we steal and keep quiet about who steals and keep quiet about stealing, so as not to cause such a nervous reaction to the parliamentary majority. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-24-0.u39245	Your Honor, there's no anxiety here at the chair table. There's nerves on your side. But we ended the argument, so we're gonna break that anxiety. And the final word on behalf of the Government has the State Secretary, the esteemed Ivica Mladneo, at the Ministry of Finance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-24-0.u39246	Mr. Vice President, important parliamentary deputies and parliamentary deputies. In the end, I thank you for your constructive discussion. And I'd like to answer a few questions. Mr. Kunst's esteemed representative has asked a question, will he be taxed with these insurance premiums? No, but the insurance income will be taxed, and the insurance income is, so after the insurance flow, as an insurance company and pays the insurance amount and we are for the amount used as a tax relief in the calculation of the salary or on the annual tax return. Will the income of property and property rights also be taxed? Yeah. And will they tax the life insurance policy of the manager? Yeah, 'cause they're both paid by these managers and they have to be taxed automatically. And also if there are severances, large severances and they are taxed, because they are also treated as wages. There you go, Mr. Vice President.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-24-0.u39247	Thank you. And I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the necessary conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-24-0.u39248	We move on to the Final Proposal of the Law on Special Tax on Receipts of Independent Activity and Other Receipts. It was an emergency procedure, P.Z. number 446. The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. I am voting on the final proposal of the Law on Special Tax on Receipts of Independent Activity and Other Receipts. Who's for the Special Tax Bill, please raise your hand. Count it. Thank you. Against? There isn't. Thank you. How much? One against. How many abstentions? Here you go. The result? The law was passed by a majority vote, 72 votes in favour, one against and 15 abstentions.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-24-0.u39249	We're going to the second item of the agenda, which is 1. Final proposal of the Law amending and supplementing the Law on dental activity, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 437 The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You received the proposal by mail. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Rules of Procedure. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the Rules of Procedure, an emergency procedure unites the first and second readings of the law. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. This Regulation shall enter Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on European Integration and the Committee on Health and Social Care. You received the reports at the session. The amendments were submitted by the Legislative Committee. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. State Secretary, Honorable Ante Zvonimir Golem, Ministry of Health and Social Care. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-24-0.u39250	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Honorable ladies and gentlemen of the MPs. Allow only a few preliminary short notes. In the course of the negotiations of the Republic of Croatia with the European Union in Chapter 3, professions are regulated and the provisions of the Directive have already been transposed before you on several occasions, but also the provisions of the qualification of the framework within the legislation of the Republic of Croatia. One of the last such proposals was the Health Activity Act, where we made it clear and loud that there were two other professions in the Republic of Croatia that had not yet been arranged. It was a profession of dental technicians and the profession of pharmaceutical technicians, and we have already announced at the time in the debate, that when for other reasons it will come for a series of amendments to the law in these two activities, that we will then regulate these two activities. How there are time limits in the course of the negotiations when certain provisions are to be applied and some restrictions when they can be applied in view of the reorganisation and otherwise the education system in the Republic of Croatia, so at this point one thing that is very important should be changed. And I will very simply try to explain it, which is that the title of doctor dentistry which is obtained in the Republic of Croatia through the completion of a study at the Faculty of Tomatology, in the European Union the title is reserved so in all countries for doctors, means someone who has graduated from the Faculty of Medicine from 6 years of age and after that specialization and dentistry of 4 years. To avoid disparity and how it is necessary to equate academic titles loudly and loudly, the bill that lies before you suggests that those who graduate from the Faculty of Dental Medicine, which is known as such, according to tradition in the Republic of Croatia, obtain the academic title of dental medicine doctor. Thus, this title gives the right to the automatic recognition of this profession and of this profession in Europe. This is one of the amendments, the amendment needed under Chapter 3. – Right of business creation and freedom to provide services, but also because of the automatic recognition of our profession in the European Union. In addition, according to an agreement reached between the Croatian dental chamber which has public authority in the field, so now the doctor of dental medicine by academic title, but remains the Croatian dental chamber. So, what I want to clarify is that there is no change in the word dentally in all regulations, but only the acquisition of the academic title changes, and at the same time remains the University of Stomatology, the Croatian dental chamber and everything else. In agreement, therefore, the Croatian dental chamber with representatives of dental technicians’ associations who also change the name from dental technician to dental technician, but everything else remains in that part, is to regulate the profession of dental or dental technicians through the dental chamber, a special class, and here is the proposal that basically has these two changes. And a large number of articles that are in there further interpret which are in the chamber the conditions of dental technicians and set the conditions for regulating additional education for the profession of therefore dental or dental assistants that have existed so far in the system. These are generally completed, therefore, the secondary education of nurses and technicians, which will, with further education prescribed by the dental chamber, do the work of dental assistants. Anything else regarding this law has been harmonised so far, with the expectation that I will also announce here that during the following year, it will be necessary to finalise this law with the directives of the European Union, which will then be particularly discussed. At the application of the amendment of the Legislative Committee on behalf of the Proposer, we can immediately say that we accept. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-24-0.u39251	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? Not that I can see. I'm opening a debate and we're going to have a club debate. The first club is the Croatian Democratic Community. Dear Representative Mario Zubovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-24-0.u39252	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. This law is essentially just a technical change in the name that is caused by the European Union or the European Commission asking that the titles that will be in all the countries of the European Union be arranged in Croatia as well. Thus, this Law amending and supplementing the Law on dental activity changes the name of dental activity in the activity of dental medicine, the doctor of dentistry is replaced by the name doctor of dental medicine, and the dental study is replaced by the name Study of dental medicine. It will also be called dental technician and dental assistant. We know that in the doctor's title in the past there have been multiple complaints during the former state, because the doctor's title has even been abolished, and they haven't raised their diplomas in years, and then the dentist's doctor is reintroduced, and now it's changing into dental medicine. This law will also regulate the relationship with dental technicians, i.e. it will now be called dental technicians and what is very good to introduce a dental assistant and that special education will be made for dental assistants, because there has been no school in Croatia so far that would educate dental assistants and there has always been one disagreement whether dental technician can be dental assistant or it has to be a nurse, and nurses have not learned anything about dental work in dentistry schools. Here's what this technical law is really supposed to say. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-24-0.u39253	Thank you. On behalf of the SDP, the esteemed representative Tatjana Šimac-Bonačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-24-0.u39254	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. In order to continue to comply with European legislation, the Government of the Republic of Croatia sent to the Parliament a proposal for a law on regulated professions and recognition of foreign professional qualifications, which is of course extremely important for the closure of the chapter "Right of business created and freedom to provide services". The proposal regulates the recognition of foreign professional qualifications in sectoral professions such as doctors of medicine, specialists, dentists, veterinarians, architects, nurses, general healthcare and midwives. In particular, the European Parliament and the Council of the European Union adopted a Directive on the recognition of professional qualifications. That Directive incorporated the solutions set out in the Treaty establishing the European Community on the Elimination of Recommendations, the free movement of persons and services between Member States, which includes, in particular, the right to perform a particular profession as an independent person or an employee in a Member State other than the one where they have acquired their professional qualifications. That Directive guarantees the persons who have acquired professional qualifications in one of the Member States access to the same profession and the same rights when performing that profession in another Member State as the nationals of that Member State. The aim of this Directive is to improve the rules of applicable systems, to recognise qualifications in the light of experience, while maintaining the principles and guarantees of freedom of business performance that are incorporated into these systems. The Directive applies to all nationals of Member States, Member States wishing to carry out a regulated profession in a Member State other than those where they have acquired their professional qualifications either as an employee or as an independent professional person. The directive also speaks of a regulated profession performed by doctors of dental medicine. The following European Commission has recommended a change of the name of a dentist doctor named doctor or doctor of dental medicine. And it is precisely the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on dental activity that has been followed by these recommendations of the Directive and of the European Commission, so the name of dental activity is changed to the activity of dental medicine. The doctor of dentistry is replaced by the name of dental medicine doctor, and the dental study is replaced by the name of dental medicine study. The doctor of dentistry with completed university study of dentistry in the Republic of Croatia will issue a certificate of equality of the name doctor of dentistry named doctor or doctor of dental medicine in accordance with the law establishing regular professions and recognition of foreign professional qualifications. The proposed amendments and additions to the law also harmonize the name tooth technician. Since the definition of a regulated profession was conditional upon the possession of certain professional qualifications, it was necessary to regulate the profession of dental technicians. Namely, dental technicians do not have a regulated system of professional training, do not have the obligation to perform and perform independent work approvals, or licences and do not have their register established. In accordance with the name of dental technicians with the other names of this law, the name dental technician in the name of dental technician is changed. The novelty in this law is the establishment of the professional class of dental technicians in Croatia's dental chamber. In the future, it will decide on all relevant issues for the activity of dental technicians, having its own administrative board which will measurely decide on all issues related to the activities of dental technicians. The new law therefore regulates the activity of dental technicians, acquisition and loss of the right to exercise activity. Then, unworthy of carrying out the activities of dental technicians, organisations and activities of dental technicians, advertising, rights and obligations, and protection of dental technicians. Obligations of them to keep a professional secret and keep records of dental technicians, and of course mutual relations between the same and the doctor of dental medicine. In a similar way, the activity of dental assistants, which demonstrates the professional capacity to perform dental assistants in the territory of the Republic of Croatia under the supervision of dental medicine doctors, is also regulated. For them, a professional class of dental assistants is also established in the chamber. In particular, the activity of dental assistants under supervision and according to the instructions of dental medicine doctors is determined to carry out tasks that need assistance actually to doctors of dental medicine. I'd like to point out a few more newspapers that are governed by this new law. Article 3 of the new law shall be governed by the protection of dental medicine doctors in such a way that the chamber provides protection to a member of the chamber, while the activity of dental medicine is provided in accordance with the rules of the profession and provisions of the dental ethics code, i.e. delinthology. The article of the law relating to the management and maintenance of dental documentation adds paragraph 6 which reads: “The way the management, storage, collection and availability of dental documentation on the proposal of the chamber will be prescribed by the Minister responsible for health.” The same article, which refers to the evaluation of the activity of dental medicine, now reads: “The evaluation of the activity of dental medicine as a highly specialised activity of the individual and society in the network of public health services for dental medicine, determines, with the prior acquisition of the opinion of the chamber with the general act of the insurance company carried out by compulsory health insurance.” Therefore, the aim of adopting this law is to actually bring domestic legislation into line with the regulations of the European Union in the field of the regulation of the profession of dental medicine doctors as well as the arrangements of the activities of dental technicians and dental assistants. Therefore, the chamber, the Croatian dental chamber, will have two more registries along with the current register of dental medicine doctors. It is a register of dental technicians, i.e. retgistar dental assistants. Also, the statute of Croatia's dental chamber undertakes to actually comply with the provisions of this law within 3 months of the date of entry into force. Therefore, the implementation of this law should certainly lead to better quality health services and therefore the SDP club accepts these amendments and additions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-24-0.u39255	Thank you. It is next to the HNS club and the esteemed representative Miljenko Doric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-24-0.u39256	Dear Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. We in the Croatian People's Party are still a little surprised by some of the suggestions we have here, especially by the explanation of these proposals and I will tell you immediately what this is about. In fact, the point of our approach to the European Union is to adopt certain standards that are more quality, higher, more correct and more useful clearly. In this case, we are not too convinced that this is exactly the kind of procedure, because the secretary of state has not explained something that is very important to us. Why have we been trying for decades to escape the term dentist and insist on the term dentist? And here we go one step back. Dentus' tooth, it has nothing to do with the root of another word. Dentology also deals with experts dealing with this area with the entire dental system, which is a much wider area and now brings them down to dentistry doctors, dental doctors, I don't think it's good. You could certainly explain to your colleagues in the course of negotiations in the European Union that we have long gone a step forward and our dental colleagues are ahead of a number of European countries that are members of the European Union both in quality and in the scope of the jobs they are doing. That's what you should say here. I'm sorry you dental colleagues didn't insist on that. Because that's what to say. Now it's going to happen, first of all, the consequences I'm reading from this proposal. You're saying dentistry is a medical specialty. Are you then announcing major reforms in the system of education, in the system of specialization, both dentistry and medicine? We haven't heard a word about it. You haven't told us what these solutions mean by people in the dental chamber. That's what we'd like to hear. You didn't say if you consulted them. It seems illogical to us to go in this direction. We have no objection regarding dental technicians. Why call them dental tech now? It is one and the same, only the root of one word is the Latin word, the other is the Croatian word. We're going from Croatia to Latin. There's nothing else we can do. We have some questions with our assistants. As we have about these specializations and possible reforms, because if you will reform the education system by allowing doctors to enter certain areas now, so far that dentists have entered, and that the dentists in the course of the study take away those areas, it is already something that requires serious consideration in this House. Look, about the assistants. They are mostly nurses who, through courses, trained to do the job properly for many years with dentists. They're members of which chambers? The nurses' chamber. Now we're going to have to have their obligation, and we see that they're going to have to be members of this dental chamber. Is there going to be members and other chambers because I can lose my job tomorrow? So two chambers, two members, two state exams, two systems of improvement. Just give us a little bit of an explanation. That's significant. Unfortunately, I haven't had much time to consult my colleagues on the ground, but one remark that they immediately gave me relates to criminal provisions. Everyone in practice thinks they're absolutely ridiculous. I'll wait for the secretary of state to hear me out, so he can answer me. So, Secretary of State, fines are considered to be meaninglessly low. Someone gets into someone else's profession, takes prints, does something they're not competent to do, and gets fined with three thousand kunas. It's inadmissible low. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-24-0.u39257	Thank you. That's where we end up at the clubs, and we move on to a single debate. The first is the distinguished representative Stjepan Kundić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-24-0.u39258	Dear Mr. Vice President, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. So this is about a law that needs to be harmonised as always with one of the directives. So this is about the 2005/35 Directive that the European Parliament and the Council of Europe adopted on 7 September 2005 on the recognition of professional qualifications. Persons who have acquired professional qualifications in one Member State shall be provided the same treatment when hiring and performing a profession of dental activity. What is the objective of this directive? The aim of this Directive is to improve the rules of applicable systems, to recognise qualifications in the world of experience, while maintaining the principle of guarantee of freedom of establishment that is incorporated into these systems. And what that means specifically, says Article 29. So dental activity is replaced by dental medicine. The dentist's doctor replaces the words of dental doctor. A dental study, dental study. And the basic network of dental activities is now called the public health care network for dental medicine under the law. It is also an important article 30, which speaks of that the Croatian dental chamber is obliged to comply with the status of the provisions of this law within 3 months of the date of entry into force of this law. Other general acts of the Croatian dental chamber shall comply with this law and statute within 6 months of the date of entry into force of this law. Furthermore, as regards the profession of dental technician, it was necessary to harmonise that name according to a directive called dental technician. A dental class of dental technicians who decides on important issues for the activity of dental technicians is established in the Croatian dental chamber. No one may have mentioned the activity of dental technicians, Article 36/a is talking about what they do, making dental, fixed and mobile... replacement, production of orthodontic devices, production of other therapeutic dental devices. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Article 36.b also applies to dental technicians which means the dental technician who passed the expert exam and who is registered in the register of dental technicians, the chamber will grant approval for independent work, i.e. license. In a similar way, the activity of dental assistants, which demonstrates the professional ability to perform dental assistants in the territory of the Republic of Croatia according to the instructions of the doctor of dental medicine. Article 36n speaks of the activity of dental assistants. First of all, he provides assistance to a dental doctor in providing dental services. Two deals with maintaining hygiene and cleanliness in the office. Under three, he's keeping the prescribed records and dental records. And under four, other necessary follow-up operations for the operation of the office. The dental assistant who was registered in the dental assistant register will be given permission to work for six years. The implementation of the proposed law, which perhaps no one has said, will not require additional funding in the state budget of the Republic of Croatia. The HDZ will support the proposed law by emergency procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-24-0.u39259	Thank you. And distinguished representative Stjepan Milinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-24-0.u39260	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. In our country currently employs about 2,000 contracted teams that care about 3 million and 900 thousand insurance companies, and around 1950 per team, while the HZZO is about 2200. These 16% were part of health care homes, 56% were leased, and 28 were private. There were 750 other teams that were exclusively private in that part. In the last 10 years, a total increase in dental visits was reported by 31%. In 2006, for example, there were 4 million 800 thousand visits. A 100% increase in systemic examinations of 556 thousand was recorded, with an increase of 197% in the same period. The number of tooth extractions 3%, prosthetic works 70% more are data, I'm saying this for a reason, and just to mention that there are about 1,500 dental technicians in the future of dental technicians. I'm saying this for a reason to point out the importance and importance of this extremely important activity, dental activity. Of course, it is regulated by our laws, but as we have our own activities regarding the accession of the European Union, and the respect of some directives, it is the 2005 directive, this number 36 which speaks of the recognition of professional qualifications, both within and hence of this free movement of goods and services contract. It was also said not to repeat, in these circumstances, this change and called dental dentistry, dental medicine doctor and dental technician. It's all said I wouldn't repeat it, but it's extremely important for these 1500 dental technicians who have not been in any way regulated, have not had certain obligations and education, etc., and this part is now being introduced within the dental chamber, they are being introduced as a special professional class that will have their own obligations and education, etc., and, of course, dental assistant who will be supervised by dental doctor medicine and I certainly believe that this whole package will improve this important area that I initially said. They heard and their colleagues said they'd all support it, of course I will.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-24-0.u39261	Thank you very much. The patient's name was also a dental patient. I'm closing the debate and we'll vote when we get the necessary conditions. And now we will interrupt the session, continue at 3:00, with the third item of the agenda Final draft of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Restriction of Use of Tobacco Products, Emergency Procedure, First and Second Reading, P.Z. No. 444. Thank you very much and welcome.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-24-0.u39262	We move on to the Final Proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on dental activity. It's an emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. Number 437. Proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. The amendments were submitted by the Legislative Committee. During the debate, the proposer's representative accepted the amendment committees and did not vote on them because they became an integral part of the final draft law in accordance with Article 169. Rules of Procedure. I am voting on the final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on dental activity. Please, who's for this bill of law to raise your hand? Thank you. Do you mind? Thank you. Restraint? In agreement with 88 votes, I find that this law has been passed along with the amendments adopted. The Legislative Committee has proposed to the Assembly a conclusion which reads: the professional service of the Croatian Parliament is authorised to carry out a revision of the text of this law before its publication in the "National Journals" to vote on the proposal for a conclusion of the Legislative Committee. Who's in? Thank you. Against? Thank you. Restraint. I find that this committee proposal has been adopted unanimously by 87 votes.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-24-0.u39263	We continue with the meeting of the Assembly of Honorable MPs and MPs and welcome small guests to our gallery, welcome. I've announced point 3. Final proposal of the Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on the Restriction of Use of Tobacco Products, the Emergency Procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 444. The Proposer of the Law is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You received the proposal by mail. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Rules of Procedure. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the Rules of Procedure, an emergency procedure unites the first and second readings of the Law. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate, Article 164. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on European Integration, the Committee on Health and Social Care. You received the reports at the session. The amendments were submitted by the Legislative Committee. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Dear Ante Zvonimir Golem, State Secretary at the Ministry of Health and Social Care. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-24-0.u39264	... Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. [[The speaker is not enabled, not understood.]] Allow here are a few words, so there will be a year since the Croatian Parliament adopted the Law on the Restriction of the Use of Tobacco Products, which was adopted on the basis of the Convention on the Restriction of the Use of Tobacco Products, which was also ratified by the Croatian Parliament, which, in its essence, is in its nature a law that should in all ways protect non-smokings, but also, what I would like to hear literaryly and imagine smokers about the harmfulness of tobacco smoke. In public, it is very much debated so that today it may be unnecessary to talk about how much each treatment costs to the Republic of Croatia, how much this health destroys and how much it brings harmfulness into the family, tobacco smoke and everything else might already have to be said clearly and aloud. The law on restricting the use of tobacco products has been observed in a year that it is possible to bypass or try to bypass in certain segments. In order for this not to happen, we are proposing new provisions that we will be able to prevent all of what we have seen in the course of law enforcement in a quality way, and perhaps it would be best, because it is not a large number, if that is the case here. It is clear and loud that it is the EU law, that it is the law under Chapter 28. The protection of consumers and public health, that this legislative proposal when it has been submitted and when it has been assessed by the Croatian Parliament as a very good solution in Europe in the 27 countries has not yet passed all the laws, they must also comply with the directives in those countries where laws have been passed they are diverse only in that part, and that is in the part of the catering facilities, while in most countries this is being addressed in the same way. It is also necessary to say that, in the media, incomplete, unrecognized information or misunderstood information is being used a little too often, for the purpose of contesting certain provisions of this law, so only 2 countries have resolved the exemption for smaller catering facilities in Europe. It's Finland and Spain. One is 100 square meters, Spain, 50 square meters of Finland, all other countries do not have that limit. Also, the law at the Constitutional Court in Bavaria did not fall but a number of catering facilities, so the owner of the catering facilities who filed a constitutional suit from the Constitutional Court were granted the right to determine in their catering facilities whether it would be smoking or non-smoking, but that does not apply to all the hosts. The law remains in force, but only for those who filed such a constitutional suit. It's a practice in Bavaria. In Austria, it is not resolved in such a way as to ban everything, but it is left at regional, or local self-government level, so it is completely prohibited in Vienna, and in some border places along the Slovenian border it is allowed in some catering facilities and then used to say so. In Slovenia, it should be said all the time that it is allowed in Slovenia, it is not. So it is still in force in Slovenia that does not allow it. Let's take it in a row. On the proposal of our law, therefore, we have, as we have noticed, defined as a closed public space of health care institutions, but we have defined in the sense of this law the open space of a health institution, which means the courtyards of a health institution. What did that lead to? It led to a situation to say a health institution such as the "Sisters of Mercy" Clinical Hospital, which has a huge space behind it, a huge hectare of the country, should be conducted in all that space control so that no one at the helipad would accidentally light a cigarette in the parking lot, while the neighboring hospital "Holy Spirit" whose exit from the hospital to the public surface could be used in front of the entrance to the hospital, so the tobacco product could be used. What we are proposing to better determine this provision of the law that, instead of the courtyard of a health care institution, the area of 20 metres from the entrance to any facility means from any entrance to a health institution, which is, such a provision exists in 5 or 6 European Union countries, in which the meaning of the law is ensured, which is that no tobacco product is consumed in front of a health institution. The same situation was also the situation that, in accordance with the Law on the Protection of Mental Patients, we allowed mental health institutions and social care institutions to provide room for mental patients to smoke, but what we were warned about is that sometimes psychiatric patients are taken out of these institutions to rehab, and we allowed this law to provide smoking space for psychiatric patients. The third thing proposed by this law that we said we noticed, so try to fully regulate the area of indirect advertising of tobacco products. In fact, the events have been tried using props that are alluding to use or tobacco products themselves, we, therefore, explicitly state that this cannot be used and that such manifestations cannot be implemented, thereby further preventing those famous "hi-bye from", etc. As far as videos and commercials and events are concerned. There is also a new provision for the ban on advertising in sales places, because in sales places, therefore in shops, gas stations are immediately placed on the registers, not only the product that advertises itself, but also the advertising of the product. What we're looking for, we're asking for that advertising to be banned. And that the sale of tobacco products can go, but it can't be the product itself the means of advertising. In one part of the existing law, we have made it clear and loud that the sale of individual pieces of cigarettes outside the basic packaging is prohibited. What with the fact that they wanted to jump to that provision, so they started making packages with a smaller number of cigarettes in order to make more available, we propose this law to define that there can be no less pack of 20 cigarettes, which is ultimately the standard in the package. In what may be and what is always the biggest debate, it should be said that is the catering facilities and facilities dealing with tourism in terms of the law that is in force, that if the owner of the catering facility wants, he can create a certain space for smoking. There's no service in that smoking area, service whatever we want to call it. However, although certain technical conditions are laid in the current law, this bill wants to increase a little bit, that means that we want to determine how much minimum size that space can be, and we said that in the 10 squares proposal, up to 20% of the surface, which is basically, and in that part, the smoking space is exactly the same for any type of catering facilities. It should be said because it is constantly wanted to be shown that it is for a certain type of catering facilities, specifically for large cafes, one characteristic, for restaurants the other. No, I don't. It's about the exact same spaces both in cafes and restaurants. What's different is that when this provision is applied, then there's one category left, and that's the category of catering facilities where drinking is served, and for technical reasons it's not possible to create a smoking space, for that category, if there have to be two conditions, that's one ear. The second condition is if the owner wants to make it, it can be converted into a smoking space. But also under strict conditions. This means from a minimum of 10 to 12 complete changes in the air per hour, to the setting of a filter that will filter both the inner air and that part of the air released into the atmosphere. And in such a way to get the situation, what we always say, we go to the system to protect non-smokers from smokers, but also smokers when they're at a high concentration of smoke, additionally their organism damages. Thus, in a way, protect the smoker himself. There have been discussions on parliamentary committees, several other issues that would be good to clarify. Like the question, how does the law apply to nursing homes? A loud and loud, nursing home, a home for pensioners, a home for old and powerless, however it should be said, is a closed public space according to this law, and in such a home according to this law can be made room for smoking, according to all these features such as this smoking area and anywhere else. I believe from other questions that during the debate they will be asked. Well, I'd appreciate it so much for now. We have received a proposal for an amendment from the Committee on Legislatives, and here is the introduction of the amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-24-0.u39265	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? Yeah. The Committee on Health and Social Care, the Honorable Representative of Andrija Hebrang, Chairman of the Committee. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-24-0.u39266	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. Vice President, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. I will read the conclusion of the committee that discussed this law as a parent working body in accordance with Article 76 and the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. In the opening statement, the applicant's representative explained the basic reasons for proposing amendments to this law. As the applicant pointed out, the provisions of the law lead to a gradual reduction in the adverse impact of tobacco products, and therefore the European Community has well assessed this bill. Certain amendments are needed to improve the text of the law, but also to the fact that the law was passed before the economic crisis affecting the Republic of Croatia, so it is necessary to adapt to new conditions. The members of the committee held in the debate that followed, primarily said that the citizens had respected the law since the time when it was passed, and also the hosts, despite the difficulties they had had, and this was confirmed by the inspector's supervision of the ministry. Certain oscillations in the transport of catering facilities are in part related to the implementation of this law, and most of the global financial problems. The redefining of the conditions relating to smoking areas in a closed public space has now established minimum conditions, so the smoking area must not be less than 10 square metres, nor greater than 20% of the total area for service. As shown in the debate, it is a good solution that small objects in which it is impossible to meet the said conditions, and which serve and serve only a drink, can be declared a smoking space. Further contribution to the protection of citizens' health under measures to reduce and restrict the use of tobacco products is further specified provisions, which clearly determine what is considered to be an indirect promotion of tobacco products. In the opinion of the board members, provisions relating to the exceptions to the smoking ban are now more clearly laid down in the areas intended for social care providers, mental patients, persons, as well as smoking areas in the penitentiary. All these amendments and additions to the law will lead to further reduction and restrictions on the use of tobacco products, ensure quality law enforcement and allow better control and protection of citizens' health, it noted at the end of the debate. After a debate by the board members with one vote abstention, they decided to propose to the Croatian Parliament for the adoption of the said amendment to the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-24-0.u39267	Thank you. The Committee on European Integration, the Honorable Mimica, Chairman of the Committee. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-24-0.u39268	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. At its 38th session, the Committee on European Integration discussed the draft law as an interested working body. This debate estimates that this bill is in line with the current level of common regulation in the legal property of the European Union, while the issues that have largely caused recommendations in the application of that fundamental law leave the European Union legal property to be regulated by national legislation. Following the debate, the members of the Committee on European Integration unanimously found that the final proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Restriction of the Use of Tobacco Products is in line with the acquis of the European Union and that it fulfils the obligations set out in the Stabilisation and Association Agreement and proposes from that aspect the Committee of Parliament to adopt this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-24-0.u39269	Thank you. Anyone else want any of the board? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. First it's the clubs. The first is the HDZ club, the esteemed representative Ivan Bagaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-24-0.u39270	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. With everything we've heard here and what we've heard in previous discussions, given that the cameras are now off, and then we can't act educationally and talk about the harmfulness of smoking, and we all understand how harmful it is, I would have ended up with this broader introduction that I had planned only by finding that undivided, in the opinion of public health experts and in general the medical profession smoking is considered a major escape risk factor for health. Accordingly, the Croatian Institute of Public Health makes certain recommendations, which have to do with this law and are, in fact, a foothold and this law in the opinion of the profession and support of this law. So, one of them is that we keep informing the population about the adverse effects of consumption of tobacco products on health, including clear health messages on each pack of tobacco products, as well as the harmful ingredients of tobacco products, protect the population from all kinds of direct and indirect advertising of tobacco products, including sponsorship and provide working and public spaces without tobacco smoke. It also strengthens supervision of the implementation of legislation. The HDZ Club gives full support to this bill, with two amendments announced. The amendment shall apply first to Article 12 and beyond, and therefore thereafter, Article 12a, which reads that the owners or users of closed public space are obliged to comply with the provision of Article 4 of Article 9. The law restricting the use of tobacco products, added Article 2 of this Act, within 30 days of the date of entry into force of this Act. Let me give you a brief explanation. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The law restricting the use of tobacco products, added Article 2 of this Act, prohibits any mention of the name and logo of a tobacco product through illuminating ads, shallows, stand for sale, flyers, catalogues and other promotional materials in all sales venues where tobacco products are sold. The proposed amendment allows for a transitional period of 30 days in which the owners, i.e. the users of the closed public space, have to comply with their work and business with that provision, i.e. to remove those promotional materials in the sales venues where tobacco products are sold. And very short amendment two. Article 12.a. adds Article 12.b: Owners or users of closed public spaces are obliged to comply their work and business with the provision of paragraph 9 of Article 11. The law restricting the use of tobacco products, as amended by Article 4 of this Act, within three months of the date of entry into force of this Act. And the reason is that the proposed amendment allows for a transitional period of three months in which the owners or users of closed public space must comply with that provision, given that there are several types of cigarettes on the market in such packages on which a special tax and VAT is paid. So, in addition to these amendments that we put in the process, the HDZ Club is very supportive of this law. We therefore provide support, and according to the overall struggle for exposure and those who smoke and those who do not smoke tobacco smoke, which is undoubtedly harmful to health. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-24-0.u39271	Thank you. It is the turn of the HSS club, distinguished representative Boris Klemenic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-24-0.u39272	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. I will start with what was obviously the intensity of all of us who voted, but also the promoter, which is the legislator's intention to protect against tobacco smoke 68% of those who don't smoke compared to 32% of smokers. In fact, statistically speaking, about 10,000 people die annually as a result of smoking in Croatia, while nearly 3,000 people die because of passive smoking, so the cost of treating diseases resulting from the direct or indirect impact of tobacco smoke annually reaches about 3 billion kuna. The application of the law to restrict the use of tobacco products has undoubtedly caused criticism and anger from smokers, but also numerous difficulties to many hosts whose criticisms we followed through the media and witnessed what was happening in the catering facilities during this period. Fortunately, the summer is the season when you could smoke outside, on the street, in the park, anywhere, but guests in a large number of shopping centers don't feel the difference between summer and winter, because they don't have the possibility of open terraces so far the guests are bypassing them in a large port, which also causes financial difficulties. The data suggests that since the law came into force, a significant reduction in traffic has been recorded, and in places without a terrace traffic has been reduced by as much as 70 per cent. The decline in traffic would likely increase further by the arrival of cold winter days when it is very uncomfortable to sit outside on terraces, despite modern gas heaters and other technical achievements. Therefore, the problem could become more likely by the arrival of cold winter days when the terraces of the restaurant will no longer be current due to weather opportunities and will not amortise the negative consequences of strict legal provisions. We are also aware of the global economic crisis and the consequences of the inevitable economic crisis, but we cannot ignore the risk of additional loss of many jobs, so it is our duty and duty to reduce this loss to the least possible extent. Therefore, at the HSS Club, we believe it was wise to reconsider some previous decisions and measures, redefine them, mitigate them or eliminate some that turn out not to receive the desired results. The proposed amendments to the law provide for two general options. The first option that provides for a larger catering area in which the area of the smoking area shall not be less than 10 square metres, and the total space intended for smoking shall not exceed 20 % of the total area of the public space. The second option foresees that it is impossible to divide the owner of a catering space into two parts of one for smokers and those for non-smokers exclusively for smokers or non-smokers by having to meet the prescribed technical conditions. The proposed amendments mitigate strict legal norms which provide an option of choice between two or more options. We are also aware that the proposed changes and adjustments will also require certain financial resources. In particular, it will be difficult for those who do not have their own property, their own bars, restaurants or cafes in their own possession because they will invest in someone else's space. We at the HSS Club believe that the amendment of this law is welcome and positive, the option of choice is given, and in a situation where it is important to preserve each job will affect the preservation of one significant part. I would just draw attention to another part of Article 5, which provides for a new item 4 which prohibits smoking in a space less than 20 m from entering a health care facility. It will be interesting to follow and perhaps impossible in practice to measure the way and the measure from entering the hospital, health homes, the infirmary, dental clinics. I think practice will show maybe something different. After all that has been said and expressed in the club HSS, we believe that the changes to the law said have come well and justified and that in this way it is shown that there is consciousness and hearing about specific situations and problems. The expected changes continue to limit smoking, it warns of its harmfulness, but measures are put on a reasonable scale as we consider positive. And eventually, the HSS Club will support this amendment and supplemental proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-24-0.u39273	Thank you. On behalf of the SDP club, distinguished representative Nenad Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-24-0.u39274	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. To be clear right away, the SDP club strongly supports every non-smoking protection from smokers. Any legislative proposal, any solution that would go that way, will come up with the air support of the SDP club. Let's get this straight and clear. The SDP club strongly supports every legislative proposal and every solution that will increase education especially among adolescents on tobacco use harmfulness and will reduce the smoking population among young people. So there would be no doubt about the SDP's attitude towards a bad smoking habit. However, the SDP club will seek to achieve this basic goal of non-smoking smokers seeking the most rational solutions, the solution that will achieve this goal and will not do any further damage. When this basic law was passed which is now being amended, we claimed damage would be done. And we were right the damage was done. The damage is done by the innkeepers saying that from the adoption of this law to the day of today they had to fire over 3,000 people in the catering business. As a result of the reduction in transport in catering, 3,000 jobs have been lost due to the application of this law. 3,000 people are out of pay. 3,000 people have no more to feed their families, no more to feed their children. Well, now I wonder, will Minister Milinovic feed them who has proposed such a law that is now changing? Who takes responsibility for 3,000 lost jobs, and why is the government playing with the fate of citizens? Why does it allow itself to get worse under the conditions of recession when people lose their jobs, and then additionally by stupid legal solutions, it makes this situation worse, and it fires people. I said at first you should protect non-smokers from smokers, because indeed anyone can endanger their health, but there is no and must never be allowed to endanger the health of another. Smoking isn't the only way to endanger your own health. And excessive alcohol use also endangers health, however alcohol, drinking alcohol, alcohol consumption is not prohibited except for minors. We heard how many people die from smoking here. Yes, a large number of them also die from alcohol use. Well, we don't have a legal solution for alcohol. Risking your health also means feeding unhealthyly or excessively, so increasing the number of pounds, obesity one of the causes of a number of diseases primarily of the cardiovascular system. So we don't have a law on banning the increased diet of fat people? They endanger their health by thus not the health of others. Thus, the relationship to tobacco is through this legal proposal we have argued from the beginning hypocritical. On the one hand, the state encourages tobacco farming, pays incentives to grow tobacco. The State allows the processing and transport of tobacco products. Why? Well, because it collects excise duty and VAT from it, so it's convenient to come, but it limits use by going beyond the necessary and rational limit, which is a non-smoking measure. Any move that goes beyond that rational measure is unnecessary, is too high and harmful. Let's see direct solutions to this law. First, let me point out what should be commended in this concrete legislative proposal. It's a ban on advertising, strengthening advertising bans. We couldn't agree more on that. There is no need for tobacco products to be advertised, for it can encourage young people to create bad smoking habits. In fact, we have an increase unfortunately in Croatia, an increase in smokers in the adolescent age. Even more about girls than boys. That's defeating. That's the problem we have to imagine ourselves over. But how do you fight that problem? Such legal decisions certainly do not. Let's introduce a mandatory object that will be called addiction. Let's get him into primary school, all classes, all eight primary school classes and all four high school classes. Not only are these children learning about tobacco harmfulness. Let them learn about the harmfulness of other cause of addiction. It's not just alcohol, it's not just drugs. Depending on TV, computers, games. Various kinds of addictions appear today in modern society. Because the offer is bigger and different than it was 10 or 15 years ago. We're about to detimize these young people to ever light their first cigarette. If the government proposed such measures, they would encounter enthusiastic acceptance by the SDP and our club. You know, in America today, no one smokes or at least no white population. He's not young. Why? Because education lasted decades. Until, in the consciousness of the entire population, it was not that smoking was actually rude, that there was no need to create that habit. And then the bans just came. That's a good way to go. Of the white people in America, the only people who don't get used to it are the old people who don't get used to it. They're already older and they think what's over now. Therefore, the ban on advertising is what we support and encourage the government to pass a new law, to amend, to introduce such an object into primary schools. What's good about this law, too. It's good to liberalize the relationship to the cafes, we'll say it simply. So the bigger ones can separate the space, if they can separate it, the smaller ones will either be smoking or non-smoking. And non-smokings will be protected from smokers. When he sees the sign that it's a smoking bar, he won't get into it, 'cause he'll have no smokers next to him. And that's where the point is achieved. That's a good solution. It's a good solution and it's got to filter the air. And that's a good solution. Because smokers don't like to be in smoky spaces either. That doesn't work for anybody. They like to light their cigarette, but being in a smoky room doesn't make them happy. And it's good to impose this air filtering obligation. But what's wrong with that? Bad statements are made by a minister who publicly says the law will change again once we get out of recession and service. He creates, he deliberately creates one legal uncertainty with his statements, he leads to confusion and bar owners, because now they don't know, so it's not cheap to invest in such systems that filter the air. And he threatens them that when they put it all down, he will uphold the law and ban them from smoking again. Well, listen, so unserious, so irresponsible the behavior of a minister, it's really inadmissible. That's really inadmissible. Well, I don't know to what extent the minister is going to continue to produce damage and calculate, nothing's going to happen to me, I'm the minister, I can do what I want. What's in this law, to say stupidly solved? 20 meters from the entrance to the health care facility. Let's take one hospital, say the Rebro hospital center in Zagreb. It's where people are treated from different diseases, someone broke a leg, and it's being treated worse, and it's a smoker. And now he's going out, right, winter is coming, he's not allowed out there where there's open space, where no one's hurt to light a cigarette, but he's got to whisper with that broken foot 20 meters in his pajamas when the winter comes, he's going to get pneumonia. So you'll have to treat him not only from a broken leg, but also from pneumonia. And then when you set fire to 20 meters away, who did you protect? Non-smokers who walk past him in the hospital. But that non-smoker's got to get 20 yards away from him, next to him. So he has to walk past him when he goes to the hospital. So you didn't protect anyone, you didn't protect anyone. You took this one 20 meters away, to walk in winter and in pajamas and possibly catch a cold. That's the mind of this provision. It's that man doesn't believe. It's that a man doesn't believe that he can think of such legal proposals as this. What else is wrong with this law? The cafes are handled well, but why don't we get rid of restaurants like that? Winter will come. You, if you don't fix this from the government, you'll destroy the restaurant owners. You will destroy the hosts in the winter months. Because so many non-smokers don't come inside to visit their restaurants, and your smokers won't come out and light a cigarette and come back to the table. He's just not going to the restaurants. There's going to be traffic. These will have to fire people further, both chefs and waiters. In the end, they'll have to close those restaurants because they won't have enough income. With 3,000 jobs lost thanks to the stupidity of this law, five more will be lost. So why don't you at one restaurant, which has two rooms, completely separate rooms, I know a few of those restaurants, let one room, that the owner determines that one room is for smokers and the other one is for non-smokings? So who is it that those smokers in a separate room threaten if those two rooms are not connected? Who are they threatening? What non-smoker do they threaten? Why not let them declare themselves either a smoker or a non-smoking restaurant and impose on them the obligation to ventilate? We agree with that. Set them up. But let them do their job. So don't make them shut down those restaurants they invested money in, put up loans, pay back those loans. What are they gonna pay back those loans from? It's going to fall apart. So, if this is still a little bit of a fix to one bad legal solution, and if you keep doing it in that direction and protect non-smokers from smokers, which has worked out, but protect the caterers, and don't endanger anyone, then that job will be commendable. This is how you're always here with that repair halfway. It has not come to an end, the purpose has not been fulfilled, the only rational purpose remains the damage to the economy. You know, when you say damage to the economy, it's a percentage, don't look at it like that, it's statistics, look at every man, that chef, that waiter, who when you raise your hand and vote this bill, you voted that he loses his job and there's nothing to feed his children. Have his picture in front of your eyes when you vote this Act or as parliamentary majority, force the government to correct him until the vote and make sure that doesn't happen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-24-0.u39275	Thank you. It's the SDSS Club and the esteemed representative of Mile Horvat. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-24-0.u39276	Mr. Vice President of the Parliament, the Honorable Secretary of State, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. I will try on behalf of the SDSS Club to say seeing this topic, but not particularly entering the specific provisions of this Law in some analysis of nomotechnics but simply trying to comment on the vision of a project called the protection of non-smokers from smokers. In any case, we are aware of what trends we have and what the current trends in the world are, and we can observe all of this through both the health component and the market category component, but I would say two things. First, this text of the Law was passed in the 12th month of last year, and here is now not a full year, exactly 7, 8 months after that we are in a position to change that legal text, or to change the concept that is imagined in that legal text, a concept that should mean that the category of smokers will be limited in their right to their own little privilege, there is their passion in public places. So the concept was that they were absolutely driven out into the use of their passions from all public places, of course closed rooms. It is clear that during this period such a concept has not been quite implemented in some broad debate, clearly it has caused some interesting comments. So some called for their right not to be threatened by other people's passion for smoking, or smoking smoke, others again called for their right to use public spaces and even rooms where objects like this first category are smoked. The third again called and warned that traffic is drastically decreasing and that this difficult business of catering workers is also being threatened. We also have a fourth category, which is particularly well known to me from that area, which is a category of winemakers who have warned that it has fallen dramatically since this law came into force. It may seem so strange, however, the thing, when they explained it, is quite simple. So, wine as some noble drink that in certain categories can be significantly more expensive in this tourist season has not been consumed in the expected quantities because people will not smoke outside in the streets while drinking expensive wine. And in the end, we have warnings like my predecessor said that one such legal solution has led to a decline not only of traffic but also of the needs of catering workers who were mostly a category of young people unemployed, especially people who came from these border areas or special state care, and I have cases and examples of us in our area of Eastern Slavonia and Baranja, where youth went to Istria and Dalmatia to earn some money for themselves during the three months of the tourist season so that they could school, and this year the need has been drastically reduced because the hosts had a very large drop in traffic caused by this legal solution. So, all of this in some way resulted in an amendment to the law, if I have correctly understood it, the promoter has seen all these shortcomings and has offered us such an amendment to the law that certain technical supplements that are likely to be more expensive for the caterers will be an additional investment but are some kind of a compromise solution that could guarantee that in the future this law will get some sort of logic, some kind of lifestyle and that it will be able to apply with less consequences in practice. It is good that it was done, however, not well in our assessment of what has been done now, it should have been done if nothing had happened before the tourist season at least, just as it should have been thought before the tourist season and that ban on working on Sundays, so practice has shown that it was not the happiest move and that it should experience certain adjustments. And here I would say that now from this we have seen a phenomenon that I would like to say a few sentences about, which is this, so we changed that text of the law after 7, 8 months of its validity. It's just an indicator that it's not a good thing, that it's becoming a phenomenon, because we have a few months back, yes, a few of our laws are passed and that there's a need to change them after six months or even three months, because they can't do those effects in life that usually make the laws work. So, legislation is one process, one complex thing, and the most important process of legislation means the laws that should, in the long term, even permanently in some way, regulate the lives of the community and all members of that community. So if we get into a situation where we change our regulations a little bit, I'm afraid that we question the credibility of the debate in this House, I'm afraid that this creates a perception that we are, as people who are discussing the adoption of these laws, quite inconclusive, even in some parts and incompetent. And it's not good for us, it's not good for some relationship that's going on. So, I'd like it to be a little less practice. If the laws were not, as I say, made publicly, if the texts were to be implemented on a wider public debate, if the proposings, regardless of who the proposings were, I would therefore not prejudge anything, if the proposings and their professional services were to communicate a little more with the public, with the stakeholders, if they had taken some views beyond their party disciplines. I think then we'd avoid this situation if even now that we have certain texts of the law at this session that we passed a few months ago, we're already correcting them. And that's what I needed to say and point out as some kind of negative phenomenon in our work. We have examples, and I'd like to think of a way to refer to ourselves, for example. on the examples of countries that have a certain tradition in parliamentaryism and in this job of legislatives which clearly carry out broad and long-term discussions on certain regulations, of course I will not say that it is England, but there are other countries, and that the legal texts bring even in the third reading. So I'd like it to be a case, if it were a practice, and in this House of Commons, then we wouldn't be in a position to change laws with a duration of 90, 120 or a little more days. But despite everything, we think this correction is good. We think it's going to have better effects, it doesn't mean it's ideal, but if we're willing to correct it on time, then we think this is a good solution for now, better than it was, and in that sense we're going to support these changes to the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-24-0.u39277	Thank you. On behalf of the HNS Club, distinguished representative Miljenko Doric.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-24-0.u39278	Dear Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. I have listened very carefully to all the previous speakers, and I must tell you that of everything that has been said and spoken for this speaker I agree with a single sentence. It is a sentence by Mr. Stazic, which speaks of the hypocrisy of the state regarding the promotion of tobacco cultivation. There's nothing else I can accept. My colleagues and colleagues, I want to remind you of the date, we live today in September 2009. Not '909, not '809. It's 2009. The law that is before us, look at the title, it doesn't hold water. The law restricting the use of tobacco products. Oh, my God, look what we're doing. It could be a day, it's that law from last year, I agree, it could be called now. Now it can only be called the Expansive Use of Tobacco Products Act, can't it? It's no different. So, colleagues and colleagues have been made a series of errors by the Croatian government and I must say fellow parliamentary majority. First of all, you decided that this law that is now in effect should take effect when, in the fifth month? And with that you have brought into a completely unequal position of catering facilities that have and do not have terraces. It's a rough mistake. That you did it with 01. 12 of them wouldn't be. Then other criteria would be those that will decide whether someone will go to the "A" or the "B" party, not the terrace. Now a new mistake, you decide now that the cold days are coming, when the terrace will no longer be significant, we are now changing the law and expanding the possibility of using tobacco products. Very interesting. My colleagues and colleagues, we're making these changes why? Because we respected the opinion of who? Guests, tourist employees. Have you asked non-smokings, have you asked young people who go to cafes, have you accidentally asked their parents? What do they think of what we're doing? Did you ask them? You're not. My colleagues and colleagues can't say anything but that it's about one hypocrisy, two-facedness, amorality. See what we'll do to our colleagues and colleagues in a few hours, maybe by the end of today, if not tomorrow. We have on the agenda a motion for a resolution on malignant tumors. In a few hours we'll be doing it, namely, no law sorry, resolution, that proposal. I quote in the resolution we say, "We should promote a healthy lifestyle, especially by not smoking." In a few hours, we're going to, clearly, discuss the opposite of what we're doing right now. In this same resolution in a few hours, we will warn that every year in Croatia from pan-cellular cancer, and it is caused by direct smoking, three thousand people die in the Republic of Croatia, but that is not important to us. We want to save several hundred catering facilities, a thousand, 2,000 jobs, that's our excuse. The excuse is which one? Tourism. What a hypocrite again. Most of our tourists come from countries where smoking is forbidden. As a tourist, I am very happy to go to countries where smoking is forbidden, but it is a strong argument for us to allow smoking again in Croatia because tourists will not come to us. Indeed, he is hypocritical. I think colleagues and colleagues that I don't have to go any further because I'd just be rougher, I'm a doctor, I took the Hippocratic oath. I am sorry that some doctors here think significantly differently from me and cannot accept such an attitude and such a way of working this House. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-24-0.u39279	Thank you. And on behalf of the IDS Club, distinguished representative Marin Brkarić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-24-0.u39280	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. I'll say that this is one in a series of amendments to the laws that change after a few months that have come into force. The fact is that the Treaty on the Restriction of the Use of Tobacco Products has been passed on 17. 10th, and has taken effect as regards catering facilities in May 2009. This is exactly what it says that the proposed laws that are addressed to this House are unqualityly designed, i.e. that no professional associations have been consulted, I will say from craft chambers, so the host, the Chamber of Commerce and other associations, who are interested in saying their opinions, their suggestions, and absolutely agree with all those who have so far discussed, and the attitude of the IDS club is that the aim is to fundamental protection of the health of citizens, above all prevention and all what we can do together in this Assembly to raise levels and health and any other awareness of the harmfulness of smoking that is certainly present in this society. But I would certainly like to say here that after a few months of law enforcement, some solutions are restrictive and that they need to be changed, and considering the practice of some other European countries. Absolutely need to protect non-smokings, but certainly give an alternative. I speak especially in catering facilities which in these legal proposals are, however, indicated, I can tell if there will be smoking facilities or non-smoking. What is the lack of this bill is once again a brief adjustment, it's a six-month deadline. The fact is that it was in the previous law that 6 months and it was normal for all those who needed to adapt too short. And that's how it happens again, so I don't see any reason why that part doesn't change. Also, technical conditions that must meet smoking facilities would be better regulated by a sublaw, not by law, because it is easier to change them. And we know that there's a lot in this segment to say that technical changes in innovation, simplified solutions and the like. What is also important is that the Republic of Croatia has 17 thousand catering facilities, that more than 20,000 employees are employed in these facilities and that in 2008, the total income of this activity was more than 9.5 billion kuna. Certainly the kind of law he was so far, it was me who would say re-restrictive, it didn't allow any alternative. And for that reason these changes, I would say something change, but certainly not enough. What may be a little strange is that, in the agenda here, there are another amendment and addition of the Law on the Restriction of the Use of Tobacco Products, on the part of one committee, I will not mention which and a little bit of strangeness, but I guess it is common in this parliamentary procedure not to bring together a debate on these two legislative proposals, which is more so that these two legislative proposals could better discuss and use the values of both and other and bring a quality proposal to amend and supplement the Law on the restriction of the use of tobacco products. So, given the fact that I'm evaluating and assessing this law is flawed. We will not support this proposal to amend and supplement the Treaty on the Restriction of the IDS Club, on the restriction and use of tobacco products, because we believe that this law will normally change again next year, over the period of 6 months that is given here as a deadline for adjustments to all catering facilities or restaurants that are not indicated here. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-24-0.u39281	Thank you. We move on to an individual debate and the first is the distinguished representative of Dragutin Lesar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-24-0.u39282	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues and colleagues, Vice President. I'm gonna cut my debate short, because I'm already nervous, I haven't smoked a cigarette in a long time. I want to finish the debate as soon as possible. Of course I won't support this bill, as I didn't support it when it was passed. Not to repeat now that hypocrisy of the state that one day gives incentives to tobacco production, and the long day says that this tobacco poison and that Croatian citizens should not consume it, and if they consume it, then they are dangerous. The laws were dangerous, one of them and this one, which greatly contributed to the fact that Minister Shuker had less money. And I would only single out that any such law that was born as a preterm comes to repairs, two more pearls from the law. Smoking is prohibited in a space less than 20 metres from entering a health care facility. Does it mean that the directors of the line will have to withdraw? If it's concrete and asphalt, come on, if it's gravel, let's do gravel. They'll paint the gravel trail, where it's 20 meters. Or there's a new sign, a smoking ban zone, red flags, pressurers. What? 20 steps, middle-developed man. I mean, I really expected you to write 20 steps of the middle tall man, so that the inspector or police officer could say if I'm at 20 or at 19.5 or 20.5 feet from entering the medical facility. What about the window above me where the sick are, and I smoke downstairs, and they get smoke into the room? And I'm more than 20 steps away from the entrance. So you thought probably 20 meters from the health care facility building, not from the entrance, because the smoke goes in through the windows. I know you're not gonna fix it right now, but you're gonna fix it when you see when it can't be controlled. And one more thing. Article 20a, new article, which gives the host the opportunity to receive us enemies of the health system. I warn you that such a provision has not solved the problem of one activity that per year in the state budget, only in the name of concessions. Mr. Hebrang, who will interest you. Only in the name of non-tax concessions, they pay more than 80 million kunas, and these are those who deal with games, or automatic gambling and casinos. According to the provision of Article 20a in the casino and in the rooms where gambling machines are and further smoking will be prohibited, and they cannot apply the provision of a percentage of the space because the law on gambling is prescribed that the minimum space in which the activity can be located is 100 square meters. So those smaller spaces can't have. It's a minimum. I, from the sign of protest against bad laws, did not write an amendment because I know you would have rejected it, but I'm just warning you that the smoking ban will reduce those revenues there, so for the health care of the entire treatment, you'll have so much less money. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-24-0.u39283	Thank you. It is up to Commissioner Ingrid Anticevic-Marinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-24-0.u39284	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Your Honor, Secretary of State. Today we talk about these changes either nine and a half months ago or ten and a half months ago when the law was passed, I don't really think it's the most important thing at all. The most important thing here is the individual law, the role of the government as a proposing and us as a legislative body that makes laws. The law-making procedure itself must be such that it has already put trust in the addressee i.e. at the outset. the citizens themselves that the laws are of quality, that the laws have been passed for citizens, not against those citizens, and that the government is serious and that it will have the will and power to implement those laws. This law of vision is an example of how laws are passed, that they begin to actually have power. Nor do they trust the citizens to whom these laws apply. And why is that? Because the government is passing such laws, with such an argument, with such strength and determination that, in a very short time, the same power and even greater determination give up on them. And then who could trust exactly the quality of those laws? Who and how do you trust? Did that same government a few months ago or that same government after a few months? Because the reasons are diametrically opposite. This government loved calling itself a determined government, a government that made difficult decisions. Never in history has any government ever passed so many laws, so many decisions so determined that she gave up on them even more resolutely. This is the increase, the biggest increase and the mistrust, at the end of such products of such a government. And then why are we surprised that our laws are hollows like Swiss cheese and that they don't really go through? When this law was passed, the main reasons were health reasons, that smoking was killing, and there is essentially nothing to say at all. There are much more competent fellow doctors who have all appeared on both sides and in the middle and there is nothing to add about tobacco harmfulness. But you see, then what was said? That the economic reasons in no way can justify the passing of this law, that the damage from tobacco and human health and which then comes to the state, for the treatment of these patients, is much, much greater than economic reasons. So today, the government is proposing these changes with this explanation. That transport in catering facilities had certain oscillations that were more caused by global financial problems and it is difficult to link these oscillations directly to law enforcement, although this cannot be excluded. So there's no mention of health here at all. Now they're coming to the turn of economic reasons. But there's no truth in that either, not until the end. Always running away from the truth, running away from the responsibility to admit and some mistake because whoever's doing it is wrong. But sooner we'll wait, I don't know what to do but to let the government ever admit that she was wrong about something. That, however, cannot be expected from this government. Now he's trying, and here's what we had, and we heard what formally happened here at the session, the debate itself, by the promoters, that the government didn't know at the time what a difficult economic situation the country was in. So give me a date when you find out. In fact, it was already known, it was said that the economic indicators were quite visible, but yet you denied the situation and denied that fact. Industrial production was dropping. You were warned by Governor Rohatinski, but not to enter those stories now. But it is very interesting to remind ourselves of the debate that was being held in the Croatian Parliament, so what the Secretary of State has said, which is here now. None of this was about economics. It has been said this way, the proposed law of domestic law is in line with the legal gains of the European Union, but further introduces provisions which, in order to be in addition to their legislative purpose, would have its preventive or educational purpose and, in the proposed law, we do not deviate from this. There was also talk of these speculations, so the secretary of state said this at the time. Here's the thing, but as we fight today to find the causes of all possible health problems that appear in society, so we're talking about ecology, we're talking about pure consciousness, we're talking about tobacco, we're talking about smoke, we're talking about everything, but at the same time we're not giving a loud and clear warning to smokers that the first pollution is happening under their own nose. And that is why here is the perseverance of this one proposal. There was also talk of how much damage smoke brings. Therefore, this cannot be justified by any economic gain. That's what Mr. Golem used to say, but now he's looking down and he never looks at the MPs. It's a custom. What did Mr. Andrija Hebrang say then? We remain with this restrictive and uncompromising law. Where is this incomparableness now? She's gone. Yeah, that was then. That's how you usually do the election. It's over then now it's that, smoking kills. You rebelled and then that cigarettes only say smoking can kill. Smoking kills and that's true, but then there are some other methods. It is obvious that the ban itself is not, are not, much more to work on education, on prevention, this is all what my colleague Stazic used to say on behalf of the club. So there were only health reasons. That's where we found the chemical composition of nicotine. So chemistry worked here, and also physics because it wasn't, when it came to spaces that in no way could it be done what we at the SDP club had already given notice. Therefore, the main powers of the state and the main funds should be used on prevention rather than on the ban itself. But another maybe a little paradox and one little maybe bizarre. That there is no law that has not strictly adhered to, that is, that the citizens have not strictly adhered to. And for what? Because the government has performed so decisively and uncompromisingly, and that is what it meant at that moment and that it is a serious punishment. Thus, people quickly recognize whether the government has serious intentions or not. It's a propos of all those anti-corruption laws that remained mostly a mere letter on paper. So when the government really thinks something serious, that's how it's perceived for the citizens. A colleague of Hebrang was speaking here very momentously about how much life is lost, how much it costs to treat the state. How no economic indicator or those coming from the tobacco industry itself can make up for it. That's what you were talking about back then. You were saying then that the state budget with such a restrictive law would be uncompromising as he called it a significant gain, and now you're saying that you are, and he absolutely respected himself. We can see there's no... We don't need inspection services here. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We've all seen that and who are smokers and who aren't that if anything else was respected. Now with the same reasons, i.e. completely different reasons, he wants to challenge this same law that was absolutely implemented that there was no gain but that the losses and that it was all the fault of the sister, i.e. the global economic crisis. Also, a colleague Boris Kunst was talking about how, how much damage it does to the economy right now, not the non-smoking that reminds you of. So here's more than the content of the proposal to question this government's grumbling that the government has to agree to respect itself because the government has led itself to self-negation, to selfishness. [[Intruder Capricorn: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-24-0.u39285	Thank you very much. Your time is up. Now it's the guest of honor Jerko Roshin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-24-0.u39286	So you mentioned me to see if I'm consistent with what I'm saying. I'll start you off with someone. One of them was at the kiosk buying cigarettes and he took a pack of cigarettes and goes to open it and sees that it says that smoking causes impotence. He doesn’t open, he goes back to the bar and says: “I’m sorry I don’t want this one, give me the one for cancer.” So it’s undeniable how cigarettes work, in which direction only a man has to decide what’s more important in his life, so he goes ahead. I think some things are still necessary, though we all know that the elemental human right to breathe is. I don't think anyone's gonna argue with that. If we don't breathe, we're just gone. Try to get caught in the sea and keep you under the sea, and you start to choke. Then you see what a panic is when you can't breathe. That's why you measure the purity of the air, which is why you wear facial masks at some point. That's why the ban on driving cars was in Rome, Milan, if you remember because of the great pollution you couldn't breathe and now in Australia because of all that expensive stuff. That's why Mariana spoke of Sisak and the problem of breathing in Sisak, and the gas chambers World War II, monoxides, dioxides, etc. The breathing is important and my people if you're asmatic, then you know what it means not to breathe because of the disease. And when you get in a position to find yourself in a society of people who smoke, it's a disaster. People who suffer from bronchial asthma even but also normal people. The mortality of cancer due to smoking, etc. That we don't talk. These are the things you just need to repeat. Something that's never been talked about, which is hygiene. My people, when you go to the smoking room, you come back to the smelly suit. You put it out for two days until that smell goes away. They're smelly spaces, they're yellow curtains, they're yellow walls. What's the cost of re-painting? The smell from your mouth when you kiss someone who smokes a lot of steam you kiss an ashtray, an ugly tan, etc. So, the smoking-restriction law is actually a fight of 68% of the colleagues who mentioned it, 68% of the people versus 32%. And I think if there were a majority of that kind of smoker or non-smoking in the House, things would go differently. However, smokers are obviously so strong that they move forward and give in to them because they are circumstances. However, taking care of your health, or employment, is a waste of your time being employed if you are sick all the time because then you do not exercise your right to work and you do not retire because you die of lung cancer. Because there are waiters who have to work in inadequate conditions. So, taking care of the workers, we also have to worry that the conditions in which they work are better than the ones we force them to. Because he doesn't have the right choice to smoke a coffee shop and a non-smoking coffee shop, a smoking restaurant and a non-smoking restaurant. When we talk about the budget, it's the same issue that the state budget spends some money and it's big. Who's the opponent of a law like this? There's a hypocrite here who doesn't actually talk, nobody talks about the problem of smoking, but they talk about whether the government is acting or passing the law and retreating, whether it's being pressured by someone or not. Therefore, it is not a discussion of the Law on Smoking, not of tobacco harmfulness, but of the government’s possible lenientness to or the government’s desire to regulate relations in a better way or even if it was wrong. It's a fundamental hypocrisy to me, and nothing else. Why is she smoking? Not why they start smoking, we know why they start smoking. There are three basic elements if someone was dealing with smoking in some scientific way. I've done enough, and I've written a book on how not to quit smoking, not to, like, or upside down. So there's a chemical reason, there's a mechanical reason, and there's a nervous reason, and there's a nervous reason, and then you burn for the hips and you get nervous and you get ahead. In any case, smoking is a great pleasure and how we enter the field of hedonism. Listen to all that hedonism is nice to man, smoking, pie, is that I don't now list everything that can be interesting in the category of hedonism, but if we're going to overcome hedonism for hedonism, then we're a society that develops a culture of hedonism, not a culture of responsibility, not a culture of work, because here very rarely when it comes to work, I don't know what fear. It's all about spending, and no one who makes money to take care of it. So, in all of this together, it comes down to people's addiction because if they weren't addicted then they could easily quit smoking. And then we come up with, say, an interpretation of a fellow Stazic who defends one evil to another. He says there are other evils. Of course there are other evils, but it doesn't mean that if we fight one, if we don't fight one evil, we don't have to fight another evil. I'm against smoking my people. I don't know if you've managed to understand me by now, and I'm up for as much as possible. If the political reasons suggest it's going, we're disciplined, but I have a need and a desire to say what I think. If we're talking about people making money smoking, of course. But people can make money in different ways. But in a way, then there's prostitution as a mental category, so you don't talk about another one, because if we're going to give up everything for money to make money, then of course there's gonna be smoking, but then there's some other stuff. I don't know where the restrictions are, when we say that, this can be, this can't be and how much is. I repeat, 68% of us are non-smoking, 32% non-smoking. So in some democracy, in principle democracy, most should rule, most should decide. That's how it happens in this House, and this is more than two-thirds of the non-smokers leading to something. However, we have passed a change of laws, we propose an amendment to the law, we give in to smokers, to God's people, which is not true, because none of the allegations given by the flat-rate has been proved, none of the figures have been spoken, no documents have been documented with anything, no one has worked on these statistics. I'm a witness to restaurants and cafes that put the clientele back inside that were at first out, but people get used to these circumstances. Furthermore, I don't think SDPs are smokers, HDZs are non-smoking and vice versa. There are both between HDZ and the opposition. There are smokers in the government who are disastrously large, and I believe there are non-smokers in the opposition, or those who are against non-smoking. However, I have been denied many spaces. I have limited life, I can't use certain spaces and I don't know what this law will do, how it will regulate because I didn't know how many percent of the restaurant, or cafes can have permission to declare themselves smoking or non-smoking. Whether it stays within these 68% and 32% or if it can be all smokeable, then I have no place to go. Furthermore, we've led to a break-up of society, because I can't go where smokes, I don't want to go where smokes, it's endangering my health, it's endangering my health, it's jeopardizing my health. Therefore, I am limited in my movement and consumption of everything at my disposal. And I remember 20 years ago in America there were smoking rooms and non-smoking rooms. The civilized world has already grown up to be non-smoking, and those who go out in pajamas for smoking, if they're up to smoking in pajamas can do it both at home and in bed, whatever, they don't need to. I don't know who in the pajamas would go out smoking. And a lot of people I've seen outside smoke, come back. At the airports, we have solutions where they're in these little boots, they're standing around, they're smoking, etc. You know how much more I could talk for hours, but I can see the light's on, so I'm gonna have to hang up. What seems important to me to come to an end right now, when the law is passed, it all comes down to how much we control that's really how it happens. This is the fact that it gave in to those who were pushing, but don't tell me about the working class that's running out of work, because none of the people I know left any waiters out, and health is permanent, you know. Look at how that works. So, in the interest of that worker, fellow Stazic's employee, about the employees, not to lose his job but to stay alive and healthy until the end. You have to make sure you can't smoke everywhere in the bar because this Andrija waiter has a problem with smoking, you know, and he has to work there because there's no other job. These guys suck and don't take care of it. So let's control ourselves. If we have to smoke, let's control it. And I'd like to see the sanctions to be carried out and the report on how much fines have been charged for smoking somewhere, including from ministers downhill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-24-0.u39287	Thank you. And as the last individual debate, distinguished representative Ivan Hanzek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-24-0.u39288	Dear Vice President, Secretary of State. I'll cut the maximum. I'll talk with three elements. The first element is that instead of discussing today by the ruling majority, only one of the MPs should have come out and apologized and said we voted on the confidence of the unprecedented version of the law that was given to us nine months ago. We thought in a different way, but we obeyed the government's orders that we must vote. The fact is, in an unrelated conversation, many MPs have mentioned some other solutions that apply in other countries that we have in this version today, and we have been able to avoid two discussions. Secondly, I have given up on the amendment, but I must say that it was also spoken of by my colleague Lesar, that unfortunately we do not have a solution for those who have two or three or four types of vices to deal with, and since I spent a short time in Croatia's lottery, then in this way I am trying to talk about that we have not found a solution to the lottery, i.e. gambling and betting, as well as the slot machines for playing space there is no possibility of meeting the conditions of this law and that in this way there is also a reduction in traffic, thus also the revenues of the state budget. And this third, if we'd listened, not to the opposition, but to those who are, it's also related to the first one, who suggested finding a milder variant would have less damage. And unfortunately, I must disappoint Mr. Roshin's catering business has suffered damage during the period of application of this law and, as my colleague Ingrid Anticevic said, if we had declared in all other laws a strict application of any law, such as this ban on tobacco products, in the use of the ban on tobacco products in public facilities, we would probably as a nation and as people living in this area better because we would respect all other laws in a similar way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-24-0.u39289	Thank you. On behalf of the promoter, Honorable Ante Zvonimir Golem, State Secretary at the Ministry of Health and Social Care, final word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-24-0.u39290	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen. Here I can thank you for today's debate that as a proposing I have no right to correct incorrect allegations I can only say that I pray from today's phonogram to look at not one word in today's law and I did not mention any economic aspect of this law or economic impact on this law. What the law should say means does not change in its provisions but is mostly complemented in order to make that contribution that we all talk about, that is, combating smoking or restricting the use of tobacco products. And I can only say on behalf of the promoter that the amendment of the club of representatives is also accepted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-24-0.u39291	Thank you. I conclude the debate we will vote when the conditions are met and we will pass one more point before the vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-24-0.u39292	Your Honor, Mr. Chairman. Madam Secretary of State. This is one of the laws that is in line with those rules that should be renewed every year, but it is also an opportunity to remember how and in which all occasions the Government uses this institute. It is an institute that must really enable the normal functioning of the state in those situations where the Parliament is not in session for reasons other than its own. However, practice has shown that sometimes this institute is used to cover the shame of the government. It wasn't that long ago, let's remember last year while the Parliament had a summer break, after a dramatic debate in which the ruling majority had sworn in wood and stone that Sunday's ban law was exactly what we need, in the middle of the break, of course the government had defined a new version at the mobile session with yachts, using this very law and resolving it by regulation. So she changed the law banning work on Sundays. Now we have a relatively small balance of exploitation of this right and that's good, because this law only makes sense if the government uses it as little as possible. Only then is this institute strong and gives legitimacy to its actual use in extraordinary situations. However, I will take the opportunity to commend Mrs. Kosor. In fact, there have been suggestions that two laws, one we discussed today, and the other we will discuss tomorrow, bring exactly the use of this institute literally five or six days before the start of the session of the Parliament, because some ministers were aware of their shame and that it is less painful to resolve this regulation, not go back to Parliament and not suffer criticism when it comes to the Law on the Restriction of the use of tobacco products and when it comes to the Law on Medical Insemination. According to what the media has transmitted, and I have no reason not to believe them because no one has denied it, it was precisely the prime minister who demanded that these issues not be dealt with by regulations, so the government does not use this institute in these two situations, but rather the amendments and additions to the law in parliament. In this sense, I commend, because she was not running away from the government's responsibility here before this Parliament and has led the government in a position to re-explain some things that she failed to explain last time. Of course, we haven't solved the problem until the end, but in that sense, I welcome her manner. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-24-0.u39293	Thank you. An individual debate. Ms. Representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-24-0.u39294	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Honored representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues. What does this report on the regulations adopted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia tell us on the basis of legal authority? Unfortunately, it talks about a very low level of culture of legality, the process of proposing and passing laws, and then regulations, and then rules themselves. Because as much as the regulations have spread and are widely understood by our government, the nice ministers themselves feel that they can change the law and what, by the rules. Well, often the rules have nothing to do with the letter of the law, but to press more or less the public or what a single minister likes to be. That's how it works out. Here is the occasion for me to be allowed to mention the freshest example of the Law on Medical Insemination when Minister Milinović wanted to react and the regulation before he decided to make changes to the law and regulations to regulate something, something that was so fiercely opposed to the law. So it also shows us all the misery of our low level of culture of legality, and I repeat, and regulation. And then how can the citizens take us seriously? We here in Parliament should be defending it. Now it's not even about content, it's about how these laws are passed, but other than that, the laws have to look something like that. And what does this one regulation look like? So before I say anything about content, let me talk about the linguistic aspect of the proposal. Here is what is said in the explanation of Article 1. This Regulation provides for the liberalisation of the approval of short-term financial loans to non-residents, now watch this, it is postponed from 1 August to 1 February. From 1 August to 1 February. Well, what a syntagma, what a syntax of Croatian language it is. Well, that's inadmissible. So as soon as we need to promote which drop we use, what words do we agree on by the rules of spelling and syntax we're in a big problem here. This cannot go like this to the Croatian Parliament when our language is finally called Croatian. It's never been less in the language in that sense that it's taken care of, so here's the thing, at least we have to fix it at least if it's an explanation, even if it's an explanation. This Regulation amending the Law on designations of origin and designations of geographical origin and designations of traditional reputation of agricultural and food products. What was the government supposed to do with a regulation until the Parliament was in session? What was she supposed to do? Maybe some extraordinary measure, something urgent was to be done. I don't think most of you even looked at this because we believed it was about that. But no, all those in good faith were wrong again. So, what's this all about? The government is saying it admits what it is. That it was missed in the amendments when the law was passed to replace Article 41(2) to which it is now to be called and when the Regulation was to be adopted, there is no provision, and there is one other article mentions it. And now there's no law, there's a regulation that needs to change it. But they're not even powers you can react to. No, they're not powers. But the government obviously broadly takes the right to take the prerogatives of the Parliament and then react in this way because the laws that are passed are really very, very low quality, and the contents and concepts I wouldn't do right now. And not to repeat everything that my colleague Leco said about this first provision. So what's the point? It really doesn't make any sense unless the government is putting some... and speaks of how many laws it has proposed, how many regulations it has adopted, etc. on the trail of the "Little Mist" series, who's more than willing to do this thing. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Therefore, this is inadmissible indeed in front of the Croatian Parliament to come with the law of such offices of the Government. More effort should be made in law making, first of all, in the procedure itself, in the nomotery itself, and then the quality, regardless of the intentions of the law, will be much better.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-24-0.u39295	Mr. Representative Ivo Grbić.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-24-0.u39296	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, honourable state secretary, respected colleagues and fellow MPs. The proposed law for a certain period of time gives authority to the Government of the Republic of Croatia to regulate the issues of current economic policies from the part-line of the Croatian Parliament, except for changes in the state budget and tax regulation, and those issues which can be governed by the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia only, as regards the development of the Constitution of established human rights and fundamental freedoms, national rights, electoral system, establishment, part-circular and way of working of state bodies and local self-government at a time when the Croatian Parliament does not meet in the period from 15 December 2009 to 15 January 2010 and from 15 July 2010 to 15 September 2010, and, exceptionally, from the date of disband or the end of the term of office of the Croatian Parliament until the first meeting of the newly elected Croatian Parliament. The proposed law also provides for an extension of their validity but no longer than 31 December 2009. For this reason, given that the proposed law prevents the creation of a legal void and allows the Government of the Republic of Croatia to and in the future when it is necessary to adopt a regulation on the basis of legal powers, I support the adoption of a Law on the power of the Government of the Republic of Croatia to regulate certain issues in the part of the Croatian Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-24-0.u39297	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. We'll decide when the conditions are met. We move to the final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Limitation of the Use of Tobacco Products was an emergency procedure of P.Z.E. No. 444 The draft law is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. The amendment was submitted by the HDZ Committee on Law and Club. During the debate, the proposer's representative accepted the amendment of the HDZ Committee and Club and did not vote on it because it became an integral part of the final draft law in accordance with Article 169. Rules of Procedure. I am voting on the final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Limitation of the Use of Tobacco Products. Please, who's in favour of this bill? Thank you. Against? Thank you. Restraint? Is that the result? This final bill was adopted by most votes. 73 votes in favour, 12 against and 5 abstentions along with the amendments accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-24-0.u39299	4. The final proposal of the Law on the power of the Government of the Republic of Croatia to regulate certain issues and parts of the Croatian Parliament, the emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 435 Proposer of the Law is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You received the proposal by mail. On the occasion of the agenda, we accepted the proposal from the Proposer to discuss this legislative proposal in an urgent procedure. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the The Rules of Procedure, the emergency procedure unites the first and second readings. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate, Article 164. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Agriculture, Fisheries, Rural Development and the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the Political System. You received the reports at the session. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Dear Secretary of State Paul Maticic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-24-0.u39300	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen of the MPs, the Law on the Government of Croatia's power to regulate a particular issue of the Croatian Parliament's part-round, the Croatian Parliament adopts every year, so I would not talk about a constitutional basis for the adoption of the law. The government suggests that the legal power to adopt a regulation be further shared on the basis of legal authority, but limited as so far, only during a period when the Croatian Parliament does not meet or when it is dissolved or its term of office expires. We propose this and especially because this legislative delegation ends on 31 October 2009. The law also proposes that the regulations adopted by the government, based on these legal powers, remain in force until 31 December 2009. Mr Vice-President, we propose to the Croatian Parliament to pass the proposed law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-24-0.u39301	Thank you. The Committee on Law, Agriculture, Fisheries and Rural Development, the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system, I am opening a debate. SDP representative club, Mr. Representative Josip Leko. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-24-0.u39302	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Honored representatives of the government, colleagues and fellow MPs. So, namely the Proposal for a Law on the Powers of the Government of the Republic of Croatia to regulate certain issues in the part of the Croatian Parliament is already routine in this House, and from that point of view we could say there is nothing new in the government's proposal. However, when we look at how this law is being implemented, there are serious problems. The legislator, therefore, states itself that there are 3 restrictions for the Government when it can adopt regulations on the basis of legal authority. It is a time when it can do so, so when the Croatian Parliament does not meet. Secondly, there are substantive restrictions on human rights to impose taxes and amending the budget and the third when the Croatian Parliament does not meet. And when we look at it in practice happens about, not about, but truly like this, we have a regulation here on amending the Foreign Exchange Act. Done on 24 July 2009, and this Regulation should take effect by the end of this year. So, the Parliament was held on 27, 28, 29, 30 and 31 July, here today we verified the minutes, and on 17 July this year, and the Government adopted a regulation amending the Foreign Exchange Act on 24 July. So that is obvious, obviously, as I would say, ignoring the government's constitutional obligation to pass the law to the Croatian Parliament. And watch the next absurd as the government implements and implements the law that requires us every year. The foreign exchange regulation states that the Law ceases foreign exchange operations in one provision on 1 January 2010. in the second provision of 1 February 2010 and in the third provision to cease to apply when Croatia is a member of the European Union. So, by regulation, we're dealing with something that's going to happen in 2010. And the next absurd is that now the government is proposing a law that this regulation applies only until the end of this year. I don't know if the left hand knows what the right hand does in the government? Does he know if there's a right in the government? Thank God, I thought there wasn't. When Hebrang wasn't there, I thought there was no right there. All right. Okay. It's not Shakespeare either. So I really don't know if the Ministry knows what he's doing otherwise or whether there's some coordination in the government at all. This regulation has no function and which is then the legal certainty that the Government itself produces. The next absurdity is that the law cannot be changed by the Government both by the Constitution and by the hierarchy of legal acts, but also by the relationship and by the detour and jurisdiction of the two bodies. It is not a parliament subject to government, but a parliament controls the work of the government and the constitution says that the function of the Parliament is to oversee the work of the government. This is where the government took something that no one gave her, didn't come up with, and worse produced legal uncertainty needlessly. So if there's a little salt, there's some coordination to be done in the government. Some coordination needs to be carried out in the government. Otherwise, once again, we will call for the help of HITROREZ, who will not solve anything. Therefore, it is a very important constitutional institution against which the SDPs, of course, have nothing, that the Constitution determines the possibility for regulations to be governed by the area of the Croatian Parliament's section, but not to amend the law. By the end of the legal validity of the regulation, the law remains a fundamental act. The law continues to live its life because it is the will of the Croatian Parliament, or Croatian citizens, expressed through the decision of the Croatian Parliament. Such unconstitutional behavior leads us to a serious suspicion that the Croatian Parliament is not fulfilling its role. One of the important roles of the Croatian Parliament is to oversee the government's work and control the government's work. We will, of course, adopt with full confidence the Government's Law on Powers, but we should also, with full responsibility, at the reception of each regulation, confirm whether it is in accordance with the powers conferred on it or whether the Government has exceeded the powers conferred on it. What was done with the foreign exchange regulation is an obvious example for any citizens of the Republic of Croatia, that the government does not know what it wants with the regulation. This has no legal effect, except to confuse the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. Because the effects of this Regulation should only take place next year, and it will cease to exist, and have a real power of 31, according to your proposal for this law. 12 this year. Not only that, but this regulation, by the law which is now in force, would cease to apply to 31. 10th of this year. Because regulations can only apply as long as the authorisation is valid. All this really indicates that we must be far more responsible for the acts that come from the government, because the government compromises its trust in the Croatian Parliament with such acts, regardless of which side they look at things. Facts don't change. Are we wearing political glasses or not? So, the SDP will, of course, vote in favour of the law, but we ask that each regulation should come individually for verification and that the regulation does not change the law, but that things should be regulated specifically as long as the regulation continues. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-24-0.u39303	Thank you. HDZ Club, Ms. Representative Ana Lovrin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-24-0.u39304	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and fellow MPs, Mr. Secretary of State with his associates. The Croatian Democratic Community Club will support the proposal for a law on the power of the Government of the Republic of Croatia to regulate certain issues from the part-line of the Croatian Parliament with the final draft of the law, so by emergency procedure. This is about a law that is necessary to ensure the smooth functioning of the state. Namely, this constitutional legal institute of the legislative delegation is known in the constitutional practice of almost all modern states. In the case of our constitutional arrangement, the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia explicitly allows and details the scope and legal regime by adopting regulations under the legal authority, so it allows a legislative delegation in everything except the so-called ‘legislative delegation’. organic laws. Article 87 The Constitution lays down that the Croatian Parliament may, for a period of no more than one year, authorise the Government of the Republic of Croatia to regulate certain issues from its part-line, except those relating to the development of constitutional rights in the Constitution of established human rights and fundamental freedoms, national rights, electoral system, establishment, detour and way of working of state bodies and local self-government. It is also laid down in the Constitution that regulations cannot act retroactively, as well as that those Regulations cease to apply within a period of one year from the date of their receipt of the power, unless the Croatian Parliament decides otherwise. The legislative authorisation under the Constitution, i.e. the delegation for the adoption of the Regulations, must be explicit with reference to specific issues, whose regulation is transferred to the executive body and for a period of no more than one year. In accordance with such constitutional arrangements, the Government of the Republic of Croatia proposes the adoption of this law, which would empower the Government from one year to 15 January 2010 and from 15 July 2010 only during the regular session of the Assembly, in accordance with the Croatian Constitution, in the period from 15 December 2009 to 15 January 2010 and from 15 July 2010 to 15 September 2010, and in exceptional cases in the cases of disbanding the Parliament or the end of the term of office until the first session of the newly elected Parliament, in the exact range of issues, which are as proposed by the Croatian Government, questions of the current economic policy from the part-line of the Croatian Parliament, except for changes in the state budget and regulation of taxes, and those issues whose legislative delegation is not permitted under the constitutional provision itself. It also defines Article 4 of this Law that the rules adopted under the existing law, which underlines that in October the year will expire, hence the law on the transfer of legislative powers will remain in force until 31 December 2009, which also consumes the constitutional possibility of setting a period of time for the regulation and for more than one year from the power vested in it. The urgency of the procedure is necessary in the adoption of this law precisely for the reason to bridge the legal gap and ensure the functioning and operation of state affairs, since 11 October expires from the year since this Croatian Parliament gave the Government power to adopt regulations with legal force. For all of these reasons and for the reasons that this is also the constitutional and legal practice of all developed countries and for the reasons that enables the functioning of the system, the Croatian Democratic Community club supports the adoption of this law as a law which, under the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, confers legislative power within limited competences and deadlines, and exclusively in order to ensure the functioning of the system and to bear in mind that the Government has rarely reached out for those powers, and as we will see from the report on the regulation adopted on the basis of the legal authority which will also be before this Croatian Assembly and which will have the opportunity to discuss each of these Regulations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-24-0.u39305	Thank you. HNS Club, Mr. Representative Goran Beus Richembergh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-24-0.u39306	We move on to the final proposal of the Law on the Government of the Republic of Croatia to regulate certain issues in the part of the Croatian Parliament, was an emergency procedure, P.Z. No. 435. Proposer of the Law Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. I am voting on the final proposal of the Law on the power of the Government of the Republic of Croatia to regulate certain issues in the part-line of the Croatian Parliament. Please, who's in favor of the proposal? Thank you. Who's against it? Thank you. Restraint? Thank you. The result? This final bill was adopted by most votes, 78 votes in favour, 5 against and 7 abstentions. I'd like the President of the Mandate-Immunity Commission. This item of the agenda Report of the Mandate-Immunity Commission.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-24-0.u39308	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. We have a report on the termination of the representative's term of office as a representative of Zvonimir Puljic and the start of the parliamentary term of deputy representative Ivan Škaricic. The mandate-immunity commission of the Croatian Parliament discussed a notice at the 25th session held on 23 September 2009 for the replacement of the late representative, Zvonimir Puljic, in the Croatian Parliament, which was submitted by the Croatian Democratic Community by an act of 23 September 2009. As Mr Zvonimir Puljic was elected representative as a candidate on the Croatian Democratic Union list in the 10th Election Unit, the Croatian Democratic Community is in accordance with Article 12(1). The Law on Elections in the Croatian Parliament has decreed that Mr. Ivan Škaric as deputy representative in that election unit begins to act as representative instead of Zvonimir Puljić. The Commission found that the death of representatives of Zvonimir Puljic was in accordance with Article 10. On the basis of a notice from the Croatian Democratic Community about a person who, instead of the deceased, would act as a representative, met the conditions for the start of the deputy representative Ivan Škaričić's term of office. In accordance with the said Mandate Immunity Commission, after the debate has been carried out, pursuant to Article 10. Law on election of representatives in the Croatian Parliament and Article 104. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament unanimously, with 6 votes in favour, proposed to the Croatian Parliament a decision on the termination of the parliamentary mandate and the start of acting as deputy deputies. On 1 September 2009, Parliament's term of office was suspended, on 24 September 2009, in accordance with Article 9(2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament will be initiated by Deputy Representative Ivan Škaričić.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-24-0.u39309	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. Please quorum. Please engage to check the quorum. Please, did we all get involved? Not all MPs got involved. We've got 83 present, so we'll take the lift. 83 so we have a quorum, so we'll raise our hands. I have concluded the debate on this item on the agenda and I am voting on the Proposal for an Immunity Commission on the conduct of the mandate of representatives in the Croatian Assembly of Mr Ivan Škaričić. Who's in favour of that decision? Thank you. Does anyone mind? There isn't. Restraint? There isn't. I find that the proposal of the Immunity Commission's mandate has been unanimously accepted. And before further ado, I urge the new representative of Mr. Ivan Škaricic to swear. First I'll read the text of the oath and then I'll call an advocate who swears by getting up and saying the words, "I swear." The text of the oath reads: "I swear by my honor that I will act consciously and responsibly in my work and that I will stick to the Constitution and the law and respect the legal order, and that I will stand up for all the progress of the Republic of Croatia." Representative Ivan Škaričić.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-24-0.u39310	I swear. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-24-0.u39311	Thank you very much. I congratulate Agent Ivan Škaric and wish him successful work in the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-24-0.u39312	Now we're going to move on to another point that we're going to discuss today. - A report from the Mandate-Immunity Commission asking the chairman of the commission of Mr. Damir Sesvecan to file a report.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-24-0.u39313	Dear Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. Here, he would first submit a report on the application for authorisation to launch a criminal proceedings against Stipe Gabric, a representative in the Croatian Parliament. At the 24th session held on 22 September 2009, the mandate committee of the Croatian Parliament discussed the request of the municipal state attorney in Dubrovnik from 12 March 2009 through the State Attorney's Office of the Republic of Croatia from 13 July 2009 to the President of the Croatian Parliament for the authorisation of the initiation of criminal proceedings against Stipe Gabric in the Croatian Parliament on grounds of reasonable suspicion that he committed the criminal offence referred to in Article 129(3) in connection with paragraph 1. Penalty law. Mr. Stipo Gabrić is a representative of the 6th meeting of the Croatian Parliament and on the basis of Article 75. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Article 23 The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament shall have the immunity until the term of office is terminated and shall not be initiated or prosecuted without a decision of the Croatian Parliament. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament of State Attorneys of the Republic of Croatia have submitted a request for approval to initiate criminal proceedings against MP Stipe Gabric. Following the debate, the Mandate-Immunity Commission shall, on the basis of Article 104. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament unanimously with 5 votes to propose a next decision to the Croatian Parliament. "Approving the initiation of criminal proceedings against Agent Stipe Gabric at the request of the Municipal State Attorney's Office in Dubrovnik is sent through the State Attorney's Office of the Republic of Croatia by Act No KR-1DO536/08 on the grounds of reasonable suspicion that he committed the criminal offence referred to in Article 129(3) in conjunction with paragraph 1. The Penal Code."
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-24-0.u39314	Thank you. On the occasion of this report, no one has applied for a hearing. No one's applying for a hearing. I ask the president to submit two reports concerning the request for authorisation of prosecution and criminal proceedings against MPs at the Croatian Parliament of Berislav Roncevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-24-0.u39315	Thank you. The mandate-immunity commission of the Croatian Parliament discussed at the 23rd session held on 19 August 2009 the request of the State Attorney's Office for the Prevention of Corruption and Organized Crime from 7 August 2009 which was sent through the State Attorney's Office of the Republic of Croatia by the Act of 11 August 2009 to the President of the Croatian Parliament for the initiation and conduct of criminal proceedings against Berislav Roncevic of representatives in the Croatian Parliament on grounds of reasonable suspicion that he committed a criminal offence of abuse of the position and authority referred to in Article 337(1) and (4) of the Croatian Parliament. Penalty law. Mr Berislav Rončević is a representative of the 6th convocation of the Croatian Parliament and on the basis of Article 75. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Article 23 The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament shall have the immunity until the term of office is terminated and shall not be in a position to initiate or conduct criminal proceedings without a decision of the Croatian Parliament against the same. The Croatian State Attorney's Office has submitted a request for authorisation of prosecution and criminal proceedings against MP Berislav Roncevic. The meeting of the Commission was convened on the basis of Article 24. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The mandate-immunity committee previously discussed the request of the State Attorney's Office of the Republic of Croatia, which requested an opinion on whether the State's attorney's office needed approval to carry out an investigation against MPs in the Croatian Parliament or whether authorisation was required only to initiate criminal proceedings as a prerequisite, depending on the position of the Commission, to decide on the possible abolition of immunity to MP Berislav Roncevic. The opinion of the majority of the members of the committee was that it was not necessary to abolish the immunity of the representative, i.e. that such a request was premature, but that immunity should be abolished by the State's attorney when making the indictment, because in accordance with Article 17(1). The law on criminal proceedings begins by confirming the indictment in court. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, as well as Article 23(2). Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament which binds the removal of immunity exclusively to the initiation and conduct of criminal proceedings. Also, the Croatian Parliament, or the Mandate-Immunity Commission, grants exclusive approval for the launch and conduct of criminal proceedings resulting from the provisions on the parliamentary immunity of the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, Articles 23 to 28. The debate highlights the importance of proper, the Constitution and the law of a well-founded position on when immunity should be sought during prosecution, as the basis of this position will create a precedent for the future conduct of the State's attorneys, not only in relation to representatives in the Croatian Parliament, but also in relation to all other state and judicial officials who, according to the Constitution or special laws, have certain procedural and legal immunity. In the debate, some members of the commission expressed their opinion that the provisions of the Constitution and the law were clear and that the State Attorney's Office of the Republic of Croatia should not have requested the abolition of immunity, but should have conducted an investigation in accordance with the law, and they interpreted such action as a delay in the proceedings against MP Roncevic. In addition, one view of the commission expressed its view that immunity to the representative should also be abolished in order to carry out the investigation procedure. During the debate, the majority of the members of the committee, 7 out of 8, agreed that an investigation does not require a decision on the abolition of immunity of MPs and that such decision is premature in relation to the start of the criminal proceedings when immunity can be decided and that the State's attorney can carry out an investigation against MPs without abolishing the immunity. Despite this view, three members of the SDP commission are also seeking a vote on the second conclusion that the commission is not authorised to give a credible interpretation of the law and that the commission, however, has agreed to further conduct the procedure and abolish the immunity of MP Berislav Roncevic in order to avoid a standstill in investigative proceedings. The members of the HDZ Committee warned that accepting such a conclusion by members of the SDP committee, with the preliminary acceptance of the conclusion that the investigation is not in line with the Constitution and the law would end the immunity of the representative, either in contradiction because one conclusion excludes the other. At the same time, it cannot be decided that the investigation is not necessary and that immunity cannot be lifted for the agent, while at the same time proposing it. After the hearing has been concluded pursuant to Article 104. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, the Mandate-Immunity Commission, reached the following conclusion: "1. The request of the State Attorney's Office of the Republic of Croatia for the abolition of immunity to MP Berislav Roncevic, i.e. the granting of authorisation for the initiation of the criminal proceedings, is premature and excessive under Article 75(3). The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, as the basis of Article 17(1) of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia is laid down in Article 17(1). The law on criminal proceedings begins with confirmation of the indictment. Given that no indictment has been brought in particular, it is premature to request the abolition of immunity for the purpose of the initiation of criminal proceedings. The State Attorney's Office of the Republic of Croatia may, without abolishing the immunity of the representatives in accordance with Article 217. The law on criminal proceedings is to conduct an investigation against MP Berislav Roncevic. That conclusion was reached by a majority of votes, 7 for and 1 against. 2. The mandate-immunity commission also voted on the proposal of the SDP committee members that the commission was not authorised by the authority to give a credible interpretation of the law, and on which there are dilemmas, and that the Mandate-Immunity Commission that consent to further conduct the criminal proceedings and end immunity to Berislav Roncevic in order to avoid a standstill in investigative proceedings. This proposal has not been passed, i.e. the opinions remained divided because it was voted by 4 members of the committee for and 4 against it." If you'll excuse me, I'd like to read the explanation, I think it's important in this case. So, the explanation. The mandate-immunity committee considers that the request of the State Attorney's Office of the Republic of Croatia for the abolition of immunity to agent Berislav Roncevic, i.e. the granting of a criminal prosecution authorisation and the initiation of a criminal proceedings, has been premature, given that in a specific case no indictment has yet been brought, and thus no pre-conditions for the initiation of the criminal proceedings have been obtained. In particular, Article 75(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (‘the EEA Agreement’). The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia stipulates that no criminal proceedings can be initiated against MPs without the approval of the Croatian Parliament. All provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament on the Immunity of Deputies also link the decision on the immunity of MPs with the initiation of criminal proceedings, not with the conduct of the reconnaissance, investigation or other evidence actions of the State's Attorney's Office as integral parts of the prosecution until the start of the criminal proceedings itself. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament shall specify precisely that it is mandatory for the State Attorney's Office to request prior authorisation to initiate the criminal proceedings only when the conditions for its initiation are obtained. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The law on criminal proceedings stipulates that the criminal proceedings begin by confirming the indictment and the adoption of a warrant to conduct an investigation, i.e. the investigation itself, is not the beginning of a criminal proceedings. Therefore, the decision on the immunity of the representatives is not even possible before the State's Attorney's Office's decision to press charges against the court. Following this statement, the State Attorney's Office of the Republic of Croatia may, without abolishing immunity, issue a warrant for Agent Berislav Roncevic to carry out the investigation and conduct other investigations in accordance with the provisions of Article 217 and other provisions of the Criminal Procedure Act. A second report also concerns MP Berislav Roncevic. The Executive Immunity Commission of the Croatian Parliament therefore considered at the 26th session held on 15 October 2009 the request of the State Attorney's Office, the Office for the Prevention of Corruption and Organized Crime from 13 October 2009, which was sent through the State Attorney's Office of the Republic of Croatia on 13 October 2009, to the President of the Croatian Parliament for the initiation of criminal proceedings against Berislav Roncevic of representatives in the Croatian Parliament on grounds of reasonable suspicion that he committed a criminal offence of abuse of the position and authority referred to in Articles 337(1) and 4. Penalty law. The meeting of the Commission was convened without delay on the basis of Article 24. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. Mr Berislav Rončević is a representative of the 6th convocation of the Croatian Parliament and on the basis of Article 75. Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, Article 23 The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament shall have the immunity until the term of office has been terminated and shall not be able to initiate or conduct criminal proceedings without a decision of the Croatian Parliament against the same. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament The State's Attorney's Office of the Republic of Croatia sent a request to the Croatian Parliament for approval to initiate criminal proceedings against MP Berislav Roncevic. Following the debate, the Mandatory Immunity Commission shall, on the basis of Article 104. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament unanimously, with seven votes in favour, proposes to give the Croatian Parliament the following decision: approval is granted for the initiation of criminal proceedings against MP Berislav Roncevic at the request of the State Attorney's Office, the Office for the Prevention of Corruption and Organized Crime No. KUS-21/09 of 13 October 2009, sent through the State Attorney's Office of the Republic of Croatia, acting on 13 October 2009, on grounds of reasonable suspicion that he committed a criminal offence of abuse of position and authority referred to in Articles 337(1) and 4. Penalty law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-24-0.u39316	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the CNS, Mr. Representative Goran Beus Richembergh.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-24-0.u39317	Dear Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. From the information report and the proposal for conclusions presented by fellow Sesvečan, it can be read to which the Mandate Immunity Commission has served to actually cloud the elemental issue in this case. So, it was a stuttering of legal, procedural issues and facts, and meanwhile it was discovered that the BIA as part of the State's Attorney's Office has found and considered relevant facts and obvious evidence that creates a reasonable doubt that Roncevic has committed a criminal offence of abuse of office and authority. Of course, all of us here who have our opinions on this, and we have expressed our opinion several times, above all, who were members of the investigative committee, and then the other representatives in the debate on the report of the investigative committee, we can now, of course, engage in Mr Roncevic, live on it, and that would be cheap politics. Col. Roncevic will have the opportunity to prove in criminal proceedings, if he believes he is innocent, or the State's Attorney's Office will have the opportunity to prove otherwise. But this is a chance to go back a little bit and see which one we've been exposed to in an attempt to determine all the relevant facts of this case. The spirit of the Law on Investigation Commissions certainly is not, and neither is its provisions conceived so that one member of the investigation committee would have to realize that they must attack someone at all costs, and the other at all costs defend them. The task of the investigative committee, which could have illuminated the face of this Assembly, but unfortunately that failed, was to establish all relevant facts. Unfortunately, this was not possible, because HDZ's majority in the investigation committee did everything it could to make it impossible for us to identify the relevant facts. We weren't allowed to do basic things like witness hearings. State Secretary Bacic, who is quoted as saying that in his conversation with investigators now he has opened his soul, said everything he knows, and even some speculate that in this sense he has put a lot of pressure on Mr Roncevic, for example he has not been heard at all on our investigative committee, and only thanks to the will, tenacity of HDZ's majority, whose fig leaf was a fellow Greek from HSS. Shall we remind ourselves a little, and say that colleagues Hebrang, co-worker Ćosic, co-worker Tomljanovic and counterpart Kruno Markovanovic, together with Mr. Grcic, allowed the investigation committee, and then unfortunately the Croatian Parliament to conclude the following. That there were no illegal actions, procedures and events in the procurement in question, nor was the state budget damaged. That the defence minister respected the choice of vehicle suppliers according to the criteria of the Chief Staff of the Armed Forces, and adapted the choice and number of vehicles to the requirements of the partnership objectives that dictated the period of final preparations for the entry of the Republic of Croatia into full NATO membership. So then the commission, and then the Parliament condemns all those who have fabricated irregularities in the supply in question for years without reason criminalising Mr Berislav Roncevic, causing irreparable damage to his reputation and pain to his loved ones. It is necessary to assess the extent of the damage suffered by the Republic of Croatia by spreading false news of godless corruption in the sea. We believe that the competent authorities will examine whether there is a criminal responsibility in carrying out lies and slanders at the expense of Mr Roncevic and the Ministry of Defence, whose head was at the time of the procurement. What do we do now? These days it was about someone's hands in the fire, even taking their hands out of the fire. I'd like us to step away from that rhetoric, let's not be naive, because it's not a colleague of Andrija Hebrang who most warmly defended Mr Roncevic the only man who was in the opposition to get his hands out of the fire or put them in it. The truth God so eagerly representing the interests of his party colleague and fellow government minister I would call friendly support when man is most difficult. But we are not here in the company of friends, but we are members of the Croatian Parliament of the highest House, and unfortunately for everything we have heard here, my colleague Hebrang thinks that you are bearing a personal great responsibility and that this has significantly compromised your efforts to go to elections as a presidential candidate for the President of the Republic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-24-0.u39318	Comrade Richembergh, this is a debate on the report of the mandate-immunity commission to grant authorisation for the initiation of criminal proceedings, and do not, limit yourself to this debate, is not the topic of discussion to discuss the political action and work of Mr Andrija Hebrang. Please limit yourself to the report of the mandated immunity commission.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-24-0.u39319	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I hope part of that debate isn't when Andrija Hebrang sends you a kiss for a pay phone to me personally, is that the same part of the debate?
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-24-0.u39320	Please stick to the line.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-24-0.u39321	We have now come to the point where the Report of the Mandate-Immunity Commission is taking note of the conclusions of the Croatian Parliament, which were referred to by the Commission of Investigation. Let us remember that here we have thrown out the mockery, the contempt of General Jozo Milicevic, to whom we obviously owe an apology, that we have refused here in all possible ways to discuss possible corruption at the Ministry of Defence and that some of our colleagues have tried to prevent it from happening today. We learn from the media that Mr. Berislav Roncevic did not testify before investigators, i.e. the representatives of USKOK who brought this proposal on the basis of other evidence and talks, and I would tell my colleague Rončević that I would ask him not to defend himself by saying anything he knows. Anything he knows that might make his position easier but also his country's position. Here is the reputation of the Croatian Parliament, the reputation of Croatia. The issue of corruption is a question that compromises our country, and I'm sorry that we're getting more and more involved in the situation that others share to us and we're not able to deal with it alone, start alone, now we have a chance. This process of removing immunity to Mr. Berislav Roncevic can help all of us to make the issue of corruption in state ministries, state bodies, at the top of Croatian politics finally start to disintegrate quickly and efficiently. So I ask my colleague Rončević not to defend himself with silence but to say if there were any agreements, a warrant, let's remove any doubts if there were none, but finally show where we are weak, so we can be stronger tomorrow. In this regard, we regret that the Mandate-Immunity Commission lost two months of wisdom in removing or not removing immunity, it is now clear that there are no other exits, and it is also clear that the opposition in the Croatian Parliament had more power to look the truth into the eyes than the HDZ majority. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-24-0.u39322	Thank you. Five corrections. Mr. Agent Ivan Hanzek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-24-0.u39323	I want to correct my colleague Goran for a simple reason, it did not interfere with the Mandate-Immunity Commission, we had the same material that we had yesterday but we had the tampering of State Attorney Mladen Bajic who wondered whether or not we should remove immunity and explain it to different variants of seeing the law. So not the Mandate-Immunity Commission, but Mr. State's Attorney, and based on the same material, we unanimously made a decision yesterday as requested by us.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-24-0.u39324	Mr. Representative Damir Sesvečan.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-24-0.u39325	Therefore, it is incorrect to say that the Mandate-Immunity Commission has been dealing with this request to approve the initiation of criminal proceedings against MP Berislav Roncevic. On the contrary, we have just acted in accordance with the Constitution and the Law, any other course would be contrary to the Constitution and the Law. We have said that an investigation does not require the removal of immunity, i.e. specifically to grant authorisation for the initiation of criminal proceedings because the Institute itself is an authorisation for the initiation of criminal proceedings not for the approval of an investigation in the manner that the Constitution prescribes. When a request for authorisation for the initiation of a criminal proceedings came, when all the pre-conditions to be provided by the State Attorney's Office for the initiation of the criminal proceedings were met, we consistently acted as in all other cases, we proposed to the Croatian Parliament to grant authorisation for the initiation of the criminal proceedings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-24-0.u39326	Next correction, Mr. Representative Andrija Hebrang.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-24-0.u39327	Thank you very much, dear colleague, for denying what you said about the work of the Investigative Commission, so I'm reading a phonogram from this investigative committee available to all well-intentioned. Šima Krasic, on the question whether you have found a criminal offence, if the auditors found it appropriate, they would have had to do so on the warrant and state it. HAVE you established in the revision process the elements of the budget damage? ŠMA Krasic: "No." I quote Vladimir Faber's phonogram. Did you establish a criminal offence? Vladimir Faber answers no. If, then, we had reached the level of reasonable doubt that any person had committed a crime on official duty, we would have reported and forwarded it. When asked if you found the elements of the damage to the state budget? Vladimir Faber answers: “We did not find enough to be a criminal offence to damage the budget of the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Croatia. ” So when you're telling the truth, then you have to be sure that you've studied the file, I believe it wasn't intentional, but you haven't read it.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-24-0.u39328	Mr. Representative Krunoslav Markovinović is the next amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-24-0.u39329	Well, here's to correct the same inaccuracies as my colleague, Beus Richemberg, that the basic right of the members of the commission to call in witnesses they want. Namely, all witnesses were invited to the end, to the end of the commission, which anyone suggested, but a great disappointment with the testimony of Mr. Faber, Mr. General Lucic, caused that they then sought to come and I don't know the porter from the ministry and everyone else, everyone else here. But I hope, too, that also warmly, colleagues from the HNS will raise the issue of what happened to the materials of the previous commission where the crime of former Minister Cacic and his companies has been proven.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-24-0.u39330	.../Intruder: not that, it no longer./...
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-24-0.u39331	I hope you'll be so...
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-24-0.u39332	Thank you. Mr. Representative Ivan Bagarić. Peace, please. .../Advocators speak out loud, do not understand./... Peace, please. Peace. Mr. Representative Ivan Bagarić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-24-0.u39333	Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. The MPs have corrected the incorrect allegations that the colleague has stated here, I would only resort to their corrections by finding that we have seen here a truly pre-election play, I would say video, which is by no means a contribution to the fight against corruption but is actually pure politics and I absolutely reject it and reject it.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-24-0.u39334	IDS representative club, Mr. Representative Damir Cain. Here you go. My colleagues and colleagues, please, I will not tolerate anyone's throwouts, anyone.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-24-0.u39335	Mr. Vice President, gentlemen of the Parliament. Yeah, if it hadn't been for President Mesic, probably none of that case would have happened. If it hadn't been for the European Union, it would have probably never gone further. Had it not been for the public, everything would have been covered up too, and there were no brave people, for example. Before the mentioned general Milicevic would not have been promoted, he would not have been so demoted but probably remain in his post. However, I agree with Mr. Beus that what we have today is simply an unprecedented torture of the Mandate-Immunity Commission. The fact is, too, while someone was protecting him, who he was, I don't know, nothing would have happened to Mr. Ronchevic, when they fell out, we see how the epilogue would end in the end. The State's Attorney's Office was also set up and a state audit was just mentioned. That's what I said on 30.06.2009 when this material first came to the agenda. I first quoted Mr. Milicevic, General Milicevic, where he said: "The important thing for this contract is that for the total amount of money of about 34 million kunas was bought 39 trucks, and that it was going to be bought after the cancelled competition by respecting the lowest price criterion of these 39 trucks should have been bought for around 19.5 million kuna.", I'm done quoting and I'm not going to quote it any further, but I know that after that Mr. Faber and General Milicevic were promoted. Exactly what Mr. Hebrang says by quoting Mrs. Simu Krasic, means the main auditor, so I will quote her and her, which on page 25 says, "As far as getting trucks are concerned, the auditors have concluded that it was two proceedings. The call for tenders and its cancellation and later on about direct procurement. Thus, the ministry could have done the procurement in both ways, the auditors could only determine how it was done." I think that Mrs Krasic or that audit received a warrant, a guideline on how to report it. What Mr. Faber said on page 41, he replied that they never comment on newspaper writings. The fact is that the results found that the difference in supply between the two companies was 10.2 million kuna. One media report mentions 14 to 15 million kunas, however, it explicitly states that the difference is 10.2 million kuna. I could quote and step forward Mr. Hebrang, I won't. I'm just not gonna salt the living wound. But after all this, I can say this. The truth is most likely 10.2 million kunas have disappeared, but I am also so deeply convinced that it was certainly not Mr. Roncevic himself. I dare say that Mr. Roncevic is under the quotes of Pedro and that he protects someone by his silence. So he's probably protecting someone else. Who's the point? I can guess. It's clear I don't dare speak for anyone's name here, I don't want to speculate about it at all. It's clear that everyone will probably raise their hands for this decision, the Mandate-Immunity Commission, but I'm saying these trucks are just the tip of the ice Santé. Ten million kunas must be huge money. 10 million kuna if we share it with an average net salary in this country of 5 thousand kuna means for 10 million kuna you must work under quotes 166 years. So 10 million kunas for the vast majority of us here, not to mention people outside the assembly, will never be worth the money, but I assure you that these 10 million kunas is a small thing in what happens in "Croatian roads", "Autoroads" in "HEP", in "Podravka", in some other public enterprises that have been destroyed whether it's a "Croatian line" or one "Lenco" in a shipbuilding in conversion, I don't know in converted banks, telecommunications, in a money exported there in the 1990s or what's been happening over offshore companies in the Republic of Croatia lately. So this whole thing with Mr. Roncevic, we kind of let it pass in God's peace, we're only because... We chased the chief of the Vodnjan municipality, and we didn't de facto touch everything else. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And that's what scares you. This selectivity is simply destroying. This selectivity is what also corrupts, in one word this selectivity in some way also turns into corruption. Now, is Mr. Roncevic, as I say Pedro, I don't know, but I know for a fact that he's not a lonely case in this country. But at this point, maybe one of them's gonna have a bad time, I know that. If Mr Mesic hadn't insisted on it, nothing spectacular would have happened in that case. If the European Union had not begun to apostrophe, nothing would have happened either. If they were his protectors, nothing would have happened to anyone. So I agree with those who say that this move is somehow extorted. Why? For the sake of the European Union, for "prove" that we too are dealing with corruption at the top of the government. That is why Roncevic is somehow becoming "a ticket to the European Union". Whether he took something or didn't it will normally show. The other thing I'm saying is if we want to deal with this corruption, we have to have the public to ourselves. Yesterday I'm watching "Open" HRT, I said I didn't want to talk about television, especially not at the time of the election, but I still have to. And at one point Mr. Sutlic literally says, he mentioned the Kerum case there though, says there are two actors. One who asked a primitive question meant Stankovic and another who responded as he replied. It says the question is forbidden, because it is the privacy of every citizen.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-24-0.u39336	That's right. It's forbidden and you're allowed.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-24-0.u39337	Sir, you're not Mrs. Kosor, and neither is Mr. Baby, nor is she a councilwoman.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-24-0.u39338	Comrade Cain, I warn you, I will not allow you to attack the Rules of Procedure and yet challenge that you will violate it and yet warn the one who warns you to stick to your business order. Please talk about the subject not of the "Open" show that was yesterday night.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-24-0.u39339	Yeah. Among other things, I'm talking about racism. ... Well, in the same way, unfortunately, some media are trying to protect corruption. [[The speakers speak in the same voice, of course.]] I say while some were in power, this treatment of the truck was protected, or it went beyond that. After that, the talk began. I personally don't think I'm using the pay phone this time, because I just wanted to say that Mr. Roncevic fell at the moment he lost his protector. But when it comes to corruption, crime, bribery, I think that Croatian radio television must be the leader of this fight, but it will be when it comes, because there are huge problems there too, and when it does not flirt with those who finance it. That's why I wanted to touch one dangerous statement.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-24-0.u39340	Don't be a colleague, Cain. Please be kind. You're a reasonable man. You're a candidate for President of the Republic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-24-0.u39341	I did.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-24-0.u39342	Well, don't do me. ... [[The speakers speak in the same voice, of course.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-24-0.u39343	I'm not going to insist on just talking about that defense of racism, but I think it's gone too far.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-24-0.u39344	Peace, gentlemen, let the speaker speak. The speaker sticks to the Rules of Procedure, moved on to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-24-0.u39345	Whether or not I stick to the Rules of Procedure, the Vice-President is a very valuable judge. All in all, it's normal for us all to vote on this decision, which gives approval to launch this procedure, as it stands here. But for the third time I repeat, it was only possible at the time when "the political stage" the protectors of Mr Roncevic disappeared.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-24-0.u39346	Thank you. Mr. Cain, I didn't want to warn you in any way. I just wanted for your knowledge of the Rules of Procedure and your good vote, to draw your attention not to go any further on the subject, right? We all clearly condemn racism as you do. We're condemning all the fallouts in the stadiums still, but the topic was this. And please colleagues and colleagues, the working bodies of the Croatian Parliament are part of the Croatian Parliament and everyone who is chairman is obliged to protect the dignity and dignity of the working body of the Parliament, because it protects the dignity and dignity of the Parliament itself. With the right, MP Hanzek warned that there was no need to talk about the work and action of the Mandating Commission as the working body of the Assembly in the manner where qualifications were given in respect of its work. The Mandating Commission didn't stutter anything, nothing interfered. The term of office was the moment when the application for the removal of immunity to Agent Roncevic came and when the State Attorney's Office raised a dilemma as to whether or not to seek the removal of immunity, the Mandate Commission sat down and concluded that the adoption of the new Criminal Procedure Act of Article 17(1), in order to initiate a criminal proceedings initiated by the preparation of the indictment, by confirming the indictment, did not require the removal of immunity. And that's what the Mandate Commission immediately concluded. Now that a request for the removal of immunity came in the day before yesterday, for the initiation of the criminal proceedings, for the prosecution of the indictment, the Mandate Commission, as soon as it received it, immediately scheduled the session of the commission and made its decision and proposed it. Therefore, it is not tampered with, it was not muddy, so it is necessary and it protects the integrity of this House, because that is how we protect ourselves. Correction of the quote, Mr. Representative Damir Sesvečan.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-24-0.u39347	Here I thank the Vice President for further clarification, but I must correct the incorrect allegations of Agent Cain. So he said it was about the unprecedented stuttering of the Mandate-Immunity Commission. So that's absolutely not true. I repeat the Constitution and the law. We said we couldn't give permission to conduct an investigation, because it's unnecessary and premature. The approval of the Croatian Parliament may be granted exclusively for the initiation and conduct of criminal proceedings. But I'm fascinated by the fact that if he doesn't understand something, that he calls it stuttering. I understand you have the right to not understand, but don't call it stuttering.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-24-0.u39348	SDP representative club Mr. Nenad Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-24-0.u39349	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. It's been five years since the purchase of the truck, from the procurement that the State's Attorney's Office today considers to be a serious crime, for which a sentence of one to ten years has been prevented. It is only today, five years after this work is done that we are removing the immunity of Mr. Rončević. So now why did it take five years to get to this? Obviously because the institutions of the system in charge of the prosecution of criminal offences did not do their job. About them on another occasion. Now about us, about the Parliament, about the MPs, about our responsibility. This House established an investigative commission dealing with this particular case that we are removing from Rončević's immunity today. When are the investigative committees set up? When a suspicion arises, and it is a reasonable doubt that the institutions of the system do not function and that the Assembly must take over the role of reconnaissance of what it is and why the institutions of the system do not function. The SDP has proposed the establishment of this committee and it was established in this House, and the work of the commission has marked a clear division of the members of the parliamentary majority commission and members of the parliamentary minority committee. The parliamentary majority, HDZ and partners, sought all forces, in every way possible to prevent the discovery of truth in the commission's work. First of all, we prevented Joza Milicevic from testifying to the public. They sought to ensure that the public did not find out what Jozo Milicevic had come to when he was acting as chief defence inspector. Fortunately, they failed to do so, however, the public found out what Jozo Milicevic has to say to the commission. Their efforts to prevent it were in vain, but understandable, given what Jozo Milicevic said, and then he said that when Minister Roncevic brought him his report, he told him to tear it up and write a new one that you'd write that everything was okay. Milicevic did so as an honorable man, a warrior on all battlefields, who does not have a single stain on his military career, refused to do it to his minister, insisted on the truth and therefore is severely punished. Of course, he was expelled from the inspectorate, of course he was put on the sidelines and, of course, his military career was stopped there. The parliamentary majority in the investigation committee has also prevented Mr Bačić's testimony, and Bacic is now the second indictee. The parliamentary minority in the commission must have had reason to call Bačić, as can be seen from further developments. That's a pretty good reason to call him. But HDZ feared what Bacic could say there and prevented him from going to the commission. What are the conclusions, and read by counterpart Beus Richembergh, the conclusions of the commission voted by the majority in this House, and what a lie and shame they cast upon this House. It will remain written in the annals of the Parliament, to you. Fortunately, that account has its own opinion. It is an isolated opinion which now confirms the State's Attorney's Office in this request for the removal of immunity, which strongly affirms the Croatian Parliament, which strongly affirms the institution of the Research Commission. It has been shown that investigative committees have a purpose if they are founded for the right cause, on the right subject and if they are to be held accountable and fair and even when those who wish to work responsibly and honestly in that commission make up a minority. It has shown that the power of such a commission is strong enough to trigger events from a dead end. The request for the removal of immunity to Mr Roncevic comes only when the Commission of Investigation presented in public inconclusive evidence of the committing of a criminal offence. These are five-year-old evidence, no new evidence in those five years, or new evidence in the last month or year. These are all five-year-old materials at the time of the crime. These same materials and the State's Attorney's Office were in the drawer for five years. When did they start acting? When an investigative committee or a minority part of that investigative committee, let me put it briefly, the parliamentary opposition in this investigation committee, presented all this evidence to the press, to the public. When the public said enough, you overstepped a little, not only in committing crimes but also in trying to cover up crimes. Another factor there played a strong role, the European Union which complains to Croatia that it does not want to deal with corruption and crime when the crime is linked to the structures of government. Well, this is a classic example, and that is why the European Union has set this event, this case and set an example and asked the Croatian ruling policy a question, or you will settle this by law and by law, or you people do not belong to the European Union. Because concealing crimes when made by ministers is not European behavior. Such people in Europe are no place. Now, if there were those in that investigation committee, and there were those who were earnestly trying not to let that truth come out, then it also says something about their sincere intention to bring Croatia on a European path. Today it was mentioned here in a correction of the allegations and testimony of Chief Auditor Šima Krasic in front of the committee. And that's exactly what it says in the phonogram. Sima Krasic told the commission that her auditors, even she herself, had not discovered the elements of the crime. I wonder what kind of auditors they are if they haven't been able to find out what the State's Attorney's Office discovered. They either don't know their job or cover up the crime they discovered. The parliamentary investigation committees are set up when state institutions do not function or conceal crime. The state audit in this case played a significant role in this regard. The State Auditor sent this House a brief report on the event, and if there were any longer, none of you would have found out if there hadn't been an investigative committee and there weren't any journalists who discovered it. Until today, or probably while we were all living together, we'd have been holding you in error about this case, because it was her intention, and that's where she made her intention clear. Thus, Shime Krasic's quote from the investigative committee proves nothing more than that many have been involved in the cover-up of this crime. To the discovery of a few. The President of the Republic, first of all, who has asked for this matter to be examined countless times as commander-in-chief of the Armed Forces. It's a waste of As persistent as he was in the demands, so many system institutions were persistent in ignoring his demands. The parliamentary minority in this House is also responsible for requesting the establishment of the SDP and because, as a parliamentary minority, they have worked hard, committed and responsiblely, not politically, to discover or at least try to reveal all the facts relating to this event. The European Union is also responsible for whose pressure, obviously because this case is mentioned in its reports, has finally led to the removal of Roncevic's immunity today. So this whole event has something to say about this Parliament as well. About ourselves as elected representatives of the people. Did this people in this House choose us to hide corruption and crime when it comes to ministers? I'm not. And for those of you who have tried to do so, answer that question to those who have chosen you. Thank you. One more thing, one more word. Roncevic apparently fell when he lost support for politics, his HDZ. The HDZ tried to consistently defend him as long as he could, and his hand was on fire for him. Now that he can no longer defend himself because of all this I've listed he's been released down the water. Something similar happened to Branimir Glavas. When he was with HDZ, nothing could have happened to him. When he was separated, he fell under criminal persecution. I only hope Roncevic will not find refuge in another country as Branimir Glavas, who once again has let the parliamentary majority in this House run away. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-24-0.u39350	Thank you. Everyone is innocent and no one can find him guilty of a crime until a judicial verdict finds him guilty. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, don't talk about any MPs, nor about Agent Berislav Roncevic in a way that is as if he were the guilty man in charge. Everyone is innocent and no one can find him guilty of a criminal offence until a judicial verdict deprives him of his guilt. Secondly, the insult to the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Stazic, is an insult to a large part of the Croatian Parliament's representatives, your meal and your claim that those who voted in the Committee for the Study of this case and represented certain thesis and views, that they covered up criminal acts. It is a serious insult and I give you a warning because of the heavy insult you gave to the Croatian Parliament. A few corrections of incorrect allegations. [[Applause.]] Mr. Representative Emil Tomljanović, correction of the incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-24-0.u39351	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, that's exactly what I wanted to make right, because the esteemed representative has repeated three times that a crime was committed five years ago and is constantly speaking criminally. An esteemed colleague can, fortunately, establish in this country in a court of law whether or not someone has committed a criminal offence or whether or not it is the elements of a criminal offence. Unfortunately, this whole farce is coming from you because you took the role of conducting an investigation, to judge and condemn innocent people before the criminal proceedings were even initiated.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-24-0.u39352	Next correction. Order! Mr. Representative Krunoslav Markovnović.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-24-0.u39353	Well, I have to correct my colleague, Stazic, who said the parliamentary majority made it impossible for the commission to work. That's absolutely not true. It should be said that together we studied the document by means of a document from which the code of secrecy was removed and from which all came. It's amazing that we got to the last document in the commission even though the time limit for keeping documents has passed. So they could throw it away by the ministries, but it was preserved both last and on the basis of these documents it is not true that crime was proven on the basis of these documents, and all documents were given, however, contrary to this indeed Mr Roncevic is not guilty of this.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-24-0.u39354	And Mr. Agent Andri Hebrang, correcting the incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-24-0.u39355	Thank you very much. It is incorrect that my colleague Stazic said that Mrs. Šima Krasic said that it is not a criminal offence because it is evidence that many are involved in disputing the truth, the public of the truth. Apart from Šima Krasic, so said Mr Faber, whom you did not quote. The truth is, we had two, not one witness who claimed there was no crime. I quote, "Mr. Faber, did you find a crime?" He says: "No, for if we had found him or had established a doubt, we would have acted differently." On my direct question: "have you established," I read the record, "that the offer was made 10 million unfavorable for the state?", Mr. Faber says: "No, we didn't find enough to be a criminal offence at the expense of the budget from the Ministry of the Republic of Croatia, and if we had found, we would have filed a criminal complaint regardless of what it was about Minister Roncevic." In such conscious untruths, Mr. MP is putting political pressure on the judiciary, in the rule of law, it's an unknown.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-24-0.u39356	And Mr. Agent Ivan Drmic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-24-0.u39357	I would correct the incorrect assumption, that is, this comparison of this case to Branimir Glavas' case is incorrect. The fact is that there was protection of Berislav Roncevic, but the fact is that Berislav Roncevic was not protected for his own sake, but Ivo Sanader protected himself by protecting Berislav Roncevic. Until Branimir Glavas, on the other hand, never enjoyed or needed to enjoy the support of the Croatian Democratic Community. This is also proof that behind 2000, while Ivica Racan was the prime minister, teams from the Interior Ministry in Osijek were not investigating war crimes that Branimir Glavas possibly committed in wartime. They were there for a certain time, they examined several thousand people, no evidence was made, and I must point out that this investigation was done very professionally and correctly, unlike that investigation after breaking up with HDZ when HDZ imposed all the institutions of the authorities he had the influence to err in, to pack, to process and direct this... /The speakers speak out loud, they don't understand./...
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-24-0.u39358	This is no longer a correction to an incorrect quote, this last one. Thank you. SDP club, Mr. Representative Slavko Linic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-24-0.u39359	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Nenad Stazic spoke on behalf of the SDP Representatives Club. He expressed his views and opinion of the club. You gave the club a heads-up, not Mr. Stazic, and we're looking for a 10-minute break.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-24-0.u39360	What's the 10 minutes break for? Give me a reason. He's in charge of a representative who's looking for an obligation to state why he's looking for a break.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-24-0.u39361	We don't agree with your assessment that the club has its right to views as a reminder club. And we want to take a stand on how we're going to proceed with your behavior as chairman. [[/Intruder: any behavior?]]
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-24-0.u39362	Peace, please. Let's hear it. HNS club.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-24-0.u39363	On behalf of the HNS Club, I'm also asking for a break in order to consult on the conduct of the chairperson at today's session.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-24-0.u39364	Okay. And the HDZ Club is looking for a break for a reason, please go ahead and name Mr. Hebrang.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-24-0.u39365	Because of the inappropriate behaviour of a SDP representative who claims he cannot give a representative a warning if he speaks on behalf of the club.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-24-0.u39366	And Mr. Representative Ivan Drmic, on behalf of the HDSSB Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-24-0.u39367	On behalf of the HDSSB club, I am also seeking a break because of the incorrect conduct of the representatives and the non-responsibility of the chairman of such behaviour, savagely.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-24-0.u39368	Okay. Very well, very well only before I give a break I'll tell the next one. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament say: "Keeping order and firm measures. Orders at the session shall be provided by the chairman. To disrupt the order at the session, the chair may give the representative a firm measure, one of the least noticeable. The representative shall be informed if he insults other MPs under point 5 of Article 214." I estimated that the statement by Representative Nenad Stazic, who spoke on behalf of the club, did not punish the SDP club, but I punished MP Nenad Stazic by warning that his statement was offensive for the Croatian Parliament and for a large part of the representatives in the Croatian Parliament when he qualified those representatives of the Croatian Parliament who supported and gave certain assessments of the work of the investigative commission, indicated that it was a disgrace for the Croatian Parliament. This was an insult to MPs and indicated that the MPs, specifically thinking and speaking to MPs in the order of the Croatian Democratic Community, had covered up the criminal act by their vote, opinions and discussions on the investigative commission. It is according to my assessment and it will be an insult to all representatives of the Croatian Parliament and the Croatian Parliament as a whole, to argue that because, with their opinion and attitude and speech, the representatives expressed and voted on certain views that it was a cover-up of criminal acts. I'll give you a clear break. Otherwise, let me tell you one more thing, there is one provision in the Rules of Procedure, paragraph 213. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Therefore, you will not have a discussion or the extent of the reminder given by the speaker of the assembly. I'm taking a break from 10 minutes. Here you go. Resume session. SDP representative club Mr. Slavko Linic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-24-0.u39370	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues. Mr. Stazic expressed not his personal position, but the position of the SDP club. The position reads: "The representatives of the Croatian Parliament who, on the basis of documents and findings of the Investigative Commission, made a decision that there was no responsibility of Mr Roncevic, for buying the truck, to cover up the crime in the purchase of the truck and thereby disgraced the Croatian Parliament." It is a shame that the Croatian Parliament did not act on the basis of these documents, and on the basis of these same documents, the Croatian public and the European Union launched the intervention of the State's Attorney's Office and the location for which we are today. We did not do our job as Croatian representatives, unfortunately done by the public and the European Union. For us at the SDP club, that's a shame. And you can give us as much notice as you want, but we are embarrassed by the work of the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-24-0.u39371	HNS representative club, Mr. Representative Goran Beus Richembergh.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-24-0.u39372	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President. I am obliged to inform you of the views of the Croatian People's Party of Liberal Democrats. The question we are discussing is at first sight a formal question. However, it is very delicate in its being, among other things, the political issue, as it checks the credibility of the Croatian Parliament. The fact that the majority in the Investigative Commission and the majority in the Croatian Parliament have reached conclusions that are important in contrast to the individual opinion of minority opposition members from the Research Commission, but also the State's Attorney's Office, i.e. the USKOK, raises an important question as to how the Croatian Assembly works and whether it is credible and politically correct in the way its decisions and conclusions are made. In this regard, it is not good if you do not understand the delicacy of this situation in the conduct of the session, Mr Vice President, and do not use the same archaics to all those involved in this debate. It is by its nature an opportunity to sometimes emerge from the framework of good conduct in Parliament, but it is in its essence that the situation should be considered from all possible points of view and all cancers. Therefore, it is not good when a certain part of the MPs, the conclusions of some investigative committees, followed by no prosecutions, declare themselves criminal, and you place yourself here on the defender of one principle, when, of course, it is in the interest of most HDZ, that no one to whom a judicial verdict has been given is guilty. It's a double archeologist you didn't sanction here but you let before the world a colleague, Markovanovic, but also some other colleagues, violate that principle that you stick to. Therefore, the Croatian People's Party Club is protesting such an atmosphere and is demanding that we all understand together that we have made a mistake and that it is not good for us to be taught by the State Attorney's Office, because we are the ones who have to be able to recognize the situation, because we are responsible for the legality of our acts, that is, for the compliance of everything we decide and conclude with the law, but also with the facts. In this sense, the Croatian Parliament must show a much higher level of willingness to face the facts when they are negative and for the ruling majority. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-24-0.u39373	HDZ Club, Mr. Representative Andrija Hebrang. It's for a break. No sir... you're for the later part.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-24-0.u39374	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President. Well, I'd like to comment on that part of my fellow Stazic's statement when he said that members of the Assembly's Investigative Commission were covering up the crime. We're deeply offended by that. Namely, the investigation committee was appointed, and I don't think it should have been at that point, because the investigation was still ongoing. It wasn't finished. And in all Mr. Faber's statements, Chief Director of Police, he's always been speaking until now, so until the moment he made a statement. We accepted the proposal because Mr. Roncevic accepted it, and so we accepted it to win the investigation committee. And this investigation committee had to reach its conclusion before the investigation was completed. And there's a whole misunderstanding. We insisted that before the investigation is concluded, we cannot charge unless a criminal offence has been found, and until that moment it is not. And if no crime was found, I'll re-quote some of Mr. Faber's statements, which always says so far, so until the moment he made a statement. Mr. Faber, I quote from the phonogram, says: "Thesis therefore that we did not want to file a criminal report, such a thesis went in the media, against Minister Roncevic, that we went with a general report to the State's Attorney's Office and the USKOK is completely incorrect. In fact, if we had found, said Mr. Faber, enough elements, so with full certainty that there is a reasonable doubt that a criminal offence has been committed, we would certainly have reported every person, including Mr. Ronechvic." So, how can we go ahead of Mr. Faber's statement at that time of investigation? How can we blame someone the police haven't yet blamed? How can we respect the rule of law and tell someone that he's guilty before he's found the element of the indictment? How can we respect the rule of law and say, Mr. Roncevic has committed a crime, when a police representative in charge of the investigation says, so far we haven't found a crime? Mr. Tomljanović then asks him. "Yes, and a reasonable suspicion of a criminal offence has been established? Mr. Faber answers, no." "If therefore we had reached the level of suspicion, that any person committed a crime, by official duty we would have opted for a form of criminal application. So, Mr. Faber says so far we have no elements for criminal charges either. I'm asking him if you've determined that the offer has been made 10 million kunas unfavourable for the state, have you found that it's a criminal offence? Mr Faber answers, so we have found that the difference in offers is 10 million and 200 thousand kuna, but we have not found enough work on criminal activity to damage the budget of the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Croatia. So, if Mr. Faber says that no criminal act has been found until that moment that we are members of the committee, the Investigative Assembly, could say that there is a criminal offence. We'd prejudge the investigation, of course we'd press the investigation, we'd direct the investigation, and we'd charge an innocent man. And that's why we insisted, only this is why we insisted on such an opinion. I insist today that Mr. Roncevic is innocent until he is proved guilty by a judicial order. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-24-0.u39375	Thank you. HDSSB representative club, Mr Ivan Drmic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-24-0.u39376	Dear colleagues and colleagues. It is generally known that there are representatives from a dozen parliamentary parties in the Republic of Croatia in this Croatian Parliament. It is normal for most of the topics discussed here to have different opinions, but it should be normal to allow those who are at the opposite points of view and who have the opposite opinion to express this opinion during the debate, which the MPs have the right to do according to the Rules of Procedure. Unfortunately, very often we can see what was the case before, while the representative is saying, he says, that at the same time in the hall they hear shouting, some vague screams that did not look like either animal or human to me, and at the same time the chairman of the Croatian Parliament who is obliged to warn MPs of such behaviour if they do not have a minimum of their own culture do not already share selective warnings and, primarily, I would say and call it, for the sake of verbal delicacy using a selective Rules of Procedure and warning MPs in one hand that they do not have the right to speak here for the speaker. I don't think that's right, if it wasn't in line with the Rules of Procedure, and I'd use this report on behalf of the club to protest such a session that isn't held today for the first time, it's been going on for years, and I'd ask the chair to study the Rules of Procedure a little bit better and show the will... That's what I'm talking about. [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]] And show the will to use it selectively. I don't mind warning, I am if I make a mistake getting a warning. I also expect all MPs, especially from the chairman of the Croatian Parliament, to use the Rules of Procedure in a fair way and to adhere to the precise business provisions of this session. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-24-0.u39377	Thanks for the lesson. First, as regards the objection from the SDP Representatives Club. I repeat, I did not rebuke the SDP's Club of Representatives but rebuke the representative, Nenad Stazic, who spoke truth on behalf of the SDP's Club of Representatives. I rebuked him because he chose to make a statement in the Croatian Parliament, in my debate, and I quote: "Did this people in this House choose us to hide corruption and crime when it comes to ministers? It is not me, but you who tried to do it, etc." So it is clear, in no doubt, that fellow Mr. Stazić, the other MPs, so the representatives of the position, mainly the representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community, placed them in a group that tried to hide crime and corruption and only because they had certain votes and opinions expressed in the Investigative Commission. A colleague on behalf of the HNS club Goran Beus Richembergh says this is an opportunity to get out of the good behavior. No, colleague Richembergh, this is an opportunity for this debate to come out of the frame of good behavior. I did not overstep at the same time and the fundamental principle that everyone is innocent, there is to be considered any innocent and also a representative of whom it is, Roncevic, until a guilty verdict has been found guilty, I have never qualified any MP in any way that he is a criminal, that he is a convict and that he is guilty of a criminal offence which has not been found guilty of a criminal conviction. My colleague Drmic, you have again objected to me that in my way, I am holding a session to do so against the Rules of Procedure. You mentioned some savage screams like from the jungle. My advice, like last time, meet my wife and you'll settle it, it'll help you. My advice that none of these were savage screams or shit or noise. Therefore, do not give me that advice that simply does not stand. I did not in any way selectively apply the Rules of Procedure. I've allowed myself, now I regret it, this freedom that I've suggested to you that you misread the audiovisual perceptions of this House. You are also entitled to a clear violation of the Rules of Procedure for which I have already repented that I have executed it. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-24-0.u39378	Mr. Shakespeare, you've hurt the Rules of Procedure, you know by what number, I'm not to be asked at all. (Laughter) I would recommend... It's a hearing aid. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] You obviously need it when you don't hear these screams I've been talking about.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-24-0.u39379	We'll do it together, colleague Drmic. I think I need it the same way, but you need it the same way. ... Let's hear it, so is Ingrid, yeah. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] And the HDZ Club, Mr. Representative Vladimir Ivkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-24-0.u39380	Your Honor, Vice President. My colleagues and fellow MPs. In fact, the report of the Mandate-Immunity Commission is before us and it is the subject of the debate, and the Mandate Immunity Commission approved in its report for the initiation of criminal proceedings against Berislav Roncevic. If we start from the content of the decision which is the subject and on which we declare the Croatian Democratic Community club, it will support the proposal and approval to initiate the criminal proceedings proposed by the Mandatory Immunity Commission for three reasons. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, so that the proceedings may continue. Then, under two, this is in line with the new Article 17. The law on criminal proceedings under which criminal proceedings begin by confirming the charge, not by investigation or by any other action. By confirming the indictment, and that is the key thing that I would also like to confirm is that there were no wanderings in the Mandating Commission and seven votes for both councilors and oppositions and rulings confirming that everyone had read the law, the part that we have all, but we have all voted and changed, and it is: the criminal proceedings begin by issuing a warrant to confirm an investigation into the known perpetrator of the crime and has entered into force 1.7 in a way that begins by confirming the indictment. Other points I read in order to understand, by confirming the debate on the basis of a private lawsuit. That's another way. The third way is by adopting a verdict on the issuing of a criminal order, etc., etc. So I read this so that it is understood that the procedure that has been carried out, which was on the Mandating Commission and which is an expert-legislative has been fully implemented correctly and in accordance with the law that we have adopted in this House. And for this reason, the Croatian Democratic Community will support the proposal of the Mandate Immunity Commission and approve the initiation of the criminal proceedings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-24-0.u39381	Thank you. HDSSB representative club, Mr Ivan Drmic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-24-0.u39382	Dear colleagues and colleagues, what do we have on the agenda today? Immunity stripping to Berislav Roncevic. Due to this decision today, we have a state lawyer, Mladen Bajic, standing on stage, expecting a round of Croatian deputies, expecting a round of applause from the Croatian public, expecting a round of political structures in the European Union. He expects a round of applause because he thinks he's proving his political independence today, his professionalism, and he thinks he's proved that throughout his two mandates he's done his job perfectly resisting political pressures. It would all be like I said today is the 1st, 2nd or 3rd month of 2005, but it's not. It's October 2009 today. It's been about five years since this crime was committed that these days will be prosecuted. What's been going on for the past five years and it's about this crime? In the past five years, this object has been tried to cover up. It was covered up by pressure on the media not to write about it, covering up a parliamentary commission that needed to determine someone's innocence, covering up in every way possible, keeping the case in the drawer, even using the chief police officer known as Vladimir Faber, who swore to everyone living here in the Croatian Parliament that Berislav Roncevic was innocent, that Bacic was innocent, that no one else who ordered them to do so was behind them, that there was simply no crime. Today, all these people have joined their ears, no one is answering, but they are shyly yelling that this case is proof that in the Croatian state the judiciary is independent. On the contrary. From what I've mentioned, there's been a lot of political pressure for this process to never occur. There are two reasons why this case and this crime didn't work out. The first is the conflict in the Ministry of Defence, i.e. the defence ministry's conflict with the president of the Republic of Croatia, Stjepan Mesic. We all remember the presidential election when that conflict escalated. At that time, about that time, President Mesic found out about these moves that Roncevic was doing at the Ministry of Defence and so to speak, by folk, rode on this case without letting himself be thrown into oblivion. From time to time, his statements and demands were passed by certain Croatian media that are not in a monetary political relationship with the ruling structures. Simply in this way, the first reason President Mesic, the other Croatian media not under the ruling majority, led to the fact that the case was impossible to cover up, but simply to process what was done. The second question I ask myself is why the former Prime Minister Ivo Sanader has protected and defended Berislav Roncevic so much, although it is generally known that it is a man who has very great vanity and would give up not only one minister or representative from the Croatian Democratic Community, but would give up the whole party if it is estimated that it can bring him some kind of political benefit or on the other hand if it can bring him some minimal loss on its own popularity. Since I know that's the case, I can only draw one conclusion that he, the head of the octopus, is the one who ordered Minister Ronchević to do this job in such a criminal way. I hope that in the future, this process will prove it. Berislav Rončević, I'm a little sorry, because I know his opportunities, I know his human qualities. I know he wouldn't have thought of it, him as a zycherash, who was pleased with the minister's chair, to spend a crime like this at the Department of Defense. He was doing it under duress, under orders from his superiors, and at the same time thinking he would enjoy their protection until the end. Which, as you can see, didn't show. So already when that object outgrown his employers, they simply let him hang like.../The speaker doesn't understand. He'll probably get a pat on the back today, just keep quiet, we'll have to do it now, and then we'll fix it. As far as I read in the media, then State Secretary Bacic no longer buys these stories, he decided to tell the story as it was in the process. The second question would ask why the investigation has now been accelerated and after a month about the initiation of the procedure, too, and therefore I believe that there are two reasons. The first report on the work of State Attorney Bajic, who was also like Faber, one man who entered the line 6 years ago with Ivo Sanader, who protected him and his interests, did not process those items where he could have reached Prime Minister Ivo Sanader, but was already catching any chicken thieves and those people caught in action, and you will see those figures in his report that there are no large fish. With this report, i.e. this item 2 or 3 days before the report he should show that political independence and get our applause how well it works. How well he's been working, we've seen him for the past seven years. The second reason he's in a hurry right now is to try to channel this process. HDZ, or former Prime Minister Sanader is going with the thesis let's finish this process while we still have influence on the judiciary, while we have influence on the state's attorney because it's obviously a fall in popularity, the next government won't be ours. If Milanovic and SDP get hold of this case in the next term, they will certainly not stop at Bacic and Roncevic there is the possibility that the story will be unwrapped. He is now in a hurry to end the process in this term, to fix, to hide, to ease what the victims can be as little as possible. I raised my hand, unlike my fellow sleeper Djakic, please wake him up, for that...
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-24-0.u39383	So it's not just your ear, it's your eye.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-24-0.u39384	Yeah, just one more correction.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-24-0.u39385	My colleague Drmic, listens, a colleague doesn't sleep.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-24-0.u39386	Mr. Shecks, I didn't just say that the roars came from the jungle but from the HDZ.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-24-0.u39387	Yeah, okay. I see you're also in a lot of scientific disciplines.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-24-0.u39388	Yeah, yeah. I raised my hand on the board to take off this immunity, hoping Roncevic wouldn't agree to be Pedro. That it won't fall for a pat on the back, that it'll be all right, but it's obvious that it's already showing that it's not going to be okay. I hope he won't agree to be called a major criminal in the state, some big brain in which all the corruption of this country is planned because we all know the whole state that it wasn't. I'd invite him this way to say everything about how it was so he won't be blamed anymore, he'll be second or third indictee. It's what's best he can do to help himself. I also believe that he was thrown out with various pressures and that he was asked to be silenced. I wouldn't even be surprised if someone broke his leg as a warning not to talk too much. These are usually the methods of individuals from the Croatian Democratic Community. I also express my opinion that this case will be nothing while the state's attorney is Bajic and Ivo Sanader is the gray eminence of the Croatian Democratic Community and that until the full lighting of this and other corruption cases still held in the drawers will require a shift of power in this country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-24-0.u39389	Thank you. Otherwise, fellow MP Roncevic broke his leg in a football match, not in a second one. He didn't break his leg on purpose in one scenario one of his friends and a colleague that he ran into at a football game. It would be such a big scenario that it's from political motives... And this one was from the other? [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Mr. Representative Josip Djakić, correction.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-24-0.u39390	Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, so I would like to correct just one incorrect quote from my colleague Drmic where he claimed that I was sleeping in this House. I mean, that's incorrect, I'd ask him to wake up because we've heard the senseless dreams he's having for this Assembly speaker. And if it was caused by his sleepwalking, then by raving or by some other reason, I absolutely don't know, but probably if it wasn't either of these two, then it's a disease.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-24-0.u39391	Okay. Let's not go any further to those medical journals. Mr. Representative Dragutin Lesar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-24-0.u39392	Dear colleagues, colleagues, Mr. Vice President. Today, on several occasions, and often recently in this House, the reputation, dignity and dignity of the Croatian Parliament are mentioned. And often under the protection of respect for dignity and dignity, we list everything and everything that can but never has to go into it. When we discuss one of us with that reputation, dignity and dignity, we can only protect ourselves if we do not forget that we are all the same before the law, that we are none of us above the law nor above the people, and for the second time we have started discussing one of us, and we are conducting the procedure in vain. In the Croatian and European public, there is also the opinion that the Croatian Parliament is one of the culprits that after the first-degree verdict was handed down, a representative could escape from the Croatian judiciary because we did not grant detention on time. We are also the principles and reputation and dignity of the Croatian Parliament. Now that we're all together, with Mr. Bajic, and in this Chamber, we've cleared that an investigation against a parliamentary representative can be conducted without the Parliament's consent because the criminal proceedings begin with the initiation, i.e. by confirming the indictment. His request came for one of us. But what bothers me is the next question. If it were another citizen of the Republic of Croatia who was suspected and completed an investigation into the same criminal offence charged with this case by a parliamentary representative, would the State's Attorney's Office have ordered detention? As far as I know, punishment prevented for this crime under our laws, higher or longer than five years. The state's attorney thinks there's no legal condition for requesting detention. It's his right. But how did I get that message from him? Or he expects the verdict to be reached after the end of the term of office, when the parliament no longer needs a decision to grant detention after a first-degree sentence or the state's attorney considers that the indictment will fall, which is why he did not and requested a detention measure in this request. A very encouraging message from the state's attorney, after he was unsure at the beginning of the trial, whether we needed our consent to begin the investigation or not. That's enough talking about running the case and the state's attorney's office. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-24-0.u39393	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. Voting on proposals and opinions of the Mandate-Immunity Commission. First, I am voting on the proposal for a decision to grant authorisation for the initiation of criminal proceedings against Representative Stipe Gabric. Please, let's get on with it. Please vote. Score. I say, with 98 votes for and 2 abstentions, you make a decision authorising the launch of a criminal proceedings against Representative Stipe Gabric in the text as follows. Secondly, we have a vote on two conclusions, on the Mandate-Immunity Commission report concerning the launch of a criminal procedure with regard to MP Berislav Roncevic. First, I am voting in favour of the report of the Mandate-Immunity Commission since 19 August 2009. It's on that report where it's estimated that at that stage, the DORH's request is still premature. Please, let's get on with it. .../Speakers speak out loud, you don't understand. The vote shall be given to the conclusion of the report of the Commission. ... How could you not hear your colleagues? [[You can't hear the intruder.]] The conclusion of this committee is long. First, one request from the DORH for the abolition of immunity to the representative, i.e. the granting of authorisation for the initiation of a criminal proceedings, is premature and excessive under Article 75(3). The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, as the basis of Article 17(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, is set out in Article 17(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The law on criminal proceedings is criminal... Confirmation of the indictment. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] That's the conclusion. He still has a few points. Please, let's get on with it. And don't, well. Yes, there is. There's another conclusion. You want these conclusions to be made now, these conclusions of 17 August by the Mandate Commission. Those conclusions, it's now, I've read the first part of the conclusion. He still has an allowance. Given that no indictment has been brought in particular, it is premature to request the abolition of immunity for the purpose of the initiation of criminal proceedings. The State Attorney's Office of the Republic of Croatia may, without abolishing the immunity of the representatives, in accordance with Article 217. The law on criminal proceedings is to conduct an investigation. Order, please! To conduct an investigation against MP Berislav Roncevic. That is one conclusion now, and we will have another conclusion as part of the Commission's conclusion of August 17th. So this is the first conclusion, number one, of the August 17th commission. Let's please get involved and vote on that conclusion. The result? With 77 votes in favour, 11 abstentions and 8 against that conclusion. The second conclusion of the Mandate Immunity Commission of 17 August is: The Mandate Immunity Commission also voted on a proposal from members of the SDP commission that the commission is not an authorised body to give a credible interpretation of the law, and in which there are dilemmas, and that the Mandatarian Immunity Commission to agree to conduct the criminal proceedings and to abolish the immunity of Berislav Roncevic in order to avoid a standstill in investigative proceedings. There were four or four of them. I put it to the vote, four or four, that opinion, that report of the Mandate Commission. So the Mandate Commission has not reached its conclusion. That's the point of this conclusion. Please, let's vote. The result? 96 for two abstentions. Finally, the report and the proposal for a decision for the Mandate Commission, which is given to it, shall be approved for the initiation of criminal proceedings against MP Berislav Roncevic at the request of the State Attorney's Office. I'm putting it to the vote. Let's get on with it. To vote. The result? The proposed conclusion and decision were adopted unanimously with 109,2 votes. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm interrupting the session. Resumption of session 21 at 9 and 30 with agenda: Proposal for a Law to the Judicial Academy, Final Proposal of the Law on Payments, Proposal for a concession for the use of water power for the production of electricity for HE Lesče, Report of the State's Attorney's Office. Have a nice weekend.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-24-0.u39395	Please choose a designation, the Committee for selecting appointments and Mrs. Nevenka Majdenic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-24-0.u39396	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-24-0.u39397	A little louder to overcome those who talk in benches.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-24-0.u39398	Mr. President-in-Office of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues, the Committee on Elections, Appointing and Administrative Affairs of the Croatian Parliament at the 36th session held on 29 July 2009 unanimously set out a proposal for a Decision on the discharge of members and the selection of a member of the Committee on Economy. First, a member of the Committee on the Economy of the Croatian Parliament Milivo Škvorc and second member of the Committee on the Economy of the Croatian Parliament are elected Vesna Buterin.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-24-0.u39399	I'm closing the debate. Who's in favour of the committee's proposal? Please raise your hand. Thank you. Against? Thank you. Restraint? Thank you. What's the score? A committee proposal was adopted unanimously with 90 votes. Please move on.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-24-0.u39400	The 36th session of the Committee on Selection, Designation and Administrative Affairs unanimously set out a proposal for a Decision on the discharge of members in the selection of a member of the Committee on Labour and Social Partnership of the Croatian Parliament. First, a member of the Committee on Labour and Social Partnership, Milivoj Škvorc and second member of the Committee on Labour and Social Partnership of the Croatian Parliament is elected Sunačana Glavak.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-24-0.u39401	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I propose a committee vote. Who's in? Thank you. Against? Thank you. Restraint? Thank you. The result? Unanimity, 90 votes. Let's move on, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-24-0.u39402	The 36th session of the Committee on Selection, Designation and Administrative Affairs unanimously set out a proposal for a Decision on the resolution and selection of a member of the Committee on Labour and Social Partnership of the Croatian Parliament. First, a member of the Committee on Family, Youth and Sports of the Croatian Parliament Vesna Buterin and the second member of the Committee on Family, Youth and Sports of the Croatian Parliament is elected Sunčana Glavak.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-24-0.u39403	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I propose a committee vote. Who's in? Thank you. Against? Thank you. Restraint? What's the score? The proposal was accepted unanimously by 89 votes. Let's move on.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-24-0.u39404	The 36th session of the Committee on Selection, Designation and Administrative Affairs of the Croatian Parliament held on 29 July 2009 unanimously set out a proposal for a Decision on the resolution and selection of members of the Committee on Maritime Affairs, Transport and Liaison of the Croatian Parliament. First, a member of the Committee on Maritime Affairs, Transport and Liaison of the Croatian Parliament Milivove Škvorc and the second member of the Committee on Maritime Affairs, Transport and Relations is hereby elected Berislav Roncevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-24-0.u39405	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I propose a committee vote. Who's in? Thank you. Against? Restraint? Thank you. The result? A committee proposal was adopted unanimously with 89 votes. Let's move on.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-24-0.u39406	At the 36th session of the Committee on Selection, Designation and Administrative Affairs of the Croatian Parliament held on 29 July 2009, the draft decision on the resolution of members and the selection of a member of the Committee on Information, Information and Media was unanimously set out. First, a member of the Committee on Information, Information and Media Berislav Rončević and the second member of the Committee on Information, Information and Media of the Croatian Parliament were the Suncana Glavak.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-24-0.u39407	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I propose a committee vote. Who's in? Thank you. Against? Restraint? The result? In agreement with 91 votes, the committee's proposal was accepted. Please move on.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-24-0.u39408	At the 37th session held on 23 September 2009, the Board for Election and Designation and Administrative Affairs of the Croatian Parliament unanimously established a proposal for a decision to elect a member of the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system of the Croatian Parliament. A member of the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system of the Croatian Parliament is elected Josip Salapic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-24-0.u39409	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I propose a committee vote. Who's in? Thank you. Against? Restraint? The result? The committee's proposal was adopted unanimously with 91 votes. Please move on.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-24-0.u39410	At the 37th session of the Committee on Selection, Designation and Administrative Affairs of the Croatian Parliament held on 23 September 2009, the draft decision on the selection of members of the Board for Selection, Designation and Administrative Affairs of the Croatian Parliament was unanimously established. Josip Salapic is elected member of the Committee for Selection, Designation and Administrative Affairs of the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-09-24-0.u39411	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I propose a committee vote. Who's in? Thank you. Against? Restraint? The result? Thank you, ma'am. The committee's proposal with 91 votes was unanimously accepted. Good morning, everyone. Ladies and gentlemen, we are continuing to work on the announced item of agenda 10. Final proposal of the Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on Medical Insemination, Emergency Procedure, P.Z.E. No. 445 Proposer of the Law is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You received the proposal by mail. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Rules of Procedure. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the The Registrar's emergency procedure unites the first and second readings of the law. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on European Integration, the Committee on Health and Social Care, the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities and the Committee on Gender Equality. You received the reports at the session. The amendments were submitted by SDP and HNS representatives' clubs. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Minister of Health and Social Care Mr Darko Milinović.
