ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-20-0.u32006	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. I am opening the 11th session of the Croatian Parliament. I warmly welcome you all. I particularly welcome the President of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, Dr Ivo Sanader, Vice-President, Vice-President and present members of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Please let's see the quorum. 91. Thank you very much. You received a record of the 9th and 10th session of the Croatian Parliament at the session. Any objections to the record? There isn't. I find that we have adopted the minutes of the 9th and 10th session of the Parliament in the proposed text. We're moving on to the agenda. With the invitation to the session, you also received a draft agenda. At the session, you are given the final draft agenda. The final draft agenda included ten new points under regular numbers of 5, 6, 13, 20, 22, 24, 26, 27 and 28, which are set out in the final draft agenda you received today. These are: Final bill on amendments to the Law on the Croatian Academy of Science and Arts, second reading, P.Z. 276, Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the Rights of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families, with a final draft law, an emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 331 Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Convention on the Jurisdiction of the Law, Recognition, Consensus and Cooperation in relation to Parent Responsibility and Child Protection Measures, with a final draft of the Law, an emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 335, Proposal for a Law amending the Consumer Protection Act, with a final draft law, emergency procedure, P.Z.E. No. 336, Proposed law on probation, first reading, P.Z.E. No. 332, Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Convention on the Implementation of Evidence abroad, Civil or Commercial Matters, with a Final Proposal for Law, Emergency Procedure, P.Z.E. No. 334, Proposal for an Air Transport Act, with final proposal, law, emergency procedure, P.Z.E. No. 330, Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Convention on Caustic Shooting, with a final draft law, emergency procedure, P.Z. No. 333, Proposals for decisions on the resolution of parts of the so far and the appointment of part of the new members of the Council for Electronic Media, Proposal for a Decision on the Resolution of Presidents, Vice-Presidents and Members, and the appointment of a new President, Vice-President and Members of the Governing Council of the Croatian Memorial Documentation Centre of the Homeland War. This Regulation shall enter The Rules of Procedure determines firstly that the proposal to adopt certain laws is subject to an urgent procedure. Those acts are set out in the final draft agenda under points 6 to 15, from 17 to 19, from 22 to 24, paragraphs 26 and 40. I've already listed all those points. I would like to stress that the draft law amending the Law on the Rights of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families, with the final proposal of the law, emergency procedure, P.Z. No. 333 Point 6 and Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Convention on Jurisdiction of the Law, Recognition, Implementation and Co-operation and Parental Responsibility and on Child Protection Measures, with the final proposal of the Law, the Emergency Procedure, P.Z. No. 335 point 7, and not to read the entire text also P.Z.E. No. 322 point 8, P.Z.E. No. 323 point 9, P.Z.E. No. 326 points 10, P.Z.E. No. 321 points 12 and P.Z.E. No. 336 point 13, P.Z.E. No. 334 points 22 and P.Z.E. No. They shall comply with the provisions of the European Union and in accordance with Article 161 thereof. We do not vote on the rules of procedure for the adoption of these laws. So, any of the MPs and advocates have any objections to the urgency of the procedure in the adoption of these laws? Can we get involved? Do we have the keys? Therefore, does any of the representatives have any objection to the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Electronic Media, P.Z. No. 328 points 11.? There isn't. We're going to the vote. Who is to put this Law 328 item 11 into the agenda? Please, let's get involved and vote. Please, let's get involved and vote. Score. This law is included in the agenda by an emergency procedure with 80 votes for and 4 abstentions, nothing against. Any of the representatives of the objection to the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law on the Confirmation of the Agreement between the Republic of Croatia and the European Union on the participation of the Republic of Croatia in the European Union's Rule of Law mission in Kosovo, Eulex Kosovo, P.Z. No. 319, paragraph 14.? There isn't. Then please vote. Who's to put this law under emergency procedure? Let's get involved and vote. Score. This proposal to be included under an emergency procedure this law is included with 77 votes for and nothing abstentions, so please engage...... Yeah. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-20-0.u32007	Mr. President, I suggest a vote by hand. There's a lot more of us than 77 as many keys, obviously not all of us have keys.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-20-0.u32008	Yes, there is, but we don't have much here yet... but here. We can also raise our hands. Thank you very much. So this is accepted by 77 for. Any of the representatives have any objection to the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law on the Confirmation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Slovak Republic on the surrender and acceptance of persons whose stay is illegal. P.Z. No. 320, item 15? There isn't. Then we'll vote. Who's to apply the emergency procedure in passing this law, please raise your hand. Thank you. Against? Unanimously, with 109 votes, thank you very much. Any of the representatives and representatives of the objection to the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law on the Confirmation of the Treaty between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Republic of Macedonia on the Exchange and Mutual Protection of Classified Data, P.Z. No. 317, point 17.? I don't see anyone answering. Then please, let's vote. Who is to apply the emergency procedure for the adoption of this law? Thank you. Against? The application of urgency to this law has been confirmed by 110 votes for, nothing against. 5, any of the representatives or advocates of the objection to the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law on Confirmation of the Treaty between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Albania on the mutual protection of classified data, P.Z. No. 318, paragraph 18? There isn't. Please state who is to apply the emergency procedure for the adoption of this law. Thank you. Against? Unanimously, with 110 votes. 6, does any of the representatives have any objection to the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law on the adoption of the Law on the Law on the Resolution of the conflict of law and the conflict of jurisdiction in the enforcement of criminal sanctions, P.Z. No. 324, paragraph 19? There isn't. Who's for emergency procedures please raise your hand. Thank you. Against? Thank you. 111 for, nothing against, means accepted. Does any of the representatives and representatives have any objection to the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Act of Conduct and the conditions of construction in order to encourage investment, P.Z. No. 327, item 23? There isn't. I ask that we vote on who's in charge of an emergency procedure for the adoption of this law to raise your hand. Thank you. Against? Thank you. Unanimously, with 111 votes accepted. 8, does any of the representatives and advocates have any objection to the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law on Confirmation of the Convention on Casual Shooting, P.Z. No.333, point 26.? There isn't. Who's up for this proposal? Thank you. Against? Unanimously, 111 votes accepted the proposal. Does any of the representatives and representatives have any objection to the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Special Interest Tax Act, P.Z. No. 315, paragraph 40, Proposer of the SDP Representatives Club? There is. Mr. Andrija Hebrang on behalf of the HDZ Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-20-0.u32009	Mr. President, on behalf of the Croatian Democratic Community Club, we object to an emergency procedure. It is a problem that deeply affects the revenue and expenditure side of the budget, but also the whole economy and we are looking for a regular procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-20-0.u32010	Thank you. Who is to apply the emergency procedure for the adoption of this law? Thank you. Against? Thank you. This emergency proposal is not accepted because it is 41 and against 71 votes. He's going into a regular procedure. There were no objections to the agenda I proposed with the call for the session, and this agenda, in accordance with Article 203(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, did not take place. Rules of Procedure, considered adopted. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure may now be submitted only to those points which did not contain the draft agenda, accompanied by a call for a session. In the acts referred to in points 6, 7, 13, 22, 24, 26, we have declared ourselves on the occasion of a decision on urgency and they are included in the agenda. Do any of the representatives have objections to points 5, 20, 27 and 28 of the final draft agenda that did not contain the draft agenda that you received in conjunction for this session? There's no objection. So it's accepted. Ladies and gentlemen, the agenda shall be determined in accordance with Article 205(2). Rules of Procedure. I would now publish the established agenda, but I have read it, so please let us skip that reading this time and announce that the established agenda has been accepted as suggested in the final draft agenda. .
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-20-0.u32011	Now, I would like to propose an addition to the 11th session agenda. Please determine the quorum. 82 MPs and MPs are in the hall, so we have a quorum. The proposal to supplement the agenda is divided into benches. This Regulation shall enter The Rules of Procedure determines firstly that the proposal to adopt a specific law is to be adopted by an urgent procedure. I would like to stress that points 1 to 16 of the proposed amendments to the agenda are aligned with the European Union rules, so we do not vote in the application of the emergency procedure when adopting these laws. These are the draft laws amending and supplementing the Law on Protection of Labour, the Proposal for a Law on Mining, the Proposal for a Law on Consumer Credit, the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Hunting, the Proposal for a Law on the Law on Forest Reproduction, the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Travelling of Croatian Citizens, the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Law on Accreditation, the Proposal for a Law on the Amendment of Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Official Statistics with the Final Proposal for Laws, the Proposal for a Law on the Implementation of Labour for the General Good on Freedom and Procedures with Protection in the Criminal Procedure, the Proposal for the Law on Amendments and the Amendments of the Laws of Origins of Origin, the Marks of Geographical Origin and the Marking of the Marking of the Markings on Agricultural and Food Products, the Laws of Laws, the Laws on the Laws of Laws on the Laws of Laws of Laws of Laws of Laws, the Laws of Laws, the Laws of Laws of Laws of Laws of Laws of Laws of Laws of Laws of Laws of Laws and of Laws and of Laws, the Laws of Laws of Laws of Laws and of Laws, the Laws, the Laws of Laws of Laws of Laws of Laws of Laws of Laws of Laws of Laws and of Laws of Laws of Laws of Laws and of Laws of Laws and of Laws of Laws and of Laws of Laws of Laws of Laws of Laws of Laws of Laws of Laws and of Laws of Laws and of Laws and of Laws of Laws and of Laws of Laws of Laws and of Laws of Laws, and of Laws of Laws of Laws, So these are all P.Z.E. the laws, in accordance with Article 161 of the Law, of the European Parliament and of the Council; We do not vote in the Rules of Procedure on the urgency of the procedure in the adoption of these laws, as well as on two laws, e-mails that are in the second reading. Does any of the representatives have any objection to the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law amending the Law on electronic money institutions? There isn't. We're going to the vote. Do we want to vote by hand or... Yes, well, manually. Who is for the application of the emergency procedure of the Law amending the Law on electronic money institutions? Thank you. Against? Unanimously, 86 votes set out the application, released this law on the agenda by emergency procedure. And another draft law amending the Credit Institutions Act. Does anyone have any objection to the motion of this law by emergency procedure? There isn't. Please vote. Who's in favour of this motion to proceed with an emergency procedure? Thank you. Against? Unanimously, with 86 votes, this bill goes by emergency procedure. Any of the MPs have any objections to the inclusion of the remaining points in the 11th session agenda? These are points 19 to 29 of the proposed amendments to the agenda: Final proposal of the Water Act, second reading, P.Z.E. No. 214, Final proposal of the Water Economy Financing Act, second reading, P.Z.E. No. 204, Report on the implementation of the Annual Implementation Plan of the Republic of Croatia in 2007, Proposal for an Annual Implementation Plan of Statistical Activities of the Republic of Croatia in 2009, Annual Report on the work of the National Foundation for Civil Society Development for 2008, Proposal for a Decision on the acceptance of the position of the Republic of Croatia as an observer in the work and other activities of the European Union Agency for Fundamental Rights, Report on the work of the Research Commission for the Determination of Facts concerning the acquisition of 39 military trucks by the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Croatia in December 2004, Proposal for a Decision on the Resolution of Miroslav Šeparović, a member of the Civil Monitoring Council of the Security and Intelligence Agency from the order of graduate lawyers, Report on the work of the Croatian Academy of Science and Arts, the Annual Financial Report of HBOR for 2008 and the work of the Agency for the Protection of Personal Data for 2008. Any objections to including these points in the agenda? There isn't. Ladies and gentlemen of the MPs, the addition of the agenda has been established.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-20-0.u32012	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen of all MPs and MPs. We continue the session that we interrupted a few days ago, and at the very beginning, I would like some explanations and announcements. In fact, so far it's in the agenda of 44 points of the agenda. You received a proposal to supplement 24 agenda points, which means 68 points. It's been announced that we could get another 20 these days. That would be close to 90 points of the agenda. We've scheduled a session of the Parliament by skipping those weeks where there are holidays. So next week's holidays are on Monday and 25 Thursday. We will most likely have to work on Tuesday and Wednesday it means 23rd and 24th and possibly 26th, although there is no great rationality to come to the Parliament in one day. But if that, if it's such a debate that it's all going to slow down a little bit, then we're going to have to consider that possibility. Furthermore, we have scheduled the Parliament until 10. It's Friday. However, Monday's 13th, Tuesday 14th and Wednesday 15th remains a possibility as part of the regular session. It stays as a backup. So I'm asking the clubs and the MPs to think this through a little bit and we're actually expecting these days to be scheduled sessions. We also reluctantly do so to extend time in the late evenings for discussion. If we have to and do it then I ask for the understanding that at least one 12 to 15 points of the agenda on average we absorb so that all of this can arrive. So maybe we'll have to work longer during the day than we've finished around 6.5 as far as 7:00. This is all a normal requirement to understand us all about it. This is the end of the spring session, and we should have the patience to finish what we started and announce up to 15. Seventy-seven. For now, that's it. What is quite certain is that on Tuesday and Wednesday 23rd and 24th, there will be a session, which was not called. And we'll see how this goes, and we'll act accordingly. Here.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-20-0.u32013	The proposal for an addition of the 11th session agenda is with all MPs and MPs. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. I will propose to the Rules of Procedure an addition to the 11th session agenda with 24 new points. This Regulation shall enter The Rules of Procedure determines firstly that the proposal to adopt a specific law is to be adopted by an urgent procedure. I would like to stress that points 1 to 9 of the proposed amendments to the agenda are in line with the European Union rules, so we do not vote in the application of the urgent procedure in the adoption of these laws. These are: Proposals for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Penalty of Prisons with the Final Proposal of the Law. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Peace with the Final Proposal of the Law. Proposal for a Law on Medical Insemination. Proposal for a Law on State Support for Agriculture and Rural Development. Proposal for a Law on the Protection of Competition with the Final Proposal of the Law. Proposal for a Taxation Act with the Final Proposal of the Law. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Insurance Act with the Final Proposal of the Law. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the Agency for the Regulatory of the Market in Railway Services with the Final Proposal of the Law. And the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Railways with the Final Proposal of the Law. We are going to vote on the urgency of the procedure on the other laws. So we'll take the turn. HDZ Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-20-0.u32014	Mr. Vice President, we suggest that you vote by raising your hands.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-20-0.u32015	Thank you. Please determine the quorum. 91. SDP club, Ms. Milanka Opačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-20-0.u32016	Mr. Vice President. I'd just like a minute. I am aware that according to the Rules of Procedure we do not vote on the urgency of the proceedings on these laws. But I would like to ask and use it to call the Croatian government to withdraw the Law on Medical Insemination. And also invite colleagues from the HDZ club to sit together on this topic and try to make a law that would contribute to Croatian patients, which would not lead to a reduction in birth and a reduction in the number of children that we can get in this way. So here's what I'd like to invite you HDZ colleagues to sit together at the table and try to make a law that will contribute to our patients. If we pass such a law as it is now, it is harmful for patients, it will reduce the number of births, open up the possibility of clinics opening up in our neighbouring countries. So anyway, it's not gonna do us any good, so at this point, it's like the law is written, better and the law that was asked 30 and a few years ago, than this one is now. Once again my appeal on behalf of the SDP club let's sit together, because it is very important that this law be passed with as much consensus as possible in this House. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-20-0.u32017	Thank you very much. We should have been colleagues. This isn't right now. You know what business is. Now let's not open a discussion about it. You put in your proposal and initiative, the government heard. All clubs and MPs have heard so they will also be guided by their conscience and judgment to respect your initiative and your proposal or not. Please let's vote on the urgency of the procedure on the other laws. First, does any of the representatives have any objection to the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Criminal Procedure Act? There isn't. Please vote. Who's in charge of an emergency procedure? Thank you. Against? With 85 for and 8 against this law, it's an emergency procedure. Secondly, does any of the representatives have any objection to the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on cableways for the transport of persons? There isn't. Who is to apply the emergency procedure for the adoption of this law? Thank you. Against? In agreement with 94 votes in favour of this bill, it takes urgent action. Third, does any of the representatives have any objection to the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law on Storage and Storage of Cereals and Industrial Plants? There isn't. Who's in charge of an emergency procedure? Thank you. Against? Along with 95 votes in favour and this bill goes by emergency procedure. Fourth, does any of the MPs have any objection to the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Communist Economy? There isn't. Who is to apply the emergency procedure for the adoption of this law? Thank you. Against? It's unanimous with 96 votes to go and this law by emergency procedure. Any of the representatives have any objections to the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law on Confirmation of the Guarantee Treaty between the Republic of Croatia and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development for the Gas Storage Project Plinarro? There isn't. Who is to apply the emergency procedure for the adoption of this law? Thank you. Against? It's unanimous with 97 votes in favour and this law goes into debate by emergency procedure. Sixth, does any of the representatives and advocates have any objection to the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law on Confirmation of the Guarantee Treaty between the Republic of Croatia and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development for the River Transport direction Reconstruction Project? There isn't. Who is to apply an emergency procedure for the adoption of this law? Thank you. Against? In agreement with 97 votes, the application of the emergency procedure for this law has been established. Does any of the representatives have any objection to the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law amending and supplementing the Act on Scientific Activity and Higher Education, the proposed SDP Representatives Club? Mr. President-in-Office of Andrija Hebrang's club.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-20-0.u32018	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President. We'd like to see this law in normal procedure, we're opposed to an emergency procedure. I don't think it's the kind of problem that needs to be handled by an emergency procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-20-0.u32019	Thank you. Agent Iron Flego.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-20-0.u32020	My colleagues and colleagues, Mr. President. Given the government's inertness after eight weeks after the students had quite exact demands, after we found that high education was a high priority of the Republic of Croatia and after realizing that the new academic year was nigh, we thought that the emergency procedure was the only solution for making the changes needed to ensure the full subsidy of higher education and that it began to be applied since the next academic year. I therefore appeal to all MPs and MPs to adopt our proposal and to resolve it during this session.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-20-0.u32021	Who's in charge of an emergency procedure with this law? Thank you. Against? Thirty-two, versus 35. He's going through a regular procedure. Any of the MPs have any objections to the inclusion of the remaining points in the 11th session agenda? These are points 10 and 11 and 19 and 24 of the proposed agenda, and these are the draft laws on the enforcement of sanctions imposed on minors for criminal offences and offences, first reading, the proposed legislation on technical requirements for products and the assessment of conformity, first reading, the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Public Procurement, first reading, the Proposer of the Club for Information, Information and Media, the Report for 2008 of the National Council for Science of the Republic of Croatia, the Proposal for a Decision on the Resolution of the members of the Programme Council of the Croatian Radio-Television, the Proposer: the Committee for Information, Information and Media, the Programme and Financial Report of the Croatian Olympic Committee 2008, the applicant: the Croatian Olympic Committee, the Annual Report for 2008 Year of the Croatian Financial Services, the Supervisory Agency, the Supervisory Agency for Financial Services, and the President of the Republic of Croatia, the President of the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia? No objections. Ladies and gentlemen of the MPs, the addition of the agenda has been established.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-20-0.u32022	Mr. Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-20-0.u32023	Your Honor, Mr. President, very briefly. I think it would be good to invite Mr Damir Polancec, Deputy Prime Minister in charge of the economy to explain yesterday's talks and negotiations in Brussels on the privatisation of Croatian shipbuilding. There's a privatization of what's left of us, four shipyards for one kuna or four shipyards for four kunas. Tomorrow, at these facilities, they could appear...
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-20-0.u32024	It's not an explanation. It's just a suggestion. Because if we open the debate, then we'll talk about it. Yeah?
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-20-0.u32025	I might just explain the request so that other MPs can understand why it would be good for Mr Polancec to address us, appear before the Croatian Parliament and, among other things, that what concerns me most is the clear privatisation of the Oilers in some particular model. All of this should be privatised at the beginning of the 7th month. Today we are if I'm not wrong 18.6. So in 12, 13, 14 days, public tenders are due. I'm afraid he's also trying to avoid Parliament's decision on this occasion...
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-20-0.u32026	Let's not discuss it. Well, it's not on the agenda. The suggestion is to come here and explain Polancec. I'll pass it on and that's it. We're not opening a debate here right now.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-20-0.u32027	Not only to explain, but to order...
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-20-0.u32028	You don't have to explain. You're suggesting that the Deputy Prime Minister come here and explain. I'll pass on this proposal to the Government. One notice. The chairman of the Committee on Economy, Mr Dragan Kovacevic, has scheduled a meeting of the committee for today at 11 o'clock in the hall of Janka Draskovica 202. Before I move to agenda two, I'd like to speak to MPs and MPs. Dear MPs and representatives of the Croatian Parliament allow me to remember this great man, the Croatian anti-fascist fighter, the great Croatian writer and the first president of the Croatian Parliament today on the 60th anniversary of Vladimir Nazor's death. This year, during the 60th anniversary of Vladimir Nazor's death, the Croatian Parliament was the patron of 14th and the educational cultural event "Nazors of Days" held in Postiram, Brac Island, the birthplace of poets. And the sponsor of all the events so far was the Parliamentary Committee for Education, Science and Culture. Vladimir Nazor, who has greatly enriched Croatian literature with his lyrics and prose works, and whom Antun Gustav Matoš called the most Croatian poet. He was a poet of national optimism and strength, faith in man's power and strength. In his allegorical epic, "Brundo Bear", he illustrated a Croatian misunderstanding that was often fatal to the Croatian people in the past. In more than half a century of literary creation, he was manifested as a poet, narrator, essayist, novelist, travel writer, writer for children, translator, and author of scientific studies and articles, as a creator of a rich thematically diverse and prominent opus. During II. The World War is dedicated to antifascism and at the first session of ZAVNOH in June '43. He became president of the ZAVNOH Executive Board and became the first president of the Croatian Parliament since August 1945 and remains on the post until the death of 19 June 1949. In his presidential appearances, he said at the 3rd session of ZAVNOH when we build our own future, we raise ourselves high above all our personal aspirations, above all our personal inclinations and detestability, sympathy and antipathy, above every daunting encounter or intrusive ambition and give all our physical and mental strength to our people in general and to all humanity. We are increasing the reputation of this Croatian Parliament. These thoughts of Vladimir Nazor, spoken 65 years ago, are important today and should always be kept in mind and applied to the behaviour of our representative office in today's Croatian Parliament as a representative body of citizens and holder of the legislative authority in the Republic of Croatia. Every year in June, the Republic of Croatia awards the award "Vladimir Nazor" for best artistic achievements in the fields of literature, music, film, fine arts and applied arts, theatre of art, and architecture and urbanism in the Republic of Croatia, so we remember its literary achievements, as well as its political activities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-20-0.u32030	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament would now like to interrupt the debate on this agenda item for a moment and try to complete the session agenda. Please establish the quorum. ... Manually, manually! [[You can't hear the intruder.]] 85, we have a quorum. Therefore, in accordance with Article 204(2), I will propose the addition of the 11th session agenda to the 24th new point. The supplemental proposal is divided into benches. This Regulation shall enter The Rules of Procedure determines firstly that the proposal to adopt a specific law is to be adopted by an urgent procedure. I would like to stress that points 1 and 2 of the proposed amendments to the Agenda are in line with the European Union rules, and we do not vote on the application of emergency procedures in the adoption of these laws and these are: Proposal for a Law on the State's Attorney's Office with the Final Proposal for a Law, the Emergency Procedure, P.Z.E. No. 389 and Proposal for a Law on Confirming the Protocol on Strategic Environmental Assessment with the Convention on the Assessment of Environmental Impact across State Borders with the Final Proposal for the Law, the Emergency Procedure, P.Z.E. No. 384. We're going to vote on the urgency of the proceedings on the other laws. Does any of the representatives have any objection to the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Gas Market Act? There isn't. I'm voting, who's in charge of an emergency procedure for this bill? Thank you. Against? Consistent with 88 votes for this bill, it is an emergency procedure. Does any of the representatives have any objection to the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Waste Act? There isn't. Who's in charge of an emergency procedure under this law? Thank you. Against? With 81 for, 7 against this law is included in the Agenda by emergency procedure. Do any of the representatives and representatives have any objections to the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law on Confirmation of the Memorandum of Understanding between the Republic of Croatia and the European Community on the participation of the Republic of Croatia in the Community Civil Protection Mechanism? I am voting on an emergency procedure for the adoption of this law. For? ... Against? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In agreement with 88 votes, this law goes by emergency procedure. 4. Do any of the MPs and advocates have any objections to the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Anti-Corruption and Organized Crime Office Act? Representative Damir Cain, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-20-0.u32031	Mr. Vice President, yes, I really think this bill should go into regular procedure. Far from having problems with corruption and organised crime, but we have some offices and needs are certainly in this legitimate area great for changing certain norms, but this incursion and in some human rights, human freedoms, new norms, new possibilities probably prosecutors. Therefore, I think it would be good to consider this legislative proposal in two readings.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-20-0.u32032	One note about that. On 1 July, Amendments to the Law on Criminal Procedure should enter into force where acts of organised crime, hence the USKOK, will be conducted by the State Attorney's Office. Therefore, it is also necessary to resolve this law accordingly. Okay. What? Who is therefore to apply the emergency procedure in the adoption of this Law on the Office for the Prevention of Corruption and Organized Crime? Thank you. Against? It's 77 for 12 against an emergency procedure. 5, does anyone have any objection to the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on specific conditions for the placing of flour on the market? Who's in charge of an emergency procedure? Thank you. Against? Unanimously, with 89 votes to proceed with an emergency procedure. Have there been any objections to the application of the emergency procedure in the framework of the IPA Programme of Transition Assistance Assistance and Strengthening of Institutions for 2008 by the Law on Confirmation of the Finance Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Commission of the European Communities on the National Programme for Croatia? There isn't. Who's in charge of an emergency procedure? Thank you. Against? Restraint? No abstentions. Unanimously, with 89 votes in favour. Does anyone have any objections to the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law on payment deadlines for state and public undertakings, the State budget and other state institutions, the proposer of the SDP Representatives Club? The president of the HDZ Club, Mr. Representative Andrija Hebrang.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-20-0.u32033	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. We object to an emergency procedure. It's a problem that certainly requires two readings, it's very complex and it penetrates many laws.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-20-0.u32034	Who is to apply the emergency procedure in the adoption of this law? Thank you. Against? 24 for, 65 against. He's going into regular procedure. Any of the MPs and MPs have any objections to the inclusion of the remaining points in the 11th session agenda? These are points 3 to 6 from 13 to 19, from 21 to 24 of the proposed addition of the agenda. And these are the Final Proposal of the Law on Police Affairs and Powers, second reading, P.Z.E. No. 329, Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Courts, First Reading, P.Z.E. No. 328, Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on the State Judicial Council, first reading, P.Z.E. No. 383, Proposal for a Law on Administrative Disputes, First Reading, P.Z.E. No. 378, Final Proposal for a Law on Customs Service, Second Reading, Proposal for a Law on Protection against Family Violence, First Reading, Proposal for a Strategy for Energy Development of the Republic of Croatia, Report on the Effects of the Implementation of the Law on Islands in 2008, Report on State and Labour of Penalty, Prison and Educational Institutions for 2008, Proposals for Decisions on the Resolution of the Law on Elections of Representatives in the Croatian Parliament, Proposed Member of the Governing Council of the Croatian Energy Regulatory Agency, Proposal for a Decision on the Completion of the Law on the Government of the Republic of Croatia, First Reading, Proposed Law on Elections of Representatives in the Croatian Parliament, Proposed Law on Local and Regional Self-Government, First Reading, Proposing Law on Law on Laws of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, First Amendment of the Republic of Croatia, First Amendment of the Law on the Law on Local and the Law of the Law of the Republic of the Republic of Croatia to the Republic of Croatia. There isn't. Ladies and gentlemen of the MPs, the addition of the agenda has been established.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-20-0.u32035	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs and MPs. We're going back to work. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. I will propose to the Rules of Procedure to supplement the agenda for the 11th session with the following points: 1. Proposal for a Health Activity Act, with final draft law, P.Z.E. No. 390, emergency procedure, 1 / 1 Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the control of drug abuse, first reading, P.Z. No. 392, 1. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Act on the Protection and Conservation of Cultural Goods, with a final proposal for a law, emergency procedure, P.Z. No. 391, 1. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Transport Act in line and occasional coastal maritime transport, with a final draft law, emergency procedure, P.Z. No. 393 1. Proposal for a law confirming the Protocol on the Legal Position of International Military Commands established on the basis of the North Atlantic Treaty, with the final proposal for a law, emergency procedure, P.Z. No. 395, 1. Proposal for a law confirming the Agreement between the Parties to the North Atlantic Treaty on the legal position of their forces, with a final proposal for a law, an emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 394, 1. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Construction and Part-Corruption of the Central Authorities of the State Administration, with the final proposal of the Law, the Emergency Procedure, P.Z. No. 398, 1. Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the Government of the Republic of Croatia, with a final draft law, emergency procedure, P.Z. No. 397, 1. Dr. Ivo Sanader's resignation as Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia, 1. Report on the work of the Committee on Presentations and Appeals for 2008, 1. Report by the Committee on Conflict of Interests for 2008, 1. A Proposal for a Resolution on Malignant tumours, 1 / 1 Annual report on the work of the Governing Council of HINA from 1 May 2008 to 30 April 2009, 1. Report on the work and business of the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute for 2008, 1. Proposal for a candidate for election of members of the State Judicial Council. Article 205 The rules of procedure are laid down firstly to decide on a proposal to adopt an individual law by an urgent procedure. I stress that point 1 of the proposed amendments to the agenda are in line with the European Union rules, so we do not vote on the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of this law. This is the Proposal for a Law on Health Activities, with the final proposal for a law, P.Z.E. No. 390. We are going to vote on the urgency of the procedure on the other laws. Any of the representatives have any objection to the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on the Protection and Conservation of Cultural Goods, P.Z. No. 391, that's under point 3? There isn't. Please, let's go to the vote. Let's get involved and vote on the proposal of this agenda item to discuss the urgent procedure. Please, let's get involved and vote Let's see the quorum. [[/Intruder: Quarum!)]] Let's turn ourselves on and we'll see the quorum right here. 125 MPs. We have a quorum. Please be included in respect of this item of the agenda proposed under point 3 for the urgency of the procedure. Let's get involved and vote. The result? I find that this motion for the urgency of the 98 vote procedure has been accepted for, 4 abstentions and 5 against. Any of the representatives have any objections to the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Transport Act in Line and Intermediate Coastal Maritime Transport, P.Z. No. 393, point 4.? There isn't. Let us please engage and vote on the proposal to take this point by emergency procedure. The result? This proposal was accepted by 105 votes in favour, 4 abstentions and 4 against. Any of the representatives have any objections to the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law on the Legal Position of International Military Commands Act established on the basis of the North Atlantic Treaty, P.Z. No. 395, point 5? There isn't. Let's please get involved and vote on urgency. The result? This proposal for point P.Z. No. 395 was accepted by the majority with 108 votes in favour, 1 abstention and 5 against. Any of the representatives of the objection to the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Act on the Confirmation of an Agreement between the Parties to the North Atlantic Treaty on the Legal Position of their Forces, P.Z. No. 394th under point 6? There is. Mr. Dragutin Lesar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-20-0.u32036	Mr. President, you're asking us if we're in favour or against an emergency procedure. To answer that question, it would be good if we had proposed the laws that you include in the agenda so that we could answer those questions. Therefore, neither the proposal for a supplement nor the proposal for a law.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-20-0.u32037	The secretary said in the boxes this morning.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-20-0.u32038	As well as a proposal to supplement the agenda, right? Okay.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-20-0.u32039	The materials are in the boxes and you may not have gotten this systematiced by the dots. So, no objections to this, please, therefore, let's get involved and vote on urgency for this law. The result? This item was adopted by a majority of 98 votes in favour, 4 abstentions and 2 against. If any of the representatives have any objections to the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Construction and Part-Corruption of the Central Authorities of the State Administration, that is, point 7, P.Z. 398? There isn't. Let's please get involved and vote on urgency for this point. The result? Accepted with an emergency with 93 votes for, nothing against, no abstentions, 15 against. Thank you. Any of the representatives have any objections to the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Act amending the Law on the Government of the Republic of Croatia, P.Z. No. 397.8? There isn't. Let's please get involved and vote on the urgency of the procedure for this item of the agenda. The proposal was accepted by the majority of 92 votes in favour, 4 abstentions and 12 against. Any of the representatives have any objections to the inclusion of the remaining points in the agenda of the 11th session, these are: Proposal for a Law on the Amendment and Completion of the Law on the Abuse of Intoxication Drugs, resignation of Dr. Ive Sanader, acting as a representative of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, Report on the work of the Committee on Presentations and Appeals for 2008, Report of the Commission for Decision on the 2008 conflict of interest, Proposal for a Resolution on Malignant tumours, Annual report on the work of the Governing Council of HINA by 1 May to 30 April 2009, report on the work and operation of the Croatian Pension Insurance Office for 2008 and a proposal for candidates for the selection of members of the State Judicial Council, are those points. Anybody have any objections? If not, ladies and gentlemen, the representatives of the draft agenda have been established. Please don't read 'cause I've read 'em before. We are moving on to a proposal for a strategy for the energy development of the Republic of Croatia. Before we move to this item of the agenda, please representatives and representatives of two points, i.e. three points of the agenda, as soon as they are similar to the debate after the working bodies have taken a position on this matter will be discussed at today's session. Namely, this bill of law, like this, I hear the proposal, because committees should not discuss the resignations of the Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia, we can now discuss the resignations and then we will discuss these two laws in the Government and the bodies of the state administration, so I suggest we move on to. So we move to the point of the updated agenda that's been read here. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen, MPs and counsellors. We're moving on with the session. Well, my men, what is it always? At the beginning of every session, who will, Damir Cain. Come on. Yesterday was the president's speech, you don't have to do it now.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-20-0.u32041	It won't be. Anyway, I'd just like to know when we're going to discuss the trust of the new prime minister. I'd like some blitzkrieg to happen today and surprise us with the timing.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-20-0.u32042	Here, I'll answer it like this right now. The President of the Republic was given everything we concluded yesterday and what we did not conclude, which is a list of MPs who signed the proposal for a new mandate. The President of the Republic has left. I asked that it be as soon as possible to shorten the deadline for the appointment of the new government as we all need the government to exist and that the government functions as a state, regardless of whether it is, in all other circumstances. Therefore, what was on us is what we did and we expect the reaction of the President of the Republic in accordance with his constitutional powers. If he comes in during the day, then we'll discuss it, if he doesn't come, then we'll postpone. That should be asked by the current president or perhaps the future knows.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-20-0.u32043	Because you could advise him to be patient because if you waited to inform him 3 days from Sunday to Wednesday, then he could wait until at least Monday.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-20-0.u32044	Ladies and gentlemen of MPs and MPs, in accordance with Article 204(2). I will propose to the Rules of Procedure an addition to the 11th session agenda with 10 new points. The supplemental proposal is divided into benches. Please determine the quorum. 85. But let's also get it back on track. Let's get on with it, please. It hasn't turned on enough, and we've been informed that we're 85. ... What? [[You can't hear the intruder.]] The direct count determined 85, so now. It's 77 here, so we've got the quorum, so we can do it. And now it's 86, okay. We can get started. This Regulation shall enter The Rules of Procedure set out firstly to decide on a proposal to adopt a single law by an urgent procedure. I would like to stress that points 1 to 3 of the proposed amendments to the agenda are aligned with the European Union rules, so we do not vote on the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of these laws, as referred to in Article 161. Rules of Procedure. These are the proposal for a postal service law, with the final draft law, emergency procedure, P.Z.E. No. 399, Proposal for a law on gambling, with the final draft law, also emergency procedure, P.Z.E. No. 400, Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Value Added Taxes, with a final draft law, also an emergency procedure, P.Z.E. No. 401. We are going to vote on the urgency of the procedure on the other laws. First, does any of the representatives have any objection to the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law on the Confirmation of the Treaty between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Federal Republic of Germany on cooperation in the prevention of organised and serious crime, P.Z.E. No. 402, included under item 5 of the agenda? Any of the MPs have any objections to the urgency of the proceedings? Then please, let's get on with it. Let's vote on it. So let's get involved and vote on the urgency of the procedure. Score. The motion on the urgency of the procedure in the adoption of this law was adopted by the majority of votes, 81 votes for, 2 abstentions and 1 against. Second, does any of the representatives have any objections to the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Restriction of Use of Tobacco Products, P.Z. No. 404, under point 9. Yeah. Mr. Andrija Hebrang. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-20-0.u32045	Mr. President, on behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, we would suggest that point 9 be adopted in a regular procedure rather than accelerated and that financial indicators be collected, as we have already said, because these indicators will affect the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-20-0.u32046	Ladies and gentlemen, at 12 o'clock, we should move to the polls, and before that, I would like to propose an addition to the 11th session agenda with one item, which is the proposal for a decision to declare July 11th on the Day of Remembrance of the Srebrenica genocide. The promoter is Mr. Shemso Tankovic. Since 18.1.2009, the European Parliament has called on all parliaments, all parliaments, all the congregations of the countries of Europe to make a proper resolution, the appropriate decision to declare on 11 July the Day of Remembrance of the Srebrenica genocide. And many European countries have made such decisions. The Croatian Parliament also made a statement on Srebrenica, condemning the crime, so I would suggest we complete the agenda with that point. Please engage to determine the quorum. Please engage. Get on board to determine the quorum. Comrades and colleagues, please engage. Those who are, are not. Susanna. What's the score? 78's on. What about the screens again? So, I propose to include in the agenda a proposal for a decision to declare July 11th on the Day of Remembrance of the Srebrenica genocide. Who's in order to put it in the agenda? Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. The result? With 85 votes for and one abstention this item has been included in the agenda.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-20-0.u32047	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs and MPs! I warmly welcome you all, as well as the representative of the government and the vice presidents and ministers present at this session. In accordance with Article 204(2), I will propose to the Rules of Procedure an addition to the 11th session agenda with eight new points. The supplemental proposal is divided into benches. Let's first determine the quorum. Please engage and determine the quorum. Please! Let's get on with it, keys! Let's engage to determine the quorum. Thank you, here's 92. We can keep working. This Regulation shall enter The Rules of Procedure determines firstly that the proposal to adopt certain laws is subject to an urgent procedure. These are points 1 to 3 of the proposed amendments to the agenda. That's one. Proposal for a law on the reduction of pensions laid down under the Law on the Rights and responsibilities of MPs in the Croatian Parliament, with a final draft law, emergency procedure, P.Z. No. 406; 2. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Education and Education in primary and secondary schools, with a final draft law, emergency procedure, P.Z. No. 407 and 3. Proposal for a law amending the Law on textbooks for elementary and secondary schools, with a final draft law, emergency procedure, P.Z. No. 408. Any of the representatives have any objections to the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law on the reduction of pensions laid down under the Law on the Rights and responsibilities of Representatives in the Croatian Parliament, P.Z. No. 406, dot's first? There isn't. We will now vote on the urgency of the procedure for this agenda item. Do we have the keys or do we have to raise our hands? If we have the keys we'll get better involved, if we don't, then unfortunately we'll invite you to bring them in on a break, and now we have or we don't? ... Let's get involved and vote. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Who is to apply the emergency procedure in the adoption of this law? Please, let's get involved and vote. Score. The urgency was passed by most votes, 77 votes to, 6 abstentions and 1 against. Does any of the representatives have any objection to the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law amending the Law on Education and Education at primary and secondary school, P.Z. No. 407, second point? There isn't. Who is to apply the emergency procedure for the adoption of this law? Please, let's get involved and vote. Score. The urgency of the procedure was accepted by most votes, 67 votes in favour, 2 abstentions and 23 against. Does any of the representatives have any objection to the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law amending the Law on textbooks for primary and secondary schools, P.Z. No. 408, point 3? There is. Mrs. Maria Lugaric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-20-0.u32048	Your Honor, Mr. President. The SDP advocates' club opposes the adoption of this law by emergency procedure, since this House of 15.12. passed one law, a week before the local elections, the minister says quite another, and now we have a third solution, and this will lead to the fact that in the autumn parents still worry about killing classes for school books and we oppose the adoption of this law by emergency procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-20-0.u32049	This is one example when the emergency law changes, so here's the comment of the SDP Representatives Club. Let's please get involved and vote on the proposal... Cain, here you go. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Here you go. No, I don't. Then please, let's get on and vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-20-0.u32050	No, I had one remark. We're against this to go through with an emergency procedure. It's 1,500 kunas hitting the... /The speaker's off./...
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-20-0.u32051	Oh, please, let's get involved and vote on the urgency of the procedure for this third proposed law. Please, let's get involved and vote. Score. This emergency proposal was accepted by the majority of votes, 65 votes in favour, 1 abstention and 26 against. Any of the MPs have any objections to the inclusion of the remaining points in the 11th session agenda? These are points from 4 to 8, so I don't read them, you have them here in this addition to the agenda. Is there? There isn't. Ladies and gentlemen of the MPs, the addition of the agenda has been established. Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, here is the proposal to amend and supplement the state budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2009. HDZ clubs, SDP, HNS, HSS, National Minorities Club, HSS, HSS, HDSSB, IDS Club, SDSS Club, Independent Representative Dragutin Lesar, Independent Representative Zlatko Horvat and Daniel Srb, Croatia's party of rights signed the following. I wouldn't interpret it, so I'll read it. "In accordance with Article 129(2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament all the clubs of the representatives of the Croatian Parliament, the independent representative Dragutin Lesar, Zlatko Horvat and the representative of the Croatian party of the real Mr. Daniel Srb propose the adoption of the conclusion on the adoption of the State Budget Rebalancing Proposal before the expiry of the deadline referred to in Article 170(3). The Rules of Procedure." We propose that, in order to save the costs and resources that would call for an extraordinary session of the Croatian Parliament, the vote on the proposal for a rebalancing of the state budget of the Government of Croatia should be held before the deadline set out in Article 175(3). Rules of Procedure, and according to the agreement reached by all clubs of representatives of the Croatian Parliament and independent representatives, i.e. Mr Daniel Srb. So it's just that it's perfectly clear that it's not, especially if there's no amendment, if there's an amendment, then we have to go to an extraordinary session Thursday and Friday. But as I've been informed they won't be reportedly we could adopt this budget rebalance on Wednesday, with the high probability that even by the end of this month there will be a second rebalancing. So that we don't have two extraordinary sessions... Well, it's not every session. [[I don't know what you're talking about.]] I said by the end of the month, and 52 weeks are over the year, so it's not every week. So we can expect that. And if it's in that respect that we're all clear about all of this and we got it in writing from the clubs, then here we are today to discuss rebalancing. Wednesday would be a vote on rebalancing. We would not have meant Thursday and Friday an extraordinary session, but let's expect another session later on for another rebalancing. But we're not talking about this right now, we're talking about this rebalancing thing right now. Right? So we wouldn't have two extraordinary sessions but most likely one extraordinary session. Here, well thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, we begin by asking questions to the Government, or to an individual member of the Government, in accordance with the provisions of Rules of Procedure of Articles 180 to 184. The current morning is held at the beginning of each session before the first item of the agenda. The first question in line is Mr. Agent Daniel Srb. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-20-0.u32053	My colleagues and colleagues, I would be free to address one question to the prime minister concerning the formal and legislative framework for the protection of national interests regarding the use of geothermal energy sources. In fact, it is the fact that INA is the largest Croatian oil company in principle and most often owns a concession for the use of geothermal sources. However, it was not a problem in moments when INA was fully owned and thus acquired in the former system the right to have geothermal sources. However, today when INA is no longer in Croatian ownership on the one hand, on the other hand, it has had no excessive economic interest in using geothermal sources because it is a higher profit on gas imports than this moment practically we do not control geothermal sources to the extent that it would be Croatian national interest. Therefore, my question is whether you can assign government bodies and resolution ministries to prepare a legislative and formal legal framework to protect our national interests in this segment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-20-0.u32054	Thank you. Prime Minister, Mr. Ivo Sanader. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-20-0.u32055	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Mr. Representative. We've already protected it, there's no need for law because INA, and regardless of whose ownership or weight it was owned, has only a concession on sources. It has no ownership of sources and the state may at any time, unless the criteria of the concession are respected, take away that concession and give it to someone else. So INA, I repeat, no matter who is majority, the minority owner is not the owner of these sources. She owns these facilities at the source, but she's not the owner of the source. He only has a concession. Therefore, the state has protected itself here. We may now be asking a question and a good cause, a good opportunity to say that we will not sell in any way any, no thermal, geothermal, no, so we will not sell the country in that sense at all. That's what we've made the decision, but we're going to keep giving in the concession because it's good to use it. However, your question was how to protect the problem. The problem has been solved by the Law on concessions. Therefore, the State may always confiscate the concessionaire in this INI case, give someone else unless the concession criteria are respected. But anyway, it's already protected.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-20-0.u32056	Thank you. Mr. Daniel Srb. Here you go. You have the right to comment or disagree or agree.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-20-0.u32057	I thank you very much for your answer. I believe that the interests of interested investors will soon arise where there is an economic justification for the use of geothermal sources and where it is obvious that they will have to also assess the cost-effectiveness of retaining an existing concessionaire, i.e. the concession of someone else who is willing to use these geothermal sources. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-20-0.u32058	Thank you very much. Before the second question of another Daniel, I'll just read you three notices. Members of the Committee on Information, Information and Media The chairman of the Committee Nenad Stazic informs that the May 20th session will be held today at 2.30 p.m. in Josip Šokčević's Hall instead of in Josip Jelačić's hall. Furthermore, the chairman of the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security, Ranko Ostojic, informs that a meeting of the Committee will be held today at 13:30 p.m. also at Josip Šokčević's hall instead of in Josip Jelacic's hall as indicated in the invitation. And the chairman of the Committee, Mr. Vice-President Neven Mimic, informs that the session of the European Integration Committee, called today at 3:00 p.m. today, will also be held in the hall of Josip Šokčević, instead of according to the proposed agenda, in the Small Council. Thank you very much. It's the MP's turn. And another session of the Committee on Agriculture, Fisheries and Rural Development will be held today at 13:30 in the hall of Janko Draskovic, number 202. It's Mr. Agent Daniel Mondekar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-20-0.u32059	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs, respected representatives of the government. I refer my question to the president of the Croatian government. Mr. Prime Minister, do you know how many students in the Republic of Croatia must pay tuition and how much of their tuition? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-20-0.u32060	Thank you. Mr. Prime Minister's reply, Dr. Ivo Sanader. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-20-0.u32061	Mr. Representative, it is much more important than this question that the Croatian Government is, for the sixth year in a row, making all assumptions about making a knowledge society. So at this point, he's studying a lot more students. The exact figures know Minister Primorac, much more students than when we took responsibility for Croatia, which was the end of 2003. There were much fewer universities in Croatia at the time. Statistics are known by Minister Primorac as they are today. At that time, there was much less, perhaps one university, and today there are many more. The statistics are known by Minister Primorac and the Resort Ministry. So, we're proud of our students, we're proud of our universities, we're proud of our teachers, we're proud of all the university teachers and scientists, and that's why we made a deal with them, and we're going to make better wages in accordance with our progress and get out of the crisis because they deserve it. Thank you. - Give it up. - Give it up.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-20-0.u32062	Thank you. Mr. Daniel Mondekar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-20-0.u32063	Dear Prime Minister, you haven't answered my question at all, or you don't know the answer to my question, and to tell you right now, it's unfortunate that in a country where students have been protesting for 30 days you don't know the reason they've been protesting. You seem to care about Croatian students and Croatian education. But you have well started one... /The speaker has been turned off and re-enabled./... in 6 years... /The speaker has been turned off and re-enabled./... the tuitions have grown 10% every year, and the number of students in this country who pays the same tuition is twice as high as 5 years ago. More than half of Croatian students pay tuition. Otherwise, which is almost 8 thousand kuna, makes us the most expensive country, one of the most expensive in Europe. Your knowledge society policy has led us to have expensive, inefficient and inflexible and unquality education. And if you wanted to solve something, you could have solved it a year ago and two years ago. This is just the demagogy you're talking about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-20-0.u32064	Thank you. It's Mr. Representative Petar Mlinarić's turn. Peter Mlinaric! Peter Mlinaric! Three times.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-20-0.u32065	Thank you, Mr. President. My question is to Mrs Jadranka Kosor, vice-president of the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the minister of the family, defenders and intergenerational solidarity. The question is, unidentified victims, in public, often talk about a large number of unidentified victims from mass and individual tombs. What's the number of unidentified and postmortem remains from '91? and '92. And what does the Ministry of Family, Defence and Intergenerational Solidarity do to identify these victims? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-20-0.u32066	Madam Vice President Jadranka Kosor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-20-0.u32067	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Your Honor. Yes, of course I understand that you are just asking a question about the problem of missing persons in the Republic of Croatia, and then in this context and unidentified, or identified victims because you come from the area, from Vukovar, from Vukovar-Srijem County where we are still looking for the largest number of those missing from '91 and '92, respectively. A year. So far, from 143 mass graves and more than 1400 individual exhumed 3720 postmortem remains. Of which, a larger number has been identified, so almost more than 84%, 16% has not been identified, and that's... postmortem remains. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] They are certainly well-preserved in Zagreb and Osijek. So I believe that many of you Parliamentarians were on different occasions on a kenotaf with a crematorium at Zagreb's Mirogoj. Those who were not, I call upon them to do so. There doesn't have to be any chance, it's enough to get there if there's a need, if there's any interest among parliamentary deputies, we can scan that space and open up, to see how and how the remains are stored, and we do everything we can to identify them. So we're paralleling all the activities in finding those still on the list, so 1051 people, we're talking about the '91 census now, or '92. A year. Of course we're looking in the same way for those on the '95 list, so 823 people. But today we are talking about the victims of aggression in Croatia. So, we did everything, among other things, to the activities of new people in the past year, that is, two years ago, to extract blood samples from families that are still looking for their loved ones, and it seems that this may be one of the reasons why these 16% that have been found so far. So we're doing everything. Science is progressing, but I must say with regret, that one part, I hope, will be really small, will not be able to be identified simply because over time there is a reduced possibility because some of these remains have been destroyed by water or destroyed by fires, or because they have been burned, so we probably won't be able to identify that part to the end. But what I'm trying to say in conclusion is that the search for people who are on the list is still going on. She won't stop until the last one is found. That's, of course, humanitarian to us, but the first-class political issue, and I have to say, here in all the meetings and the Prime Minister, Dr. Sanader put it as a zero question, so in the talks with the neighbors. I, as Deputy Prime Minister, also invited the vice-presidents of Serbia, Bosnia and Herzegovina and Montenegro to a joint meeting to put all arguments on hold and help resolve this issue and finally tell all the families who seek the fate of their loved ones. So, in conclusion, no matter what, the search continues. For this, regardless of the budget, which he was in the Republic of Croatia, the crisis he faced will not run out of money or will. Therefore, if it is also necessary to add in this year's budget some new funds which have not naturally been reduced in the rebalancing process, we will do so. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-20-0.u32068	Thank you very much. Mr. Mlinaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-20-0.u32069	Madam Vice President and Minister. I can only thank you on behalf of our associations, especially the Vukovar mothers that I've been following this whole time and we've been doing a lot of these actions together, but what you've done so far in this most sensitive portfolio of yours, that so far, that we're satisfied, but we want to end what we've started to end up with us and here, I want congratulations and greetings from Vukovar. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-20-0.u32070	Thank you. It's Mr. Representative Stjepan Milinkovic's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-20-0.u32071	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. President of the Croatian Government, members of the government, colleagues and colleagues. I refer mine to the Minister of Health and Social Care Dr. Darka Milinovic. Health reform, Mr. Minister, shows exceptional results. Emergency medical care within the healthcare system itself is unnecessary to say how important it is and there is only a big job to follow. Of course emergency medical attention is working well, but special efforts are being made during the tourist season. So, please, Mr. Minister, tell me, what is the preparedness for the tourist season, team organization and the like? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-20-0.u32072	Thank you. Minister Darko Milinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-20-0.u32073	Thank you, Mr. President. As you said, it may not be so present in the Croatian public but we are going with an emergency medical reform, a project that the Croatian Government has secured with a loan with the World Bank around 90m euros and is a project that will be implemented for the next four to five years. Of course, the tourist season is on the threshold, in fact it has already begun and the first indications that many domestic and foreign tourists will visit Croatia again give special responsibility to the Ministry of Health and Social Care in order to provide medical assistance on time, provided to those who will be here in the Republic of Croatia for the 7th and 8th month of the tourist season. I don't think it's important to stress specifically, which means timely medical attention or timely patient arrival at the site of complete health care. This year as well as in recent years, the Ministry of Health and Social Care has provided additional funding, this year at a level of around 8 million kuna and has provided 18 new points during the tourist season to give domestic and foreign tourists a satisfactory and timely health service. In view of this, additional checkpoints in Karlovac, Ogulin, Perusić, Sveto Roku, Brinju, Benkovac, Sibenik, Dugopolje, on the highway A2 Zagreb-Macelj point Krapina, on the highway A3 Bregana, Jankomir, Kutina, Okucani, etc. So 18 additional points to show the health system of the Republic of Croatia to foreign and domestic tourists once again that it is very well organised as countless times so far. And I say, with the additional funds of 8 million kuna, the Ministry of Health and Social Care took part as a resolute ministry and in the preparation of this tourist season in this medical sense.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-20-0.u32074	Mr. Milinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-20-0.u32075	Thank you, Mr. Minister. I'm happy with the answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-20-0.u32076	Thank you. It's Mrs. Zdenka Chuhnil's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-20-0.u32077	Thank you very much. Your Honor. I refer my question to the Minister of Culture, and it is certainly about certain minority issues. The Croatian Parliament passed laws so that Croatia could be governed by the rule of law but above all to enforce the laws. The Croatian Parliament passed the Law on HRT, the Law on Electronic Media where minorities are guaranteed certain emissions in minority languages. The Parliament also ratified the Charter of Regional Languages. Unfortunately, minorities in Croatia do not have television shows in minority languages. So I'm asking you when will there be emissions in minority languages or when we'll find out that the pluralism and diversity development fund sets out funds for minority emissions. In fact, even though the fund was established by law, although the funds from the subscription are being allocated precisely and for these purposes, we do not have such emissions, so far we do not know on the basis of several questions as to how much funds for these emissions or for which emissions are being allocated. So I ask you to take your ministry to finally and minority in Croatia get emissions in minority languages, but also to know how, who finances them or why they are not funded?
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-20-0.u32078	Thank you. Mr. Minister Bishop. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-20-0.u32079	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear MPs, the Law on Electronic Media was established by the Fund for the Encouragement of pluralism and electronic media within the Agency for Electronic Media with the intention to encourage its means to publish programme content at regional and local level. According to and, of course, those programmes which are of particular interest to Croatia, these are, of course, national minorities programmes, cultural programmes, education and science programmes, encouraging specific programmes in areas of special state concern. The fact is that the Pluralism Fund has, at the head of the Fund is a council which is an independent regulatory body and it submits the report only to the Croatian Parliament. According to the 2007 figures submitted by the council in 2008, they funded 32 radio and 5 television programmes intended for national minorities. They do not submit these reports to the Ministry of Culture but directly to the Croatian Parliament and are responsible to the Croatian Parliament. It looks like what you just said, it looks like they're kind of a democracy, the fact that the independent regulatory body took it too seriously, and they don't give you regular reports. Otherwise, I think that either the Committee on Media or the Committee on Human Rights and National Minorities should invite the Council to submit a detailed report on where and how much money and not just what programmes, but how much money is spent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-20-0.u32080	Thank you. Mrs. Zdenka Chuhnil. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-20-0.u32081	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, I cannot be satisfied because, under the Law on Croatian Radio Television and Croatian Government, it is also responsible that minorities on public television, Croatian television have certain shows. When it comes to the Council for the Development of pluralism, it gives us a report on how much it gives to individual media. On several issues and open criticisms here in parliament that we cannot in any way find out what minority emissions are but I am stressing above all minority emissions in minority languages we and the parliamentary question so far have not been answered. Can't be referred to as "Bama Box" as a minority emission, or "Earth Fruits" or "x" such emissions as the minority emissions. So again I ask that something really be done for minorities to get emissions in minority languages because it's the only thing that can be real minority emissions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-20-0.u32082	Thank you. Ms. Representative Vesna Škulić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-20-0.u32083	Thank you, Mr. President. I'm referring the question to the Prime Minister, Mr. Sanader. Mr. Sanader, if you're not busy with any other affairs, I'd ask you to listen to my question. So, Mr. President, do you know how many states have stolen money from people with disabilities by budget rebalance in 2009 and how much is the highest personal disability? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-20-0.u32084	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-20-0.u32085	I see you've prepared yourself in the SDP for quiz questions. I'll tell you again, as I replied to your young colleague, Mrs. Škulić, much more than your former government and much more than you know. And you proceed with such issues, so HDZ will win again with HSS and HSLS partners.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-20-0.u32086	Thank you. Ms. Representative Vesna Škulić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-20-0.u32087	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Sanader, this kind of answer does not mean that you know but even the opposite, I can see that you have no idea what's going on in the area of people with disabilities. By your Government's decision, Mr Sanader, the 2009 State Budget Rebalance, you have damaged more than 80 million kuna persons with disabilities. You have created quite a confusion among the associations of people with disabilities and have questioned the exercise of their rights. Many associations have not received money planned for work, and their projects have been suspended. The national strategy is not implemented. The Employment and Professional Rehabilitation Act is also being implemented. The money from the fund is spent untransparently and unintendedly. Pedagogical standards have stalled... /The speech room has been shut down./... the adjustment of accessibility to healthcare institutions etc. You have not passed the Law on the addition to the most severe disability or the Law on a personal assistant, although you have promised, to humiliate and keep under the poverty line. In the end, for your information... I've been interrupted, I'm asking your colleagues. [[Everyone speaks out loud, they don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-20-0.u32088	Thank you, thank you very much. [[No, no, just say the word.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-20-0.u32089	The highest disability is 1250 kuna, and many of them must live for a month, Mr. Sanader. Is that for you and another less important question? Thank you very much. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-20-0.u32090	Thank you. Let's move on. It's Mr. Branko Box. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-20-0.u32091	Thank you, Mr. President. I refer my question to the Minister of Agriculture, Fisheries and Rural Development, Mr Pankretić. Mr. Minister, the development of rural space is the cornerstone of every country's economic and social life. Since your ministry spent less than 170 million kunas in that area last year, however, that is not enough. We are also aware of the fact that family farms must join in order to successfully sell their agricultural products that have quality. As the most successful form of association, cooperatives are. What does your ministry do about it? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-20-0.u32092	... Mr. Pankretic. [[Specially enabled.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-20-0.u32093	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Your Honor, Mr. Representative. Of course you're right, we've devoted special care in last year's rural rural development and it's invested more than 169 million kunas in that space to preserve the rural space, to preserve the tradition, to help this space maximumly and to keep the portion, I'd say, of the population in it, given the trends we have. But this question you've asked, which is about cooperatives, I think it's extremely important, especially at the moment when we're talking about having a part of small farmers who unfortunately cannot act alone on the market and unfortunately alone as individuals, would remain out of that market and unfortunately fail. For these reasons, we've had a third year in a row of competitions, so on. measure 3 in part of rural development that maximumly encourages the association of our small farmers. Under this measure, we just signed contracts with 35 agricultural cooperatives last week, of which 533 exist in Croatia, and I believe that, by co-financing the percentage of the income of these agricultural producers, as well as their head of the cooperative for 3 years, we will help the largest number of small agricultural producers to join together. This is one opportunity for us to invite all of them in the public once again that part of the agricultural producers who are aware that they cannot exist alone, that no... /The speaker is excluded./... on the market, that they cannot compete with their products, that they join in cooperatives because we have such cases throughout the European Union, especially in northern Italy, and such examples are extremely good. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-20-0.u32094	Thank you. Mr. Branko Box. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-20-0.u32095	I thank the Minister for his reply and agree that our farmers need to be prepared before entering the European Union. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-20-0.u32096	Thank you. It's Mr. Representative Silvano Hrelja's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-20-0.u32097	Your Honor, I am asking my parliamentary question to the Minister of Health, Mr. Darka Milinovic. Since 1 January of this year, the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Contributions to Croatian pensioners, whose pension exceeds 5108 kuna, has introduced a payment of health insurance contributions of 3% as double taxation. I note that the Croatian party of pensioners in the Croatian Parliament voted against this legislative proposal and the introduction of such an obligation, especially in view of the fact that Croatian pensioners paid a health contribution during their working life and that such a tax denies the system of social justice and violates acquired rights, i.e. those who paid the most during their work. In Croatia there are now more than 20,000 pensioners who are directly deprived of 3% of their pension and are reducing their pension rights. Furthermore, the state gave up the introduction of a health contribution for Croatian defenders, but later, after their pension was paid in February, the amount was already removed and returned in March. You said it was a mistake from the Croatian Health Insurance Institute. Deputy Prime Minister, Mrs. Jadranka Kosor, then succumbed to the Law on the rights of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families. By studying the whole situation and all the laws, we have come to the conclusion that neither one of them is true. In other words, we believe that the Croatian Institute of Health Insurance did not make a mistake in the procedure, but it was a matter of later wisdom. The Croatian party considers health contributions unacceptable for defenders, but also for pensioners and requires their rights to be equal. Please give me a precise answer on what basis, which law and what legal article, has led to a different interpretation of the law for two social groups and is there any desire in the Government of the Republic of Croatia to correct such indifference or injustice?
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-20-0.u32098	Thank you. Answer, Mr. Darko Milinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-20-0.u32099	Thank you, Mr. President. If this is about the second round of elections at local level, then fine. And if it wasn't for the two of us we spent a lot of time talking about reform laws and I don't give you the right to say that reform laws lead to social injustice. So if we mention pensioners a million and a hundred thousand pensioners of them only 10% have over 40 years of work experience and only 10% over 40 years of employment paid their entire working life for contributions to the health system. If you see countries in Slovenia 5.6% of all pensioners pay contributions. Macedonia 14%, Serbia 11%, Austria 7%, Montenegro 19%. And how much reform law is, and besides that, this is the Law on Contributions, and it should not be referred to the question of the Minister of Health, because I am not passing and I am not proposing the Law on Contribution, but the Ministry of Finance. And how socially sensitive he is. So, out of the million and 100 thousand pensioners, the state budget pays millions and 80,000 contributions, and these 3% refers to only 20,000 pensioners and those pensioners who have pensions above the average salary in the Republic of Croatia 5104 kuna. The law on the rights of Croatian defenders was not a reform law. The law defines the rights of Croatian defenders and therefore Croatian defenders are not involved in paying the 3% contribution. And no one takes away the pensioners as you say 3%. How much reform law or health reform is socially sensitive and information that as nowhere in Europe for 350,000 pensioners, additional health insurance is paid by the Croatian State. How socially sensitive is the reform of the health system and the fact that it is a supplementary insurance policy for pensioners, and that is why we left an additional one in the Croatian Health Insurance Office 50 kuna, and let me mention Slovenia where the minimum insurance policy is 230 kuna, and our biggest insurance policy is 130 kuna. And once again, I mention 320,000 pensioners don't pay for it. For them, it pays the state budget, and the minimum health insurance policy is 50 kuna and that is the social sensitivity of the health system reform. And once again I note of a million and a hundred thousand pensioners 3% of the contributions concern only about twenty thousand of them, and for a million and 80,000 and the costs borne by the Croatian state.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-20-0.u32100	Thank you. Mr. Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-20-0.u32101	Mr. Minister, I am not pleased with your answer for not asking me to give the positive effects of the health reform that we have supported here and for which we have voted. Therefore, it is also clear about the social sensitivity of health reform. We've been very positive about this. I concentrated my question on the next fact. There are 67,000 pensioners in Croatia now receiving a pension of more than 5108 kn. Of them, 20 and some thousand pays a special health contribution, and 40,000 doesn't pay. Please give me a written answer to my question as to why there was an arbitrary, or different interpretation of the legal provisions?
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-20-0.u32102	Thank you. It's Mrs. Maria Lugaric's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-20-0.u32103	Mr. Prime Minister, how much money did you cut your education salary for? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-20-0.u32104	Mr. Prime Minister Ivo Sanader.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-20-0.u32105	All right, Madam Representative. I first congratulate you on the great bad results in these local elections. And you and your colleagues keep on doing the same thing, and we're going to make the wins. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-20-0.u32106	Ms. Representative Marija Lugaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-20-0.u32107	Mr. Prime Minister, at school, we'd get a sit-down for this answer because you haven't answered the question at all. Six percent decrease in wages in the volume is a total of 329 million kuna, which is 130 million kuna less than a populist and pre-election project to share free textbooks with children against whom you are if I am not mistaken yourself. It's easy for me that Minister Primorac is behind your back. I find it a much bigger problem that his announcement of the distribution of free textbooks is contrary to the law that the minister himself proposed to this Parliament five months ago. I ask you an additional written answer because you do not answer the question at all because you do not know how you will punish the Minister of Primorac for the conduct of the opposite law, the behaviour of the opposite government policy and the behaviour of the contrary to the one established by the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-20-0.u32108	Thank you. It's Mrs. Dubravka Shuica's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-20-0.u32109	Mr. President, my question has been addressed to Minister Calmeti. We are witnessing large construction ventures in the area of Dubrovnik-Neretva County from the Pelješka bridge to the construction of the highway towards Ploča, and several weeks ago we also witnessed the opening of works and the signing of contracts on the section of the road from Dubrovnik to Dolima, i.e. according to Ploča. It's a 30-mile section. However, these days, in Dubrovnik's opposition, there are doubts about the existence of a building permit, documentation of all the necessary preconditions, so I would ask you, Mr. Minister, that through this response, Mr. Dubrovnik and the Croatian public through the parliamentary question, please answer what are the actual facts of the beginning of the work, the investment, the time of the construction and the stock, and then give a concrete answer when we from the Dubrovnik area will be able to reach Zagreb without a passport.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-20-0.u32110	Mr. Calmeta's reply.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-20-0.u32111	Thank you, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. So, in the last term of the government of Dr. Ivo Sanader and in this mandate, we have now built, opened 510 km of highway, and we have not started to build a single meter of highway without a building permit, and we have not put a single meter of highway into traffic without all the necessary papers, or a valid permit. Therefore, to say that we started the works on the highway from the knots Ossojnik to Dolly in the length of 30 km without a building permit it's ridiculous. So, the works started at the Ossier knot and we have a building permit for the Ossier knot. The local authorisation has established that this stock is built on stages which are legally and for all other stages as everything is prepared and how construction permits will be obtained will also be introduced into the business. So the answer to the first question is we have a building permit to build a highway from Ossovnik to Dolja, that is, for the knot of the Ossion on which the works are done. The deadline for building that highway, and you asked that, is 30 months. If we recalculate it, Dubrovnik will then be driven, and everyone else, somewhere in 2012 from Dubrovnik to Zagreb by highway. And since you asked me that, I would like to mention another very important thing, when it comes to the Dubrovnik area, which is one part of the 3.5km highway that Dubrovnik connects with the hinterland and the Dubrovnik coast, which allows for the expansion of the city to the west, which is a prerequisite for the further development of Dubrovnik. I want to say one more thing here, that we're going to be in the beginning of the 6th month, I guess by the first week we're going to let all four tunnel pipes into traffic, and here, as you can see, it's going to be after the election because what you're talking about now is still the election, there's still going to be a second round, so there's a whole lot of stuff coming out of it, and I'm not saying that I'm not going to use any more difficult words. It's all going its way. The highway is built with all the permits and we continue what is almost opened after the election. Here, that's why I'm announcing the first week of the 6th month of full profile traffic, that's all four tunnels, when I'm talking about Little Chapel and the Holy Rock.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-20-0.u32112	Thank you. Mrs. Dubravka Shuica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-20-0.u32113	Well, I am pleased with the answer, of course, but I would just like to point out here that it is a very important decision for you and the Prime Minister and, of course, the profession to start building this section from Dubrovnik to Ploča in order to join together and unite with the rest of Croatia as soon as possible and to bring the county that has broken up. And thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-20-0.u32114	Thank you. It's Mr. Representative Damir Caine's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-20-0.u32115	I want to ask either the Prime Minister or the Minister of Health and Social Welfare. In 1996, Mr. Jozo Škara, HDZ's Minister of Social Welfare changed for ideological reasons the name of the children's home in Pula, which until then adorned the name "Ruža Petrovic". Who was Rose Petrovic? The Petrovic rose was Istrian heroin. Unfortunately, by her own personal example, she probably wrote one of the most touching Istrian, ma and Croatian stories that we associate with NOB. She's got fascists in '44. years, how do I put it, live, don't get it, unearthed eyes. Since '45. Until '96. The children's home in Pula was named after that brave woman. That's what they call a sleazy home today. However, the Ministry of Health and Social Care recently refused to return that name to a children's home in Pula when it was recently, last week, although all conditions had been met. The professional council right now means home has made a positive statement in the return of the name, the County of Istria would finance it, but the ministry, because there, as the owner of the name, refuses to change, when, last week. It's a shame. Mr. Prime Minister who recently stated in Pula that he does not allow anyone to love Istria more than he does, I believe him. Why? Because from Istria to the state budget goes 12 billion kuna, the budget rebalances Istria was represented with only 67.3 million kuna. Don't yell! Well, then a man would ask himself how much he loves Zadar, Dubrovnik and something else. But let's let it go now. So at a time when the Ustasha term is re-provoked in one Bleiburg, a large number of Pula citizens, especially those 60% who are... /The speaker has been turned off and re-enabled./... Don't turn it off! He wants to correct the historical injustice from... /The speaker has been turned off, then re-enabled./... when the name Ruža Petrovic changed for ideological reasons. When will Mr. Prime Minister or Minister, no matter who answers me, bring me a warrant to do so? And I suggest right now.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-20-0.u32116	Thank you. Mr. Prime Minister, Ivo Sanader. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-20-0.u32117	I will answer the ministers because the political question is more than resolute. So like this, I'll answer directly. I'm for that name to come back because it's really, that I'm not repeating your words about a woman who deserves it. I also suggest that you be so generous in returning the name China Zagreb because Istria has no reason, nor Pula, to change the name of China Zagreb on behalf of an actress they say was Mussolini's mistress. And if you're so generously defending yourself that no Ustasha signs appear on Bleiburg, which the HDZ presidency condemned on Monday, then I'm asking you also to take the full truth about that lady. I'm not going to tell you the name, you and I know what it's called, which you've put your name on the so far Kino Zagreb and I'm sure the Istrians aren't in favour of running such a policy and saying in Pula we don't want to have a Kino Zagreb, but we want to have the name of an actress who they say was Mussolini's mistress. Let it be investigated. If true, at the same time it is necessary to remove that name and restore the name Kino Zagreb. And when it comes to Istria, why did I tell you in Pula at the rally, which was otherwise a great visit, but you of course won there, I congratulate you on that, why did I say that no one could love Istria more than I did? I've proven it in deeds, me and my government. No government has ever invested as much in Istria as this government has in this term and a half. Mr. Cain, that's true and that's the only truth. That's what our actions say, and you can say whatever you want and invite now back to the gathering like you did the other day.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-20-0.u32118	Mr. Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-20-0.u32119	Damir Cain was against a change in the name of China Zagreb. But that lady wasn't Mussolini's mistress, she was just haunted by his troops or what I know to say... We agree that NoB has identified us and defined us. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So without NOB, without Joseph Broz Tito, the Partizan movement of Istria, Zadar, Rijeka would never be in Croatia. And so much, I beg you, order the Minister to return the name of that home to that child's home immediately today. ... As far as I'm concerned, he can come back right now and also let's stop celebrating these memorials up in Bleiburg because it's nothing but... /The speaker's off, so turn it back on./... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] And what can I tell you, one army that didn't want to lay down a weapon, led by no one but Max Luburic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-20-0.u32120	It's Mrs. Mirela Holly's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-20-0.u32121	Dear Prime Minister, do you know what kind of activity Croatian Post Office is and did they do business with loss or gain?
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-20-0.u32122	Mrs. Holy, the answer to the question will be sent to you by a spokesman for such questions by Milorad Bibic Mosor.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-20-0.u32123	Mrs. Holly. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-20-0.u32124	Why such anxiety to the Prime Minister, since you were very gunned down at the last sessions because we're not asking you questions. Here, we've come to meet you, so we're asking you a question. And I will remind you that, among other things, Croatian mail should be engaged in the delivery of classical letters, postal shipments lighter than 100 grams, and by law, others must not do so urgently and in accordance with the directives of the European Union other than the Croatian Post Office. Should I tell you that in Croatia a private company is engaged in this activity and that now Croatian mail plans to buy this company... What's the logic of that transaction? [[The speech room is off, you can't hear it.]] I'll tell you what logic, HDZ logic, the logic of putting taxpayers' money in private pockets.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-20-0.u32125	Thank you. It's Mr. Representative Mato Bilnjic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-20-0.u32126	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, Prime Minister. I will ask my question to the Deputy Prime Minister Jadranki Kosor and Croatian Defence Minister. Madam Minister, we know that your ministry is making every effort to provide our Croatian defenders with housing. But does our defence ministry plan to build on places where military facilities are abandoned and one is in the town of Novi Gradiška. So we have space for our defenders to build apartments or houses. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-20-0.u32127	Mrs. Kosor, vice president. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-20-0.u32128	Thank you very much. Mr. President. Mr. Representative, thank you very much for asking questions and giving me the opportunity to inform Croatian defenders first and foremost, meaning Croatian wartime wartime people with disabilities and families of the dead, prisoners and missing persons who are entitled to housing under the law. You were well reminded that according to the 2006 government decision, it was decided that the Ministry of Defence was of course in cooperation with our ministry, meaning the Ministry of Family, Defence and Intergenerational Solidarity to prepare the area of land in the area of former military for the construction of apartments for Croatian defenders. So I'm going to repeat it for the disabled or the families of the dead and the prisoners and the missing because that's what it is. a target group for which we build apartments or which receive loans. And here, I want to inform you that there is just one big activity going on for the location of the Red House military warehouse in Sokin's care in Zadar. So that's where the construction of 65 apartments is being prepared. However, also at the location of the town of Kukari near Dubrovnik, former military Jamnak in Sibenik, former military station in Pula, but also possible construction at the location of a former military station in Split. We expect for this first location that in the following year and in 2011, it will be possible to solve it this way, only this way about a thousand 500 to 2,000 apartments for the needs of those who have suffered the most. Mr. Representatives, here's an opportunity and to say that our government means in the past term and to this day has settled 5 thousand 176 wartime invalids or families. So 5 thousand 176 people but we can, of course, speak first of all of the family's residential solution. That's what we've invested more than a billion and a half kuna on. What I always proudly and happyly point out is that we have settled all the 100 percent disabled first group, meaning 492 by building houses or specially adapted apartments that we have obtained and cars. So let me remind you, this isn't always a bad reminder because it's not too far past that the government before us meant no car before 2003 or 2004. They rejected that legal obligation that existed under the 2001 law, but also that the building of apartments was significantly halted. Therefore, here we expect the assignment of apartments to several locations soon, there will be a total of 156. The largest division is expected in Trogir 60 apartments. And what I can say is that it is preparing for construction at 644 locations in the Republic of Croatia. Of course, I also include these locations in the areas of the former military that we will use to turn a new page in the lives of Croatian defenders, to enable them to live a decent life by building apartments or granting loans. So, with this job we don't stop in spite of the difficult times to live in, but Croatian defenders have a priority here because I think we must in every way express our gratitude to these people and for the fact, and now I'm ending up, that here we are recently become a member of the NATO alliance. This is due to many of the most responsible Croatian defenders and first Croatian defenders, as well as the Government, the Parliament, etc. But they should always be highlighted in a special way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-20-0.u32129	Thank you. Mr. Mato Biljić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-20-0.u32130	Madam Vice President, I am pleased with the answer. And here's another thank you on behalf of all those defenders in Slavonia who have been settled and I remind you that there is one location in Novi Gradiška, an abandoned location from the former military station where it could be built for those defenders who have not yet been settled. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-20-0.u32131	Thank you. Mrs. Representative Gordana Sobol. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-20-0.u32132	Thank you. Mr. President. I'm giving the question to Mr. Prime Minister. Mr. Prime Minister, please tell the citizens of Croatia what anti-recession measures you have achieved.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-20-0.u32133	Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-20-0.u32134	I am not only thanking the citizens but also thanking the others, so the citizens who chose the Croatian Democratic Community, the Croatian Peasant Party, the Croatian Social Liberal Party, the SDSS, the HSU, our partners because they just confirmed on Sunday that we have brought good anti-recession measures and I call on them to give us their vote in the second election round, it is the best investment that the recession will leave Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-20-0.u32135	Thank you. Mrs. Gordana Sobol. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-20-0.u32136	Mr. Prime Minister, you haven't answered my question exactly this time. The question was simple and the answer was even simpler. The only measure this government has achieved from that famous package, 10 anti-recession measures, is budget rebalancing. And that still rebalances the budget... The budget rebalance, which is actually based on error because you insisted that the gross social product will fall by 2%, and today you admit that it will be 3% or 4%, you announce a new rebalancing and who knows how many more rebalancings. [[So hold the order, Mr. President.]] You told us somewhere at the beginning that we were getting ready for a quiz. We have, Mr. Prime Minister, prepared for a quiz and that quiz you're in right now to the Prime Minister shows the weakest link, and the weakest link doesn't play any further. Unfortunately, when we ask you specific questions, then you can see that it does not help demagogy, it does not help stories. It's a quiz that doesn't admit a mistake, either you know it or you don't know it. If you don't know, you're out, Mr. Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-20-0.u32137	Thank you. Ms. Representative Susana Bilić Vardić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-20-0.u32138	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Government, respected members of the government. My colleagues and colleagues. I refer the question to the vice-presidents of the Croatian government and the minister of the family, defenders and intergenerational solidarity, Mrs. Jadranki Kosor. The Honorable Deputy Prime Minister, on May 15th of this year, the school benches left 45 thousand graduates, members of three-year and four-year high school programmes. Only in my Brod-Posavina County high school academic year 2008/2009. 1448 students finished. As the vast majority of high school graduates, after passing the final exam, intend to enroll in colleges and high schools, my question, Madam Vice-President, reads: Will the cost of preparatory courses be financed for enrollment in academic 2009/2010. A year? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-20-0.u32139	Thank you. Mrs. Kosor, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-20-0.u32140	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Madam MPs, I thank you for the question because it comes at a certain time since they begin preparing of course for colleges or secondary schools. I'll say that we continue this year with the work we've started. The competition is now taking place, so all the resources to support students or students who should be further prepared are assigned exclusively through competitions. The competition was launched on May 4th and we will again this year mean allotted to an amount of 2000 kuna support for preparation for students and students. It's still, since the contest is going on, here's what I want to call all those who need it to get back to us. We did the same thing in the last year here, in the previous two years almost 400 children were supported, so students or students. These are the children of Croatian defenders. Of course, the children of the dead Croatian defenders, the missing, but also the children of the most difficult disabled, volunteers, etc. Therefore, this is one of the ways we want and here I can say with pleasure, we manage to compensate for the fact that on the basis of a constitutional lawsuit here a few years ago, unfortunately the constitutional complaint came from people who deal with science, so it was difficult to expect, but this constitutional suit ended one part of the law that the children of Croatian defenders were enrolling. It was, of course, not a direct entry, as it would say from the road, but they clearly had to meet the requirements as well. They were all excellent students, or students. However, we have compensated it with one agreement, and I would like to thank the universities with a rectorial assembly, but also with these preparatory actions, so that the better preparation for university enrollment, children of Croatian defenders to sign up, to finish and, of course, tomorrow be those who will be the head of major companies, who will be successful businessmen, scientists and trust politicians who will tomorrow believe to take over as members of the Parliament, the Government, the helm of the Croatian State. Here, Madam Representative, I believe you're pleased. And in the end, I call once again on all those who are interested in reporting to the Ministry of Family, Defence and intergenerational solidarity.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-20-0.u32141	Mrs. Susana Bilić Wardic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-20-0.u32142	Thank you. Madam Deputy Prime Minister, I am pleased with all of your response, as I believe they will be satisfied with those users who receive this scholarship, so these are current high school students, but hopefully future students. And praise and gratitude for everything you do for families or children of Croatian defenders, both you and the government of Dr. Ivo Sanader. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-20-0.u32143	Thank you very much. It is Mr. Representative Zoran Milanovic's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-20-0.u32144	Dear Mr. Sanader, Prime Minister. On 12th, 13th and 14th of this month, on several occasions at election meetings of HDZ in Knin, Sibenik, Zadar and Split, you said and reiterated that the SDP in the procedure sent a law proposing taxation of interest on the savings of citizens and that the opinion of the law came to the government. I ask you to tell us something about this law and tell us when the SDP sent such a law that, in times of crisis, as you say, requires new burdens for Croatian citizens, because we know little about it. Maybe you know more.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-20-0.u32145	Prime Minister Ivo Sanader. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-20-0.u32146	Mr. Representative Milanovic, I was responding to your colleagues perhaps in a shorter version than they expected because they had already prepared a written comment on what I was going to answer, so they knew what I was going to answer so they read all over the page. And the Parliament’s Rules of Procedure states whether you are satisfied or not is not satisfied with the answer and comment briefly. But let's just leave it to it. I answered them so because I knew what they had prepared, and I will answer you with today's Free Dalmatia. "The Flood of the Left in Dalmatia. HDZ is 158,000 votes, SDP 84 thousand votes." Let's move on like that. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-20-0.u32147	Thank you. Mr. Zoran Milanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-20-0.u32148	Dear colleague, I am pleased with your answer because it is exactly what I expected. That's one great answer, so either you don't know what's in the parliamentary procedure or you don't know what's going on in the country you're running. [[Applause.]] I will tell you, though, what law SDP has proposed and why there is no way that HDZ will accept it. It's the Bank's profit tax law, interest raise. So you said something and you repeated it several times that has absolutely nothing to do with the truth. Congratulations on the results in Split, Zagreb, Rijeka, Dubrovnik. They're so good and they'll be even better, and now I'm going to tell you in these 10 days of campaign that you're telling a little more truth, that you're not making up that SDP intends to end a religious teaching because that's not true, that you're not making up legal proposals that don't exist. And I ask you not to send your associates to Bleiburg where I was as personally as I was in Hard to give a drink to the victims and not give speeches that share this people, don't manipulate people... It's not true. [[You can't hear the speaker.]] That's not good. That's not how you run the country. Thank you, sir... [[You can't hear the speaker.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-20-0.u32149	It's nice to hear each other's congratulations. See how nice we know that is. That's nice to hear. And I'll remind you to keep congratulating each other on your successes. Thank you very much. Now it's Mr. Representative Zeljko Jovanovic's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-20-0.u32150	Thank you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. My question to the Prime Minister. How much money has Croatian patients been charged to date from healthcare participations?
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-20-0.u32151	Thank you. Mr. Prime Minister Ivo Sanader.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-20-0.u32152	Mr. Representative, all Croatian people must know what happened at Bleiburg and therefore it is good that it is, and therefore it is good that your president was at Bleiburg and therefore it is good that the Croatian Parliament remains a sponsor of that memorial. And it's not good that for a few, I have to separate myself, use your question, don't be angry because this. Because, Rules of Procedure, no one can tell me what I'm going to say to the counsel. I'm sorry, otherwise it would be another dictatorship of social democracy, the dictatorship of proletariats. Well, anyway, my answer to you is this. There was a terrible tragedy in Bleiburg, one of the greatest tragedies of the Croatian people. And everyone who goes there has to respect that. We condemn the Ustasha signs, but you cannot condemn Mr Milanovic to the speech of the president of the HDZ Club of Representatives who gave a good speech and who condemned Jasenovac, who condemned everything the Ustasha regime has done as a criminal regime. But I'll also take this opportunity and I'll say next. If you're going back to the past all the time, then you should say that you should judge those, you, that you should judge those who have committed crimes and set aside the anti-fascist movement by which we are the winner of World War II and... and the same kind of poverty where the terrible crimes of the communist regime were committed. [[You can't hear the speaker.]] All of this should be processed as they do if someone did in the Homeland War. Only criteria must apply equally to everyone.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-20-0.u32153	Mr. Jovanovic. Here you go, Mr. Jovanovic. Please! Here you go, Mr. Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-20-0.u32154	This is the kind of insult this House has not yet experienced. So, I haven't had one word to answer my question, and the prime minister has shown with a debt of pate to all the victims that Bleiburg is more important to him than Croatian sick people. Thank you, I ask that my time taken away from me by no one in the end prevent me from giving my comment to the end on this response that the Prime Minister insulted by the parliamentary representative and this Parliament. Besides, because of such a prime minister, Croatia is today small, expensive, inefficient, corrupt... Workers lose their jobs every day,... [[You can't hear the speaker.]] They don't get paid, the pensioners have 20 kn per day to survive. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Where then is the participation rather than the harbinger of the sick and the poor. Croatian health care has become unique in the world by reforming Mr. Milinovic's health – not to treat patients, but to patch up budget holes. Really Prime Minister, you're moving on, nothing... And I bring you red greetings from Rijeka where 60% of the citizens in the first round chose SDP Mayor Private Oberstnello. [[You can't hear the speaker.]] [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-20-0.u32155	If I may humblely join Mr. Oberstnel's congratulatory response especially. Thank you very much. Let's move on. The 18th is Ms. Representative Sunday's Klaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-20-0.u32156	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Croatian Prime Minister, representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues. I would like to refer my question to Minister Kalmeta, which refers to the maritime connection of the island, the Elafiti area, the water area of Dubrovnik as well as the islands of Prvic and Zlarin in the Sibenik area. Mr. Minister, we have been able to read in the papers lately how problems have been in the traffic connection of just these people living in this area, in these islands, so I would like to thank you for informing us what the Ministry of the Sea, Transport and Infrastructure is doing to address these difficulties of our citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-20-0.u32157	Thank you. Mr. Minister Calmeta.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-20-0.u32158	Thank you, Mr. President, Madam Representative, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. I haven't heard everything, but what I've heard will answer, so as far as Elafite and Elafita's connections are concerned, they're already well connected today to four lines a day. However, in order to improve this relationship, we have opened another competition for, introducing another line from June 1st to September 30th mainly for burdens to further unload these four lines connecting these islands to the mainland when it comes to passengers. In connection with Prvica and the island is relatively well connected to Vodice and Sibenik, but we have called another competition for the introduction of another additional line that will connect Prvic with Vodice, which will also take place sometime in the autumn. So before the school year starts. Now, there seems to be something else you asked, but I haven't heard. The island of Zlarin?
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-20-0.u32159	Mrs. Klaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-20-0.u32160	Thank you very much, Mr. Minister. Here, it is a great joy for the islanders who actually live in the area, on the island of Elafita, but I also especially thank you for the island of Prvic, mainly for Zlarinjane. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-20-0.u32161	Thank you. It's Mr. Representative Ranko Ostojić's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-20-0.u32162	The Honorable President of the Croatian Parliament, the honourable members of the government, the Honorable Prime Minister. My question is for Mr. Prime Minister. Do you have any idea how low the traffic in the store is in the first quarter of this year? You didn't hear, not because of me, but because of those who usually go to counsel on your side of the left. So I'll repeat the question. What's the drop in traffic in the store for the first quarter of this year?
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-20-0.u32163	Thank you. Here you are, Mr. Prime Minister Sanader.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-20-0.u32164	Perhaps someone will now say that on some local-patriot basis I answer to Agent Ostojić, specifically he fell about 15% to 16%, that's true. But I'm using the occasion since this is all in the election campaign to congratulate you on the good results in the first round, but I'm not sure you'll win the second round.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-20-0.u32165	Thank you. Here you go, sir. I'll stay.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-20-0.u32166	I'm partially satisfied with the prime minister's response. Especially in that part of the congratulatory because he still sees this as a pre-election part. I am convinced that your candidate will not pass in the second round in Split, and what is much more important, Mr. Prime Minister, I think you should be very concerned about the fact that such a decline of 17% in the retail trade shows two things. The decline of the standard of citizens, that's one thing. And another situation, and that's a discrepancy in this crisis situation. That means, that's the problem. For that reason, I think it's important. Mr. President of the Parliament, if you will allow me to answer. So what's very important is protecting our workers, protecting our stores, not stretching gas stations that are normally in the hands of foreigners. What's more important to me is that people are poor, so it's a sign of a fall in standards. It's what makes our families poor. So I'm going to ask you anyway to give me a proper reply, and for that other part, I don't need to give any written answer. We'll see him 31.5. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-20-0.u32167	Thank you very much. It's Mr. Representative Tomislav Ivić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-20-0.u32168	Thank you very much, Mr. President, dear Prime Minister and members of the government. I refer my question to the respected Mr. Defence Minister, Mr. Vukelic. Minister, the question is what is the Ministry of Defence doing on greater involvement of the domestic industry in the equipment of the Croatian Armed Forces?
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-20-0.u32169	Thank you. Mr. Minister Vukelic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-20-0.u32170	Thank you, dear President of the Croatian Parliament. Well, this question probably didn't come by chance today because in the past few months, very good times happened when it came to the Croatian economy and the equipment of Croatian Armed Forces. The foundations of the programme in the Croatian government, the past and these present ones are encouraging, supporting the Croatian economy, primarily aimed at industry and industrial production. Most often when we talk about this industry, we attach ourselves to a project that is already under way and which is extremely large and important, which is the production of combat armored vehicles, 126 of them in Đura Djakovic, which also provides a job worth about a billion and 400 million kuna for the company, clearly and partner of Finnish, but also provides jobs. At the same time, Đura Djakovic has been conducting several years of modernising the M84 tank, which should also define the needs of our armed forces for the team... It also provides jobs. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But what has happened in the past few months are contracts signed with Croatian companies when it comes to the equipment of Croatian soldiers, so Croatian Armed Forces. First of all, it is a great success in gathering Croatian consortium, Croatian companies, 14 of them from the textile area that they offered and agreed with the MORH equipment of the Croatian Army with Croatian uniforms. Why do I speak Croatian? Because this is therefore a complete product in Croatia and what is particularly important, very competitive and cheaper and less cost for Armed Forces, and a better quality product will be produced in Croatia. A few days ago, we signed a contract with HS product from Karlovac for the production of Croatian assault rifles. It is a very demanding technological job that has managed to do exactly the Croatian company, the Croatian company. This job that is worth 1,000 assault rifles somewhere less than 11 million kunas is a big job that will take place next year in the equipment of the Armed Forces of Croatia. We also have a big job in front of us to arrange coastal patrol ships. The competition's getting ready. They'll be out soon. It is clear, we expect and we are convinced that the Croatian shipyard, one or more of them, will receive the job, that the production of coastal patrol ships for the needs of the Coast Guard will take place, so in Croatia with the Croatian product. So, the chance for the Croatian economy and industry and industrial production is this project of equipment and modernisation of the Armed Forces. The preconditions for this were created. It is a Croatian government policy that is turning towards the Croatian industry and production. And secondly, that we have quality Croatian producers. We believe in them. We have them. I will visit, Shestan-Busch who is wearing a helmet, not only equipment of the Croatian Army, but is an export product around the world, the assault rifle we believe will be highly export potential. We also believe in other products such as uniforms already placed on other Croatian markets. Therefore, these are products that are not only Croatian, they are extremely quality, they are competitive, they are at the top of the quality of world products that exist on the market. Therefore, it is the path that Croatia is going and which the Croatian government has drawn and implements through these very projects of equipment of the Armed Forces. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-20-0.u32171	Thank you. Mr Tomislav Ivić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-20-0.u32172	Thank you very much, Mr. Minister, for this exhaustive response.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-20-0.u32173	Thank you. Mr. Representative Stjepan Kundić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-20-0.u32174	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Prime Minister, Minister, colleagues and colleagues. My question is managed by the Minister of Health and Social Care, Dr. Milinovic. In fact, the basic fact is that taxpayers annually cost about 3 billion kunas. Mr. Minister, I was lucky after 32 years of internships that I wasn't one day sick but I guess that's about luck. But now let's leave our luck alone. I am asking you in addition to the quality indicators in this health reform that you started and which my colleague Milinovic praised is what strategy is, or what is the approach to rationalising the cost reduction that you have also announced regarding this illness? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-20-0.u32175	Thank you. Mr. Minister Milinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-20-0.u32176	Thank you. Mr. President. Well, a year ago today, the top of living in the Republic of Croatia was 4.2%, which is at an annual level if we were to talk about finances somewhere around 3 billion kuna. It was one signal lamp that the Croatian Institute of Health Insurance and the Ministry of Health did little to control these diseases and in a year we reduced the rate of sick leave from 4.2 to 3.8. If we mention that last year we lost 20 million working days and that out of these 3 billion kuna costs about half on contributions, half on entrepreneurs was unsustainable. We went into increased control, reduced the rate of sick leave and saved about 500 million kunas of the state budget. We continued to continue this year and we reduced from 3.9 rates of sick leave to 3.7, so for an additional 300, actually 83 million kuna, but all in order to protect the really sick and in some way to protect against the state budget from these increased costs of unwarranted illnesses. So, let's keep going with the controls of unwarranted illnesses, and once again I say to protect actual illnesses. As for the reform of the health system, Mr. Zeljko Jovanovic said something about it, he was in Rijeka when I talked about reforming the health system ten days ago about the results. One 300-400 people in the red river as he says, I congratulate on the election results, clapped and supported the first results of the health system reform. So when it conveys greetings to the Prime Minister from the Red River, I want to convey my greetings from Gospić 83%, but it is not a great city for the SDP, such as Varazdin, Zelin, Zaprešić, Knin, Zupanja, Vinkovci, Gospić, Zadar, Virovica, Bjelovar, and Karlovac, and Krapina, and Otokec, nor Senj, or Novalja. I guess that's where the citizens of the second row live, these are just part of the cities that the Croatian Democratic Community, a community with these coalition partners, and I guess that doesn't apply to the SDP because we're some other Croatia. We are all one Croatia and here, Mr. Prime Minister, I welcome you from these cities where we won the coalition partners. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-20-0.u32177	It's rare to hear a single round of applause. Thanks for that, too. Let's move on. Mr. Stjepan Kundić.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-20-0.u32178	Mr. Minister, I am very pleased with your response and your strong energy that you have shown in this health reform and the elections as well. But what you've been through through this reform hasn't missed me. You have always stressed that there is an individual’s responsibility to his health that he too must be extremely responsible for both health and health. I think we're a little thin here. So here I am again, and I thank you for the perseverance you're doing your job with.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-20-0.u32179	Thank you. It's Mr Davorko Vidovic's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-20-0.u32180	Mr. Prime Minister, I apologize in advance if I'm going to cut you up and upset you with one simple question. Namely, do you know how much money is needed for a pension consumer basket and how many days can you live from that basket in Croatia?
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-20-0.u32181	Thank you. Mr. Prime Minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-20-0.u32182	Thank you very much, Mr. Representative. I am extremely pleased that you asked me that question and that apostrophe of the retirement group of Croatian citizens was first of all because this government is and you will admit it to the debt of the pensioners that you, while you were minister, denied that it even existed. Therefore, Croatian citizens and in Sisak must know, and therefore, in the second round of elections, give their voice to Pintaric, the party who paid back the pensioners the debt.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-20-0.u32183	Thank you. Mr Davorko Vidovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-20-0.u32184	Well, I'm not as unhappy with the answer as I'm a little sad, but what we can do, that's it. What Mr. Prime Minister you don't know I know and anyone can look at. Namely, this retirement cart is 3 thousand 574 kuna and a union basket for the family is 6 thousand 600. Compared to the average salary, this is about 56% of the average salary. Two pensioners from Sisak you mention Mr. Prime Minister gave me a calendar to show you, it's neither July nor Gregorian, it's so-called. Sanader's calendar. According to that pensioner calendar today, with an average pension ended May and all these days that were crossed, in those days the pensioner teeth about the wedge. Here, that's an opportunity to answer the question clearly that you can study as Prime Minister what you do.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-20-0.u32185	Thank you. It's Mr. Krešimir Cosic's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-20-0.u32186	Your Honor, Mr. President. I refer the question to the vice-president of the Croatian government, Mrs Adlesic. Dear Madam Vice-President, full membership of the Republic of Croatia in NATO provides new business opportunities for the Croatian economy. This is particularly important today under the conditions of the global economic and financial crisis, the conditions of recession, the opening of new market niche in the defence and security sector offered by NATO membership is an opportunity for Croatian companies, for new jobs, for the growth of our exports and for the balance of our trade balance. Croatian exporters therefore get a new big opportunity. Can you say the respected Vice-President that the Government of the Republic of Croatia is specifically taking on such opportunities as perspectives of stronger economic growth that bring full membership to NATO. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-20-0.u32187	Thank you. Vice-President Djurdja Adlesic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-20-0.u32188	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Thank you very much, Your Honor. I'm glad you asked that question because the fact that Croatia's membership in NATO is still looking much less from a safe point of view, and the one that we have not yet been able to use significantly, is this economic, all economic opportunities that are now opening up in Croatia, above all in the markets of NATO countries, but also in the countries where our missions are located. According to estimates of NATO expert services, Croatia is assumed to be able to withdraw around 40m euros in various jobs, and this is indeed not unrealistic, because our goal is to reach Hungary, which has realised around 140m euros. The government did not wait unprepared and we organised a working group in which representatives are other than the ministry and the Croatian Chamber of Commerce. The first competitions are already open, they've arrived at the Department of Defense and I believe by the end of the year they'll be the first to be realised. This is of course at this time of recession when the most affected is the building, infrastructure, a very important and great opportunity. Thanks again.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-20-0.u32189	Thank you very much for your response. I'd say next. It is certain that this topic deserves special attention for a number of reasons, economic, security, foreign policy. And I am sure that we will do what is in the interest of the Republic of Croatia and the Croatian economy with our joint efforts in this important segment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-20-0.u32190	Thank you. It's Ms. Nevenka Marinovic's turn.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-20-0.u32191	Thank you, dear President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Prime Minister, members of the government, colleagues and colleagues. I refer the question to the Minister of Agriculture, Fisheries and Rural Development, Mr Pankretić. In the last two weeks, we have been familiar with the fact that there has been a temporary ban on the purchase of milk for about 1100 cooperatives. We know that in this sector of agriculture, the Government of the Republic of Croatia systematically, through operational programmes, has invested considerable financial resources, and the results of these investments are both respectable quantities, but also the quality of milk. Can you tell us, Mr. Minister, why there was a ban on buying milk and what the ministry has taken on this issue, but what is the situation in this sector of agriculture today? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-20-0.u32192	Thank you. Mr. Pankretic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-20-0.u32193	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Your Honor, Madam Representative, I must stress that the ban is no longer in force because last week, in a conversation with our milkmen, we came to a solution to the problem. I would say that we were surprised too when farmers informed us about the ban that happened and the non-fatal milk, but I must say that we were first surprised that there was a Council in the ministry that included both dairy and producers, of course we from the Ministry have no need, at least not for now, and we always solved all the problems on the Council. This time unfortunately it didn't happen, so we had to intervene in another way, call all the milkies, and I have to stop, come to a joint agreement on the purchase of milk. I can repeat what I have already pointed out, all quantities of milk will be bought. And again, I stress, it is extremely important for us to have a competitive dairy sector because we know that the dairy sector and the total livestock production are one of the pillars of the total agricultural production. We have reached an agreement in a way that we go to intervene in part of the dairy production in a way that we have agreed with the milkmen to make all the milkmen they have, and we must admit, realistically, a lot of large supplies given the hyperproduction in our environment, that we will convert that excess milk into powdered milk and butter, which will be co-financed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia through the Ministry of Agriculture with 40 million kuna, with the agreement that all the quantities of milk offered will be bought, so that we continue to seek to increase production. And I can only say that by the month of April the ransom was increased by 6% compared to last year. Trend is good and we must protect our production, but also help at this difficult moment in the dairy industry. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-20-0.u32194	Thank you. Mrs. Nevenka Marinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-20-0.u32195	Here, I'm pleased with the answer, Mr. Secretary. However, here you have already said, it is good to follow this segment at any moment because it deserves great attention and not only because I have stated that large financial resources have been invested and we know what we want in this segment, but because this sector depends on more than 50,000 people, which means producers and their families, which is co-operatives, suppliers, but also others. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-20-0.u32196	Thank you. Mr. Representative Ivan Bagarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-20-0.u32197	Mr. President. Allow me, unlike a number of questions from my colleagues from the SDP who are truly a purpose to themselves and for the cheapest of promotions, I would ask one question, I dare say of the first-class national interest. Mr. President of the Croatian Government, you are one of those who returned at the invitation of the first Croatian president before the war in Croatia and have become, for God's sake, the most successful prime minister in Croatia's history. I would ask you, let me ask you a question relating to the relationship between Croatia and Croats in the world, based on the constitutional commitment of the Republic of Croatia, but also in terms of the new circumstances in which the Croatian Republic has been in recent times, given that Croatia is a member of NATO, that tomorrow Croatia is a member of the European Union and in view of globalisation and all of those processes that are going and when actually distances become relative and when actually communication between people and ends in the world is really relative. Mr. President, Croatia has the most beautiful sea, clean water, unpolluted soil. Croatia has the most valuable wealth in its people, these in Croatia and those living in the world. Croatians in the world are the first-class interest of the Republic of Croatia, regardless of their generational identity and time of emigration, forms, phenomena, so whether they are Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina who are a special entity or a Croatian national minority, or that distant diaspora, regardless of their economic power, whether or not they are Croatian citizens. It is important that they have a sense of belonging to the Croatian people. Whether the Government of the Republic of Croatia, Mr. President, will adopt an announced strategy and a law that will systematically regulate and improve Croatia's and Croats' relationship in the world, I would say in light of new circumstances, so in the context of both information and economic cooperation, cultural, preservation of national identity, etc.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-20-0.u32198	Thank you. Prime Minister, Mr. Ivo Sanader. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-20-0.u32199	Thank you, Mr. Representative, for this matter. First of all, it should be said that the establishment of a sovereign Republic of Croatia after the first multilateral elections in April 1990s was an expression of the natural will of the Croatian people to have its own state that would be equal, internationally recognised with all other countries in the world. What we often forget is that even in the creation of an independent Croatian state, Croatians, members of Croatian peoples and other citizens and then in the defence of Croatia, Croatians and Croatian citizens living in Croatia were involved, but that many Croats outside Croatia participated in the creation of Croatia and its defence. I will also say on this occasion that we have three groups of Croats outside Croatia. We've got a so-called. We call the Croatian diaspora, which, therefore, emigrated Croats temporarily or permanently living in European and overseas countries. We have indigenous Croatian minorities living in Serbia, Hungary, Romania, Slovakia, the Czech Republic, etc. And we have a constituent sovereign equal people of Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina whose country it is. Therefore, these three groups of Croatian peoples all three participated in the creation of the Croatian state. And the least we can do is make one strategy, and I announce it today on this current morning, to make one strategy even more effective help and interaction between Croatia, between the Republic of Croatia and the Croatian people living outside Croatia. We are one people, we are an indivisible people who live in many countries, but we are one people. And that's why our policy and I hope to have the support of our colleagues on the left. I hope and want to firmly believe that the politics of every Croatian state government will make sure that all these Croats are an indivisible part and an integral part of the Croatian people regardless of what countries they have lived in, that they have all helped establish a sovereign and independent Republic of Croatia, that they have all helped defend Croatia and that there will be no one left to ask tomorrow for them to lose their right to vote, that they cannot vote in Croatia because they do not pay taxes, etc. That may be some misunderstandings. Maybe people don't understand enough reasons, but this is the truth. The truth is that this, this Republic of Croatia was and is the result of a joint effort, a joint effort by Croats in Croatia and Croats outside Croatia. And that is why Croatian state power and we will do so in this mandate, we will bring a strategy based on the Croatian Constitution, which will be based on the positive documents of international institutions primarily of the United Nations, but also on the Council of Europe and the European Union. It is the least we can do for Croats outside Croatia. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-20-0.u32200	Thank you. 25 of the MPs asked a question. What? Ah, here you go, Mr. Bagaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-20-0.u32201	Thank you, Mr. President. As chairman of the Croatian Committee outside the Republic of Croatia, I want to show my satisfaction with your answer. I believe that I share this pleasure with all my colleagues and colleagues regardless of party membership in this Assembly hall and of course share my opinion with you that Croatia is indeed the crown of the efforts of all Croats no matter where they live. We are aware that we cannot stretch all the seas and oceans so that all the precious stones can be picked up around the world and return the crown to which it belongs. But we believe that this strategy and I believe the law that will follow will actually contribute to making Croatia's institutions in an even more effective way to establish a relationship between Croatia and Croats in the world. Thank you very much again.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-20-0.u32202	Thank you very much. We're past 25, we still have 15 questions left. We could take a break by 12:00. We continue to ask questions. The first is Mr. Representative Miljenko Doric, then Tonino Picula, Ms. Vice President Antunovic and so on. By twelve o'clock, then. Gentlemen, here's another notice before the sequel. The chairman of the Committee on Education, Science and Culture, Mr. Petar Selem, scheduled a session at Stjepan Radić's Hall 133 on the first floor at 14 pm today. We're going to go ask a lot of parliamentary questions. It's Mr. Representative Miljenko Doric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-20-0.u32204	Thank you, Mr. President. I would like to refer my question to the minister of justice of the Republic of Croatia, Dr. Shimonovic, and I would like to suggest that we wait a few minutes until the minister returns to the hall. Mr. Minister, the Republic of Croatia has issued international warrants for a large number of war crimes suspects. In over 60 cases, Interpol located the suspects. I have information that 16 are located in the Member States of the European Union, 19 in other European countries and 33 on other continents. In 12 cases extradition was refused because these persons have the nationality of the countries in which they were located. In 3 cases, execution was refused for other reasons. In 15 cases, the justice ministry has still made requests for extradition and legal proceedings are under way. Unfortunately, Mr. Minister, what I've come across is the fact that in 40% of the cases where the suspects were located by Interpol, our Ministry of Justice has not responded at all, although it has been informed of the arrest, of the arrest or the location. I'm even saying it again, and when it was the red warrants, when those people were in... custody, the Justice Department hasn't responded. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] There are other cases, vice versa, when other European countries are investigating international warrants for our citizens. Such cases have been over 180, and some of these individuals have committed very serious crimes. I understand that the Republic of Croatia cannot extradite, but unfortunately we do nothing to answer for the crimes committed by principle or extradition or court. Mr. Minister, what kind of legal state are we?
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-20-0.u32205	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister Ivan Shimonović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-20-0.u32206	Thank you, Mr. President. Your Honor, Mr. Representative, we are such a legal state in which you make such unverified claims and do not address the Ministry of Justice, obviously not wanting to solve something too much, but with the need to make unverified data sensations. I warmly welcome you to compare the data. According to everything I've got, your data is very incorrect. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-20-0.u32207	Thank you. Mr. Miljenko Doric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-20-0.u32208	In preparation for a report, Mr. Minister for the Council of Europe, I spoke to your ministry and got nothing. That they don't know how many suspects are in other countries, where they're located, they don't know anything. The data has been very verified, Mr. Minister, and I will be very happy to have coffee with you and show you all the information.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-20-0.u32209	Thank you. Mr. Agent Tonino Picula. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-20-0.u32210	Thank you very much, Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues. I'd like to refer my question to the Prime Minister, Mr. Ivy Sanader. I believe we will agree, Mr. Prime Minister, that for the health of the national economy, it is equally difficult for all of the three monsters. Unemployment, black work and work that doesn't pay. You don't know what's a worse monster for the health of the national economy. Tell me, is this the moment you're familiar with how many workers are leaving for work without getting paid for it? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-20-0.u32211	Thank you. Ivo Sanader.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-20-0.u32212	Mr. Representative, I'm extremely pleased, your concern for the workers and... The Croatian government will do everything in times of crisis. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Not just in public and state services where we can say something, but where entrepreneurs are. So, when it comes to the Croatian Association of Employers and those who are not in that association, they may be used by the crisis that is there, which shakes the world, which shakes Europe in order to maybe make some moves that will then justify the crisis. And in that sense, it means firing some people that they might have thought to fire and that there was no crisis. And in that sense, we'll do everything we can. What can we do? We can do this to talk to the Croatian Employers' Association, to talk to other entrepreneurs, to invite them to fight with us at these times for every job. So it's a serious problem that the government can't do with some kind of regulation, because executive power can't, it would be direct state interventionism. We cannot interfere with free entrepreneurship, but we can appeal, through social dialogue, through tripartism in Croatia, we can sensitise employers not to use the crisis to fire workers, but to use some other measures, and we work together on these measures. So, you can cut the week's work, you can find some other measures. And in that sense, the government is doing everything and will continue to fight in this situation primarily for every job and this remains our key priority.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-20-0.u32213	Thank you. Mr. Picula. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-20-0.u32214	Thank you very much for your response, Mr. Prime Minister. Let's start with facts. More than 50,000 people are going to work today without, of course, getting any compensation for their work. It should be multiplied by the number of people who make up and families of those people who do not receive any compensation. However, the indifference that causes such a situation is also hidden in the non-payment of the state. And in this, according to the information I have, the front of the state-owned companies, public-owned companies, Croatian highways, INAs, Croatian railways and others. And they generate what we can also call a supplemental incentive to not pay workers for the job done, because unless the state pays services to private companies that hire, they will, of course, put people who work and do not receive pay. Perhaps the exit is part of accepting the SDP proposal, which was sent to the Croatian Parliament several months ago, and equalising non-payment, pays with a criminal act. I'd like you to think about it.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-20-0.u32215	Thank you. Ms. MP and Vice-President Zeljka Antunovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-20-0.u32216	Thank you very much. I refer my question to the Prime Minister and I would like to ask a brief and accurate answer. Do you know how many citizens in Croatia are out of work every day?
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-20-0.u32217	Thank you. Mr. Prime Minister Sanader.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-20-0.u32218	I know Mrs Antunović, much less than your colleague, Picula, said earlier because those figures he's given are simply not accurate, and we're getting accurate information and they're public. So if you do not read the media or watch what the Croatian Employment Service says, then we will give you a very gladly written answer. That's daily information. We are fighting in this situation a lot more countries that are much stronger, have much stronger economies have much bigger and more serious problems when it comes to keeping jobs and when it comes to how they deal with this crisis at all. But when you asked that question and asked for a brief answer, let me disobey you, and I will give you a slightly longer answer. The International Monetary Fund was here on a mission for two weeks, analyzed all state institutions, was in all ministries, talked to all relevant factors, social partners and most people expected to give criticism to the government, that's what you're trying to do this morning through your issues and run an election campaign. I understand that, and I expect you to agree that maybe next week it's not the election campaign in the Parliament, but the cities where it's in the second round and in the counties where the second round is. What did the International Monetary Fund say at the end of his two-week mission? He said that the Croatian government, I quote, is good at boating through this crisis and that it is good at leading and steering Croatia's ship, the Croatian state through this crisis. That's my answer. So, I did not quote anyone from the government, I quoted an independent international institution that, after two weeks of very deep analysis, would have said in the economic dictionary "due diligence" of the current Croatian economic situation gave a positive assessment to the government. And when someone we often call on says so, so let the IMF come here, let the IMF run us an economic policy here's what the IMF said. And when Minister Schuker and the governor of the Croatian National Bank were in Washington at the IMF Annual Assembly, they heard the same words. I'm satisfied with those words. I'm not satisfied with the situation because we need to get out of this crisis and we need to keep as many jobs as possible, and that will be our key task as I told my colleagues Piculi a little while ago in the coming time.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-20-0.u32219	Mrs. Antunović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-20-0.u32220	Unfortunately, you haven't answered my question, but you've already referred me to statistics that are obviously not your strong suit. Well, the statistics say the following. There are 426 workers out of work daily in Croatia, which is 12,000 809 workers per month. A little abstract information perhaps for those of you who don't know because you're not strong in statistics so it's clearer. It is approximately the size of a city of Trogir that has 12 thousand 622 inhabitants or more than the city of Gareshnica, which has 11 thousand 552 inhabitants. Perhaps these figures will confront you with the need to do something because you have done nothing for these unemployed. There have been many greetings today from the left and right side of the blue and red and I will refrain from saying hello to you from 265,000 unemployed and one 800,000 members of their families who most likely did not go to elections because unfortunately they struggle and struggle with how they will survive.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-20-0.u32221	It should have some authority to transmit such messages, to be based on some legal formulations, as otherwise others can. It is up to Madam Representative Marija Pejcinović Buric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-20-0.u32222	Thank you very much. Mr. President. I would like to refer my question to the Minister of Foreign Affairs and European Integrations Mr Jandrokovic, and before that I would like to take the opportunity to congratulate the Prime Minister and the Croatian Government on meeting one of the very important foreign policy objectives in the Republic of Croatia since this is the first session of the Parliament in plenary, so on NATO membership. My question concerns the second foreign policy objective, which is Croatia's membership in the European Union. In fact, all those involved in this work know that it is a big and comprehensive job and somehow it all comes down to one question in public and that is the question of the Slovenian blockade. Given that it is important to work on this job continuously, I would be interested and I would like to hear from the minister what is actually done at the moment in the government, how preparations for membership in the European Union are going, or preparations for the final phase of the negotiations, as intergovernmental conferences come to an end when the work is done. I am sure that the Croatian public is extremely interested in what is currently being done on all these open chapters, which should be opened or temporarily closed if there is more work in them.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-20-0.u32223	Thank you. Mr. Minister Jandrokovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-20-0.u32224	Thank you. Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Your Honor, Madam Representative. The truth is that after the accession of the Republic of Croatia to NATO, we are turning to achieving our second foreign policy priority, which is the entry of the Republic of Croatia into the European Union. Indeed, accession negotiations with the European Union have entered the final stage, and we believe that by the end of 2009 we will be able to conclude negotiations and arrive at the very door of Croatia's full membership in the European Union. These are not only our assessments, it was recently said by Commissioner Rehn, and many fellow ministers from EU member states say that they believe Croatia has done enough and will do what is necessary to complete the negotiations by the end of this year and in line with the map of the road presented by the European Commission by the end of 2009. A total of 22 chapters have been opened so far and 7 chapters have been closed. However, the Republic of Croatia is ready to open another 9 chapters and close an additional 3 and so on with a chapter – Statistics that is also just before the end of the ready for closure, 4 which would mean that there is no Slovenian blockade Croatia would have 31 chapters open today and 11 chapters closed, respectively. However, such statistics are not the reason for our inaction, Croatian weaknesses. This kind of statistics that we have today is only caused by a Slovenian blockade which, as I said, I believe that we will still succeed in the near future is solved and open the door to finish negotiations by the end of this year. I would also remind myself that two intergovernmental conferences were postponed during the Czech Presidency. The following was announced for June, the end of June of this year. The assessment was that the issue of the Slovenian blockade would be resolved by then, and then Croatia would successfully realise everything that was drawn out during the completion of the Czech presidency and throughout the Swedish presidency. Croatia will also have the opportunity very soon, we believe, to open two remaining chapters. That's Chapter 23. Justice and fundamental human rights and a competition where in the final phase the issue of shipbuilding, the privatisation of our shipyards is resolved. We expect the European Commission's response to our latest proposal, when it comes to Chapter 8. When it comes to Chapter 23, we have met all the criteria for the opening of the chapter, however, because of certain issues related to the delivery of documentation to The Hague Court, there are still some reserves of some member states, but we believe that, after the report by Chief Prosecutor Brammertz, there will still be a shift and that Croatia will then open this chapter. As far as closing is concerned, I would like to inform you that, in addition to these chapters closed or in which Croatia has done everything necessary for closure, we expect by the end of the Czech Presidency that we will have prepared the documentation for closing six more chapters, which means that we would have either closed or completely on the Croatian side ready to close until the end of the Czech presidency of a total of 17 chapters. So we did a huge job. We continue with reforms and it is quite certain that the blockade by the Republic of Slovenia will not stop us or we will be less motivated to implement the reforms needed on the internal agenda. In short, as far as the Slovenian blockade is concerned, I think we all know enough about it already. Negotiations lasted months. We came after these exhausting negotiations to this final compromise proposal by Commissioner Rehn, Croatia, although I say this proposal is a compromise but we have decided that since it was offered by principle take or leave...
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-20-0.u32225	Thank you. Finish it, Minister!
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-20-0.u32226	Accept that proposal. We also expect the Slovenian side to accept it, regardless of these proposed amendments. I also expect a conversation that will be next week. On the Croatian side, I would like to say that we have accepted this proposal, we do not agree to any amendments to this proposal. If the Slovenian side considers that it does not satisfy their interests, we believe that they should quickly unblock the negotiations and allow Croatia to complete the negotiations according to the planned plan. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-20-0.u32227	Thank you. Ms. Marija Pejcinović-Buric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-20-0.u32228	Thank you very much. Well, this is very encouraging what you said. To be honest, I was hoping, knowing our negotiating team and the people who work in the government, that's how it's gonna work. I think it is important because of the substance of the job, that it is important for ourselves, but it is also important because of the message to the Member States, since the Swedish Presidency also announces great support for us, that Commissioner Rehn also has full confidence in our negotiating capacity and reform capacity. I could just say I'm satisfied with this answer and keep doing it like that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-20-0.u32229	Thank you. Mr. Representative Zdravko Kelić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-20-0.u32230	Thank you, Mr. President. My question will go to Minister Pancretic. On Forbes's list of ecologically pure countries, Croatia is located 20th. It is a very high place and it certainly opens new spaces for a particular production that is taking up more and more places in the world and becoming more attractive. In such a difficult economic crisis that has affected the whole world, more and more producers are turning to this production in Croatia. Mr. Minister, do you see a chance in this production and can a certain quality and better and greater production be launched in Croatia as well?
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-20-0.u32231	Thank you. Mr. Pankretic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-20-0.u32232	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I thank you, Mr. Representative. I think this is an opportunity for several ecological production sentences to be sent to the Croatian public and I completely agree with you that organic production in agriculture is certainly a chance for Croatia. And I think that we all, especially here in this current hour, need to take advantage of the opportunity to affirm organic production because we need to know that just five, six years ago this organic agricultural production took up 50 hectares of agricultural land in Croatia, and that today we can say that it is more than 10,000 hectares of organic production. I'll also point out, five, six years ago, we had about a hundred ecological producers and today we can boast about the number of 632 organic producers. For the first time this year, they were at Biofach, meaning at an international exhibition of organic products, they got good results. We supported them here. As you are sure to know, organic production in the ministry is given 30% more than conventional production. That's what we give the most direct, and so I'm going to point out that in the last year, we've given over 12 million kunas in cattle production of nearly 6 million kunas...
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-20-0.u32233	Finish it, Minister! Lock it down. You can conclude the answer because it's past time.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-20-0.u32234	There he is. And I have to say that in that part, it's a little bit past time, but I'm going to quickly conclude it, I'm going to continue to support that organic production, and I think these measures are something that gives our organic production a chance, especially what you said yourself, about our potentials that we have. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-20-0.u32235	Thank you. Mr. Zdravko Kelić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-20-0.u32236	I'm glad, Mr. Minister, that you recognized this production and that you felt a moment when you needed more investment in it because it's a chance for all those who can hardly find a market for their products today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-20-0.u32237	Thank you very much. Let's move on. Mr. Representative Zlatko Koračević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-20-0.u32238	Thank you very much. My question is to the Deputy Prime Minister, Mr. Polancec. In fact, it is common knowledge that the government's task is to create quality conditions for the development of the economy. Deputy Prime Minister, as a man of numbers, as a proven expert in many projects, so Mr. Vice President, do you have a strategic assessment of how long will you completely deprive the Croatian economy, not to say destroy?
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-20-0.u32239	Thank you. Mr. Polancec, Deputy Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-20-0.u32240	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Your Honor, Mr. Representative, the most concrete, correct answer to this question I would not have, and then I should sit down. But I will not do that, but I will tell you that this government is aware of the situation in which the Croatian national economy is located, and above all because of the consequences that our national economy is reflected, the consequence of the global economic, economic crisis this Croatian government is aware of these situations, these circumstances are taking steps to create conditions in which the Croatian national economy can function and can develop. I'll only remind you of some of the measures we've taken so far. One of the most significant measures is certainly the rebalancing of the state budget, which, with over 5 and a half million kuna, we cut the expenditure side of the budget with the aim of financing our commitments as easily and as easy as possible to influence liquidity. I must say that, for the development of especially small and medium-sized enterprises in Croatia, craftsmen are of great importance to the liquidity of HBOR, and I note, therefore, that we have managed to close down most of the funding sources for HBOR so far. With great pleasure, I must also inform you that the admission of the euro of bonds issued by the Ministry of Finance, i.e. the Government of the Republic of Croatia, is going well throughout Europe at this moment, and that we will be one of the few governments, one of the few countries today in Europe, which will successfully complete the issue of euro bonds with the aim of ensuring therefore the resources for normal functioning of the state. In every public firm, so-called. a public firm on a weekly basis, so my associates and I are sitting with the leadership of these companies, with the administrations of these companies, and we are therefore trying to bring ourselves into a situation on the one hand by cutting costs on the other hand by obtaining new loans, to bring ourselves into a situation to meet that anti-recession measure that by the end of the year we will carry out our commitments in public enterprises within 60 days. A new Law on the issue of all necessary permits for investors has been passed, not only those large, but those with investments below 10m euros and all permits are granted and will actually be obtained under a new law within 45 days. Dear Mr. Representative, on a weekly basis, my International Economic Relations Administration is reporting to me about what other governments of other countries are taking, which is taken by economy ministers in other countries and believe that when I compare it with what we have done so far, and the results obtained by it cannot be as dissatisfied as we can of course not be satisfied with the fact that the global economic crisis is, above all, growing unfortunately and unemployment in Croatia. But speaking of unemployment, seven, eight years back unemployment in Croatia was 400,000 unemployed. Today we heard 265, not 263,000. And I believe that by the end of the term of office of this government, the objective of the polling unemployment rate will be 7% on average at year level. And I am convinced that it is possible to achieve this as I see the first signs of getting out of the crisis based on information that I get primarily from steel producers, aluminium and similar materials needed first and foremost by the construction industry and the machine-making industry. So, Mr. Representative, I think everything we have done so far leads to ensuring adequate conditions for the development of business and economy in Croatia, and certainly not what you suggested. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-20-0.u32241	Thank you. Mr. Koračević, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-20-0.u32242	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I don't doubt your intentions at all. All these measures are still unfortunately at the letter level of intent. However, the fact and statistics suggest that in five years of social product growth, we are the second worst country in 28 transition countries. The fact is that our economy has progressed more than twice as slowly as the average of transition countries, and the fact is that during this financial crisis, all other Western Balkan countries have more than double the growth of gross social product than Croatia has. And given the very successful development and growth that you and your coalition partner work in Podravka, Koprivnica, I simply have a logical question as to whether it is a model for the whole country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-20-0.u32243	Thank you. Another announcement in the meantime. The chairman of the Committee for Local and Regional Self-Government, Zvonimir Mršić, called a session today at 14.15 a.m. at Janko Draskovic's hall. Let's move on. Mr. Representative Mario Habek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-20-0.u32244	I will ask my question to the president of the Croatian government. Dear President of the Croatian Government, do you know how much the external debt of the Republic of Croatia has increased since you are the President of the Croatian Government and how much is it currently?
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-20-0.u32245	Mr. Habek, you are constantly trying to ask from the SDP club some questions that should suggest to the Croatian public that this government is working badly. But you're not the criteria for how this government works. The criteria are Croatian citizens, and they said Sunday the government is doing well. The HDZ coalition, HSS, HSS, HSS, SDSS, and representatives of national minorities are doing well because they have given us confidence throughout Croatia. Who did they give it to? So to HDZ and HSS and our coalition. ... Here, if it is, I'd be happy to answer if Zadar's a juicer then it's really an honor. [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]] They gave it to you in Zadar, Mrs. Anticevic. ... No, no. [[I don't know what you're talking about.]] You asked me what kind of juice? I say in Zadar. Therefore, the Zadrans must know that you have declared them a hawk. Says which one? [[Applause.]] If Zadar's a sap, then it's an honor. It's the mayoral candidate. Now, as far as Mr. Habek's questions are concerned. So, Mr. Representative, when we took responsibility for the state's leadership and at the time your question was then the share of Croatia's foreign debt was 33%. Today, the share of the Croatian state in external debt is 19%. It's reduced by 50% and it's a great success of this coalition. - Give it up. - Give it up.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-20-0.u32246	Thank you. Mr. Habek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-20-0.u32247	Your Honor, Prime Minister, you either don't know the answer or you don't want to answer this question. But I'll answer you. The external debt of the Republic of Croatia currently stands at over 40 billion euros. In 2004, when you assumed power, it was 20 billion euros. You're five years old, your hair doubled this debt, and the situation in the economy is never worse. Where an additional 20 billion euros have ended, let the citizens of this country judge for themselves. So, citizens will judge for themselves where the 20 billion euros went, but don't think they'll forget your expensive watches, your apartments and the cars you bought for 4.5 million kuna. And finally, I send my regards to you from the mayors of Varazdinska and Krapina-Zagorje County.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-20-0.u32248	We've heard a lot of greetings today, but I don't see the legitimacy for the reference, who authorized you to send these greetings, but I generally speak. The greetings are good, and since greetings are a positive thing, then let's get over this. We will not ask for confirmation that they have authorized you to send greetings. Thank you very much. Let's move on. Mrs. Representative Nadica Jelash.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-20-0.u32249	I thank the President of the Croatian Parliament. This question I'm going to ask, Mr. Prime Minister to you, would be asked by every citizen of the Republic of Croatia, so the minority who voted, but also by the majority who didn't go to the elections. Here, do you know the price of the cubic meter of the gas of the Croatian household?
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-20-0.u32250	Please.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-20-0.u32251	Madam MPs, I guess the cities decide for themselves about the price of gas. You know it's not there, utility companies, please. But what you said was that even citizens who didn't go to the polls didn't vote. Yes, they did, and they voted because it's their choice and their choice. We'd like them to get out more because we'd get more votes. But even of those who went out, we got a much bigger majority. Therefore, do not try to change the impression of these choices. The result is very clear. He statistically, what Mrs. Antunovic, who knows statistics very badly, draws something, but this has nothing to do with reality, warned the State Election Commission which brought the results has declared to me in the counties, cities and municipalities where the election race ended in the first round, the results were announced. These results indicate that HDZ, HSS, HSLS and our other partners are winners. You can work as hard as you want to change that score, but that's the only truth. That's the voter's greeting.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-20-0.u32252	Mrs. Nadica Jelash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-20-0.u32253	Since you say hello, it is from all over Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-20-0.u32254	You see, Prime Minister, I've asked you a very clear question that you didn't and again I don't know which time you gave the answer today. Here, I'll remind you. The price of cubic meter of household gas in Croatia today is 2 kunas and 43 limes. From 1 January 2009 to... /The speech room was turned off and turned back on./... do not exclude me, it was 2 kuna. However, at this time of recession you have incredibly easily raised the price of gas... /The speech room has been turned off and turned back on./... Mr. President, please provide me with the conditions for my comment on Mr. Prime Minister's response.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-20-0.u32255	We can hear you very well. When I hear you, they hear you, too.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-20-0.u32256	I wanted to say that it is much easier to raise prices in this recession time than to design an anti-recession programme to protect the standard of Croatian citizens. In this recession that takes a day's taxes. So, people get out of work every day, they have no means to live, and that's very bad. So the real question is, given the fact that you also cut wages, that is, you were able to achieve that possible increase you made in October 2010. So the real question is how will Croatian citizens with such salaries survive at such gas prices. But you obviously don't care. You don't care about that. You left people to take care of themselves so whoever lives in Croatia survived. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-20-0.u32257	Thank you very much. It is Mr. Representative Josip Djakic's turn.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-20-0.u32258	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. President of the Croatian Government, Vice President, Vice President, Honorable Minister and Minister. So my question is intended for Mrs. Vice-President of the Croatian Government, Mrs. Jadranka Kosor, our defence minister and intergenerational solidarity. Since an emergency procedure has been referred to the Act amending the Law on the Rights of Croatian Lawyers under the designation P.Z.E., I ask you nicely to explain to us what changes are being made and what changes are being made to the law, and what will be the changes?
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-20-0.u32259	Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-20-0.u32260	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Mr. Representative. Of course, Mr. Representative Caine has the right to ask whatever comes to his mind, as we have seen, today everyone is asking, but I think this is an extremely important issue because it is about amending the Law on the Rights of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families. Namely, you said well, also EU law. So, with these amendments, we are harmonising the Law on the rights of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families with guidelines, i.e. with regulations and legal property of the European Union. It refers to the part that is mostly linked to the benefits of importing cars and other things under the Law on the Rights of Croatian Defence. The simplest thing is, I think it's also the most important thing to say is that cars will continue to be imported for 100% disabled people, so the hardest disabled in the Homeland War but orthopedic aids and everything else they need under the same conditions as before. And that's the most important message if you can talk about a message sent by a law. The law is in the emergency procedure, you will be absolutely sure about it these days, I believe and support it and the rest of which concerns certain parts of the tax matter is normal that we will discuss it and that ultimately the law will be complemented when it is opened and this chapter when Croatia enters the European Union. And what is most important to say is nothing in the law will change what would be to the detriment of Croatian defenders, it is the simplest. However, we have also used this opportunity for some more changes since it has proved that some of the advantages for importing, for example, cars that Croatian defenders have abused, and we are now these amendments, so this has nothing to do with the adjustments to join the European Union but with the improvement of the law in order to protect the dignity of Croatian defenders, both ultimately and within the law itself. So, in order not to be and there is a possibility of abuse, we are extending the time limit in which, for example, this car can be imported to the advantage it can sell from 2 to 4 years, but in the law, we are also determining that the Government will determine by a special regulation and the final amount and height of the car that can be bought or introduced in such a way. What exactly are we trying to say? It's very clear, for example, that you can't buy Ferraris with defense benefits. None of the Croatian defenders can do that whether they are disabled or have pensions or are families of the Croatian defenders killed. Certainly, the Croatian defender who is working today, who wants to contribute to his work and cannot buy his family a Ferrari and I think the public knows what it is. Therefore, we now have these changes, which I believe you in the Parliament, to support the limited amount, and I believe that this will be of benefit to the Croatian defenders first and foremost. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-20-0.u32261	Thank you. Mr. Djakic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-20-0.u32262	I thank the Deputy Prime Minister... [[The speaker is off, you can't hear it.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-20-0.u32263	Thank you. Mr. Representative Franjo Lucic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-20-0.u32264	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable President of the Croatian Government, honourable ministers. I ask my question to Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Government and Minister of Economy. Dear Mr. President, the Government of the Republic of Croatia has these days referred to the Assembly of the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Consumer Protection Act. There has been a major media debate over the law and even a three-month boycott of the government by NGOs for consumer protection. There have been major skeptics and even the longing for failures related to the retention of the country of origin provision that is mandatory for all products in Croatia. What can we expect on our benches from that law? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-20-0.u32265	Thank you. Mr. Vice President Polancec.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-20-0.u32266	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Your Honor, Mr. Parliamentarian. The government procedure has passed a new Law amending and supplementing the Consumer Protection Act, and I must say that this is the third intervention in this area in the last few years. In 2003 we received the first Consumer Protection Act, in 2007 the first amendments and additions, and these amendments and additions are a full harmonisation of this area with the acquis of the European Union. I must say that this will meet all the criteria for closing negotiations and negotiating Chapter 28 – Consumer protection. The most important thing to say was no, but the opposite was very intense dialogue, there was a very constructive cooperation between the ministry of the economy, labour and entrepreneurship and consumer protection associations and this cooperation and dialogue, of course, has been resonated and resulted in a quality solution which I will especially explain. First of all, I'd like to say that these changes and additions introduce the newspaper into so-called. The Institute of collective consumer protection and let me present in short lines what that actually means. It actually means that when one of us, for example, signs a contract in which small letters write something that we haven't read well enough, then we make sure that it has negative consequences for all of us or for me personally who signed such a contract, I sue whoever signed my contract on the other hand, and you know that there have been very often such cases in contractual relations with financial institutions, and I get that dispute. My judgment obliges the provider of such a service that such provisions must be amended in all other similar contracts and most often in the case of credit agreements. So it's the activation of the collective protection system. The second thing I would like to stress in particular concerns the emphasis on product prices. Very often in some shops you do not have an adequately highlighted product price or price per unit of measure. This law lays down the conditions to be specified precisely, that the specific regulation correctly indicates the products for which the price must be pointed out on the product itself and specify exactly the products for which the unit price must be indicated in order for the consumer to have the opportunity to compare that price to the price of the like product in the same trade or in the competitive trade and thus make a more adequate decision. And what is most important and what is the greatest quality and step of this law we continue to retain a legal solution by which each product must be declared, there must be a declaration of country of origin on it. Many Member States of the European Union, when they were candidates for EU accession, have already moved to the provision so that the product from the European Union can be declared as being produced in the EU, so in Croatia, which is extremely important remains in force by the provision by which each product must be clearly indicated by the country of origin. In view of all this, I think this is another qualitative step in the consumer protection system, in providing opportunities for every consumer to make a decision based on relevant information before deciding to buy a product. And as I said, it represents the fulfillment of our obligations in Chapter 28. Consumer protection. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-20-0.u32267	Thank you. Mr. Franjo Lucic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-20-0.u32268	I am glad that this law is aimed exclusively at consumers and I am also glad that they were just rumors about the boycott. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-20-0.u32269	Thank you. Mrs. Brankica Crlenko. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-20-0.u32270	Thank you, Mr. President. I'm giving my question to Mr. Prime Minister. Mr. Prime Minister, my question is brief and clear. Do you know how much a kilowatt of electricity costs today?
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-20-0.u32271	Mr. Prime Minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-20-0.u32272	Madam representative, I'm going to ask you in this answer as well one question. Do you know that we won Sunday's election, do you know that we won the election a year and a half ago, and you've been sleeping since then? You're still not aware that you've lost the election twice in a row. And I call you and I implore you, continue with this rhetoric, hollow rhetoric and politics, and we are safe in the next election. Thank you very much. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-20-0.u32273	Mrs. Brankica Crlenko.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-20-0.u32274	Mr. Prime Minister, it is time to learn that you are not here to ask questions but to answer them. I'm not surprised you don't know the answer to my question because the price of electricity in Croatia keeps rising, as well as the number of unemployed people are growing. Sibenik-Knin County and Sibenik City are the first in Croatia to receive permanent social assistance. And that is why the citizens of Sibenik and Sibenik County will choose the SDP candidates for both the mayor and the mayor in the second round. Thank you. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-20-0.u32275	Mrs Ivanka Roksandić.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-20-0.u32276	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President of the Croatian Government with his associates. I'll refer my question to Minister Dragan Primorac, but don't be afraid, Mr. Minister, I won't give you any quiz questions because I know you're not the Director of the State Statistics Institute, but you're the Minister of Science, so I'm going to ask you a question right now from your portfolio, because you can answer that. It's the end of another school year and it's the right time to ask this question. Our primary school students and high school students finish one part of their education. On 21 June, it will be exactly two years as we adopted in this High House the National Programme for the introduction of compulsory secondary education. In these two years, we have to say that the ministry has already taken great incentive measures by bringing free textbooks, providing free transportation and accommodation to the student home. Some constitutional changes must be made to realize that everything could be implemented. I ask you nicely, can you let us know at which stage the project is to introduce compulsory secondary education because at this time it is really important for all of our citizens.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-20-0.u32277	Thank you. Mr. Secretary Dragan Primorac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-20-0.u32278	Thank you very much, Your Honor, Mr. President. Honorable MPs. I think this meeting of the Croatian Parliament has a lot of reasons to be really proud because it is about the milestones not only of the development of the Croatian education system, but of the development of the wrestling society. If you look at "Kleine Zeitung", "The Press", "Science", "Embo reports", all leading European and world magazines, then what Croatia has recognised in several recent years is by introducing compulsory secondary education, where Croatia puts in a position in front of one Netherlands and others who had up to 13 years of compulsory education. And I want to thank you for voting on the proposal for a national programme of measures to introduce compulsory secondary education. But you will also have a lot of reasons to be as proud as Croatian citizens when I give you some information. And that data suggests that nearly 9,000 high school students were leaving high school annually, which means that about the worst approximation of 80,000 young people would leave the benches, would never finish high school for the next 10 years. The results we've had in the last two years say that 17,000 high school students have been detained thanks to these measures and completed high school. In the last two years. With this third year, we're passing the number of 25,000 high school kids who would be on the street today. If you look at the data that thanks to the decisions and conclusions of the Croatian Parliament only in the last three years, an additional 320 million kuna has been provided for the accommodation of 50 million kunas, for textbooks more than a billion kunas, that employed around 800 teachers, built or built 300 school or school sports facilities, then Croatia has made a step that puts us in a position today so that we can rightly say that we are both the largest and most pro-pulsive education system in this part of Europe. But that's not what I'm saying, and that's what the Commissioner of the European Union, Figel, says. And this resulted in a 41 thousand increase in the number of students in Croatia for the last four years, but this results in 18.5% of people who have completed a professional study or are a university study, which puts us in a position in front of one Hungary, Austria and all countries in this region, of course, Italy. Therefore, it is also the responsibility of the Croatian Parliament this summer when the proposal on amendments to the Constitution moves where, after three years and after the National Programme of Measures, they could vote on the amendment of the Constitution where compulsory secondary education will become a Croatian reality until the first qualification. This goal is, not only because it is brought by this government, it is far above the interest of political or particular, it is the interest of the Croatian people, the pride of the Croatian people, and if the Croatian Parliament votes the amendments to the Constitution in this direction, then Croatia will be an absolute leader in education in the European Union. Because no country has a 12-year compulsory high school education. At this moment we are going to 14 years, which means that Croatia is practically providing every child from kindergarten enrolment to the university exclusively for his merits. And I think it is the pride of the Croatian state and I want to thank all of you who voted very wisely two years ago for this proposal of measures, and I expect this summer, if God will, and the change of the Croatian Constitution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-20-0.u32279	Thank you. Ms. Ivanka Roksandić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-20-0.u32280	Thank you, Mr. Minister, for meeting us and the public with this project and where it stands. Because as important as it is at this point, in serious times and areas of economy and employment, you will not believe when you talk to people in our local communities is a question of education. And that's why what you said is really a guarantee of our success and the success of this government and your ministry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-20-0.u32281	Thank you. Mr. Representative Davor Huška, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-20-0.u32282	Thank you. Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. President of the Croatian Government, distinguished members of the government, colleagues and colleagues. I ask the question to the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of the Ministry of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship, Mr. Damir Polancec. It is known that the Government of the Republic of Croatia has encouraged and encouraged the development of small and medium-sized enterprises with extremely high resources through the Ministry of Economy programmes, and that these funds are more than they were in their pre-2004 periods. Hundreds of millions, including billions of kuna, are invested in promoting exports, promotion of entrepreneurship, women's entrepreneurship and other programmes, and, of course, it is mostly about grants for local self-government entities. In local self-government units, with new employment, we are, of course, particularly encouraged by the funds invested in economic zones and their infrastructure equipment. If there were no such funds, there would be no large number of economic zones, especially in smaller units of local self-government, areas of special state concern, i.e. The war-suffering areas of our country. It is easy to organize and open economic zones in Zagreb, Rijeka, Varazdin but without the help of the Ministry of Economy it is almost impossible in Pakrac, Lipik and similar environments. It is similar with entrepreneurship centres and incubators which are basic support institutions to entrepreneurs on the ground as an extended hand to the Ministry of Economy. And now competitions are under way to encourage small and medium-sized enterprises. My question is, how much in the Ministry of Economy have you set aside for incentives this year, and can you tell us more specifically what all the projects are about? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-20-0.u32283	Thank you. Mr. Vice President Polancec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-20-0.u32284	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I thank you for this question because at this point it is extremely relevant, among other things, because of the fact that by the 23rd of this month, therefore tendering for the acceptance of requests for subsidisation is open, i.e. co-financing of individual projects for small and medium-sized entrepreneurs and craftsmen by the Ministry of Economy. This year, of course, we are the role of the ministry and the role of the government is to create a legislative framework, sublegal acts, which will enable normal and smooth economic development. But sometimes that's not enough. Sometimes you need to, sometimes you need to do a step more. We have been encouraging small and medium-sized enterprises and craftsmen for many years. That's how it's gonna be this year. Our bids are under way. By twenty-third, I once again point out to twenty-third this month. Please all entrepreneurs, please craftsmen, please representatives of local self-government units to run their co-financing projects from these funds. 340 million kuna is secured for small and medium-sized enterprises and craftsmen and this is divided into five main groups, i.e. five major projects. The first project is therefore to promote competitiveness, i.e. grants for small and medium-sized enterprises and craftsmen. First of all, to introduce new technologies to increase competitiveness. 1/3 Almost these funds are intended to build entrepreneurship infrastructures, so incubators, entrepreneurship centres, regional, development agencies. But what is also extremely important is co-financing the construction of infrastructure in entrepreneurship zones. The criteria here will be very clear. They're as clear as the previous years. The advantage for co-financing of infrastructure in entrepreneurship areas will therefore have units of local self-government with higher unemployment rates, with higher or lower per capital GDP. So, as in previous years, because that way we want to provide an additional development opportunity for the very regions that, unfortunately, have not been developed at the level for which we all want to bring them together. The third project is to subsidize interest. In these difficult times when the price of capital increases we will increase and therefore increase the amount to subsidise interest to small and medium-sized enterprises. There is no adequate development of the economy without continuous knowledge acquisition and therefore the fourth very important project is therefore entrepreneurship education and I am particularly pleased to point out that we have almost doubled resources for craftsmen. With these programmes, 340 million kuna has been provided once again for these five programmes. I announce that we will soon open a tender for the award of aid of 61 million kuna, primarily to small and medium-sized entrepreneurs who are mostly export-oriented. Thus, we encourage exporters and contribute to reducing the current account balance of payments of the Republic of Croatia. I also announce encouraging measures for labour-intense industrial sectors for which we have provided 114 million kuna primarily for the textile industry, for footwear, leather, for the production of footwear. So, the leather-processing industry. I would also like to say that, in cooperation with other ministries, we are also supporting the wood industry as another working intensive segment of our economy. I believe that, with the definition of the legislative framework, this incentive measure can result in the existence and further development of small and medium-sized enterprises, above all. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-20-0.u32285	Thank you. Mr. Davor Huška, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-20-0.u32286	I'm happy with the answer. Of course, thanks for the answer. I'm just wondering where our small and medium-sized entrepreneurs would be if all these six years the ministry hadn't implemented these programs today in these unsimplified times I'm passing on not their greetings, but pleasure from the terrain and small entrepreneurs and complete institutions and cities and municipalities that successfully participate in the programmes of the Ministry of Economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-20-0.u32287	And Mr. Boro Grubisic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-20-0.u32288	Thank you, Mr. President. I'm asking Mr. Primorac. Before asking questions, I will only quote an interview by Mr. Andrija Hebrang of 11 May this year where she says on Z1 television, that watching our media and most of the textbooks our children will never learn what was the Homeland War. The question is, Mr. Minister, the question. Is it true, in your opinion, that it is a communist, so to speak, so to speak. The Yugoslav People's Army with the Serbian SR government has committed aggression against Croatia in order to create "Great Serbia"? If that is true for you, should all children in Croatia learn this truth from all existing textbooks in the Republic of Croatia?
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-20-0.u32289	Mr. Dragan Primorac, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-20-0.u32290	Thank you very much, Mr. President and Mr. Parliamentary Representative. That's true and that's true, and here's the thing I did my best, so I brought in all the history textbooks that are being taught according to the curriculum and the program. So here are the three that are approved and here is the curriculum and the program and in absolutely every one of them is what you said, I'm going to quote you just a few shorts. He says the rebellion broke out several months earlier, setting up barricades on Croatian roads with the help of the Yugoslav Army. Since the summer of '91. In the years on the ground of Croatia, increasing military conflicts have begun, the JNA has helped the rebellion from the very beginning by handing out weapons to the rebel Serbs, and later using aviation techniques as aggressions to Croatia. Or the next textbook that tells you that it was deployed in part of Croatia, the JNA assisted the rebel Serbs in Croatia with its weapons, and in the summer of '91. the year directly involved in the attack on Croatian positions, etc. Or thirdly, the war involved JNA, who openly attached herself to "Miljušević goals" and... Serbia's units. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] This can also be confirmed by the members of the Croatian Parliament here from that period, October 8, 1991. the year of the Croatian Parliament's decision, the declaration that an aggression of the so-called so-called "Aggression" has been expressed in Croatia. The Yugoslav People's Army, and as far as I can remember, at the time I followed, I think both President Bebic and Mr. Vladimir Seks were present. I think even Vlado was one of the initiators of that idea. Here, Mr. Assembly MP, so very clearly, specifically through textbooks, it's not just what I think, that's what experts think, and it's what Croatian children in primary schools are learning today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-20-0.u32291	Thank you. Mr. Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-20-0.u32292	I'm not happy with the answer because these are only single quotes, and otherwise I'd like to introduce you, Mr. Minister, that I'm really surprised, even astounded by some textbooks that teach our children and that in Slavonia which has really been exposed to aggression as I say. Namely, in the 8th grade textbook of elementary school, so children don't learn about their latest history, or learn what it says, e.g. in the book of the author of Snježana Koren, and the publisher Profil, where there is no mention of the word aggression. Wait a minute, I wasn't interrupting you, Mr. Minister. There is no mention of the term "The Great Serbia" or "The Great Serbian Project". If so, then, and you can't show it to me, there isn't. Next, here's just one quote from that book. So, as for the reasons and causes of the war, the Homeland War, Croatia's war, so in Croatia, says the increase in mutual mistrust contributed to the demands of radical Chetnik groups from Serbia for the western Serbian borders on the Virovitica-Karlovac-Karlobag line and cases of dismissal of Serbs from work. You can think of equating each other. It is indeed the relativisation and equalisation of the "VeroSerb project" a hundred years old and over with individual examples of job layoffs. Now, if that's true, why don't you take such textbooks out of the use of our children in Slavonia to learn such truth. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-20-0.u32293	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, we've asked questions. And now I'm notifying that it's based on Article 187. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament did not get an answer to questions raised by the Government or the individual ministry Marijana Petir, who asked the 11th of February of this year, Željko Jovanovic on 18 February 2009, Zvonimir Mršić on 19 February 2009 and Mirela Holy on 14 April 2009. So I call on the Government and the Ministry of Finance to deliver the answers within eight days as set out in our Rules of Procedure. The current morning we concluded so we will continue the session at 3pm with the agenda Report of the Mandate-Immunity Commission. Thank you, and sweet, pleasant. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs and MPs. We're going back to work. We're going to the agenda, and then we're going to the 1st point. 1. Report of the Mandate-Immunity Commission Please, President of the Mandate-Immunity Commission of Mr Damir Sesvecan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-20-0.u32295	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. So we have two reports. The first is the report on the request to suspend the term of office of representative Danica Hurs and to suspend the conduct of the deputy representative, Željko Vincelj. At the 19th session held on 19 May 2009, the mandate-immunity committee of the Croatian Parliament discussed a written statement by representative Danica Hurs of 11 May 2009 informing the President of the Croatian Parliament on the suspension of the term of office and the re-behaving of the parliamentary duty under the provision of Article 14(3). Law on election of MPs in the Croatian Parliament. On 19 February 2008, the Commission determined that Danica Hurs’s term of office had begun to rest on the basis of Article 14(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. Law on election of MPs in the Croatian Parliament and that the parliamentary duty of 20 February 2008 began to be followed by deputy MPs Mr Zeljko Vincelj. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Law on election of MPs in the Croatian Parliament to suspend the term of office of representative Danica Hurs. In accordance with the said Mandate-Immunity Commission, after the discussion was carried out pursuant to Article 104. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament unanimously with 5 votes to propose to the Croatian Parliament the decision to suspend the term of office of deputy deputy MPs. On 19 May 2009, the term of office of representative Danica Hurse ceased. Deputy MP Mr. Zeljko Vincelj on 19 May 2009 ceased to act as a representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-20-0.u32296	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. We'll decide when the conditions are met. Please move on.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-20-0.u32297	Report on the request for authorisation for detention against Branimir Glavas from the Croatian Parliament. The mandate-immunity commission of the Croatian Parliament discussed at the 18th session held on 11 May 2009 the request of the County Court in Zagreb business number XCRZ1/07 since 8 May 2009 to the President of the Croatian Parliament for the authorisation of detention against Branimir Glavas of representatives in the Croatian Parliament. By judgment of the County Court of Justice of 8 May 2009, Branimir Glavas was sentenced to a single prison sentence of 10 years for the crimes of war crimes against the civilian population referred to in Article 120(1). Basic criminal law of the Republic of Croatia. Mr Branimir, Mr. Branimir, the representative is 6. It shall convene the Croatian Assembly and shall, on the basis of Article 75. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Article 23 The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament shall have immunity until the term of office is terminated and shall not be detained without a decision of the Croatian Parliament. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament The County Court in Zagreb sent a request for custody against Representative Branimir Glavas. The meeting of the Commission shall be convened on the basis of Article 75(5). The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Article 27(1) and in conjunction with Article 104(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The view of the minority members of the commission was that the session was not called without delay and that the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament was injured. The Commission took into account the judgment of the County Court in Zagreb on business number XCRZ1/07 of 8 May 2009 condemning Branimir Glavas to a single prison sentence of 10 years and a provision of Article 102(2). The Code of Criminal Procedure which prescribed mandatory detention for the defendant who was sentenced to a five-year sentence or a more severe sentence and assessed that there are no obstacles to the abolition of immunity to Agent Branimir Glavas. Following the debate, the Mandate-Immunity Commission was based on Article 104(2) of the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament by majority of votes 8 for and 1 against the decision: “Immunity shall be abolished to Agent Branimir Glavas, and authorisation shall be granted for detention against Representative Branimir Glavas at the request of the County Court in Zagreb, business number XCRZ1/07 of 8 May 2009 for the crimes of war crimes against the civilian population referred to in Article 120(1). The basic criminal law of the Republic of Croatia for which it has been sentenced to a single prison sentence of 10 years." Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-20-0.u32298	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the HDSSB club, Mr. Representative Boro Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-20-0.u32299	Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues. And this day as well as the decision of the Mandate-Immunity Commission and the court's decision that I would not comment on since 8 May, it's all an event. I'd consider it a sad, tragic but somewhat embarrassing event and the event doesn't make history. None of these events will make history. History is created. She's not just one event. So the distance of time that follows, I don't know how long, and the time period that's going to be within a certain I believe for a short time will show exactly what I just called adjectives an adventurous, tragic, sad. When, four years ago, on the cover of one week, he came across the entire page titled "Sanader: Glavas from today is gone." When we heard the words here in the Croatian Parliament for the case of General Gotovina Ante, those four famous verbs decide, identify, arrest and transfer, then connecting this title to the newspaper four years ago, I say another verb can be added, which is to mount. Now that is the fifth verb for our general and Croatian general, I can now say free and martyr Branimir Glavas. When they met, long ago in history, Stalin and Barry, then there were no questions about what a crime is but who needs it, and the crime scene will be easy to find. There seems to be a lot of analogies between these two cases and these kinds of procedures. That the process and judgment of Mr. Glavas is political, ladies and gentlemen, is more than clear in itself. I'm talking about those who are not here in the Government of the Republic of Croatia. A Croatian general was convicted, convicted a Croatian general, but not a murderer who publicly confessed on public television to kill. No, he's employed by the MUP today. Very interesting. He's working normally today. To whom does the condemnation of the Croatian general bring points or points today? Or would our masters in the European Union eat pressure from somewhere out there or would it be domestic? I really don't know that from my own knowledge. So the condemnation of the Croatian general brings more points in Europe than the resignation of a soldier who himself admitted to being a murderer. What one soldier is, it's not significant. If someone killed and admitted to committing a war crime, they cannot be freed by any negotiation and political negotiations throughout Europe. If someone killed someone, as Mr. Fehir confessed publicly on Sunday at 2:00 a.m., which we all watched the show, how come the guarantee that he wasn't lying to save himself? There are among our colleagues and colleagues here in the Parliament of those who strongly condemn and seek persecution only by those who have committed crimes in the ranks of the Croatian army. I ask all of us here and all of you here, did the so-called so-called court answer? The unknown perpetrator who shelled Osijek, the Slavon ship, the Vinkovci and killed thousands of people? In Slavonski Ship, a class of children, 28 children were killed by the bombing of the Slavon ship. Has a criminal record been filed against unknown perpetrators at all? It's not. It's not. And 1264 people died in Osijek, in Slavonski Brod hundreds, in Vinkovci too. It's about Vukovar not to talk about our hero town. Where are Nuštar, Tordinci, Factory? We forgot the Cells, the first village burned down in Slavonia. Don't the state's attorney and Croatian courts have the right to seek out those responsible for shelling, bombing and destroying so many villages and cities in Slavonia? Is that a ban? Somebody answer me who banned it. Who banned it? If the Croatian judiciary is independent, as it swears to be, it has not only the right but also the duty to bring all criminals to justice, and with this verdict here is the mandate, the opinion of the Mandate-Immunity Commission, gentlemen, we have shown that justice in this country is selective, that it is not equal for all. We've shown that we're not our own, but someone else's. You have shown that you are not servants, but negligent and evil masters of a people to whom you are actually taking away the right to the righteous satisfaction that the death of our children and innocents in Slavonia who suffered so much in the great Serbian aggression. In an explanation, I will dare to quote one, quote one piece, so the inadmissible verdict states that Branimir Glavas is guilty of committing the crimes that are attributed to him during the armed conflicts. Look at the formulation. Not during the Homeland War, but during armed conflicts. Here's a new formulation. No more aggression, no more "great Serbia", but armed conflicts, did a bit of trickling. It's written in court judgment, gentlemen. What kind of armed conflicts? What are we talking about? Were these armed conflicts in Leskovac, Nis, Prokuplje, Novi Sad? Where were the armed conflicts, if there were already armed conflicts? It was an aggression against Croatia in which Slavonia and Baranja and our Croatian part of Srijem suffered the most. I'm responsible for that, and everyone here knows it. You all need to know that. Unfortunately, you're embarrassingly neglecting it, even in this basic terminology, so armed conflict, not aggression. Not big-serb aggression, but that's an armed conflict. Some of the charms were hanging out there a little bit. The public television also avoids talking about it, you see, the day two after Branimir Glavas' verdict was a shameful interview, one advocacy interview by Mrs Del Ponte, and afterwards Mr Bolkovec, whom we all know who he was and what he was doing in '45. For years, I guess in a grizzly, I guess, to make an alibi for Branimir Glavas' verdict, Mrs Del Ponte was brought in, a friend of her own said Mr. President and was brought in by Bolkovac to wash someone's conscience, to wash their consciences to those who decided on the hero of the Homeland War. Slowly in the minds of the people, there is a new truth, a new truth, as if the last war were the summation of only killed on one side in certain Croatian cities. Of the 1260 Ossetana, 600 Brodjans, 400 Vinkovchans, about Ovcara that we do not speak there is almost no word. Unfortunately, none of us in history have we Croats learned any of the other citizens of Croatia. I'm not here to cobble, but to live in peace together, I want to live in peace together, all together, all citizens of the Republic of Croatia. But some things, some things you can't get past. Once again, the seal of these judgments has been struck, with these kind of actions. The mark of genocide to the Croatian people has been struck again and the terrain is actually being prepared for new conflicts among nations. Do we even know what we're doing? So there is resistance in the Croatian people in these things. Well, it was thought that when General Glavas was convicted on May 8th that Slavonia would sink, that we would fall into agony, into depression. No! No! It happened the other way around, and that's what's gonna show up. Wrong judgment, wrong judgment. Such judgments forge history, take away the right especially for us in Slavonia to peace with the truth that we have bloodyly experienced, but also those in Dalmatia, Lica and in which the same selective method of granting justice is applied. These days, we also have an example of Miss Minister Jadranka Kosor to say in English such as Kennedy, who had her eye on the captain of the first class. It's embarrassing! It is interesting that the courage of that hand is exhausted only in the capture of that first class captain, but she and her party lose their courage when it comes to catching the true captains of the first class and comrades of the majors who brought down Osijek, Slavonski Brod, Vinkovci, Vukovar and others. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, there are no members of the government, let's face it, so let's stand up to the people who want to erase our memory, and he's not, the distance isn't big, 17, 18 years old. And we Slavons are not short-minded and we remember everything very well. Let's remember our dead. That is why I call on everyone, and I can personally say that regardless of the majority decision in the Mandate-Immunity Commission, I will not be in favour of the decision it has voted on. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-20-0.u32300	Thank you. On behalf of the IDS Club, Mr. Representative Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-20-0.u32301	Your Honor, Mr. President, gentlemen of the Parliament. I'm a little sorry to have to talk right after Bora, but first I'm gonna say I'm neither careless nor evil. And every crime should be a priority sanctioned whoever committed it. Croatia was a victim of aggression, and this should be highlighted, and should be underlined, and surely Slavonia was the greatest victim of war between 1991 and 1995 and even until 1997. Every crime should be sanctioned by whoever committed it and anyone whose uniform he wore was a crime committed since '41. By '45. whether it was a crime that was committed after '45. or a crime committed from 1991 to 1995. And equally, every innocent victim should be rehabilitated, be Christianly mourned, buried, and be clearly mourned. As far as this immunity is concerned, I don't think we have much to discuss. Normally, we have nothing to talk about, although a 10-year sentence for the most serious acts of war crimes, and that I do not now list all these names from Alia Sabanovic, Milan Kutlic, Svetoslav Vukaljevic and Bogdan Počup, Branko Lovrić, etc. etc. So someone can experience this punishment with a treasure, someone as dragonish as some of our fellow MPs have said. I personally want to believe that this trial that was conducted here in this town was fair. I want to believe the trial wasn't politically motivated. I also want to believe that when it comes to war crimes, we will not draw a line on ours and theirs. War crime is a war crime or crime whoever committed it, and I agree with Bor that all those who destroyed one Vukovar, one Slavonic Ship, one Cellium, one Osijek, and that I do not list other cities in Slavonia, in Dalmatia, in Dubrovnik's hinterland, and so on, Lici. I also think that the Head of Herzegovina should be sent to Croatia to support the sentence. A man asks himself how possible it is, beware, that six months ago he was a citizen in Bosnia and Herzegovina and that it was not known to anyone, and that if I am not mistaken, the foothold of a national Croatian party is. It means that no one was familiar with the attempt to get that citizenship. And secondly, how is it possible that the police, and yet the intelligence community, let him, to put it that way, escape to safety in Herzegovina? That's almost a shame. It is also a shame that the two countries, I think of Croatia and Bosnia and Herzegovina, still do not have agreements on the extradition of their convicts. It's a shame what Mr. Boro says that the Fehir is also at large. How is it possible for Bosnia and Herzegovina to let someone who has been sentenced to 10 years in prison for a war crime, so to speak, defend themselves from freedom? It's fortunate, to be cynical, that some didn't join Herzegovina because where some of our criminals would run. And that, gentlemen, is something that is incomprehensible to me, this practice shows that we are all one great Balkans, and we and Bosnia and Herzegovina, clearly, and Serbia and Slovenia, Serbian mobsters are ordering assassinations in Croatia, or ours in Serbia, Slovenians are hoofing everything at sixteen on us, we, our criminals, are fleeing to Bosnia, theirs are hiding in Croatia. The people look at it all, follow, keep silent and voiced as they vote, by conscience, honestly, that's right. This request or I don't know what I'm going to call it, the Mandate-Immunity Commission for me is logical, expected and I don't think anyone will contradict it, let's let the HDSSB go now, if there's no way of knowing that this trial was being conducted in this town, and I also don't want to believe it's possible. However, as Boro said, with this heroic resistance felt, I am not running away from the truth, Glavas was headed or one of those who led that defense, it should be acknowledged to him, what we know today or recognize as the case of "Garaza", "Selotep", and one "Garazu" and one "Selotep" by a large majority of the citizens of this country translates under the notion of ferocious liquidations. And someone has to answer for that. Not that he's six, but let him have 66 medals, but clearly, someone needs to establish that on the basis of credible testimony and so forth. I can only read a piece of my phonogram here since we last discussed a similar subject when I was saying that everyone in this country should get a fair trial. I quote further, that everyone is innocent of the power of judgment, clearly, but also no one can blackmail Parliament, to be honest, it's my fault, I was saying then what comes to all this. It's my fault that Glavas was in violation of his health back then, and it's my fault that this House must not capitulate itself in front of anyone, and if we changed the decision of 2006, or 2007, then literally this case would suggest that you're going from the first point of time to the political, not the case of the rule of law, etc., that I'm not quoting it now. For the end, I think this country must function, this Parliament must function. This practice, I dare say in both Bosnia and Croatia where we are receiving their defects, not to use one heavy word, criminals and the like, i.e. BIH and Croatia, is one of the Laddian practices. A man asks himself the question of where does it lead? It is indeed something that is probably unmarked anywhere else, down in the Balkans. As well, come on, man committed war crimes, someone will say in Croatia, didn't do it in Bosnia and now he can defend himself with freedom in Bosnia. What kind of countries that have gained their independence in war, their own self-loathing, whether it be one, another, third country, and have no sense of this war crime, to the fate of those families whose father, son, husband, mother, however, died or died. If this is not the case, our countries are not cooperating, which we can expect from Croatia, Serbia, Bosnia, that they will sanction some other behaviour or actions, if they are not willing to sanction even the most difficult forms of serious crimes. And then we call eventually this Hague court or The Hague tribunal. So I'm saying we don't have one. We should invent it because in The Hague, if anything, almost all the political leadership from Serbia that designed it, inspired all the war, the war events, okay, didn't end there. If I'm not mistaken, one Hadzic, Adzic, Gardjevic, but they ended up there one Milosevic, one Milutinovic, one Seselj, etc., a whole series of their generals, and if The Hague were not, I'm afraid one Milosevic would be in Serbia, Russia, Cyprus or I don't know which islands. Because of all this, IDS, and in order not to deepen the debate, the controversy is for this decision, but we also need to believe that Bosnia and Herzegovina will, at the request of Croatia, hand over the persons requested by the Croatian judiciary and vice versa, clearly Croatia will hand over the persons it is looking for, and that I now, from the newspaper texts, do not mention all these names from one Zeljko Vrbat, Zvonimir Josipovic, Blaž Petrovic, Tomislav Raguž, Šimić, etc., etc. In one word, the IDS club will vote for this report. It was not our intention to sexise with anyone, but what is certainly a dry need, to change relations in both Croatia and Bosnia and Herzegovina, not to be the flocks for theirs, but for our criminals.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-20-0.u32302	Thank you. The preparation from Bosnia and Herzegovina in Croatia is not required for the maintenance of Mr Glavas' sentence, but rather for the detention of the verdict, which is two different things. Mr. Grubisic, correction.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-20-0.u32303	Mr. President, a series of incorrect allegations Mr. Cain has made a flat-rate list of things and things. First of all, it's not a criminal exchange, Mr. Glavas is not a criminal, Mr. Cain. And secondly, you said a leaf, a bed, etc. The leaf is a comfort name that you use and it's a broad brieg. The leaf went missing in the '90s. So it's a broad hill if you didn't know Mr. Caine. Third, you were talking about Mr. Fehir. You see, in a newspaper article here you have Mr. Fehir who's a murderer, you have Tihomir Appari's own wife's killer. They're the ones who convicted Glavas. You have Mr. Milan Šipoš sentenced to more than 20 years in prison for multiple rapes, Nikola Vasic is a legally convicted Chetnik, Lepojko Rujlj, a bully, a thief and a drunk kicked out of the police force, Ivica... Convicted of economic crime, Vladimir Faber, the one who beat up Dinam fans, so Bad Blue Boys, etc. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Therefore, when you speak only of Fehir, it is not only Fehir that I correct you. And I would ask you not to speak of Mr. Glavas. He's your fellow congressman, let's show that we're... to my colleague. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-20-0.u32304	Thank you. On behalf of the SDP Club, Mr. Representative Arsen Bauk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-20-0.u32305	Thank you. Mr. President, distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs. The SDP representative club has been principled in this case since the beginning and in the vote on the Mandate-Immunity Commission and at the plenary session whenever requested. No member of the SDP has once commented on the course of the trial, the evidence carried out, the statements that the court has believed, those statements which the court did not believe, the height and time of the verdict and which could be seen as interference in the independence of the judiciary. For everything that followed this judicial political case, we hold a responsible ruling coalition and HDZ, which in January 2008 made a decision contrary to the proposal of the State's Attorney's Office, under which our colleague Mr. Glavas defended himself from freedom. The reasons why such a decision was made should have been sought to deepen the ruling majority when needed and we see that it took several times in the last year and a half. So, to correct my colleague Caine, she didn't let him go to Bosnia and Herzegovina's police, but politics. We believe that this decision and later commenting on the verdict reduced the credibility of the Croatian Parliament, that the independence of the judiciary was violated and that it was not necessary. Representatives are subject to the laws as well as to all other citizens. In view of all of this and confirming once again their principle of SDP's Club of Representatives will vote in favour of confirming this decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-20-0.u32306	Thank you. We're moving on to an individual debate. The first is Mr. Gordan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-20-0.u32307	Thank you very much. Mr. President, colleagues and fellow MPs. Here's just a few sentences about this whole case. The Glavas case today in Croatia is an example of how the state, how the whole system works or how it doesn't work and how it works for most and HDZ fits. That is the same evidence is Prime Minister Sanader's statement after hearing the verdict to Glavas when he said it was unfortunate to be at the time of the election campaign, that the court was making the ruling he made at the time of the election campaign. As if the court was actually supposed to call Prime Minister Sanader and ask or the judge when I'm supposed to pass the verdict and whether Mr. Sanader fits you to bring a verdict on a war crime at a time before the election campaign or wait for a month, two, three, six months, just tell me how much you need it. So today in Croatia, the whole country is working as prime minister and as HDZ imagines it should work. On the other hand, this was seen from the whole process or the process of removing immunity. So, after the verdict was passed and it was known weeks earlier when that date would be an immunity commission, or the president of the immunity committee, remained in place and was not ready to call a committee meeting, although he was called to the Assembly about three, he was now unable to get on his cell phone for an hour and a half after that. So, now the question is whether it's the same situation as it was with the court, whether or not Prime Minister Sanader told his colleague and HDZ representative Damira, don't answer it, let it go for a while, and then we'll do what's right for us. On the other hand, I believe that this is not the way it should be, and I believe that it is the Parliament to protect its integrity because we are also like the MPs, like this House every day in front of the public, in some way the position of the Parliament is being violated by this way of functioning of the Mandate-Immunity Commission. We had to be ready and respond immediately after the verdict was passed. On the other hand, that the Mandate-Immunity Commission and the majority in this entire case worked for the benefit of the HDZ or the ruling majority also says that at the 1st session of the Assembly, no immunity has been removed from the Parliament, although this has been requested by the State Attorney's Office and immunity has not been removed solely because the hand of the representatives of Glavas and HDSSB has been required there. I'll remind you. It was necessary when budget rebalance was to be made, it was necessary when colleagues from the SDSS left the hall when talking about agricultural land and the Golf Act. So that's why it was okay, and then it was okay for Representative Glavas to have immunity, and that's why I'm deeply convinced, and I wasn't taken off when it was supposed to be taken down, and it was the beginning of the process because it was totally a illogical situation. I, like the SDP Representatives' Club, will remain consistent with our position from that first session, I will vote to remove immunity but I strongly oppose the way HDZ is trying to use the institutions of this country to satisfy its current interest and policy. It can't be like that, the rules of the game for all must be worth the same. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-20-0.u32308	Thank you. Correction Mr. Boro Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-20-0.u32309	Mr. President, thank you very much. Mr. Maras, when you left the Parliament here and when you are here that the SDSS has left Parliament and SDP, it is not an instant to the HDSSB, because you are not as an opposition to the HDSSB leader or as your president is the leader of the HDSSB. We are opposition to ourselves and we voted against the Law on Agricultural Land and Against, and the fact that you were little so that you left Parliament is your business, not our business.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-20-0.u32310	Mr. Representative Dragutin Lesar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-20-0.u32311	Thank you very much, Your Honor, Mr. President. I have wondered all morning why in this case the Croatian Parliament has to debate for the third time and whether it means that there is a possibility that we need to discuss this one more time. In fact, it may occur in the second-degree procedure that the verdict is confirmed, and then, interpreting the rules, one might interpret that now and fourth time, the Parliament must give consent to the maintenance of the prison sentence. Because today it is still subject to debate by Parliament's approval of detention, following a first-degree verdict. But they assure me it's the Constitution and our Rules of Procedure. However, I must admit that I do not understand this because the Croatian Parliament has decided to grant the initiation of criminal proceedings in the case in which under a) the law is bound by detention during the investigation and under b) the law is a mandatory detention after a first-degree sentence. We gave permission to initiate criminal proceedings, but we did not give consent or consent to determine detention. And with such behaviour, in my opinion, we did not follow the principle that all citizens of the Republic of Croatia are equal before the law. Because if Parliament has already agreed to initiate criminal proceedings, for a crime, a criminal offence where the law provides for mandatory investigative detention for all citizens, as well as mandatory detention after the first-degree verdict, then last time we did not make a good decision. In my opinion, we violated citizens' equality before the law. Therefore, I would ask all those who prepare and write the announced constitutional changes and those who worry about the clarity of our Rules of Procedure, that this case be an example for us and for the basis that both in the Constitution and in the Rules of Procedure we will install provisions that will be clear and that will equally apply to not only all citizens of the Republic of Croatia but equally to all MPs. And in my opinion, at the time when Parliament gives approval for the initiation of criminal proceedings for acts where detention is required, as well as detention after a first-degree sentence, this means that we have granted prior authorisation for the determination of detention. This is more so that in our Constitution there is a provision in Article 75 that a parliamentary representative may be detained without the approval of the Assembly if he is found in the conduct of a criminal offence for which the sentence of prison is intended for more than five years. Therefore, the Constitution wanted to say that immunity or approval of the Assembly is necessary for criminal offences up to five years in prison, but after that, for crimes for which more than five years have been pronounced or prevented, detention can be carried out immediately and only the Assembly is reported. I simply can't believe that those who wrote the Constitution in the early '90s imagined it this way, that if a parliamentary representative was found guilty of committing a crime that he could go into custody without the Parliament's consent, but if he was so quick to escape, he'd be caught two hours later, that he needed permission, approval, consent of the detention council. Of course, these provisions were written before the war, of course, that at that time the songwriters could not have imagined that we would indeed be in Parliament in a situation not once, but three times, discussing the removal of immunity to a parliamentary representative on suspicion or charges of such serious crimes. But when that happened to you, and I note that prison sentences for more than five years are not only pronounced in Croatia for war crimes, but also other crimes, which means that tomorrow one of us can also be the subject of such discussions. After all, immunity institutes are not protecting those who have committed a criminal act of such character, but protects members of Parliament from persecution for what they have said in Parliament and for what they voted for, as they voted. Too many heated discussions, emotions, divisions and classifications in this Chamber were on this subject, and to allow no instruction and an example that the regulations are really written, and we will change the Constitution, it is certain, in a way that they are interpreted equally to all citizens of the Republic of Croatia and equally to all MPs. Any other behaviour, any different approach by the Parliament when it gives consent to the initiation of criminal proceedings, but it does not approve of detention and of acts where sentences are greater than five years old, investigative detention where it is legally binding, as well as detention after a first-degree sentence, puts parliamentary representatives above the law and makes them more equal than other citizens. It wasn't intensity or immunity, or the Constitution, and we really need to change that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-20-0.u32312	Thank you. Mr. Representative Nenad Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-20-0.u32313	It's been said here that the request to remove immunity is quite logical. He is as logical as he was a year and a half ago, with a year and a half ago being timely, and today he's completely late and pointless. A year and a half ago, despite the board's position, HDZ decided not to remove the immunity to Glavas. That's what made one abuse of the institution of immunity. Because citizens who answer to the courts for any criminal offence must, if there are detention grounds required by the judge, wait for the verdict in custody. They do, you don't. An institution of immunity has been misused to leave Glavas behind. Immunity removals are being discussed today when Glavas escaped, so it doesn't matter how HDZ votes. Today HDZ can be principled, so vote to remove immunity from a man who is inaccessible and is likely to remain unreachable to the Croatian judiciary. If immunity had been removed a year and a half ago, you wouldn't have had a chance to do what he did. He planned to escape, prepared the escape, and made an escape with the help of the HDZ. The HDZ has given him immunity to do just that, to plan, prepare and make an escape. They knew that a year and a half ago. That's why they left him immunity. That's why they left him immunity to let him escape. Today they will vote to remove immunity when this one is completely unavailable. Is it fair that someone sentenced to 10 years avoid punishment? Well, it's not. Who makes this injustice possible? HDZ. Well, why does HDZ do that? Well, out of interest. It's all a farce. You get mad at Sanader, Sanader gets mad at the judiciary, and in fact, my hand is washing. They are in charge of freedom and the possibility of escape, and you are in charge of them by the majority in the election of the law, budget rebalancing, the Agriculture Act, the Golf Act. The golf law couldn't be voted if Glavas hadn't specifically come from Osijek to make a quorum, and the Golf Act allowed investors to gain enormous wealth in golf. Of this wealth are funded by HDZ, at least one such investor has been discovered by the Skipers Agency 3 million kuna. Sanader wants 60 investors in golf. 60 times 3 million kuna. Who gave him that? You're in charge. It means freedom for money. It's the nature of this arrangement, the arrangement that's being realized, and today it's experiencing its farce phase, the final farce phase. This is about making fun of the rule of law, it's about mocking common sense, it's about mocking justice. This HDZ's behaviour with immunity for Branimir Glavas shows that HDZ does not care at all about the equality of citizens before the court, to the achievement of justice and justice in this country, to any principle. The HDZ only cares about one thing – self-interest, the fact that Glavas allows them to vote golf course, and that investors in golf courses donate millions to them. This is about buying an escape. That escape was bought and paid. The head paid him with his presence in the assembly. This is about notorious ridicule of everything that is fair and reasonable in this country. Branimir Glavas and HDZ were also involved. They're birds from the same flock. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-20-0.u32314	I have to intervene for the untruths he repeated here on several occasions in his traditional style, Mr. Nenad Stazic, which is that no immunity was lifted a year and a half ago to Mr. Branimir Glavas, so I thought it was a lapus. However, he repeated it four times later. It is, in fact, wrong to inform the public and politicize at all costs, because this House, under the Constitution and the law, abolished the immunity of Mr Branimir Glavas but did not allow detention. That's two different ideas. And you, in your famous style of distorting and politicizing everything and everything, are in fact wrong, incorrect and trendy informing the Croatian public. Now it has the correction of the incorrect quote Mr. Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-20-0.u32315	Mr. Stazic, your discussions sometimes seemed very nice to me. But I can see that you are slowly and certainly coming from the true Bolshevik rhetoric. Namely, you accuse Glavas of saying, no representative, no general, no gentleman, no Glavas like Caine said, right? So you're accusing HDSSB and General Glavas, Agent Glavas, of allowing us to rebalance the budget here. Do you think, Mr. Stajic, that your opposition to budget rebalancing is the real truth and the only truth that we should all accept, as well as the HDSSB? Which we would have to accept if we didn't, then we're in some kind of compote with HDZ, and I don't know who I'm with. So do you think your only truth is? Does your hand against must be our hand against? Well, you're an opposition like us, but we're not the same opposition. Remember that once. Milanovic is not my leader of the opposition either, but I am my opposition, Mr. Stazic. And neither are you the leader of the opposition, nor are you my leader, Mr. Stazic. Remember, once you get in your head like the Agricultural Land Act. Do I have to respect your opinion of the Agricultural Land Act? What are you trying to say? That I had to do it in your opinion.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-20-0.u32316	Thank you very much. We still have Mr. Representative Miljenko Doric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-20-0.u32317	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. I listened very carefully to my colleague Grubisic and I would like to say a few words here in connection with his exposure and with the reactions to his exposure. I know my colleague Grubisic relatively well. We've been sitting here for a year and five, six months together. I consider him an honest and upright man. And I hope he understands me where I don't support him. Namely, my colleague Grubisic, the foundation of European democracy, is the trio of power and here, I hope you agree with me. Therefore, if the judicial authorities have concluded so, then we have no room for doubt and intervention in the decisions of the Croatian judiciary. We can only respect it. But I fully agree with you, Mr Grubisic, that the Republic of Croatia is very far from the rule of law. But my colleague Grubisic, you and I have to go after that speaker and fight for these microphones for that rule of law. Comrade Grubisic, I fully agree with you that justice is selective in the Republic of Croatia. You used a great expression. But we must raise our hands this time to respect the court's decision, and for this speaker we must fight for a true rule of law. I, my colleague Grubisic, this morning asked the Minister of Justice a question on an almost identical subject we are now discussing. He disagreed with my data, called it improvisation and incorrect, invited me to speak to the Justice Department to get the right information. His closest associates, though aware of his question, failed to inform him that I had sought the admission of the Ministry of Justice to people in charge of the issue of clearly various crimes and co-operation with international institutions. The answer was that the XY person was busy begging me to give them a written question regarding the data we're looking for. And I've written a written question, and imagine who, the secretary said, send it to my e-mail because he doesn't have time, so I'll see what happens next. I humbled myself in the interests of my country, and I wrote to the secretary of the man in charge of the issue of war crimes. And what answer did I get? That they don't have the data I'm looking for. counterpart Grubisic, I went after that to a number of ministers and former ministers in European countries. They took me in as opposed to one of our assistant ministers. They talked to me about this matter. They said where they made the passes and where they could help me. In the British Parliament, there are fellow parliamentarians who, instead of me, ask unpleasant questions to their ministers and press and in the case... etc. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It is a battle for the rule of law both within us and much wider in Europe. So please, colleague Grubisic, let us respect the trio of power. Let's not accept this black and white debate we have here today. It's destructive, it's not good. I know it will take a long time, but I am willing to fight to truly in a few years Croatia is a true rule of law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-20-0.u32318	Thank you. We have one replica, Mr. Nenad Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-20-0.u32319	You say dear colleague Doric that we here as parliamentary representatives must fight for the rule of law. And now it is understood that today, by removing the immunity of Branimir Glavas, we will fight for the rule of law. We're going to be taking part in one of the directed farces today. Farsi, who was carved by HDZ a year and a half ago. And look how he tries to deny that farce. That the president of the parliament is correcting the MPs and it is not true that HDZ has not removed his immunity. He took off his immunity, only he wouldn't allow detention. But just because he didn't allow detention allowed Glavas to escape. The HDZ then had a plan a year and a half ago to allow Glavas to escape. And today it is justice and correction of the Stazic, it is not true. Stazic lies, Stazic does not tell the truth when he says the HDZ has enabled him. Therefore, today will not be a fight for the rule of law because the fight is a year and a half late. A year and a half ago, it was necessary to allow detention, so Glavas, who and everyone else, would have waited for his inadmissible sentence in custody, if she were more than five years old, would have followed the detention to power. But today HDZ, of course, is laughing because it has played out all the fair world in this country, all the reasonable people and all those who care about the rule of law, including you. I see you care about the rule of law and I see that you stand up for it. But your pledge with this HDZ and with this Glavas is lost in advance.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-20-0.u32320	... I'm gonna tell you that I said that the Parliament took off his immunity, but he didn't allow detention. [[The speaker was subsequently turned on.]] That's right. The council did lift immunity, but it did not allow detention. But you've repeated four times that the parliament and HDZ haven't removed immunity, so you've led astray whoever you can lead astray. And I was right, too. You were wrong and you insisted on it again. So what's the matter with you guys? Mr. Miljenko Doric, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-20-0.u32321	I'm asking you colleagues, just give me half a minute, please. I rebelled against black and white technique. You know, my colleague, today I heard from the minister that my data is also incorrect, and I know very correctly that in 32 cases, it was that we had located war crimes suspects in Europe, America, Australia. In 32 cases, we haven't responded, but colleague Stazic, I know that several cases when he didn't respond also relate to the period when your party and my party were in power. A smaller number, but there were. So this isn't just a matter of politics, it's a matter of profession, it's a matter of corruption, it's a thing of who knows what and I want to make it clear to white.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-20-0.u32322	Thank you. We have another replica, Mr. Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-20-0.u32323	My colleague Doric, I am pleased that you believe that I respect the trio. Normally, to respect, what else would you respect and have no reason to doubt it. But here today we are not discussing the court's decision or giving our own judgment on that decision, on the judgment of the court, on the wrongful verdict. We are here to discuss the request of our parliamentary Mandate-Immunity Commission and not to discuss the court's decision. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-20-0.u32324	Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-20-0.u32325	Comrade Grubisic, automation is that we take such a step if the court decides that Mr. Glavas must have such a punishment. Please, it's automation.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-20-0.u32326	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. Please establish the quorum. 80, we have a quorum. I am voting on a decision confirming the decision of the Mandate-Immunity Commission, which abolishes the immunity of Representative Branimir Glavas and gives approval for the detention of Representative Branimir Glavas at the request of the County Court in Zagreb, business number XCRZ1/07 since 8 May 2009. ... Here you go. [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-20-0.u32327	Mr. President, at the end of the debate on the report of the Mandate-Immunity Commission for the replacement of Mr. Vincel and Mrs. Hurse, you said they would vote once the conditions were met. If we have a quorum, there are conditions, then we can vote on it first so we don't forget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-20-0.u32328	We'll vote on that right now, but here's what was written here, no matter who was going to be first. Who's for the Mandate-Immunity Commission proposal the way I read it? Thank you. Against? Thank you. Restraint? Thank you. I note that the proposal by the Mandate-Immunity Commission was accepted by a majority vote with 79 votes in favour, 1 against and 1 abstention. I am voting in favour of the motion for a decision to suspend the term of office and to suspend the conduct of the deputy representative's office. On 19 May 2009, the term of office of representative Danica Hurse ceased. Deputy MP Mr. Zeljko Vincelj on 19 May 2009 ceased to act as a representative. Who is for this proposal of the Mandate-Immunity Commission? Thank you. Do you mind? Restraint? There isn't. Unanimity with 82 votes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-20-0.u32329	I ask the President of the Mandate-Immunity Commission of Mr Damir Sesvecan to submit a report on the start of the term of office. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-20-0.u32330	Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. So, the first is the report on the start of the stay of MP Ivan Vukic's term of office and the start of the conduct of deputy representative Ivan Bozovic. At the 20th session held on 17 June 2009, the mandate committee of the Croatian Parliament discussed the written request of MP Ivan Vukic, who informed the President of the Croatian Parliament that he would put his representative mandate to rest on the day of 8 June 2009 for the start of the conduct of the office of the mayor of Karlovac County which is incompatible with the conduct of the parliamentary duties within the meaning of the provision of Article 9(1). Law on election of MPs in the Croatian Parliament. As Mr Ivan Vukic was elected representative in the 6th meeting of the Croatian Parliament as a candidate on the list of Croatian Democratic Communities in VII. The election unit, the Croatian Democratic Community, is in accordance with Article 12(1). The Law on Elections in the Croatian Parliament has determined that Ivan Bozovic, as deputy representative in that election unit, begins to act as representative instead of representative Ivan Vukic. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Law on election of representatives in the Croatian Parliament to begin the stay of the parliamentary mandate of Ivan Vukic as well as the conditions for the start of acting as his deputy Ivan Bozovic. In accordance with the said Mandate-Immunity Commission, after the discussion was carried out under Article 104. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament unanimously with 6 votes to propose to the Croatian Parliament a decision on the stay of the parliamentary mandate and the start of acting as deputy deputies. On 8 June 2009, the term of office of representative Ivan Vukic shall begin to rest, acting in accordance with Article 9(2). The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament of 17 June 2009 began to act as deputy representative Ivan Bozovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-20-0.u32331	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. Before continuing to work, I urge the new representative Ivan Bozovic to swear. First I will read the text of the oath and afterwards I will call on the representative who gives the oath to rise and say the word after I read the text of the oath: "I swear by my honor that I will act consciously and responsibly in the Croatian Parliament and that I will stick to the Constitution and the law in my work and respect the legal order and that I will stand up for all the progress of the Republic of Croatia.".
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-20-0.u32332	I swear!
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-20-0.u32333	Congratulations to representative Ivan Bogovic. Here you go, Mr. Sesvetan.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-20-0.u32334	Report on the commencement of the agent's term of office, Dr. Vladimir Šišljagic and the start of acting as deputy deputy representative Ivan Drmic. At the 20th session held on 17 June 2009, the mandate committee of the Croatian Parliament discussed the written request of Representative Vladimir Šišljagic, who informed the President of the Croatian Parliament that he had put his representative mandate to rest because on 4 June 2009, he entered the office of the Mayor of Osijek-Baranja County which is incompatible with the conduct of the parliamentary duties within the meaning of Article 9(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. Law on election of MPs in the Croatian Parliament. How Mr Vladimir Šišljagic was elected representative in VI. Meeting of the Croatian Parliament as a candidate on the list of the Croatian Democratic Union of Slavonia and Baranja in IV. The election unit, the Croatian Democratic Union of Slavonia and Baranja is in accordance with Article 12(1). Law on election of MPs in the Croatian Parliament decreed that Ivan Drmic, as deputy representative in that election unit, began to act as a representative instead of a representative of Dr. Vladiimr Šišljagic. Following that commission, it was established that the conditions laid down in Article 9 of the Law on Elections of Representatives in the Croatian Parliament were met for the start of the term of office of Dr. Vladimir Šišljagic as well as the conditions for the start of acting as his deputy Ivan Drmic. In accordance with the said Mandate-Immunity Commission, after the discussion was carried out pursuant to Article 104. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament unanimously with 6 votes to propose to the Croatian Parliament a decision on the stay of the parliamentary mandate and the start of acting as deputy deputies. On 4 June 2009, the term of office of Representative Vladimir Šišljagic, acting in accordance with Article 9(2), shall begin. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament of 17 June 2009 begin to act as deputy representative Ivan Drmic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-20-0.u32335	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on the report, the proposal for a report on the decision of the Mandate Commission. Who's in? Thank you. Against? Restraint? It's unanimous with 95 votes for the accepted Mandate-Immunity Commission report. The representative will swear an oath when he is present. Before we continue the debate, I suggest that MP Ivan Drmic take an oath. Its mandate has been verified by Parliament's decision on the basis of the decision of the Mandate-Immunity Commission. I will first read the text of the oath, and afterwards I will invite Agent Ivan Drmić to stand up and say the word: "I swear! The text of the oath reads: "I swear by my honor that I will act consciously and responsibly in my work and that I will stick to the Constitution and the law and respect the legal order and that I will stand up for all the progress of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-20-0.u32337	I swear!
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-20-0.u32338	Thank you. Congratulations to the representative! We're continuing the debate. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-20-0.u32339	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, let's get on board and check the quorum. There are 85 MPs and representatives present. So we can go to the vote. The first is the report on the start of the term of office of representative Ivan Vukic and the start of the conduct of the deputy representative Ivan Bogovic. There's a vote to be made. The vote should be held. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I'm putting this proposal to a vote. Who's in? Please raise your hands, and we'll see you later. Thank you very much. Against? Restraint? There isn't. I find that, unanimously 85 votes, a decision has been taken in the text as proposed by the Mandate-Immunity Commission. As MP Ivan Bozovic gave the oath, I take the opportunity to congratulate him once again. 109 votes instead of 85, I'm sorry. [[Applause.]] Before continuing the session, please report to the Croatian Parliament of the Mandate-Immunity Commission. Here you go. About the mandate, the termination, about the start of Tomislav Ivic's term of office and the start of acting as deputy representative Josip Salapic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-20-0.u32341	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. The mandate-immunity commission of the Croatian Parliament discussed at the 21st session held on 7 July 2009 the written request of MP Tomislav Ivic, who informed the President of the Croatian Parliament that he was putting his representative mandate to rest on the day of 6 July 2009 for the start of acting as minister in the Government of the Republic of Croatia which is incompatible with the conduct of the parliamentary duties within the meaning of the provision of Article 9(1). Law on election of MPs in the Croatian Parliament. As Mr Tomislav Ivić was elected representative in the sixth meeting of the Croatian Parliament as a candidate for the Croatian Democratic Union in the fourth election unit, the Croatian Democratic Community is in accordance with Article 12(1). The Law on Elections in the Croatian Parliament has determined that Josip Salapic, as deputy representative in that election unit, begins to act as a representative instead of a representative of Tomislav Ivic. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Law on election of MPs in the Croatian Parliament to begin the stay of Tomislav Ivic's parliamentary mandate as well as the conditions for the start of acting as his deputy, Josip Salapic. In accordance with the said Mandate-Immunity Commission, after the discussion was carried out pursuant to Article 104. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament unanimously with 7 votes to propose to the Croatian Parliament a decision on the stay of the parliamentary mandate and the start of acting as deputy deputy MPs. On 6 July 2009, the stay of MP Tomislav Ivic begins. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament will begin acting as deputy representative Josip Salapic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-20-0.u32342	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I am putting to the vote the proposal of the Mandate-Immunity Commission on the termination of the parliamentary mandate of Tomislav Ivic and the start of the conduct of Mr Josip Salapic's parliamentary mandate. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? The proposal for a Mandate-Immunity Commission was adopted unanimously by 87 votes. Congratulations to Mr. Josip Salapic, and then we'll end this part of the oath. First, we will read the text of the oath and afterwards call upon the representative who gives the oath by standing up and saying the word “I swear. ” The text of the oath reads: “I swear by my honor that I will act consciously and responsibly in my work and that I will stick to the Constitution and the law and respect the legal order, and that I will stand up for all the progress of the Republic of Croatia. Representative Josip Salapic.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-20-0.u32343	Mr. President, I swear.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-20-0.u32344	Thank you very much. Congratulations. I want success. [[Applause.]] Please now President of the Mandate-Immunity Commission, Report on the cease-resistance of the representative's term of office Dr. Eve Sanader and the start of the stand-off of Eva Sanader's parliamentary term.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-20-0.u32345	At the 21st session held on 7 July 2009, the mandate-immunity commission of the Croatian Parliament discussed the written request of the representatives of Dr. On 7 July 2009, Ivo Sanader informed the President of the Croatian Parliament that the term of office of the Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia had ceased as of 6 July 2009, and in accordance with Article 13(1). Law on election of MPs in the Croatian Parliament filed a request for the suspension of the term of office. The commission also considered Dr. Ivo Sanader sent to the President of the Croatian Parliament for the term of office in office in accordance with Article 14(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. Law on election of representatives in the Croatian Parliament on 15 July 2009. The commission found that the stay of the parliamentary mandate of Dr Ivo Sanader, elected on the list of the Croatian Democratic Union, began in the 10th election unit on 11 January 2008 due to the incompatibility of the President of the Republic of Croatia's office as set out in Article 9. Law on election of representatives in the Croatian Parliament, and that his deputy, Željana Kalaš, began acting as a representative in the Croatian Parliament on 11 January 2008. How's dr. Ivo Sanader in accordance with Article 13(1). Law on election of MPs in the Croatian Parliament filed a written request for the suspension of the term of office of the President of the Croatian Parliament within the legal deadline, the committee found that the conditions had been met, so that the term of office of representative Dr. Evey Sanader stops on the eighth day of his application. The Commission also found that Mr Ivo Sanader submitted a written request to the President of the Croatian Parliament for the term of office and that they were in accordance with Article 14. Law on election of legislators in the Croatian Parliament laid down by law the conditions for the commencement of the term of office of Dr. Ive Sanader and continue to act as deputy deputy representative of Zeljana Kalash. In accordance with Article 104, the Mandate-Immunity Commission shall, after the debate has been carried out, be based on Article 104. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, by majority vote 5 for and 2 abstentions, proposes to the Croatian Parliament a decision to suspend the term of office of MPs and to begin the term of office of MPs. On 15 July 2009, the term of office of representative Dr. Eve Sanader. On 15 July 2009, Dr. Eve Sanader.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-20-0.u32346	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. Mr. Arsen Bauk, please. On behalf of the club, right? Okay.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-20-0.u32347	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and fellow MPs. This current debate is in fact the last act of farce called the resignation of Croatian Prime Minister Dr. Ivo Sanader for which the Croatian public has not learned the real and unequivocal reasons today. These less clear and ambiguous reasons she heard, but those real unequivocal reasons she didn't hear. The resignation was undoubtedly a first-rate political event, thus causing public interest as well as the public's interest in the whole story of its activation, deactivated mandates, and returned to the Parliament or not. So there are two things. One is legal. In the SDP club, we hold that it is the right to activate the mandate in Article 14(1) that it can be done once in office and that this second time in fact it could not be returned to the Assembly if, of course, it were interpreted by the law as we have interpreted it rigidly, i.e. how the majority of the Parliament's credible interpretation gave to the former representative Radiir Cacic that the law was interpreted as going in favour of the MP, today Mr Cacic would be with us, but as the law was not interpreted, then Mr Cagaric cannot be with us, and Mr Bagaric could be with us, and Mr Sanader may be able to be with us if he decides. In other words, in this country, anyone who is in HDZ can interpret the law as appropriate to him, and for the opposition only if he writes unequivocally. The very fact of the credible interpretation that Mr. Sanader asked for his mandate to be activated, in the case of Mr. Cacic, you interpreted that someone from the 3rd constituency might withdraw and that Mr. Cacic might then, despite being late, return to the Parliament. In this regard, I would like to interpret that Mr. Sanader has no confidence in any MP from the 10th constituency to withdraw in his favour, so that may be what he's saying about his strength within the HDZ, and then he's trying to do it like this. In the same way as hererical their resignation and cowardly retreat to the reserve position. The SDP club would vote to activate the mandate, but against putting it on hold, and since we will not have the opportunity to vote twice, we will vote against it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-20-0.u32348	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I'm not happy when precedents happen, even on this one I'd say for a constructive and banal reason. In fact, we don't decide anything else here but whether this is in accordance with the law and the Rules of Procedure. If you think it's out of line, you'll vote as you think, and if you think it is, then you'll vote like that. Otherwise, the comparison here of three mentioned Bagaric, Cacic and Sanader is a talk about pears, apples and, say, mandarins. Because they have absolutely nothing to do with each other, and I'm sorry that this case too wants to be politicized in this way. That is why I will conclude the debate and put the proposal of the Mandate-Immunity Commission on the vote as read by the President of the Mandate-Immunity Commission, so let us please get involved and vote. The result? The proposal of the Mandate-Immunity Commission was accepted by most votes, 71 votes to, 1 abstention and 17 against. Thank you very much. 2. Proposal for a resolution on the fight against viral hepatitis with a proposal for a conclusion – Proposer: The Committee on Health and Social Care is a Proposer of the Committee on Health and Social Care pursuant to Article 129. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. The government delivered an opinion. The debate was conducted by the Legislative Committee. You received the reports at the session. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. The chairman of the board, Mr. Professor Andrija Hebrang. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-20-0.u32350	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. On behalf of the promoter, we would like to share this time at our disposal provided for in the Rules of Procedure for Proposer Professor Rajko Ostojić and myself, Professor Rajko Ostojić, as vice-president of the board, but also as a representative of the profession that deals with this problem and who has taken over a large part of the Committee's work burden on this point at which I thank him in advance. So yesterday was World Hepatitis Day, and that information tells us that hepatitis is a problem that is a global dimension. Hepatitis caused by viruses, different groups of viruses and today unfortunately takes its toll even though all the countries of Europe are, we will talk about Europe, and Croatia has also made a great contribution to suppressing this disease, but unfortunately our victory is not yet final. As a result, the Committee decided two months ago to adopt a Resolution on hepatitis and to add conclusions that would oblige the Government of the Republic of Croatia in agreement with State Secretary Dr Golem, who represented the Government in the work of this Committee and thus join the European Union, which adopted its resolution and its Declaration on hepatitis. So we follow the trail of the fight against this disease not only on the professional field but the aim of this committee action was to unite all social activities, all social layers because hepatitis is not just a health problem, it is a wider social problem. This is why we encouraged this initiative and we invited the thematic session of the Committee of 50 prominent experts from this area, representatives of the Croatian Medical Association, the Croatian Medical Chamber, the Croatian Sister's Chamber, but we also invited representatives of the associations of patients who had one of the forms of viral hepatitis. The response was I can really say 100 percent. We had a thematic session of 21 speakers with very high quality contributions and I am taking this opportunity to thank them all. I'm a little sorry that the media on yesterday, World Hepatitis Day politicized this topic and said that in Croatia it was not done enough in this field and that doctors insist on the resolution on hepatitis. They don't insist on doctors. The resolution was proposed by the Health and Social Care Committee of this Assembly and the doctors responded. Doctors have done their part of the hepatitis battle as well as you will see from these preliminary exhibitions. Therefore, hepatitis in the Council of Europe declaration is called one of the main public health problems. This is why public health problems are needed because they need to be included in it, except for health care itself, and many others whose task is to safeguard public health. When I say a lot of other services, then we mean virtually all government resolutions, because hepatitis is also a disease of socially endangered groups and drug disease and health care professionals and others who are more professionally exposed to these viruses than the average population. But the Council of Europe resolution that was adopted in March 2007 uses another viral hepatitis, I would say, a very difficult word, which is that it is a silent killer. And indeed, viral hepatitis is a silent killer because he, therefore, viruses attack the organism so that the organism doesn't let it know. The patient hasn't known for a long time that he has this virus in him, and the virus is doing its own dangerous work. What kind of job is that? He's destroying his liver cells. In this way, it makes it impossible for the liver to function, its important biochemical function, through numerous metabolic processes of the body. And the final result is liver cell failure. The only treatment that remains then is liver transplants, which is not only very expensive for the community, but also very risky for the patient himself because it is a procedure that carries a high level of risk. Of course, another of the known severe consequences of viral hepatitis is liver cancer, hepatocellular cancer, one of the most severe cancers that has also kept quiet for a long time without any symptoms. Because of this, we are joining this condemnation of viral hepatitis to be a silent killer and therefore we have proposed one such broad resolution that would include all the social layers, all the levels of the state administration, and local administrations in the fight against the silent killer and thus round up in some way or encourage further activities in this area. What are those viral hepatitises? Well, mostly the problem comes down to the hepatitis virus. A, the B virus and the C virus. There's more, but they're rare. What have we done in that field so far? I will give a brief review, and Professor Ostojić will then say what we are still proposing in this resolution and what in this action plan in the form of conclusions we propose to the Government of the Republic of Croatia. So hepatitis A is a viral infection with a virus that spreads mostly over dirty hands and that's what's called an unclean arm disease. It is located in those environments where unclean habits are and unfortunately, the feco-oral pathway is the most common route of such transmission. In the Republic of Croatia, much has been done in this area. The management of the disease is obvious. I'll read the information that in 1966 there were 14,000 patients, and last year 29 newly discovered. So, from 14 grand to 29 is a big step, but the problem with viral A hepatitis is, as you can see, still here. It is therefore made up of habits, with training on hygienic habits, but also with water draining organisations and with a whole series of other activities in that direction. Hepatitis B is transmitted differently. This virus is transmitted through blood, sexually, through needles in drug addicts, tattoos, also tattoo needles, but is also transmitted so-called. a vertical route from the infected mother to the newborn. So there's a whole series of transfer routes that keep this hepatitis still highly ranked in the public health problem, although we did indeed, as I'm going to say later, a lot of things to contain. I believe today that B hepatitis in the world has infected about 2 billion people. About 400 million are carriers of B hepatitis, and every year around a million people die of this disease. In the Republic of Croatia, thanks to a very successful vaccination programme, we brought it under control but not complete. We still have between 100 and 200 newly registered or newly registered. About 11% of the population is believed to be infected in the Republic of Croatia, but of course in some specific populations and much more. The third is C hepatitis for which there is no possibility of vaccination, so the prevention of vaccination is therefore the most important other methods that have also been applied in our country. Around 180 million people have been infected in the world, but this data is certainly not true because the largest number of carriers of this virus do not know that it has it, so it is considered to be only 20% of the total number of infected. In this case, almost a billion people infected worldwide are climbing and are believed to be infected annually by new 3 to 4 million inhabitants. As we said, there is no vaccination against C hepatitis, so the measures we've been taking, and above all blood control means an important step in the fight against this virus. I'd just like to remind you that we introduced blood control, strict control in 1993, so in the course of the Homeland War. We had the strength to fight this disease and it gave very good results. Of course, there are some problems in this area of blood control today, and my colleague Ostojic will certainly mention it. In Croatia, 300 to 400 new people are discovered, but this is the same question as whether it is because most of them have a non-infested form of disease, so the disease does not give signs, and in fact the exact number is not that, but it is much larger. In some populations, infection is much higher. I'd just say it's for example. in the prison system, that number is multiple, that in the prison system, that number is up to 50% of those who stay in prison for a long time, which is a terrible data. This is why we have a special project run by Professor Burek from the Center for Infectious Diseases with his colleagues, a special project to detect and suppress viral hepatitis in the prison environment, and with this project they crossed the borders of Croatia, held a whole series of lectures in the world, and it is one to recognise the project at international level. What has happened against these three hepatitises so far? Well, first of all, it's a profession, so doctors who deal with this profession, and I'd say that there's no medical profession that doesn't get into this problem, the profession has brought its consensus at the 2009 conference where it has given accurate algorithms, diagnostics, therapy and has given professional frameworks of everything that needs to be done. The state administration was also very diligent. She brought a whole series of rules. For example, a Regulation on the reporting of infectious diseases, a Regulation on immunisation, seroprofilaxia, chemotherapy, a Regulation on health control of callosuppressants, etc. The vaccination programme brought by the Ministry of Health has also been commended and a whole series of good organisational vaccination actions has been developed. I'd just say that hepatitis B has been vaccinated by a high-risk health population also in the course of the Homeland War in 1991, and that this population of healthcare professionals has been infected 13 times more with the hepatitis virus, especially us who are doing blood tests. In contact with blood, this virus was spreading really uncontrollably for a while. Now in that population, it's also under control. It should also be mentioned the vaccination of the school population, at the end of 2007 when the ministry decided to vaccinate all newborns in the Republic of Croatia. That's how all newborns are protected. This means saving about 150 newborns a year from this disease as many as a year were infected through their mother’s blood. In the area of protection against C hepatitis, not everything is said, which is why Europe has dedicated its resolution to this particular hepatitis. So in our proposal for our resolution we extended your decisions to both hepatitis A and hepatitis B. What you should say here is that this wide public involvement in this action is actually raising awareness. Raising awareness is important because one of the leading roles of education is to prevent hepatitis. To educate the population on how to transfer the hepatitis virus, how it works and how to prevent it, and later on, treatment and disease means to contribute most to the reduction of the number of newly infected and newly infected. We in Croatia, of course, have some problems in that education. You'll see, that's why we've made some recommendations. As for the treatment of hepatitis itself, and here we heard some dissonant tones recently, especially yesterday on World Hepatitis Day in the media like Croatia did not put all medicines on the list of HZZOs. All the medicines recommended by the expert HZO put on the list of medicines. There are other problems. For example, one type of Interferon that is required to be placed on the B hepatitis treatment list is at the stage of the review because additional professional data were requested by the HZZ and according to the expert committee. It should be said that all these medicines are neither harmless nor effective. This word should only be used in the profession, and no financial or any other restrictions, financial or any other restrictions should affect the fate of the patients, or the fate of the infected. And I'm sure that's the way it is in Croatia. We also have problems with the treatment of severe consequences such as hepatocellular cancer. But as you know in recent years, we've also introduced a transplant as a regular form of treatment. Due to the liver transplant program that we have brought to European level, we have received from the Council of Europe and funding funding for the construction of a liver transplant centre at the Mercur Clinical Hospital, which is now before completion. A sufficient number of colleagues has been educated in implantation. A whole series of actions was designed to voluntarily administer the postmortem liver. We have also introduced a whole series of new methods to treat acute liver retention, and we are spreading new methods for the treatment of hepatocellular cancer. So these are also surgical methods and methods of thermoablation and methods of transcateric chemistry that we can already do at any regional and every clinical center today. So, with all these praises to the profession and all the warnings that need to be done to save human lives in these three hepatitises, we have proposed this resolution, we have proposed these conclusions and we believe that we will get your support and that in cooperation with the Government of the Republic of Croatia which has also given, as you can see from the attached principled support, we will succeed in continuing our fight against these viruses. We know we'll never get it to the end, but every torn-off life for us is a big profit. Thank you very much for your attention, so I'd like to ask Professor now. He remains to continue you on behalf of the promoter.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-20-0.u32351	Co-legislator Mr. Representative, Vice-President of the Committee Mr. Rajko Ostojić.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-20-0.u32352	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. Let me first thank all the members of the Health Committee, especially the chairman of the Health Committee, so Prof. Hebrang, who organised the thematic session, to all experts who worked and, of course, at the end of the day, but not less important to Secretary of State Anti-Zvonimir Golem, who also helped during the working group, the thematic session, and in the last term he made two significant shifts, and this is HBV vaccination among newborns on the one hand and improvement of expensive medicines that he found in the treatment of viral hepatitis. A series of reasons why we are proposing today, i.e. the Health Committee is proposing to you colleagues and colleagues our resolution. Although Croatia is not formally a member of the European Union for hundreds of years, for hundreds of years it belongs to Europe and the European Parliament adopted this resolution two years ago, and although we are not formally a member of the European Union similar resolution with similar implementing measures we propose to you, that is, we will ask the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Ministry of Health to make them. So, the European Parliament, such as Prof. Hebrang initially noted the importance of viral hepatitis. Why? Because, in 2017 and 2019, a major outbreak of hepatitis C is expected in Europe. This moment, 12 million citizens of Europe are infected with hepatitis C, and a high epidemic is expected to take place in ten years with highly likely severe inconspicuous consequences. And there's what we often mention about mission and vision. Our doctor's mission is to help out today, tonight on duty. And the vision of people who run health care is predicting what will happen in 10 years, which will happen in 10 years, in 15 years and prevent the problem on the trail of our constant, good maximum prevention is better and more profitable than treatment. So, the resolution on the fight against viral hepatitis, which we call on the Health Committee to call on all competent institutions, consists of 9 points. The first is that viral hepatitises are recognized as a key, leading public-health problem for it regardless of what it is, like Professor. Hebrang emphasized annually 300 of our citizens are newly reported with hepatitis or B or C. So the incidence is not so high, but it is the tip of the iceberg. We don't know what the real expansion is. He doesn't know Europe, he doesn't know Croatia, and that's why it's very important in time to detect the disease. The second is to point out the importance of preventing the spread of hepatitis viruses in order to protect the health of our citizens. The hepatitis c virus is spreading through parenteral pathways, blood, blood derivatives since '93, although at the time of the war, '93. Like Europe, like America, since '93. and Croatia is doing a test on the hepatitis c virus. There we were really in maximum... And fortunately, that's why that incidence isn't so high. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But what should be improved, which is why we stated, that, as Professor Hebrang pointed out, it is a multidisciplinary approach, one of the ways is also health education because today it is known that hepatitis c is a sexually transmitted disease. Thirdly, to stress all these measures to prevent the spread of infection, so parenteral pathways, blood, blood derivatives, tattoos, it is now quite modern, body piercing, etc., if done in non-sterile, non-hygienic conditions, including treatment prevention measures. Namely, by treating a patient named Mark Marković who has hepatitis c or hepatitis b, you treat a person, but second and no less important, you prevent the spread of the infection. So either horizontally to other people or vertically, for example from mom to kid. So, not only do we cure this patient Mark Mark Markovic, but we reduce the tank, or source, source of the virus and thus reduce the possibility of infecting other citizens. Fourthly, to point out the fact, the repeated fact that the reduction of this particular tank or source of the virus is the cost-effectivest long-term strategy under the control of hepatitis. And that is the key reason why the European Parliament adopted this strategy two years ago. Because it is cost-effective, simplest and for the health of the citizens of both Europe and Croatia and of course insurance houses, and with us is still the leading insurance company of the Croatian Health Insurance Institute. Fifth, to highlight the importance of early detection. That's very clear. Namely, it is undoubtedly known that the hepatitis c virus, although it has only completed its adulthood this year, has only just turned 19, has been demonstrated in a series of studies that after twenty years it causes cirrhosis or primary liver cancer. You'll be wondering, of course, who are not medics how is that possible? This is possible because in ordered countries such as France, Germany or the United States have noticed that the most post-transfusion hepatitis was in '65, '66, '67, so when I started kindergarten. Then they left test tubes with the blood of those patients in the arranged states, and they didn't know what it was about. They knew that something was, so the patients went, and then big heart surgery started. The patient's life was saved, a changed valvula, an operated bypass, but he got 5.6 liters of blood and he lived his 20, 30 years, but he yellowed after 6 months. Doctors and scientists were worried, they didn't know what it was about, but every six months they ordered these patients, they froze their blood in liquid nitrogen, so at -200 degrees Celsius and when we were in '89. We discovered the disease then we saw that John Smith was operated in '65. Because of the wave, it's '66. Yellow, that's '76. Got chronic hepatitis, '79. The cirrhosis and that he died in '83. liver cancer. And many, many of these John Smiths happened so that very quickly thanks to the regulated health systems, we realized what kind of bad disease we were dealing with, and as Professor Hebrang stressed, even the European Parliament in its resolution, and we repeatedly called it hepatitis c and b "silent killer" or Croatian, "silent killer". Sixth, to highlight the need for spot and optimal treatment. Hepatitis c treatment today in Croatia is almost like Europe. So, I'd say great. As for hepatitis b, it can be improved, but to that, of course, I want the waist to be maximum propagating. It can be improved, but for that, among other things, a series of factors are the cause, and this hour at least HZZO, at least from me known data and data known to the Health Committee. Seven, to point out the importance of controlling high-risk viral hepatitis groups to prevent these complications, liver cirrhosis and liver cancer. The average citizen of Croatia who has cirrhosis has exactly 52 years of age. A man at 52 years of age is physically the most active, mentally very well preserved, and with liver cirrhosis unfortunately his work ability, sickness, and we heard this this morning in the current hour of failure and his ability to earn and work for life is lost. Eight, to promote the availability of treatment from the severe consequences of viral hepatitises, therefore both cirrhosis and liver cancer. And the ninth, last, to continuously develop and raise awareness of viral hepatitis, which will affect the destigmatisation of this disease. It is rare that hepatitis c or hepatitis b is associated with HIV-type diseases, AIDS or similar diseases, and in this way there is a high rate of patients who have hepatitis b. Unfortunately, no public person has reported hepatitis b in Croatia, but in Europe, in London, in Paris, many celebrities, public figures, politicians, doctors, estrad stars, not by their own fault have received hepatitis c or hepatitis b, we doctors are often getting sick of viral hepatitis due to blood contact. That's how the level of consciousness rises. On the one hand of the importance of detection, about the possibility of treatment, because in the end no less important, some types of hepatitis c are today treatable. Some hepatitis c genotypes are the first viral cure. That's why it's very important, and we live in the third millennium, we live in the 21st century, we allow these patients, number 1 right to work and definitely organize such a system to remove the Stigma from these patients. The educational system is in implementing measures. We have recommended, and the Government, I thank the Government of the Republic of Croatia which has adopted our resolution and we have recommended implementing measures. One of them is that, with interaction with the education system, the Ministry of Education, Science and Sports emphasizes the importance of a healthy way of life, responsible behavior and the obligation to care for their own health, which is at the heart of the introduction of health care. The Minister of Justice signed 20 days ago and allowed the continued treatment of our citizens who are in prison for a number of reasons. Of course, when he's in prison, there's a sin. But patients, i.e. citizens who are in prison, are in some way subject to discrimination because going to prison loses their HZZO rights, loses their health insurance rights. As a result, the Health Committee recommended that these citizens, our citizens who are temporal, pass through the prison system, be given optimal treatment because 10,000 of our citizens are released from the prison system annually. Of those 10,000 of our citizens who get out of prison every year, somewhere around 2500 citizens are infected with either hepatitis b or c. So for 10 years it's 25,000 citizens. So, while they are in prison, they need to be treated in some way because this is the most obvious example of how we can simply reduce the tank of that infection by means of a simple measure. We have therefore also concluded in implementing measures to continue this initial pilot project, and now to be continued Minister Shimonovic, the Government of the Republic of Croatia supported it a month ago. It is of course necessary to include NGOs and to encourage further development of civil partnership in the fight against hepatitis C and B and ultimately organise the equipment of all Croatian county institutions for simultaneous and equal availability of any diagnostics, whether therapy. On behalf of the Health Committee, Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Secretary of State, I ask you, therefore, to accept our resolution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-20-0.u32353	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. Madam Representative Carmela Caparin on behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-20-0.u32354	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President, State Secretary, colleagues and fellow MPs. The Croatian Democratic Community club discussed a motion for a resolution on the fight against viral hepatitis with a proposal for a conclusion. All praises, of course, to the Committee on Health, Professor Hebrang and Professor Ostojić and to all his associates as well as to those who attended the the thematic session who really discussed the problem extensively and supported this resolution and these conclusions. And so far, we have a Law on the Protection of the public against infectious diseases, which is in line with the legislation of the European Union and in the legal acts of the Council of Europe, infectious diseases are today one of the health priorities of the Republic of Croatia. Many factors of the health system and many outside of health care are involved in supervision, all with the aim of preventing disease from being monitored, diagnosed, properly treated and suppressed. The European Parliament declaration adopted as heard in 2007 recognized viral hepatitis C as the leading public health problem in the European Union by emphasising prevention, diagnostics and optimal treatment of viral hepatitises. Until recently, we were talking about A hepatitis that belongs to a disease of dirty hands that is transmitted by fecal-oral, hence low hygiene and fortunately, as Professor Hebrang said last year, there are only 29 patients. But what's fortunate for A hepatitis that used to be very much, and that's that it's an acute disease that doesn't go into chronicity, very rarely, so in a very exhausting, in an immunocompromised end of death but never goes into chronicity, so the acute disease you choose then you'd say you'd better have A hepatitis and neither other. On the other hand, we have B hepatitis, which belongs to sexually transmitted diseases and blood - transmitted diseases. I will especially stress this sexually transmitted disease because it is often forgotten from this point on, and this is the importance of education in schools as to how B hepatitis is transmitted and that it is a sexually transmitted disease. We've heard that in contact with the hepatitis B virus is 2 billion people, about 400 million carriers are chronic hepatitis B viral infections and every year this disease dies millions of people. In the Republic of Croatia, 55,000 people have chronic B hepatitis and we assume that they will end. A hundred to two hundred new patients are reported annually, especially in vulnerable patients. Healthcare professionals are involved in high risk groups that have a touch of more than 20 per life-threatening viruses including hepatitis virus here. Since 91, vaccination of medical professionals has been carried out and children in primary school have been vaccinated since 1999. It is positive that since 2007, newborns are vaccinated because all pregnant women today are tested for B hepatitis and, if necessary, newborns are protected by hyperimmune gamma globulin because the infection is transmitted vertically from mother to child. We know pregnant women are a major risk reserve for B hepatitis transmission because they are not protected with the vaccine. And our National Health Strategy from 2006 to 2011 puts our National Strategy for Chronic Disease of the liver and cirrhosis among the first seven causes of death of adults. Estimates say the incidence of liver tumours in Europe will increase 200% between 2008 and 2015. And how it happens in infectious diseases, thinking that we solved the hepatitises in 1989, a virus of C hepatitis was detected. We've been testing since 1993, and I remember those surgical procedures of our wounded defenders who had been receiving blood and which I had received from the Infectious Diseases Department in the clinical picture of hepatitis, severe hepatitis, and we didn't know what caused this hepatitis, of course, because then it wasn't known to be C hepatitis, we then declared it hepatitis non-A non-B, so neither A nor B or post-transfusion hepatitis. Today we're talking about D hepatitis, E and G hepatitis. And what else is waiting for us is what we'll see. Hepatitis C viral infection is on the rise and non-treatment leads to cirrhosis and hepatocellular liver cancer, which then leads back to liver transplants. C hepatitis is unfortunately revealed in the chronic phase because most infected people really do not have any symptoms of disease, only 25 to 30% indicate certain symptoms and 75 to 80% converts to chronicity. And that's why we call C hepatitis a time bomb whose scales are devastating and we call it a silent killer. Patients for years can tell you to complain subjectively about some muckle sometimes pain beneath the right ribbed arch, sometimes loss of appetite and more often in practice of a certain fatigue that simply forgets and does so further. There are about 180 million people in the world, or 3% of the world's population, who die 1.5. 65,000 people have been infected in the Republic of Croatia with hepatitis C. We've heard 300 to 400 new every year. But what worries us is that the vaccine for C hepatitis doesn't have what we have for B and A hepatitis. The virus has a high level of mutation that leads to numerous variations. Similarly, it reminds us of AIDS, it varies so we can't find the vaccine, so it's also a mutation with C hepatitis and it's hard to find the vaccine. Types 1 and 3, genotypes 1 and 4 are considered to be resistant viruses in the Republic of Croatia. Genotypes 2 and 3 are well treated where the treatment is 88% and for genotypes 1B and 1A, the effectiveness of therapy is lower between 44 and 46%. One of the patients said, quote: “I’m one of the lucky ones who cured hepatitis C and since then my life has changed 100%. I was infected by blood by receiving a transfusion at the hospital's department at the time of the war. I've been waiting for treatment for years, and in the end, I've welcomed and cured this silent killer. Now I work normally and everything is in order, but while I was positive as if my forehead said, "That's a junkie, he's like this and like this." In 80% of cases, the main transporters of hepatitis C are intravenous drug users, into 15% are sexually transmitted, and 5% of them are caused by hospital infections. It is possible to transmit, of course, today through tattoos and piercings, and therefore you need to take care of it. It is commendable to study by Professor Burek, mentioned here, from the Infectious Diseases Clinic "Dr. Fran Mihaljevic". In total, he studied 10 thousand and 300 prisoners, tested 4 thousand 800 people, so 50%, while in the general population, the incidence of hepatitis B was 11%, in the prison population of 17%, and in the group of intravenous drug addicts was 30%. Between 4000 and 800 tested hepatitis B viruses were detected in 379 people. In C hepatitis, the prevalence of infection is more dramatic, in the general population, the incidence is 1.1%, and I emphasize 14.5% among prisoners. In the intravenous drug group, it is 50%. A total of 279 people infected with hepatitis C, 203 people have both B and C hepatitis, which has a very poor prognosis. Inside the prison system prisoners spread the infection by intravenous drugs, homosexual contact, rape, blood contact. When they come out of the prison system, addicts rarely change their habits, they continue through syringes and sexual contact, unfortunately spreading the infection. In the next 10 years, an additional 30,000 infected persons will come out of Croatian prisons and this tells us about the importance of keeping under control as far as B and C of our prisoners are concerned. Hepatitis is a public health problem and requires a multidisciplinary approach. The resolution and action plan will be the first official documents in the Republic of Croatia on viral hepatitis, and they will encourage better reports on the spread of hepatitis in our country, adoption of recommendations for targeted screening of hepatitis B and C, will encourage enlightenment and education by emphasising a healthy lifestyle and responsible behaviour. 8 to 10% of C hepatitis carriers are not conscious of infection and do not know that they have hepatitis and are among us. Most in the Republic of Croatia are not sufficiently informed about the disease itself, the pathways of transmission, diagnostics, or treatment options. The sick are often marginalized, the right to work is denied, which is one discrimination in our society of so sick people. Hepatitis is an infectious disease that spreads if we don't prevent and treat it. To do nothing in this sphere also means to increase the number of patients suffering from cirrhosis, hepatocellular cancer, hepatic failure, and transplantation and high costs. The Croatian Democratic Community Club supports the adoption of this resolution and the development of an action plan as it will contribute to strengthening public awareness of the great monster of these diseases, will provide guidance in an effective programme of prevention and education, in improving early diagnostic work by applying new methods adopted in the European Union, detecting risk groups and encouraging treatment of previously unidentified people with hepatitis, with a reduction in the number of new patients. Of course, we must have equal conditions for both diagnostics and treatment in all our general hospitals in infectious wards or internal illness departments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-20-0.u32355	Thank you. At 17.43, it was time to report a ten-minute hearing. ... What? [[You can't hear the intruder.]] It says 17.43. And it will expire... SDP club, Mr. Representative Rajko Ostojić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-20-0.u32356	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues. The SDP representative club will, of course, support the resolution for two basic reasons. The first is because the SDP club, as until now, will support the laws concerning the health of our citizens, because it believed that investment in the health of investments is a fundamental investment that health is not consumption. On a number of occasions, the SDP Club showed its credibility and supported, regardless of who they came from, laws that improve the health of our citizens. And the other reason is because this is the best example of prevention, so prevention if you detect an infectious disease in time, if you discover the cause, source, tank, then you can make a prevention and there is no better investment for the state than prevention. One kuna invested in prevention, colleagues and colleagues, is a factor of ten full. So one kuna is worth 10, a hundred kunas are worth several thousand kunas. There is no stock market, and we see that the stock market is failing, there is no real estate investment, except perhaps in knowledge and mind, such as investment in the prevention of doctors. 1924. Andrija Printar, and we often refer to this visionary of Croatian medicine at the SDP club, European medicine said, "Ignorance is the biggest enemy of health." At that time, it was a speech about the diseases of dirty hands, about the need to invest in sanitary infrastructure, and today we can also say that in 2009, ignorance is the biggest enemy of health. Professor Hebrang pointed out that the number of hepatitis A fell from 14 thousand in '66, not so long ago in '66, today at 28. Why? Because we have discovered and made a prevention and, of course, the SDP club will support this resolution as well. As for the treatment of hepatitis C, and I deal with liver disease among other things, therapy is very, very good. As far as hepatitis B therapy is concerned, it is true that there is only one out of five medicines right now on the list of the Croatian Health Insurance Institute, but as I said earlier, for this exclusive culprit is not of course HZZO in this case. There's a reason for that. Why? Five, six years ago, therapy as the European Union was proposed in the profession, but representatives of these pharmaceutical companies simply did not want to come "to a country the size of Croatia". For what? We only have 120 patients with hepatitis B per year. Their argument was, among other things, not enough for us, if we may say so, to convey their words, interesting. However, unequivocally medicine goes on and we must certainly give the patients with hepatitis B a chance. I do not doubt that Secretary of State Ante Zvonimir Golem, the current minister will improve the treatment and these groups of patients and the unequivocal fact is that there is insufficient number in that range of medicines. But I stress the guilt not only of the Croatian Institute of Health Insurance, and as you know, the Croatian Institute of Health Insurance rarely attacks, often as a parliamentary representative, but as a doctor, I also try to give them instructions from experts. So, I don't doubt that this group of patients with hepatitis B will equalize with Europe. We tested all the MPs on hepatitis C a year ago and none of us are positive. But every 12 citizens of the world have contact either with hepatitis B or with hepatitis C. So 500 million people this moment in the world are infected with hepatitis B and C, especially B, but these are of course the Far East, Indonesia, Polynesia, India, Taiwan and the Far East of Europe. The incidence of hepatitis B in Croatia is about 1.75, hepatitis C 1.3%, and therefore I invite you to reorganize a test on hepatitis C or hepatitis B or any other public-health action to allow all representatives to be invited. What the SDP Representatives Club thinks is not just a medical problem, that this is a broader problem. And especially that we need our children, so our adolescents are familiar with all infectious diseases. Therefore, of course, the Club of Representatives of the SDP will repeat its application, although there is no minister, there is no one from the Ministry of Education, Science and Sports to return health education as soon as possible, to introduce not in high school, not in high school, but in primary schools. Because we live in the 21st century and what we used to have, at least my generation available through some books, magazines are now available to a generation of 15-year-olds through what you have in front of you, and that's a laptop. We had football courts and basketball courts. They have room chat. They're talking to someone in Japan, in New York. We've had footballs or water polo balls, and they have a mouse. By clicking the mouse, they get all the information. On several occasions, I was talking about this medical education, so I'm going to talk again even though I say there's no Minister of Resort. So, health care education is inadmissible to talk about health care for 4, 5 years now, and there is no health care establishment, to take action at last, and not to be hypocritical is our parents, grandparents, it is the obligation of our parliamentary representatives, the obligation of the executive authority to provide the children with accurate, real and concrete information. Therefore, repeated application, insisting on health education is revitalised as soon as possible. You're witnesses, I was very angry a few days ago with an article in the daily newspaper where our people declared us to grow old, to disappear, and young people to drink and drug more and more. They've passed on the analysis of each other's week based on data, and the data looks like this. 350 citizens of Croatia drink too much alcohol. The average life of a Croatian citizen with liver cirrhosis is 52 years old. Every cirrhosis of the liver is precancerosis. Any cirrhosis of the liver by definition of precancerosis, predicate. Because cirrhosis is regeneration, and regeneration is controlled cell growth, and the tumor is uncontrolled cell growth. For you lay five words, the difference is only in prefix no. Something happens, that cirrhosis, no matter what trilogy it was, ends up in liver cancer. And therefore, I expect that the Health Committee will continue its mission and vision and that we will soon see here a resolution on the importance of fighting cancer, against cancer, because liver cancer is the fifth most common cancer around the world, and the first due to mortality. First for a number of reasons. Because both cirrhosis and hepatitis B and hepatitis C are diagnosed late, rarely poorly treated. But out of 100 patients with liver cancer, 90 have either B or C infection. So, by treating B and C definitely, I'm telling you right now as a doctor who deals with the team, we're definitely preventing the development of cancer at least that cause. And that is why the European Parliament has created an ad hoc group, why it has made a resolution, why it has already made several closed and several open sessions to analyse these results because Croatia will certainly be a member of the European Union in 2017. And as I said just before 2017 will be the tip of that epidemic. That this peak of the epidemic would not surprise us, of course, that the Club of Representatives of the SDP will support the proposal of the Health Committee and support this resolution unanimously. Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-20-0.u32357	Thank you very much. HNS representative club, Mr. Representative Miljenko Doric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-20-0.u32358	Dear Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, the Croatian People's Party club will, of course, support this resolution and the conclusions that we give to the Croatian Government. Allow me, however, a few additional sentences regarding this proposal. In the 1970s, we learned from medical schools in Croatia, and I was a student at the time that there will soon be no infectious diseases in Croatia and Europe. Antibiotics and other medicines will be the final solution and will soon disappear from the need to specialise infectology. However, a colleague named Caparin had just arrived. She's an infectious. She completed her specialization long after the 1970s. What happened when the forecasts of those who taught us in the 1970s did not come true? In fact, by developing molecular biology, we have received a powerful weapon in detecting and diagnostics of infectious diseases. In the 1980s, 30 very significant new diseases were discovered for humans and hundreds of diseases were detected that are rare, but still affect the human population. In fact, until then, we could only prove the cause of the disease by breeding on artificial bases, on cell culture, or in animals on a biological experiment. By developing molecular biology, we get a technique that can prove genetic material that belongs to a particular microorganism. In this case, the virus one, the other, the third. But that applies, I repeat, to a large number of other diseases. It is clear that many of you did not know the information that I have now provided, let alone our citizens, and therefore I am very pleased that our parliamentary committee has prepared this resolution. What we have one small objection is that perhaps it was necessary to clearly underline that education should go in two directions. What other countries also do, education professionals, doctors, dentists and others clearly, education of citizens who must be a completely different approach to other goals. This should have been stated in the conclusions too. What's also missing in the conclusions is how to carry out that education? The media is completely out of order. There's no media anywhere. You can watch a big brother, a little brother, a big sister, a little sister, a big chef, a professional chef on every TV every day. cooks, but you can never hear anything about the need to improve health by educating citizens in that sense. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] You don't have a single show, you don't have more than half an hour a year in all the media together. That's not good. It's a powerful area where we have to, especially public television, public radio. My God, isn't that worth mentioning that it's also being discussed? We agree that citizens' associations, civil society should be included, but should not depend solely on them. After all, the profession has to do most of the work, and that's why we at HNS have a bit of a problem with this sentence. Obligate units of local and regional self-government to adopt action plans, combat viral hepatitis through county public health services. In our view, it would be more logical for the Republic Public Health Institute to implement the strategy and to implement the counties. That would be much more logical, more efficient. This way we'll have twenty strategies, twenty action plans, somewhere nothing, somewhere a lot. That's not good. I'm going to give you an example, a banal example, but an instructive one with which I've been delighted in my time, in the 1970s. You seniors know that they were in fashion at the time, that every actress had her own diet and that they were in fashion elegant ladies. In some countries, the ladies were too pedantic and strictly adhered to these diets, and in one Sweden they appeared after hundreds of years of hypovitaminosis, you know. It never happened to us because our ladies are smarter, birthday comes, party comes, they get well-fitted, and clearly, there's no hypovitaminosis, but it was tragic in Sweden. What happened and how did they handle it? It's very simple. The minister went on TV, all the radio stations, all the newspapers, and he said, "Dear Swedish women, the causes of your hypovitaminosis are you and you." The consequences are you, and they are. The way to prevent is that, eat, eat healthy food, eat a lot, but spend more. Then begins the era of yoga by the Swedish Minister of Health going a recommendation, going a whole new philosophy of life. Here, these are some of our remarks, some suggestions, but certainly congratulations to your colleagues from the Assembly Health Committee, you've done a good job. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-20-0.u32359	Thank you. One correction, Mr. Representative Milinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-20-0.u32360	Mr. Vice President and Mr. Secretary of State. A colleague, Doric, incorrectly stated that we will have twenty action plans as recommended. It is not true, we will have an action plan which, of course, is recommended to the Government of the Republic of Croatia in accordance with the resolution to propose an action plan of appropriate measures with different deadlines and executioners. That's the first one. And secondly, units of local self-government are obliged to worry about the health of their population and within their jurisdiction, of course through the County Public Health Offices. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-20-0.u32361	Mr. Representative Ivan Bagarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-20-0.u32362	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I would like to associate this presentation, or my contribution to this debate with a written proposal from my colleague Kundic, who gave it to me, if fortunately he has no viral hepatitis, but he has some minor health problems so now he can't be here among us. However, of course, on his behalf here I am also giving support to this resolution, and I think that here was this item of the agenda actually one demonstration of what should be done in one parliament and how the opposition and position can contribute to the progress, improvement, and all that is good for the Croatian people as a whole. When I talk about it, then I remember that session that you, Mr. President of the Health Committee, Professor Hebrang and Mr. Vice President, organized in our down here councilroom where it was present, and I think more than 50 people and those leading experts in public health, so representatives of different health institutions, but also here attends and, of course, present state secretary colleagues. So here we thank him, and on behalf of the representatives, for the support he has given to this committee, and for the resolution that this committee should adopt. I would not go back to this written report that I hold in my hand here and which is actually the personal office of my colleague Kundić, but which is actually in a certain way sublime all of what you have said here very well, both colleague Hebrang and colleague Ostojić, as well as colleague Carmela and all the others who have spoken here and who in a certain way points to the importance of this document that we are talking about from the point of view of public health and points to all seriousness of viral hepatitis, i.e. its epidemiological. It seems to be a really good atmosphere in the assembly, and that's another contribution to supporting this agenda point. So, given not only this subject that we're talking about today, viral hepatitis, but generally new and rare diseases, the change in the epidemiology of different diseases, the different ineffectiveness of drugs because of this and that, etc. Croatia's health system as well as the health system in general and medicine in general is faced with problems that must be dealt with primarily often quite simply but with these solutions in order to be easy to come by only preventing it as such. And in this disease that we're talking about today, it's about viral hepatitis and this resolution of ours in the first place points to the importance of prevention and prevention, those primary preventions, not those secondary and tertiary ones when the disease happens, rather than that the disease doesn't occur. And so much of our support and to all those who said in time in Croatia would begin to carry out the timely vaccination of our children and thus, as you colleagues of Ostojić said, they reduced the tank and further spread of the disease as such. When we talk about this disease, and while I was listening to you, she astounded me here, a picture came to me in a memory that's actually very picturesque. There's a snake on one side and a bee on the other side. The snake symbolizes both poison and death, etc., and all possible dangers and bees, at least bees themselves in a certain way symbolizes life, honey, etc. But exactly what seems tempting at first glance, exactly what attracts people is actually often judged in their lives and is actually the cause of very difficult conditions and life-threatening conditions. Now let's remember what my predecessors were talking about and what leads to the disease when it comes to viral hepatitis, first of all, I think of everything that goes under the definition of irresponsible sexual behavior, so very important and very important, and again, it's very important to publicly promote responsible sexual behavior as such and never get tired of it because it's actually some kind of apple that our youngsters easily bite into and then actually suffer the consequences of their whole life. On the other hand, we talked here and about tattoos that act also attractive and I'm talking about all those elements that are actually unnecessary. If someone gets hepatitis, I don't know about transfusions, and especially at a time when only that blood wasn't controlled the way it's being controlled today, then we can say it was an emergency, that it was going to save someone's life, so it came to that. However, if these diseases occur in an irresponsible manner, then it is indeed unacceptable and therefore my support, absolutely support for this resolution and this prevention. I'd go back to my snake and bee again and I'd end my exposure in a way that no matter what we call in memory when we talk about snake and death and everything and on the other hand the bee is not such a problem, but I think I've read somewhere, and I think it's actually the exact fact that more people in Europe are dying of bee bites than snake bites. What does that mean? This means that diseases that in themselves act wickedly, which in their own name bear one precaution, danger, etc. and the silent killer with viral hepatitis as if we were underestimating him, as if we didn't know him, as if we didn't recognize him. And so much is the importance of this resolution and so much is the sincere and profound support of all of us MPs to this resolution and to all those who have worked on its preparation. I said who were the main actors here, once again thank you very much. And my support for this resolution.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-20-0.u32363	Thank you. We're continuing the debate. It is up to the honourable representative Stjepan Milinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-20-0.u32364	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Two months ago, in this House of Commons, we discussed the protection of the public against infectious diseases, and then we said that public attention was not so much focused on infectious diseases at this more recent time when there was cardiovascular disease and malignancies were harvesting their toll, but it was not necessary to wait for the public to become highly sensitive. It's just enough to mention H1 N1 and you've heard and seen the miracle that's happened in the past few days and they've earned some pretty large amounts of Tamiflu gone. But of course, I don't even think about trying to reduce the danger of H1 N1 and this disease that something in our midst has happened, we've certainly been here today with those masks, and maybe there wouldn't even be a session. But here, and in these circumstances somehow contagious disease, although not in the public interest, if we only mention that in the world 500 million people are infected with hepatitis B and C. We have heard here statistics of statistical, so in Europe 12 million inhabitants, in Croatia of hepatitis B is also a significant number of 50s and some thousands, 63,000 hepatitis C, etc., these are statistics. Of course, the good news and the encouraging thing about hepatitis A is that there is indeed a natural improvement in sanitary hygiene opportunities, water supplies, so here I am, in that part, truly a great optimist. If in my county, for example, water supply already 55% of the public supply is satisfying it is a really good result and, of course, in other environments, and wastewater in that part certainly contributes to these opportunities and perhaps now hepatitis A is not so important. But under these circumstances, hepatitis B has certainly heard that vaccination has contributed and reduced the number of new patients each year, and in that part of the vaccination, as well as in many other infectious diseases, it is necessary to give recognition to all those who do so and who do this job. And in this particular case, so, but surely today, hepatitis C may be in the heat and debate of course and resolution, both of course B and C, but I would like to point out here that it is necessary to point out some other than, of course, the Health and Occupational Committee, all respected experts and associations, and they have been invited and made their contribution, and it is necessary to mention in this place the Hepatos Association, the Association of Hepatos, the Hepatos-treated and the Hepatos-treated, and this Hepatitis-treated alliance... an association that certainly contributes in a way to sensitivity of the public, etc. and contributes to helping and reducing the number of patients and in that part because if we mention that it is possible, if it is discovered in time, that it is possible, therefore, to cure 50 to 90% of them with these treatments. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] That's certainly one good indicator. The predecessors really said a lot and in the resolution itself everything is fully evident, so everything is so obvious that it is not necessary to repeat once again what is needed, but also the recommendations speak for themselves enough, that it is necessary to make an action plan that will certainly contribute to this as well. And in any case, I believe that we are both the Health Committee and that we are going to do a big job in this House, one big step towards solving this big health problem. Here, in that part of support of course this resolution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-20-0.u32365	Thank you. We have one replica. Dear Representative Miljenko Doric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-20-0.u32366	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My friend, I'm reporting for a replica because you mentioned the H1N1 virus and if there's been a general panic about what happened. That's a bad example. It's a bad example because it's important different from what we're doing here today. In fact, when it comes to swine flu, politics didn't consult the profession. It's not. Politics broke down, politics was wasting unwarrantedly buying inexplicable antivirals, buying insolent vaccines, spending unnecessarily because experts knew he wasn't. But brilliantly done in the media, in those countries where it was meant to be done, i.e. get the world to take and buy a huge amount of antivirals, a huge amount of vaccines, and all unnecessary. When everyone spent well, ordered, bought, tajac. No more swine flu. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-20-0.u32367	Thank you. Replication response. Dear Representative Stjepan Milinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-20-0.u32368	Well, I, my colleague Doric, would agree with most of your replica, of course, but I think you've completely misunderstood me. I was talking in another context about H1N1 and swine flu. So I was saying that the simple public, the public's attention is not focused on infectious diseases, but here at a given point of course who cooked it, let's say it in such a simple dictionary. It's the second pair of sleeves and what happened in that part. But it certainly doesn't take a lot of the public to really sensitize themselves in some way on a particular issue, and here's an obvious example of how it happens with swine flu, and simply behind that are diseases that take so many human lives, and the public isn't so directed to them at all. And that is why this resolution and this approach truly deserves all the praise. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-20-0.u32369	Thank you. It is up to the honourable representative Željko Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-20-0.u32370	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, here's what I'm going to do. I'm going to take a quick look at this subject that I find very important. It is a simple recipe for success in the long-term treatment of hepatitis problems, but this recipe must be applied daily. It comes from the need to reduce the number of carriers of the virus and that they are the tanks of the infection, that it is necessary to start treating all those who are sick as soon as possible, prevent and progress the disease to advanced cirrhosis because it leads to the development of liver cancer. Therefore, the resolution is very good. I welcome the adoption of this resolution, but I would like to say immediately that these nine measures mentioned in the resolution must actually be nine action plans. So, in vain for us and the resolution and the declaration if everything stays that way and if again on the 19.5. we will only mark this day as the day of the fight against hepatitis. Today is also a day of healthy cities, and right through a healthy city project there is much to be done in prevention. So I appeal that on the basis of nine measures proposed here in the resolution, regardless of the conclusions, these nine measures must be developed in nine action plans and that these nine action plans indicate what needs to be done in Croatia, who will be the bearers and within which time these measures must be implemented in order to have far-reaching effects and enable the problem of hepatitis in Croatia to be solved in a manner such as that in the European Union. Otherwise, in the resolution the emphasis that is very important to me is, I'd say three parts, it's a prison system. So we know the public defender's reports from last year on what the situation in the prison system is, and to what extent this condition benefits the spread of infectious diseases such as hepatitis. I therefore believe that this particular action plan must be developed in a way that reduces the spread of disease in the prison system. The second is multidisciplinary where I especially point out the importance of family medicine doctors and believes that the action plan should also be developed in which family medicine doctors are strongly involved. And third, what my colleague Ostojić was talking about, which I once again believe was not enough for the government to assess as necessary, which is health care. So, we are also discussing in a campaign on topics that no one has actually mentioned for local elections, of course I am talking about religious science, and health education is still something that is missing from schools because health education could be about preventing a whole series of diseases, as well as sexually transmitted diseases in which we definitely include hepatitis. My colleague Milinkovic mentioned civil society. I also want to highlight the enormous role civil society has played in raising awareness of the need to fight hepatitis. I've been involved on various grounds in these projects myself. If there were no civil associations, the patient association, especially Hepatosa, the question of whether there would be this resolution in the Croatian Parliament today. And I believe that we, as Parliamentarians, must express our recognition for everything they have done in the past. And I end up with advice on health care or health advice. You know that we have passed a new Health Care Act, which explicitly states the obligation to set up a Health Council in all counties. I don't think that this advice has been set up anywhere yet, and it's actually a advice that should be implemented among other things and these measures from the County Action Plans, and of course I agree with my colleague Doric that the action plan should first be made for Croatia, and then from that action plan, all the counties should develop their plans. In the end, I would like to say proudly that Rijeka was the first city in Croatia to start vaccination against B hepatitis. It was actually a project based on which the entire plan of vaccines was then created in the Republic of Croatia, related to B hepatitis.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-20-0.u32371	Thank you. Dear Representative Rajko Ostojić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-20-0.u32372	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Since '67. It's been 42 years now, and we've discovered 39 new diseases. So, a year ago, a new disease. One of them is, of course, swine flu, bird flu, Ebola, HIV, AIDS, Croatian mainland, '82, '83, '84, hepatitis C '89. So, a year like prof. Doric emphasized thanks to molecular technology, PSR technology reveals one disease. And that's why it's important to talk about infectious diseases especially at the time we live in, and smart people say that the greatest civilizational shift of the last century is the possibility of travel. So today 12, 18, 20 hours you're on a plane from the end to the end. Croatia – Hawaii 18 hours, the difference is the opposite half. It is the greatest civilizational shift of the last century or at least one of the leading and I fully agree with it. A colleague, Bagaric, said, we know a lot about HIV, coprica, AIDS because they kept telling us, because we had great public health in the '80s. We're about a generation, because they introduced us to it, because they told us what HIV is, which is AIDS, how it's transmitted, how it's protected from infection. And that's why today when fellow Golem goes to World Health probably looks at him as well as me palely when we tell him that about 200 patients are on therapy right now, while in Croatia somewhere around 450 patients have either HIV positive or have AIDS. Very little, fortunately a little bit, little bit because we had public health. So when we talk about medicine, we need to distinguish from the system. We're proud of our handball players, football players, but I mean, I'm sure we could make five, six extraordinary Olympic football teams out of doctors because we have great medicine. But we have a relatively bad health system. So we have great stars, great medics, great sisters, but the system needs to be improved. And this resolution that the Health Committee has prepared, and once again I thank you as a parliamentary representative to all the members of the Health Committee, has adopted just one shift to bring medicine, profession, system closer. And I'll remember '97. I'm working on Rebra. Prof. Hebrang was then Minister of Health in '97. And a liver transplant was made in his hospital, and I went to see the first two patients from Rebra because my colleagues asked me to. It was a great example of coordination, subordination. Two hills, so I left. Today these subordinations of fellow doctors are gone. Here's everyone having their own feules that the current minister drags into his hospital, most of the time, unfortunately, has been in the county hospital lately. We're a state of four and a half million people. We have 66 hospitals. It's a country the size of Milan that has 15 hospitals. This coordination, subordination, public procurement, expensive medicines fund, expensive medicines for HIV patients, AIDS, hepatitis. Every patient from Vukovar, Pazin to Dubrovnik must be given this medicine at the same time, not as it was a few years ago, so for example, a fellow Bosnian in Vukovar if not with her own guilt and not with the guilt of her citizens or, for example, the defender had 10 patients with hepatitis C who could not treat them because it was on the burden of her hospital. We've been doing discrimination. Fortunately, medicine finally seems to be trying and operating on the health system. Hepatitis C virus is 10 times more contagious than HIV, ten times more and he is a sexually transmitted disease today. There's a former justice minister, so she'll probably talk about it too. I will quote from the European Parliament: "The number of liver tumours is expected to increase by 200% between 2010 and 2015. Why? Because these infections have been accumulated and that is why the European Parliament is and that is why we in the Health Committee have launched this initiative. Your liver is the main plant of the organism. Everything we eat today, we drink goes through the liver. In Croatia, in Europe, in America, when you ask where the soul is, everyone says it's here somewhere. The soul is at the heart of Western medicine. In the Far East, the soul is in the liver, because the liver is the main factory. In Chinese traditional medicine, Indian,... in Thailand, in Japan, the soul is conditioned in the liver because it is the main factory, the main factory and one organ and the largest organ. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Now because of these hepatocellular cancers, which is a tumor that expands the incidence in Croatia around 300. I expect that the Health Committee will organise a re-thematic session on the importance of treating cancer patients, all cancers especially these types of cancers that are preventable because by treating hepatitis B and C, you stop the tumor, it disappears, it is not related to any habits such as smoking. So it's not related to bad habits. And especially because cancer treatment is an inclusive transplant, an effective, established method but very expensive one. A colleague, Jovanovic, actually scored. Multidisciplinary paper, Ministry of Education, Health Education, the Ministry of Justice quoted the Ombudsman's report and therefore was obviously and reacted with the continuation of the project. This is a typical example where all the competent institutions, which is why the Health Committee called on the Government of the Republic of Croatia, and called on all the competent institutions because the list of these competent institutions would be very large and very high and my colleague Jovanovic made it very clear and I therefore support that an action plan be made. I don't know if 9, but let's say more action plans with carriers, with deadlines, because that's the only way we can get close to the constellation of Croatian medicine. And Croatian medicine is the top of European medicine, and the Croatian health system is not. This is a great opportunity for Croatia, although it is not formally a member of the European Union, to bring one gift to the European Union, to bring a good system, to good medicine, and we are a tourist country, and, of course, because of the tourist country, we must be and have a safe environment. Once again, Andrija Printar is “the greatest enemy of health” both in 1924 and today. Only two organs can build up in life, and that's muscle by snorkeling. I recommend that you all walk and your head to read, to learn, to think, to adopt such good resolutions, so I ask your colleagues and colleagues to support this resolution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-20-0.u32373	Thank you. Dear Representative Tatjana Šimac Bonačić. She's gone, so she's losing her right to argue. Dear representative Romana Jerkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-20-0.u32374	Mr. Vice President, colleagues and fellow MPs. Here I would like to join this debate very briefly because I want to support it and I want to congratulate you on a well done job, on something we really needed. I support the motion for this resolution because I think the fundamental thought of the resolution is actually to create a better public health standard and to identify health indicators and risk factors that should be mandatory for monitoring, both at national level and at the level of units of local, or regional self-government. The current situation is, as we all know very well, such that this obligation defines the Health Protection Act and the Law to prevent the spread of infectious diseases, but I would say in a way at the principle level, so today we have a situation that some units of local self-government, such as that. The river from which I come, i.e. the Primorje-Gorski County, which has a relatively large number of programs and projects from this domain. And on the other hand, there are local self-government units that aren't there at all. And I therefore particularly welcome point 7 of the conclusion of the implementing measures, which says that units of local and regional, or regional self-government, should be committed to the adoption of action plans... against viral hepatitis through the County Public Health Institute. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] There are different opinions about these action plans, we heard this, but I think that no matter what level these action plans will be adopted, they are extremely important as well as the role of the county public health services and I think it is extremely important that units of local self-government, i.e. regional self-government, help the activities of the institute in the context of what we are talking about. The city of Rijeka is, I must mention, the City of Rijeka recognises its role in this aspect of public health and is funding the public for health programs of which some are and preceding today's national programmes. counterpart Jovanovic mentioned a vaccination programme that has become a national programme. I now think of another who, there, has nothing to do with hepatitis, but left the City of Rijeka, left the Primorje-Gorski County, became a national programme, which is a breast cancer prevention programme. The city of Rijeka, I know as a member of the headship in charge of health care and social care, has funded a project that was held by the University of Rijeka Medical Faculty in the past few years and was conducted by the Institute of Public Health. It is a project that refers to hepatitis c. Namely, the City of Rijeka and the Primorje-Gorski County funded a project of free testing of citizens on hepatitis c. The goal was of course to establish the prevalence of hepatitis c infection, to determine the percentage of serological positives, to prove the viral genome and determine the intensity of the infection, to guide the clinical care of an infected person and to say that as a city, as a county we have shown sensitivity and awareness of this problem, but the problem is too much in fact to be left to the awareness of some unit of local, or regional self-government. So, the adoption of an action plan, as envisaged by the implementing measures, at the level of units of local self-government, I really think there must be a commitment to be respected. It might be good, as counterpart Doric suggested, so an action plan should be made at national level. But it can also be directed by the competent ministry, so to speak, to make instructions on action plans, instructions that will oblige units of local self-government to achieve short-term objectives, long-term objectives and set deadlines. When I say short-term goals, then I think there is certainly a need to count the determination of prevalence, preventing the spread of infection, timely diagnosis and treatment and the fourth, community information. In order for long-term objectives to be or should be continued to work to reduce the incidence of viral hepatitises, the second, continuous work on the vaccine coverage for viral hepatitis b and third, permanent measures to promote health and disease prevention, especially for hepatitis c which, as we know, does not have vaccines. I believe the action plan against viral hepatitis should have several key points. One is certainly informing and educating healthcare professionals and primary health care with the aim of sensitising and getting to know the public health importance of viral hepatitises. In second place, I would put free testing, free and anonymous testing in teaching institutions for public health like we did in Rijeka, and I think we should oblige local self-government units to provide financial resources for these tests. Thirdly, I think we should certainly create a database, a database for the diseased and virus-bearing register, and perhaps possibly and networking with a primary health care file to monitor the effectiveness of the treatment. The fourth point I think should be in the action plan is to improve and equip public health laboratories for modern diagnostics. I think it's extremely important, and local self-government units should also contribute. I think it is important to quickly and precisely determine the status of patients with a risk-free environment and the possibility to start adequate treatment as soon as possible. Fifth, it should certainly ensure availability of healthcare services and shorten the waiting time for services. And finally, very, very important, educational program for working with young people and parents, as well as staff in educational institutions through the departments of school and university medicine of the Institute of Public Health. So it seems to me that the model in which the units of local and regional self-government are the holders of a public health programme is an extremely good model to insist on and which can contribute significantly to the preservation and improvement of health, which is actually a strategic goal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-20-0.u32375	Thank you. It is up to Commissioner Ingrid Anticevic-Marinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-20-0.u32376	Thank you. Dear Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Of course I accept the adoption of this resolution on combating viral hepatitis with a proposal for conclusions. However, I can immediately say that the conclusion might be better not to recommend it to the Government of the Republic of Croatia but rather to make a commitment to all of this, which is the proposal for a resolution conclusion. In fact, we are aware that there are no laws in the Republic of Croatia and the Croatian Parliament has adopted many declarations and resolutions that have often remained a dead letter on paper, but no matter what happens later and that these conclusions and I believe that they will be unanimously adopted and not implement praise is precisely the initiative of our colleagues... the entire committee that it updated the public and presented the importance of this and the dangers of this disease. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I will specifically focus on part of the conclusion relating to treatment within the prison system. It may even be unpopular to talk about this prison system especially in times of crisis when people can barely put an end to the end and that someone is talking about the prison system and the life of those people. a person deprived of liberty. However, we are bound by a number of reasons to take great care of this sensitive population for at least two reasons, first of all, that the law obliges us to do so, because the state when it deprives someone of freedom towards that person did not stop all the obligations and rights that the state has towards it but that, in fact, created a whole series of new obligations. On the other hand, those people will be free tomorrow. What they're going to do if they're healthy, whether they're sick, it's our responsibility, even us here, and above all, I'd say us here. However, what is the prison system and what are the treatment options in each respect, and then the treatment is best witnessed year by year by year by year by the attorney general. In fact, the situation is such that in prisons that have become almost showing danger to anyone who is entering from a new criminal infection, which means that those exaggerating criminals, the primary perpetrators, too, are infected by multiple relapsers and already professional ones who have already become involved in crime and practically spend their entire lives in prison. On the other hand, it threatens to infect many diseases and these themselves. It amazes the fact that the prison population used to be a population of 30 or more years ago, mostly in which alcoholism prevailed, that was the biggest problem. Today it's just hepatitis. From 25 to 30% of the prison population was infected with this virus. These are amazing figures. Tomorrow they'll come out and become transmissions, and those who have come in healthy and infect anyone, first they're closer and then they're still. And it's society's duty to react. On the other hand, education on sexually responsible behavior has lagged. Today someone's fighting. The minister promises every year that sexual education in schools will be introduced. However, he says the associations have not agreed. Well, the government is responsible for health, and Minister Resorni is responsible for the health of the nation. And sexual education is necessary in schools. One who does not see that danger or prevents it from helping in such troubles. But here's to getting back to the prison system. The Ombudsman says that in certain prisons and penitentiary it is such that it can be concluded that it is below all health and hygiene standards and completely inappropriate to human dignity. It cites an example of a person who has suffered from both tuberculosis and hepatitis, which in one single room says among nine prisoners is a prisoner who has TBC and one who has hepatitis C. Such conditions should not be particularly highlighted, contrary to Article 74. Laws on the execution of prison sentences and Article 30 Home row regulations in detention prisons. That was two years ago. The current report is such that it is even more devastating. We have it on the agenda so look at the fellow attorney general again. That these problems he is referring to are, therefore, a problem of overcrowding which then prevents both health care and treatment and any meaningful behaviour with prisoners, he says not that they have not improved but are still present and given the increase in further overcrowding in certain segments and worsened. The state does nothing in this segment but prisoners finance or prisons finance themselves and make some small changes but changes in which sense, so that all rooms, living rooms, chapels, social rooms and even parts of the administrative rooms are re-arranged to the dormitory. Such conditions are impossible. She'll get healthy and mentally ill, and she'll get physically well, too. Is it normal that in one room of 38 square meters there are 19 people? There are infected among them. It's already a matter that such penitentiary even closes and the state must then sign the capitulation unless it's a serious thing to do. We've had a few discussions here. We had a thematic debate on the Justice Committee. But it was obviously timed that some things were just being said in paper, that's what we're doing, but nothing was actually done, and it couldn't be done when certain financial resources were not approved to resuscitate or prevent the situation, especially in this way. Here's what the vacancy attorney says in this report as well. During the review of the prison hospital, it was found that the test of the prisoners on hepatitis was not carried out for 6 months because no means were provided. So far, funds have only been provided through the project with the Infectious Diseases Clinic "Dr. Fran Mihaljevic", the only means provided by the Ministry of Justice. In this area, interferons are used to buy, therefore, a medicine used to treat people with hepatitis C for 42 patients. And where are all the other people? Now here is hope that this fact that Dr Ostojić told me on behalf of the club and also the promoter, that Minister Shimonovic signed the contract, approved the funds, but very minor. It's only for one small part of the testing, and where is the treatment of that vast population. So does he even know how many prisoners and detainees there are? It's a drop in the sea. That's just so much to say, so it's not really, this is no longer standing by by what the attorney general wrote. The state is responsible for those people who get sick there. Then these are huge funds, much bigger, so we don't talk about harm for a healthy population and prison, and I repeat tomorrow when people like that get out of jail. So here, and the easiest thing to do is to treat those people who are in such conditions, to repeat what is particularly apostrophysed and well noticed, and here he presented us as a doctor and specialist Dr. Ostojić. So I suggest, here's what we'll have on the agenda, these are serious things. All people are threatened by this and we here, our citizens. Not so much, large funds are, but if the funds have not already been provided for the construction of new prison facilities, then it is most urgent that at least this disease is being prevented, that this disease is being treated in such a population because it poses a serious threat to the country's safety, which is also spoken of by the Ombudsman. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-20-0.u32377	Thank you. And I'm concluding an individual debate. No more reports. In the name of the government, does he want to say "honored..." Yes. Ante Zvonimir Golem, State Secretary at the Ministry of Health and Social Welfare. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-20-0.u32378	Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen. Let me say, first of all, that on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Ministry of Health and Social Care, I welcome the adoption of this resolution and I appreciate that through the adoption of this resolution, but also through the proposed conclusion for the adoption of the action plan, I can also synthesize and show not only what is needed but also what is being done here today. As stated during the thematic session, the action plan needs to unite all options of preventive protection, meaning through protection in a tertiary sense, treatment, which we most often talk about today, although it is necessary to really be responsible and truthfully say, the most effective treatment is only what works. Because with all the medicines that exist in the world today and those that are registered in the Republic of Croatia and those who are not, unfortunately, not all patients are cured. That's the first fact. The second fact also, the responsibility in the work, therefore, is to go from this tertiary prevention to primary prevention, which means changing life habits and introducing education. Because twice I've mentioned responsibility, I'm going to mention it three times. Because all prevention programs from early detection that are being discussed here today are vaccinations or hepatitis testing, as well as even situations to educate young people and citizens about the importance of hepatitis C, hepatitis B. It is necessary to be careful that in daily media events such programs are not damaged by misleading certain other programmes. There is a small anecdotes, unfortunately true, in the 1970s a great surgeon, Professor Juzbašić at the Clinical Hospital Center Zagreb came to students in one of these audiences, brought in patients and operated as a visual operation on what one of the students asked the question: Mr. Professor, what if an infection occurred? He answered that one famous line, no problem, we'll cover it with umbrella antibiotics. As remarkable as that was at that moment, an antibiotic, something that could have done good, has led to today's situation that we regret these times when we have a great resistance to antibiotics, when we have new owls that react in general. So at that point, it was handled with caution, responsibly, that there might have been something else to worry about, maybe we wouldn't be in this situation today. So when we perform today, and what's in direct connection with hepatitis, the story of vaccination against HPV as some kind of protection against cervix cancer, should be said clearly and aloud, is not absolute protection either because both vaccines that exist on the market protect up to a maximum of 70% of those exposed to it, meaning neither 100% but what do they lead to? World experiences show. They lead to increased transmission and expansion of all other sexually transmitted diseases, sexually transmitted diseases, as well as hepatitis B and C, as we've heard. Therefore, it should be very responsible when a program of such prevention is created, that it is not working in the best direction in one direction that brings evil in the other direction and then we wonder where we are. I was a little confused during the debate, and I have to say, I don't know, we're talking about how successfully or unsuccessfully we're fighting something, we're talking about how Europe has successfully and adopted a resolution and implements certain measures and that Croatia is lagging behind. At the same time, we say that we will help Europe if our system functions, and we are asking a question that does not work if I am alone, here is the curve of hepatitis B in Croatia, which Europe has not achieved. She's the one who brought the resolution. She even left hepatitis B out of the resolution. He only went to hepatitis C. I'm glad that the promoters, therefore both the president and the vice president of the board, have accepted that they are going to both hepatitises, and this resolution is definitely binding. Well, it has a Croatian health system, it has a health system, and it will. And it has an effective health system. The fight against prevention is old and everyone likes to talk about the beginning, about Professor Stamper. I'd like to mention, today is the day except for the health towns, today is the same day of innovation, but another day. Today, a prize was established, a prize awarded to the Academy of Science and Arts, which was awarded to prominent academics in battle would not believe a preventive programme, the introduction of iodine anti-vulnerability therapy. One of the preventions which led not to the extraordinary results of world scales in the Republic of Croatia but brought Croatia into a situation to discuss what still needs to be added to pregnant women because it was observed that they were treated less with iodine in everyday life than the others in the section. Where are we today? We're practically on the threshold. I'd like to believe that's what we're going to experience. Discoveries, let's say the reasons... in Slavonia, where after a long time researching the area of water was slowly directed into the area of food and there are great indications that they will come. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] These are major prevention programs, programs that go, programs that prove they're working. Hit the program. Exactly, over 7 years in the beginning and help of the Global Fund today, the way Croatia fought and how it prevented the spread of HIV infection is seen as a method recommended to the World Health Organization by other countries that were on the same programme as we have, but they obviously did not carry it out because they had a huge spread of HIV and AIDS infection. For the end, I must correct an incorrect assumption. I thought I'd get right back to you, but I told you we wouldn't get divorced. Namely, we have to tell the following about the public. No Mexican, no swine flu. It's called A flu. It's got to be said and it wasn't run by politics unless we're going to be hypocritical after all, so we'll call our esteemed experts involved in that. Margan, Professor. Kuzmana, then to the world experts who warned and who warned and who were one of the authors of the national preparedness plan for the influenza pandemic for which when the strategy was made, this plan and when it was adopted in 2005 it was then thought to be a virus that causes bird flu. This year she's considered and she hasn't stopped. Six and a half thousand reported worldwide. The number's still growing. Is it going to turn into a pandemic just to see it? The fact that she's lighter is also good, but there's no way to say that politics was leading this story. This story was run exclusively by the profession and what we didn't have in 1918 when the harala of the Spanish woman we have today. And it's a strong World Health Organization that manages these projects regardless of the illusions of this and that story, because you'll all remember in '71, the second year when it went to vaccination for the great goddesses and when we were happy that we could get to that vaccine. Today to reach such a pandemic would also be happy, the responsibility there is and there is no need to say that politics is leading this. This leads exclusively to the waist and again I will return to it and say everything that was done on the basis of Prof. Andrija Printar, who, among other things, chaired the first session of the founding Assembly of the World Health Organization. What the Croatian government should finally say will accept absolutely all the recommendations and conclusions of this resolution. But it should also be said loud and clear that it expects the Ministry of Health and the Croatian Government to bring the thematic session on malignancies that today went from malignancies to the area of chronic diseases to one such session and also to make one plan. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-20-0.u32379	And finally, on behalf of the promoter, the esteemed representative of Andrija Hebrang. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-20-0.u32380	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State. I thank all my colleagues and colleagues who have endured this long debate, have participated in it, and I may conclude or begin my conclusion with what Dr. I'm huge. Politically, there is no place for the profession in health, and I think we have shown by this action that we have overcome our political and party divisions and that we have all worked together on that committee, and I especially thank you, Professor. I'm gonna stay here like we're one party. In this case we were a party to the protection of human health and human life which, you can see, has not yet ended this election campaign in Zadar. It's not for some. [[/Intruder: Yes, it is.]] So, that's why I thank them again. What we should point out here is that there's still a lot of work left in this area. You also heard from colleague Caparin who made a significant contribution to these discussions as a specialist in infectious diseases. You also heard a debate about the prisons of a colleague who unfortunately just left, and I wanted to commend her. She never gives me the opportunity to praise her, but she did make a good contribution to the debate on our prison systems. But I have to mention professor once more. The remains that declared us the bad guys in this case, the bad guys tested for the hepatitis virus. Others call us the bad guys from other areas, but I have to say, unfortunately, we've been positive in some tests. You know that unfortunately we have found three cancers in the population of these MPs in our systematic examinations and not that, but before that we have already decided to move forward and, as Comrade Ostojić has already mentioned, we have decided to propose to this Assembly and the resolution on cancer. So our next step is to discuss cancer. We've already made previous meetings here and gathered experts. The text of the resolution is ongoing, and we have one big action to support. The cancers in the Republic of Croatia, unfortunately, remain a health issue number one. It's an action initiated by the Ministry of Health, Vrdoljak, our oncologist from Split, is that all three presidents, state, government and parliament would sign a declaration of cancer modelled by large statesmen in other countries. In the end, if we are having these discussions, and I'm sure we have saved several hundred lives a year, I can conclude that it fills us with satisfaction and that we will continue with such a course on this committee. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-20-0.u32381	I thank you for this very instructive and good debate that we've all agreed on one side, which is the health of people and give God a shot at it as much as possible. That concludes today's debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met tomorrow and we'll finish today's session. Tomorrow we will continue with the third point, which is the Business Report on the work of the Croatian Defence Fund from the Homeland War and members of their families for 2008 at 9 o'clock and 30 minutes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2009-05-20-0.u32382	Ladies and gentlemen, as we have announced, we would now vote on the final points of the agenda. And do we all have keys? Let's switch on to check the quorum. Please, let's get on with it. ... We have a quorum obviously but you didn't get involved. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] 83, so we have a quorum. We're going to vote. 1. Proposal for a resolution on the fight against viral hepatitis with a proposal for a conclusion is the Opinion of the Health and Social Care Committee. The debate is closed. I am voting on the motion for a resolution on the fight against viral hepatitis. Please, let's get on with it. Let's vote. The result? The motion for a resolution was unanimously adopted by 84 votes. The Committee on Health and Social Care proposes to the Croatian Assembly to draw conclusions that you have formulated by the Committee. How long is it please don't read it, but you all have it. I propose that we vote on the proposal for a conclusion proposed by the Committee on Health and Social Care. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? The proposal for a conclusion of the board was voted in favour of most votes, 87 votes in favour and 1 abstention.
